2018 Sustainability Report Championing Impact & Sustainability “Building prosperity & self-sufficiency across Africa” 2 3 Table of The Dangote Way 6 5. Chairman’s Statement 8 SECTION 2 – Content CEO’s Statement 10 How we improve our operations 98 Chief Sustainability Officers Statement 12 OPERATIONAL PILLAR 100 2018 Report Overview 18 Operational Indicators 104 Product quality and market competitiveness 106 1. Our business Who we are and how we operate 22 Supply Chain Management Health and Safety 111 114 Company overview 22 ENVIRONMENTAL PILLAR 118 Taking a glance at the group in 2018 24 Environmental Management & Compliance 121 Environmental Indicators 122 2. Our Sustainability Journey Sustainability Governance 36 37 Operational Efficiency Precautionary Approach to Environmental Management 124 124 Understanding and Managing our Carbon Footprint 125 3. Value Creation Why sustainability is important Tackling future challenges – First step into circular economy Controlling our Dust Emissions 126 128 for our business 40 Implementing Efficient Water Management 129 Our Values 41 6. Value Creation Model 42 SECTION 3 – How we propose to achieve How we build license to operate 132 Sustainability Leadership in Africa 43 SOCIAL PILLAR 134 Social Standards 138 4. SECTION 1 – Community investment 139 How we strengthen governance 44 Health 140 INSTITUTIONAL PILLAR 46 Skills development 142 Institutional Standards 50 Educational infrastructure 144 Corporate governance 52 Culture based on ethics and integrity 55 Appendix 152 Risk management 58 About the report 153 Stakeholder engagement 64 Input-output Methodology 154 Materiality process 15 CULTURAL PILLAR 68 Cultural Standards 72 Labour practices 77 Building a Work Environment where employees are empowered to thrive 82 Learning and development 84 Dangote Sustainability Survey 88 Sustainability Week 93 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 4 5 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 6 7 The Dangote Way Building prosperity & self-sufficiency across Africa The Dangote Way is our approach to creating a world-class, multinational manufacturing company. Driven by the highest levels of governance, it is embedded in our corporate culture and guides our approach to building a prosperous and sustainable business. “The 7 Pillars of Sustainability are at the core of The Dangote Way, which reflects my personal commitment to build a socially responsible and impactful business that serves all stakeholders.” Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 8 9 “It’s not all about making money. It’s about making impact. For more than 20 years, Dangote was just a trading company. Then we decided we wanted to be an industrial giant — and we had to start somewhere. It wasn’t just about cement. It was about industrialisation. If you look at what Dangote Group is doing, it’s about improving people’s lives”. The global business space is fast regrow sustainably and make even we are enacting the philosophy that all levels of employees are involved We also realise that the adoption of industrialization. If you look at what evolving. More and more, the critical greater impact. a win-win approach to business in walking the talk on sustainability. global sustainability principles and Dangote Group is doing, it’s about question that entrepreneurs and helps us build a sustainable and In the year under review, Dangote standards is good for our business. improving people’s lives”. CEOs are made to answer is: “what For us operationalising our 7 respected brand. We propose to Cement Group held its first ever is the impact of your business on Sustainability Pillars means earn our social license to operate by Sustainability Week across its We remain strongly optimistic We aim to be the number one in stakeholders and the society?” supporting Africa to develop building sustainable local economies Nigerian and Pan African operations. about Africa’s economic prospects everything that we do. Our business rapidly and sustainably. This is why around all our areas of operation. I am proud that over 500 Dangote and are committed to using our strategy has always been one that At Dangote Cement, we strongly we continue to invest in sectors employees took part in social quality products, services and enables our ‘play to win’ approach. agree that every business must that have the potential to bolster We value the contributions of our impact initiatives that further investments to expedite the Sustainability is gaining more ask itself this pertinent question as infrastructure development, massive stakeholders towards the success strengthened our relationship with continent’s sustainable growth and traction across the Dangote Group part of a continuous performance job creation, and to reverse Africa’s story that the Dangote brand has host communities. development. There are challenges, as we deepen our commitment self-assessment. The traditional decades of import dependence become. We will continue to engage no doubt; but none that we cannot, to deploying a win-win approach notion of business as a ‘profit only’ which has stifled local industries and our host communities and build To keep our sustainability journey with the support of our valued to business partnerships, whilst venture, is fast being eroded by foreign exchange earnings. long-lasting, mutually beneficial on track, we also understand the stakeholders, overcome. retaining industry leadership in new global realities. The value that a relationships. We understand importance of leveraging global We thank you all for your faith in Nigeria, Africa and globally. business creates for its employees, For example, from importing 68% the importance of securing the partnerships, including the United us and your loyalty to the Dangote customers, shareholders, investors, of its cement needs as at 2004, well-being of our people, local Nations Global Compact, the World brand. Together, we will continue to governments and host communities Nigeria is now a net exporter of the communities, and the natural Economic Forum, and the Global take our brand and our continent to is now rightly seen as integral to commodity, due mostly to Dangote environment. We have in 2018 Cement and Concrete Association. greater heights. ‘who’ and ‘what’ that brand is. Cement’s huge investments and invested significant resources to We are committed to sustainability aggressive expansion. Today, ensure that our business operations principles and standards such as Like I said, during a 2017 interview It is therefore part of our business Dangote Cement makes up seven do not jeopardise the health and the IFC Performance Standards, with Bloomberg ‚ “It’s not all about strategy to always ensure that our out of every 10 bags of cement safety of our employees and the Nigerian Stock Exchange making money. It’s about making market presence is positively felt, used across Africa. As we grow, affected stakeholders. Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines impact. For more than 20 years, not just in the local communities we are committed to ensuring that and the Global Reporting Initiative. Dangote was just a trading company. where our businesses are directly our business growth translates to We cannot achieve these objectives As one of the 10 biggest cement Then we decided we wanted to sited, but within the larger positive socio-economic progress in without the active involvement of companies in the world, we be an industrial giant — and we ALIKO DANGOTE population and host countries. This the markets where we do business. all members of the Dangote family. recognise the need to align with had to start somewhere. It wasn’t Chairman of the Board & Group President/CEO, Dangote Group is the only way we can continue to Through our sustainability function, This is why we ensure that global standards and best practices. just about cement. It was about Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 10 11 environmental footprints across new African future that we all will we are excited about the progress our huge value chain, as well as be proud of. We are in business we have recorded across our positively and sustainably enhance not just to make profits, but also other performance parameters CEO’s the socioeconomic potentials of our to impact our societies and world, in 2018. With our 7 Pillars host communities. positively. We will strive to sustain approach, we are now reporting our first position in profitability, more comprehensively on our Statement For us, in 2018 the definition of business growth has been market leadership, sustainable growth and development impact financial, economic, operational, institutional, social, environmental ENGR JOSEPH MAKOJU A Successful Year and Strategy expanded beyond prioritising operations, finance and risk on our local communities, markets, economies and countries in which and cultural sustainability and impact. I am pleased to present Group Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer for Sustainable Growth management to include the we operate. our first substantive standdevelopment of a corporate culture alone Sustainability Report. It is that prioritises compliance with This is why we have commissioned heartwarming to report that our national laws, regulations and global a five year sustainability impact sustainability vision has been The global cement industry and report impact in our home in our sustainability journey. We best practices, improves the health plan (2019-2023) that would embraced by our board directors continues to experience country. For instance, the gross are building the needed capacity, and safety of our employees and enable us use our business as well as even the reception desk exponential growth driven mostly value we created in our Nigerian systems, processes and policy products, and continuously tracks operations to achieve sustainable where you are welcomed to our by rapid expansions in urbanisation, operations rose from N476 billion framework that would enable us and reports our performance in the development. We are focused on offices. industrialisation and infrastructure as at financial year 2017 to N504 lead this evolving sustainability management of our environmental, ensuring that our market presence development especially in billion in 2018, representing a space in Nigeria, Africa and economic and social risks. We aim and operations in our different We will continue to leverage our emerging economies. Recent 5.9% growth. On social impact, global. We are excited about how to optimise the positive impact we host countries lead to positive size, market share, ultramodern studies estimate that until 2025, the number of students in Nigerian far we have gone in our goal of make in the lives of our employees, impact on employment numbers, operational facilities, and the the cement industry will grow local communities that benefited embedding sustainability into every investors and shareholders, local school enrolment, primary quality of skills and competences by an annual aggregate of 7.3%. from our scholarship schemes aspect of our business operations communities and the larger society. healthcare, household income, in our workforce to drive economic This prospect represents great doubled from about 400 in 2017 as evidenced. Our commitment is backed by the entrepreneurship and thereby to a growth, self-sufficiency and reliance opportunities for Dangote Cement, to over 980 in 2018, leading quality of corporate governance reduction in the number of persons across Africa. We are pleased that and we are also ideally positioned to a record increase in student Our Leadership Team clearly that our institution enjoys, and we living below the poverty line. „The Dangote Way“, as well as our to build on our competitive enrolment in host communities. understands the problem of are proud to state that the mission customised 7 Sustainability Pillars, advantage in operational efficiency, Our employee headcount also climate change and global warming of Sustainability across the 7 Pillars In 2018, Dangote Cement have so clearly helped us manifest quality product, ultramodern increased with over 900 new hires and the collective impact of is being driven by the highest level continued on its strong growth our business objectives and shape facilities and technology to leverage in the year under review, supporting our business operations in this of governance at Dangote Cement trajectory in Nigeria and PanAfrica. our approach towards a more our unique economies of scale government’s efforts at fighting regard. We also understand that Plc. Gross revenues grew by 11.8%, sustainable business. and know-how. Our aim will be to unemployment among youth and as the biggest cement company from N805.6 billion in 2017 to achieve sustainable growth and in local communities surrounding in Africa and one of the top As has become characteristic N900.7 billion in the year under development across our value rapidly industrialising localities such 10 in the world, our direct and of our operations, we remain review. Our Profit before tax rose chain, in our local communities as our areas of operation. indirect environmental, social and committed to supporting the from N289.6 billion to N300.7 and to optimally reward our various economic impact could be massive, efforts of African governments to billion within the same period. Our stakeholders. With over 500 sustainability both positively and negatively. reduce their import dependence performance was driven by strong champions and 100 sustainability We are therefore fully committed in cement. We are proud to drive demand for our high quality, fairly Nigeria serves as our Headquarters data owners designated and to working with stakeholders at self-reliance in the production of priced products, which has also and largest impact and production trained across our Nigerian and Pan the national and global levels to this essential commodity and help sustained our market share and ENGR JOSEPH MAKOJU location. For reasons of materiality, African operations in 2018, we are ensure that we curtail, mitigate build infrastructure, industries, dominance. Group Managing Director/ Chief we feel obliged to single out poised to move to the next level and significantly reduce our schools, hospitals, housing, and a Beyond our financial numbers, Executive Officer Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 12 13 Our Approach – Determining material topics and indicators DR NDIDI NNOLI Group Chief for sustainability Sustainability & Governance In 2018, the Sustainability & business is touched and involved be found in the Appendix of this and networking across functions, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Sustainability Report across all our Governance Function of the in the agenda to build a sustainable report. This Matrix was developed involving both senior and junior Africa Operations by 2020. We Dangote Group, embarked on an global brand. Our sustainability and shared with a cross-section of colleagues working side-by-side for We are aware of the critical have already identified the topics extensive Stakeholder Engagement journey is centered around employees and other stakeholders a good cause. At different levels, importance of stakeholder and that significantly influence the exercise to operationalize its people and systems and involves for further validation, after which the week-long initiative also offered shareholder feedback in our views and decisions of stakeholders approach to Sustainability. Dangote all business functions including we presented it for final sign-off to Dangote employees an opportunity efforts to achieve compliance with as well as reflect our economic, Cement Plc (DCP) is pioneering Operations, Marketing, Finance, the DCP Board of Directors. to demonstrate their social the highest global standards. We environmental and social impact. this initiative, driven by the highest Risk, Community Relations, Health commitment to host communities remain committed to building a We are committed to achieving levels of governance and involving & Safety, Environment, Social, A significant fall-out from the in the different countries where we socially responsible, responsive full regulatory compliance, all key management functions of Procurement, Human Resources, Employee Survey was our maiden operate. Overall, this engagement leading global institution which against which objective we have the business. Legal and Compliance. Most Sustainability Week, which was unleashed enormous goodwill actively solicits and values benchmarked our reporting against importantly, we have prioritized inspired by ideas from our staff. which is reflecting positively on stakeholder reviews. Although various local and global standards, Dangote Cement’s adoption of the internal stakeholder engagement The Sustainability Week initiative our brand and on employee we could not achieve extensive as outlined on the following page. 7-Pillar Approach to Sustainability in order to nurture a culture of took “Living The Dangote Way” commitment to our sustainability external stakeholder engagement in These include the Global Reporting mainstreams the business’ sustainability thinking and doing from the workplace to communities journey. the year under review, we ensured Initiative (GRI), IFC Performance commitment to evolve a holistic among all our employees. across 6 major African locations, public engagement in the form of Standards, Global Cement and strategy, structures, processes, with initiatives supported by top During the year, we made a media survey and peer review. Concrete Association (GCCA), systems, human capital and internal Our 2018 activities were interlinked, management across 9 DCP Plants significant efforts to gauge our These insights were factored into United Nations Global Compact capacity to drive the Group-wide with every new initiative cascading and almost entirely employeesustainability performance. We the topics we consider as material (UNGC), Sustainable Development sustainability agenda across all into the next. The feedback led. Projects carried out during benchmarked our activities against and integrated in this report. Goals (SDGs), Securities Exchange its operating companies in Africa. from our employee survey, for the Week included environmental those of leading global brands, In 2019, we will also increase Commission (SEC) and the During the current reporting example, prompted a group-wide sanitation, waste management, such as CEMEX, Lafarge Holcim, the frequency and scope of our Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), period, we furthered our efforts sustainability training program, economic empowerment, Argos, Heidelberg Cement, stakeholder engagement. all of which provide certification to institutionalize sustainability which we co-facilitated with the educational, health and road Budimex and our joint venture, and/or guidelines for driving by enrolling 500 Sustainability Sustainable Business Initiative infrastructure development, with Sephaku Cement SA, which is The 2017 Sustainability baseline a sustainable business. In this Champions and 97 data owners of the University of Edinburgh. some of these subsequently listed on the Johannesburg Stock covered Nigeria, while our 2018 manner, a culture of regulatory across the various business Following the survey, which 1170 adopted as programs to sustain Exchange. This process also Sustainability Report focuses on compliance has been designed functions. staff participated in, we prioritized by the business. In addition to contributed significantly towards four African countries: Nigeria, to coincide with the spirit of “The certain sustainability indicators in the positive socio-economic our identification of material Senegal, South Africa and Ethiopia. Dangote Way”. Leveraging the 7-Pillar approach to accordance with GRI Standards. impact, the initiative providing sustainability topics and indicators This is in line with our journey sustainability, every aspect of our Our resulting Materiality Matrix can a unique platform for bonding during the year, in accordance with to produce a GRI-compliant Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 14 15 Dangote 7 Sustainability Pillars Regulatory compliance Our 7 sustainability pillars enable us build our business with a strong compliance culture. We seek to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in all the countries where we operate. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONAL ECONOMIC GR Promote inclusive, sustainable 00: TAL I ECO 200: Achieve sustainable financial Build a world-class institution I3 N economic growth, selfreliance, GR NME IFC (PE NO health through a business model centered around corporate O DARD) RFO MI self-sufficiency and industrialisation VI R STAN RM C N NCE AN that delivers strong returns to governance best practices and E MA 6 CE across Africa, by establishing efficient R 3, ST shareholders, whilst creating value in sustainability principles that production facilities and developing ER FO 1, A * NERGY AN DA the economies in which we operate promote legal and regulatory (P C GE & ENATURE GC CA RD G CHANN resilient local economies in FC E C ME NCIPLE T& S) UNG C (P * ) by selling highquality products at compliance, transparency and I AT N strategiclocations and key markets. I IM IRO (PR 9 RIN CIP affordable prices, supported by business continuity. CL NV GC 7, 8, SD 10 LE E N S) excellent customer service. U G s , 17 8, 1G s S D 2, 13 1 , 1 EC GRI 40 D) 7 SE , S C IFC NER 6 1, 2, 4, 5 E STAND 0: ECO N S E GE E L R N S MENTA NO (PE ON G 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 M HEALTH & * C G IC R NC I 02: CE STANDARD) C ENT , 7, 8 AR V C , 4, 5, 6 L GRI 1 N N RON M S,E16, 17 30, N S E SOCIAL RESPSAFETY PR , 9, 1 , 10 ES) VI 1, 3, 4, 5, 1 GC ( E EN MAN ,2 , 22, 1 ENTAL FINA C:1, 19, 2132, 34, 35 NC UN , 2, 3, 6, 7, 10 NM GCC , 36 ONS RO IA 7 URES GCCA 0, 1 L VI , ANCE 0, 1 ISCLOS 8, 16 ,9,10,11,12,13 SDGs 15 FOR , 8 VERN Y IBIL G s EN UNGC (PR SDG1 ,5,6,8 NSE A* 1, 1 AL D ITY IN 6 INCIPLES) SOCIAL, HEALTH IFC (PERFORMAN 7 SEC GO N C C G INCI TUTIONAL OPE SOCIA NCC SOCIA ,3,4 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29 L &S 3 P L STI AF C 6 ET 7 SUSTAINABILITY RA TI C PILLARS I EC OM N O S E IC EC NA L ENV N NC N NOM O IRO S C CU LTURAL O CCG N G 6 NM E G s 1, 1 L ,1 S D8, 1 TA 8 S S EC EN , 9, D G 0 ) 5 0: ES NCCG IFC PL , EC CI NSE 12 s CIR G D) S 20 IC IN 10 O R (P , 6, C UN ULA C C A 13 P GOVERNANCE , 10 AR (PE M 1, 1, RIN N ( MA 5 , 2 I ND E ,4 NT 3: 14 ,18 ,28 R A* M CULTURAL 2 C GC R E * FO R NA 3 G C PL I A CC 0, 11, 16, 1 O 4, 5, 1 RM UN T C G N GE RI 7 Y 3, S AP G G SEC OM ES) AN CE Embody our core values in the way O RM SDGs EC CE AN O we do business, including a respect 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 (P UNGC (PRINCIPLES) OA D) S PR for cultural diversity and giving back ER AR F to the societies in which we operate. IFC ND TA To achieve this, we actively encourage GCCA* CH teamwork, empowerment, inclusion, PERFORMANCE STANDAR 8 IFC ( 5, 7, D) respect, integrity and meritocracy within our organisation 102: GE NERAL DISCLOSU RES GRI GRI 400: SOCIAL Note: Pillars: GCCA* including CSI Global Cement and Concrete Association SOCIAL Legend: FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONAL ECONOMIC CULTURAL OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL Create a learning environment Serve and satisfy our markets by Create sustainable environmental and platform for our employees SEC Code of Corporate Governance working together with partners management practices, through a to grow and achieve their fullest to deliver the best products proactive approach to addressing potential, whilst adhering to the GRI Global Reporting Initiative and services to our valued the challenges and opportunities highest standards of health and IFC International Financial Corporation OPERATIONAL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL customers and stakeholders of climate change, while optimising safety. In our host communities, through continuous product our performance in energy we strive to develop resilient and UNGC United Nations Global Impact improvement, new business efficiency, water usage and sustainable prosperity through direct SDG Sustainable Development Goals development, employing stateofemissions. and indirect employment, skills the-art technologies and systems transfer and local entrepreneurial NCCG Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance to constantly optimise costdevelopment. NSE Nigerian Stock Exchange efficiencies. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 16 17 Our Approach...Cont‘d Regulatory compliance Our approach to regulatory The New Nigerian Code of to the Application of the Code, with Goals 1, 3, 4, 5, 10, and 16; Our compliance with various institutional, cultural, operational, compliance involves alignment with Corporate Governance championed Board of Directors, Relationship while our cultural pillar 4, 5, 10, principles, guidelines, standards environmental and social, align with local and global laws, regulations by the Federal Reporting Council of with Shareholders, Relationship 11, 16 and 17. Our cultural pillar and laws highlighted above enables the IFC Performance Standards. and guidelines. Our process Nigeria was also released in 2018. with other Stakeholders, essentially provides the framework us to build internal sustainability By benchmarking against global has involved benchmarking our This Code seeks to institutionalize Risk Management and Audit, for integrating sustainability into our policies, systems and structures that standards, we continually strive to reporting against new guidelines the highest standards of corporate Accountability and Reporting, business processes and values. We are in line with best practices. We go beyond the industry level of which emerged in 2018, including governance among Nigerian Communication, Code of Ethics and seek to foster a corporate culture are also promoting and encouraging compliance locally to standardise the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) companies and suits our objective Interpretation. With our institutional that aligns sustainability “thinking” employee volunteerism and our performance globally. Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines to build a world class organization and cultural pillars, we are making with sustainability “doing” and in have dedicated our group-wide for which we have been an early with sustainable governance concerted efforts to align with all this regard our cultural sustainability sustainability week initiative to Transcending national regulatory adopter. practices. Our institutional, cultural, thirty-seven provisions that make up pillar pays a unique and important demonstrating our innovative requirements, we specifically operational, environmental, social the SEC code. We believe that by role to support our commitment in approach to social responsibility. adopted the Global Reporting The NSE Guidelines have four core and financial pillars address 22 aligning with this Code, we would driving sustainable development in We will also continue to ensure Initiative (GRI) reporting standards areas, economic, environmental, out of the 28 principles of the be strengthening our commitment all the markets where we operate. the high-quality of our product for our sustainability reporting. We social, and governance, and Code. We are committed to to building a strong governance as a sustainable, durable and have made remarkable progress these align directly with our working diligently and achieving full structure and a compliant and We are one of the founding resilient building material to drive since 2017 in our efforts to use economic, environmental, social compliance in advance of when the responsible business. members of the Global Cement the realisation of the infrastructural GRI guidelines for our non-financial and institutional pillars. The code becomes effective in January and Concrete Association (GCCA), needs of the new Africa we reporting to stakeholders. Through NSE Guidelines elicit corporate 2020. As a socially responsible a best practice forum dedicated envision, being one that harnesses compliance with these standards, responsibility from listed companies organisation, we are committed to driving responsible industry the continents young growing urban we seek to enhance transparency, such as Dangote Cement, and As a publicly listed company, and a to working with like-minds in the leadership in the manufacture population to create prosperity for accuracy and credibility, improved benchmark our efforts against those member of the Premium Board of effort to address global challenges. and use of cement and concrete. all. stakeholder’s engagement and data of industry peers. the Nigerian Stock Exchange, our This explains our alignment with Our operational, environmental integrity. Our 2018 Sustainability activities especially the governance the United Nations Sustainable and social pillars align with the 5 The Performance Standards Report was prepared in compliance We are currently putting in place dimension are guided by the Development Goals (SDGs). Our focus areas of the GCCA – which on Environmental and Social with GRI requirements. structures that will enable us Code of Corporate Governance sustainability pillars are linked are health and safety, social Sustainability by the International improve on material ESG issues, of the Securities and Exchange with 15 of the 17 SDGs. Our responsibility, climate change Financial Corporation (IFC) develop management strategies, Commission (SEC). Established in economic pillar addresses Goals and energy, environment and also informs the Corporation’s establish action plans, as well as 2003, the SEC Code has been an 1, 2, 8, 11 and 16; the financial nature, and circular economy. Our approach to effective ESG and risk monitor and responsibly report important governance guideline pillar addresses Goals 8 and 11; obligation to the guidelines is at management. The IFC Performance our sustainability performance. for publicly listed companies in our environmental pillar aligns with the heart of improvements at our Standards were developed as Our 2018 Sustainability Report Nigeria and seeks to ensure that Goals 6, 7, 12, 13 and 17; the sites to enhance energy efficiency, guidelines for IFC clients and already fulfills most of the reporting businesses proactively maintain an institutional pillar addresses Goals reduce gas and dust emissions partners, and have become globally requirements of the NSE Guidelines acceptable standard of corporate 8, 16 and 17; while the operational and strengthen health and safety recognized and accepted as a DR NDIDI NNOLI and we will build on this progress in behaviour. The Code has 9 broad pillar addresses Goals 8, 9, 12 measures. credible sustainability framework. Group Chief our 2019 report. parts that address issues related and 13. Our social pillar connects 6 of our 7 Sustainability Pillars Sustainability & Governance Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 18 19 2018 Report Overview Welcome Employee Volunteerism: DCP employees preparing roads for repairs during the inaugural 2018 Sustainability Week. Dangote Cement Plc (DCP), the leading cement and involved in our sustainability journey, thereby with over 500 employees in about 6 countries coming percent, from N49.9 billion to N57.6 billion. Similarly, conglomerate in Africa and Nigeria’s biggest indigenous embedding sustainability beyond issues of risk out for different community development projects. wealth created for local suppliers and vendors across company, is an important part of the Dangote Group. management or compliance. Our performance in the operational and environmental our supply chain rose by 4 percent, from N281billion in DCP is listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange but pillars show progress in our commitment to innovation 2017 to N292billion in the year under review. is owned primarily by its parent company, Dangote Our performance in the institutional pillar in 2018 in production processes and standards, particularly In addition to nurturing our growth numbers which is Industries Limited (DIL). With operations in three shows a consistent focus on upholding corporate in Operational Health and Safety. Likewise, we critical to our financial pillar, we also made tremendous locations in Nigeria and across 10 African countries, governance that is in line with global best practice continuously strive to enhance our environmental progress in our economic and social pillars in 2018. the social, environmental and economic impact of DCP and evolving regulations in our different markets. stewardship and are committing more resources to With over N1.4 billion new investments in social is significant and diverse. As a leading global company, In the year under review, we successfully aligned improvements in line with growing concerns about projects and nearly 1000 students benefitting from we are committed to ensuring that our operations are our 7 sustainability pillars with global principles energy efficiency, resource optimisation, circular Dangote scholarships in our Nigerian operations alone, fully aligned with the group-wide sustainability vision. and standards including the United Nations Global economy, carbon emissions and climate change. In we remain focused on building lasting relationships Compact, IFC Performance Standards, Global Reporting 2018, we won the SERAS Award for best company in with host communities, enhancing their socioeconomic In 2017, DIL on behalf of all its subsidiaries engaged Initiative, SEC Code of Corporate Governance, NSE Supply Chain Management, one of the key indicators wellbeing and sustaining our social license to operate. professionals to define and streamline issues of Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines, Global Cement we track under our operational pillar. We also continue to improve on our health and safety Sustainability and Governance. Through extensive and Concrete Association, Nigeria Code of Corporate standards in the workplace and in local communities engagements with internal and external stakeholders, Governance 2018 and the United Nations Sustainable Our financial performance in 2018 once again gives as well as our investments in human capital the Group developed its unique approach to Development Goals. We understand that building our credence to our commitment to growing a world development. sustainability management around the 7 Pillars. business operations around these best standards will class business that increasingly creates and sustains consistently keep us ahead of competition while also value for all stakeholders. Compared with 2017, our Dangote Cement Plc remains the flagship from At Dangote Cement, we have adopted a stakeholderfostering our corporate existence. gross revenues in the year under review grew by 11.9 which Dangote Group’s Sustainability agenda will be oriented approach in order to clearly define who percent, from N805 billion to N901 billion. Our profit replicated across all the other businesses. We are well we are, where we are and where we want to be. By In our cultural pillar, 2018 saw tremendous progress in before tax also rose by 13.8 percent year-on-year, from poised to harness best practices in sustainability and aligning with the 7 Pillars, we ensure that every aspect efforts to build a workplace where the highest level of N454 billion to N517 billion in 2018. A review of our governance to further solidify our leadership in the of our business is run in line with global sustainability leadership champions our sustainability acculturation value added performance shows that our earnings diverse markets where we play. principles. Through the 7 Pillars (institutional, goal, and where diversity, equality, values, ethics, rule per share rose from N11.6 to N22.8, a 96.5 percent cultural, operational and environmental, economic, of law and active staff involvement are nurtured. Our increase over the 2017 figure. Wages, salaries and social, financial), every business function is engaged pilot Sustainability Week was held in September 2018 other employees’ benefits also increased by 15.4 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 20 21 2018 Milestones Extensive Stakeholder Engagement, Trained and engaged 500 Materiality Assessment and Baseline Sustainability Champions, Survey against Global Peers with 50 including Management of ALL core GRI indicators to track and report DCP Africa plants on Sustainability performance; Reporting based on GRI Global Standards; Deployed Sustainability Week, Developed Sharepoint which mobilized hundreds of Sustainability Data Management employees to engage in voluntary System for data collection Waste Management, Community across 13 DCP Africa Plants for Infrastructural Development and Sustainability Reporting, which is boost Social Performance across 7 to be automated in 2019. African countries and 9 DCP Plants; 2018 Africa Sustainability Enterprise & Responsibility Awards Employee wellbeing engagement during the Sustainability Week Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 22 23 1. Our Business Who we are and how we operate What defines us Company overview Our Vision Our Mission To be a global leader in cement production, Our mission is to deliver strong returns to shareholders by Dangote Cement is the largest company It became a fully integrated quarry-torespected for the quality of our products and selling high-quality products at affordable prices, backed by within the Dangote Group (Dangote Industries customer producer, manufacturing cement Limited). With a market capitalisation of at Africa’s newest plants and distributing it services and for the way we conduct our excellent customer service, and: business. ₦3,152.40 billion ($9.1 billion) as at December to customers with a fleet of several thousand • To help Nigeria and other African countries towards 2018, it is by far the largest company listed on trucks. Dangote Cement has invested nearly self-reliance and self-sufficiency in the production of the the Nigerian Stock Exchange. In fact, it is more $3 billion to build manufacturing plants and world’s most basic commodity, by establishing efficient valuable than the country’s top 5 listed banks combined. import/grinding terminals across Africa. Our Brand production facilities in strategic locations close to key markets; Our brand evokes the imagery of an eagle • To provide economic benefits to local communities The company started as an importer of Engr. J. Makoju CEO/GMD, DCP “We understand the which represent the qualities of vision, by way of direct and indirect employment in all countries cement more than 15 years ago and began manufacturing in 2008. Now, after several responsibility we hold. strength, tenacity and fearlessness where we operate; characteristics we believe are exhibited by • To lead the way in areas such as governance and billion dollars of investments, it is the largest Due to the scale of our our Company. sustainability, setting a good example for other companies independent cement producer in Subbusiness and position in the to follow, and; Saharan Africa with nearly 46 million tonnes per annum (Mta) of production and import market, we transform reality • As an African business headquartered in Nigeria, we value the inclusion of locals in our employment. This is capacity across ten countries. and have an impact on becoming a corporate culture in all territories where we millions of stakeholders” operate. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 24 25 Where we operate Taking a glance at the group in 2018: Truly Pan-African Market: 2018/19 Dangote Cement has production capacity of 45.6 million tonnes per year across ten countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. We have integrated factories in seven countries, a clinker-grinding plant in #1 #10 #1 Cameroon and import and distribution facilities for bulk cement In Africa Globally In Nigeria in Ghana and Sierra Leone. Together, these operations make us the largest cement producer in Sub-Saharan Africa. #1 #1 Most Admired African Most Valuable Brand in Brand in 2018 Nigeria in 2018 (by the Brand Africa 100) (by Brand Nigeria top 50) Serving our continent 08 With headquarters in Nigeria, we operate in many Sub-Saharan African markets, helping 04 10 01 the continent in its goal of becoming + 07 self-sufficient in cement production. 05 $9.1Bn 30% Our regional strategy 06 Market Capitalisation Of total NSE 02 capitalisation We look out for markets that have ample limestone deposits, thriving economies, growing 09 population and a pressing need for rapid housing and infrastructural development. Innovative new products introduced to the market: 03 FALCON & BlocMaster A track record of growth 25 20 Million tonnes SERAS 2018 15 Sustainability Award for: 10 5 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Top 5 “Most Responsible Best company in Supply Business in Africa Chain Management Nigeria Cameroon Congo Ethiopia Ghana Senegal Sierra Leone South Africa Tanzania Zambia Source: DCP Annual Report 2018. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 26 27 Pan-African Operations: Infrastructural & Human capital Pan-African operations sold 23.5Mt of cement The total Pan-African volume represents 39.8% 10 13 >>> in 2018, which was 7.4% higher than the 2017 of Group sales volume before inter-company >>> figures. Although, factors such as the plants adjustments. 3 under construction shutdown in Tanzania owing to a delay in gas 26,000+ Pan-Africa Employees Cement Additional 6 planned turbine installation, civil disruptions in Ethiopia Pan-African revenues of ₦901.2B were 11.9% Countries Plants and reductionsa in imports from Nigeria into higher than 2017. The region’s EBITDA 21 Nationalities Ghana, threatened sales, but our year-end stance was positive. contribution of ₦435.3 billion (before central costs and eliminations) was 12.1% of Group + 46mt EBITDA, at a margin of 48.3%, compared to a >>> Strong performances were recorded in other margin of 48.2% in 2017. 9,000+ trucks Annual cement production (Transportation fleet) Pan-African territories, markets including Zambia, capacity which equals about 7 Dedicated R&D centres Sierra Leone and our newest market Congo. (Million tonnes) Hoover Dams across all operations AGANANG/DELMAS, SOUTH AFRICA POUT, SENEGAL MUGHER, ETHIOPIA 3.3Mta 1.5Mta 2.5Mta • Integrated Plant • Integrated Plant • Integrated Plant • On-site power plant MTWARA, TANZANIA 3.0Mta DOUALA, CAMEROON 1.5Mta NDOLA, ZAMBIA 1.5Mta Financial: • Integrated Plant • Clinker grinding plant • Integrated Plant 23.5 • On-site power plant • On-site power plant FREETOWN, 7.4% MFILA, REP. CONGO TEMA, GHANA SIERRA LEONE MT Group 2017 1.5Mta 1.5Mta 0.7Mta Sales Volumes 2018 • Integrated Plant • Import & distribution • Import & distribution facility facility • Import terminal • Import terminal • Takoradi grinding under construction plant in plan ₦901.2B ₦435.3B Revenues EBITDA at COTE D’IVOIRE KENYA LIBERIA 12.1% Margin • Grinding plant • Integrated Plant • Import terminal under construction in plan in plan CAMCAN Nigerian Capital Market Performance Award 2018 NIGER REPUBLIC MALI NEPAL Institutional Investor Most Profitable company Award Emerging EMEA SON Awards – • Integrated Plant • Grinding Plant • Integrated Plant overall on the Nigerian Executive Team, 5 top MANCAP Stock Exchange three rankings Certification in plan in plan in plan Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 28 29 NIGERIA Nigeria’s cement market recovered well in 2018. We estimate that total market consumption was 20.7Mt, up 11.0% from the 18.6Mt sold in 2017. Dangote Cement’s Nigerian operations increased volumes by 11.4% to 14.2Mt in 2018, including export sales of 0.8Mt. Domestic sales in Nigeria were 13.4Mt, compared to 12.0Mt in 2017, as a result of higher local demand. As a result of our volume growth, Nigeria increased revenue by 11.9% to ₦618.3billion and EBITDA by 10.2% to ₦397.4billion at a margin of 64.3%. Only a few years ago, our home market, Nigeria was one of the world’s largest importers of cement. Thanks to the huge KEY STATISTICS investments and contributions of Dangote shareholders and other key stakeholders, Nigeria has transformed into a net exporter of DEMOGRAPHICS this basic but vital commodity. Population 196m Urbanisation 50% Despite recent macro-economic slowdown in Nigeria, we kept 2018 GDP growth 1.9% industry-leading financial performance with exceptional EBITDA margins of 48%. Through our recent investments, Dangote Cement MARKET has eliminated Nigeria‘s dependence on imported cement and Total capacity 48.2Mta has transformed the nation into a net exporter of cement serving Cement consumption 126kg/ps neighbouring countries. Total market 20.7Mt Integrated Plant Increased use of own-mined and other locally sourced coal, as Market Share: well as improved production efficiency, helped to improve profit 65% margins. Our Nigerian operations aim to achieve energy efficiency Clinker Grinder by reducing consumption of fossil fuel. This model would enable Sales Volumes: us to phase out the use of expensive low pour fuel oil in kilns and to reduce our use of imported coal. Additionally, converted kilns Import & distribution 14.2Mt enable us to use coal and gas interchangeably. Power Plant Revenue: In 2019 we will open export facilities in Lagos and Port Harcourt that will enable us to export clinker along the coast, initially to our ₦618.3B grinding facility in Cameroon and in time to new grinding plants we are building in Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire. Not only will this ‘export Main infrastructure to import’ strategy generate useful foreign currency for Dangote Nigerian Operations: projects: Cement to support other expansion projects outside of Nigeria, it will also help to increase the output of our Nigerian plants. This Epe Expressway Road Project will help to improve job creation and increase prosperity in Nigeria, KanoMaiduguri Expressway which all stakeholders can be proud of. Lagos-Ibadan Expressway Road Project OBAJANA, KOGI STATE IBESE, OGUN STATE GBOKO, BENUE STATE Lagos-Ibadan Rail Project Loko Oweto Bridge 13Mta 12Mta 4Mta Power Plant, Ohovve Village, • Integrated Plant • Integrated Plant • Integrated Plant Benin Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 30 31 SENEGAL KEY STATISTICS Market Share: ETHIOPIA Dangote cement factory was opened in the Oromiya region in May 2015. Our 2.5Mta plant, less than 90km from Addis Ababa, is the DEMOGRAPHICS Population 16m 24% largest cement plant in Ethiopia, capable of producing high-quality 32.5 and 42.5-grade cements to meet market needs, at competitive Urbanisation 47% Sales Volumes: prices. The plant has rich limestone reserves of about 223 million 1.4Mt 2018 GDP growth 7.0% tonnes. MARKET In May 2018, Country Manager of Dangote Cement plant in Revenue: Total capacity 8.2Mta Ethiopia, along with two other employees a secretary and the Cement consumption 235kg/ps Total market 3.8Mt ₦39.0B driver were shot dead by unknown assailants near the Dangote Cement Factory located some 85 kilometers west of Addis Ababa in Main infrastructure KEY STATISTICS Adeberga woreda, Oromiya region. The Ethiopian government and projects: the Ethiopian Investment Commission both issued statements of With per capita consumption of about 235 kg/person, Senegal is DEMOGRAPHICS apology and condolences to Dangote and the families of the victims. an excellent market for cement. We have introduced the 32.5 grade • Ilaa Touba Highway Population 57m cement which is well suited for the lower-end, price sensitive market. • Dakar Airport Railway Urbanisation 66% The heartbreaking incident occurred as engagements with the local 2018 GDP growth 0.8% community to address grievances about indigenous employment quota was ongoing. However, Dangote representatives continue to MARKET work closely with the local communities to assess and address their Total capacity 25Mta concerns. We are committed to continuous improvement of our Cement consumption 245kg/ps community engagement policies and practices to ensure harmonious Total market 14Mt coexistence with host communities. SOUTH AFRICA KEY STATISTICS Market Share: Market Share: DEMOGRAPHICS 22% Population Urbanisation 57m 66% Sales Volumes: 15% Sales Volumes: n/a 2018 GDP growth 0.8% MARKET Revenue: 2.1Mt Total capacity 25Mta Revenue: Cement consumption 245kg/ps ₦59.0B Total market 14Mt ₦51.4B Main infrastructure projects: Main infrastructure projects: xxx xxx South Africa has approximately 25Mta capacity. Our facilities at Aganang and Delmas are among the most modern and efficient in the country, serving key markets around the capital and regions such as Limpopo province, Kwa-Zulu Natal and North West Province. Price and product competition has been stiff in 2018, with new products launched by competitors. With pressure on sales volume, we focused attention on strategic marketing, cost reductions and operational efficiency. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 32 33 Future business plans: The Executive Management Team: Championing Sustainability Target >>> 80Mta Capacity Increasing demand for cement continues across the continent, owing to enhanced urbanisation, infrastructure, housing and commercial building developments. Emerging middle-class and younger, more mobile population increases consumerization and need for more buildings. It is estimated that total infrastructure spending in Africa may reach $6 trillion by 2040. Dangote Cement intends to expand its footprint across Africa with new integrated factories or grinding plants planned for Kenya, Mali, Niger, Cote d’Ivoire, Liberia and Ghana. Expansion plans are being considered for our facilities in Ethiopia, Zambia, Cameroon and Senegal. If all of these projects come to Arvind Pathak fruition, Dangote Cement will have nearly 80Mta capacity in 17 countries. Why sustainability in cement production is important to us 08 01 Cement is an essential building Sub-Saharan Africa significantly material with no viable Adeyemi Fajobi Juan-Carlos Rincon lags global average per-capita substitutes, Africa needs billions Head of Sales and Marketing Head of Transport Director of Projects cement consumption of tonnes in coming decades 07 02 Key markets are Nigeria, Ethiopia, South Africa; cement Africa is the next major growth ‘majors’ with high net debt / market for cement with relatively EBITDA are less able to finance little surplus capacity at present entry to these markets Knut Ulvmoen Mahmud Kazaure Musa Rabiu Supply Chain Director Group Chief Legal Counsel and Company Secretary High capital cost of entry, 06 CEMENT 03 Cement demand driven by construction time and access increasing population, to resources are key barriers urbanisation, infrastructure, to entry housing growth and prosperity 05 04 Many incumbents are sub-scale Huge opportunity for African and use older technologies, so Oliver Obu Dr Ravi Sood K R Rao producers to expand, replace Director of Operations, Pan-Africa are vulnerable to well-funded Group Financial Controller Designate Director of Operations, Nigeria imports, especially in West Africa, industry disruptors much of which lacks limestone Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 34 35 2. Dangote’s phased journey towards world-class sustainability reporting Our We commenced our journey towards sustainability reporting in 2017 and developed a roadmap to achieve compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) by 2020: Sustainability 2020 We plan to: • Institutionalise group-wide Journey GRI compliant sustainability reporting from 2020 • Commence integrated reporting. 2019 We plan to: • Conduct an external assurance on sustainability report • Commence ISO precertification and training • Unveil the quarterly Dangote Way Sustainability Newsletter. Olakunle Alake GMD, DIL We had started our sustainability journey a long time SUSTAINABILITY & GOVERNANCE ago. However, developing a strategy around the 7 Journey towards GRI Standard Compliant 2018 Sustainability Reporting pillars inspired a strategic model of sustainability across the Group We: • Engaged internal stakeholders for identification of management which has grown organically in our material aspects using surveys and other channels • Expanded sustainability reporting to cover Cement organisation. We are led by a strong desire to improve. Group (four operating countries) across Africa • Strengthened sustainability implementation, reporting and governance by recruiting highly experienced sustainability professionals • Designated and trained 500 sustainability champions and 100 data owners in DCP • Achieved full GRI reporting compliance ahead of earlier schedule of 2020 for DCP • Embedded Sustainability Thinking and Doing at SUSTAINABILITY all levels of governance, operations and corporate culture: The Dangote Way 2017 We: • Developed and institutionalised a robust data gathering framework for embedding a strong GOVERNANCE ACTIVITIES STANDARDS AWARDS data-centric sustainability culture across Dangote Cement • Facilitated roadshows and workshops which informed the sustainability policy, processes, systems and culture. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 36 37 Towards operationalising a Sustainability Governance data-centric sustainability Sustainability governance at Dangote stems from Our Sustainability and Governance unit drives culture the highest echelon of the group and cascades down across all levels. awareness and provides training on sustainable business practices across our operational network. The Group Chief manages a team of sustainability The data gathered from the sustainability reporting process enables us to identify gaps and design The Board of Directors is advised by the professionals who liaise with sustainability effective measures for optimal performance management across all aspects of our operations. President and the Board Technical Committee champions that have been nominated in all the on sustainability matters. They are supported by relevant department/units of the group. the GMD, Dangote Cement Plc. and the Group Chief, Sustainability and Governance. To ensure The Board oversees the development of our sustainability is embedded into our entire business sustainability strategy and enforces its adoption strategy, we nominated champions that represent across the group. The Board also works closely all the geographical regions where we operate. with the sustainability team to identify material BRIDGING THE GAP sustainability issues, and to approve set Establishing who is accountable for the sustainability targets. actualization of each indicator, assign to Single Point of Accountability (SPOA), SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE plan actualization. E.g. recruiting for diversity (be it internal or external) STRUCTURE THE BOARD Chair/President MEASURING PERFORMANCE Actual performance is measured along side root cause analysis of any deviation Board Technical from target performance. Committee GMD, DIL GMD, DCP TARGET SETTING To live The Dangote Way and embed Executive sustainability in our operating model, Champions sustainability indicators need to be part of business performance measurement in line with set targets. Group Chief, S&G Country Directors DATA GATHERING GM, Sustainability Identify and agree on the indicators, data owners/champions, data gathering and verification modalities. S&G Unit > Sustainability Data Owners > > Champions Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 38 39 500 Sustainability Champions Sustainability standards and codes that Networked and Educated in 2018 we comply with: Our Sustainability Champions act as the linkages between us and all the units across the group. In our bid to institutionalise sustainability and embed it in our organisational DNA, we instituted a Sustainability Champions programme. During the year, we trained 500 persons as Sustainability Champions to bolster our sustainability efforts across all locations. LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE IMPACT D A N G O T E DIVERSITY SUSTAINABILITY INCLUSION ENTREPRENEURSHIP The SERAS Awards 2018 In 2018, we devoted 1,083 staff hours to training in sustainability awareness and sensitisation, The Sustainability, Enterprise and Responsibility Environmental Excellence. which represented 0.2% of our total staff training hours. Awards (The SERAs) is the most recognised and Some of the Group’s Award nominations were prestigious corporate social responsibility (CSR) credited to its impactful community support and Sustainability Award in Nigeria. During the activities during the 2018 Sustainability Week. 2018 ceremony which held on December 1, 2018, CASE STUDY at the Muson Centre, Lagos, Dangote Group Two members of the Dangote Group family, — emerged finalist in five categories. Dr. Ndidi Nnoli, Group Chief, Sustainability & SUSTAINABILITY WEEK Governance; and Eunice Sampson, General Dangote Cement won the Award for the Best Manager/Head, Sustainability, Dangote Cement Our first Sustainability Week was a massive success, with Company in Supply Chain Management, while Plc, were among 6 Nigerians that were singled colleagues showing great enthusiasm to live The Dangote Way and reach out to help local communities, touch lives and create Dangote Rice won the Best Company in Hunger, out for individual SERAS awards for their a more conducive environment for coexistence and cooperation. Food and Security. distinguished contributions to the growth of CSR Our Sustainability Champions worked on diverse projects targeted at improving hospitals, roads, schools, communities and and Sustainability in Nigeria. small businesses. The Group was finalist in five other award categories which include Best in Poverty Sustainability Week projects Eradication, Best in Support for SME and Best in 500 13 6 Volunteers Locations Countries Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 40 41 3. Value Creation Why sustainability is important for our business Our Values Ernest Ebi Our commitment to sustainable Our values represent our overall work culture which guides our staff in the Non-Executive Director performance of their duties in line. value creation is driven by the • SERVICE: As a world-class organisation, we understand that we exist highest level of governance. to serve and satisfy our customers. Accordingly, our customer orientation reflects intimacy, integrity and continuous learning. • LEADERSHIP: We thrive on being leaders in our business, markets and communities. To drive this, we focus on continuous improvement, partnership and professionalism. • ENTREPRENEURSHIP: We continuously seek and develop new business, employing state-of-the-art methods to sustain our market leadership. • EXCELLENCE: We are a large organisation, working together to deliver the best products and services to our valuable customers and stakeholders. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 42 43 Value Creation Model Our value creation model is our system of creating sustainable value from various aspects of our activities for internal and external stakeholders. It represents our strategic objectives and how they are distributed among the 7 Pillars. The model shows the inter-linkages between the pillars with emphasis on governance (institutional and cultural pillars); license to operate (operational and environmental pillars); and, operations (economic, social and financial pillars). How we propose to achieve Sustainability Leadership in Africa In continuation of our sustainability journey, we have developed a clear strategy for value creation that positions us as an industry disruptor. In the coming years, while developing and enhancing our sustainability strategy for the Dangote Cement Group, we have determined 3 levels which we identify as critical: 1. FOUNDATIONS: PLAY TO CREATE NEW VALUE 1 2 3 Compliance with internal policies, international standards and regulations – these are the foundation of how we conduct business. Building value-driven business is key for us. We comply with the applicable laws in all the countries in which we operate. We also aim to raise standards through knowledge Impact, Strategic sharing and benchmarking across the plants. We implement new data gathering systems to raise Excellence in Community Innovation effectiveness and manage risks quicker. ESG management Investment Diversity Continuous Strategic 2. CHANGE MANAGEMENT: PLAY TO CAPITALISE Management Improvement Stakeholders Engagement Good governance is not only about procedures and policies. We are developing internal culture to Compliance with Management enable transformation across the whole Group. We influence behaviours in order to live the values Non-financial National, Pan-African systems, Policies, Integrated Reporting we respect. We are more proactive in our HSE risk management processes and practices, with HSE & Global standards Monitoring tools being promoted from being a standalone activity into a key performance indicator. We are building a culture focused on prevention. Also, by adopting a pragmatic stakeholder management approach which Pillars guides the way we engage with our stakeholders, we are able to listen and identify their key concerns and develop strategies for addressing them while maximising our positive impacts. However, we are INSTITUTIONAL OPERATIONAL ECONOMIC aware that there is still room for improvement in the field of environment, social and governance PILLAR PILLAR PILLAR management. CULTURAL ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL/ PILLAR PILLAR COMMUNITY 3. LEADERSHIP: PLAY TO WIN INVESTMENT We strengthened our market leadership in 2018 and believe that our strategy will enable us to continue FINANCIAL growing and consolidating our position in Sub-Saharan Africa. The opportunities are enormous. The PILLAR United Nations estimates that the region’s population will grow to more than 2 billion people by 2050, with the urbanised population growing by 800 million over the same time, which is 2.5 times America’s LICENSE TO current population. We understand that these growths could also have negative impacts on the GOVERNANCE OPERATIONS OPERATE environment. We want to help to shape transformation in a more responsible manner. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 44 45 4. INSTITUTIONAL & CULTURAL SECTION Strategic objective: 1.1. Compliance with national, Pan-African and global standards ONE Description Commitment to compliance with the highest business standards in all the markets where we operate. How we strengthen governance Strategic 1.2. objective: Diversity management Description INSTITUTIONAL For us, diversity means a workforce with a mix of visible, underlying differences in ethnicity, culture, religion, nationality, age, gender, education and appearance. PILLAR Managing diversity and inclusiveness is critical to achieving business success. Our goal is to develop a CULTURAL management system that will allow us to live the values rooted in our DNA. PILLAR Strategic 1.3. objective: Excellence in ESG management Description Improved bottom line results, balanced scorecard reports, and better ratings and awards from organisations/ frameworks such as GCCA, GRI, the UN Global Compact; the International Labour Organisations; the OECD Guidelines; the IFC Performance Guidelines; the NSE Sustainability Disclosure Guidelines, etc. Our goal is to raise our ratings within the global cement market, and also to encourage 1 our supply chain network to improve their business practices and adopt global sustainability principles. Excellence in ESG management Diversity To achieve Excellence in GOVERNANCE. management STEP 1 Stronger regulatory compliance and improved public perception of the value our business EXPECTED creates; improved brand equity; improved access to capital investments that will help Compliance with OUTCOME: national, Pan-African & scale up and expand our business. global standards Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 46 47 Institutional Definition Management Approach Building a world-class Our approach to governance essentially involves balancing our business institution centered around interests with the interests of our valued stakeholders, which include a culture predicated shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, financiers, governments on best practices in and host communities. With our seven pillar approach, Sustainability is Dr Nike For us, the Sustainability corporate governance and Fajemirokun being engrained into our business decisions, processes and practices. Group Executive sustainability principles that & Governance Function We ensure that the highest level of governance champions our Director promote legal/regulatory sustainability vision, goals and objectives. compliance, transparency is key to effective Risk and business continuity. We are building an institution that is governed by values and ethical norms of behaviour and where effective governance is flagged as the Management these are driver of corporate performance, not just in financial returns but also in social, economic and environmental impact. To ensure business integrity two sides of the same and continuity, we prioritise legal and regulatory compliance, effective coin. risk management and strive to achieve transparency in our business activities across all locations. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 48 49 What are the standards we comply with? Performance Tracker PILLAR: Institutional GRI IFC UN SDG‘s SEC Code UNGC NSE NCCG KPIs GRI 102: Performance SDG 8: Code: Principle 7, ORG AN ISAT ION AL T R ANSPAR ENC Y BOAR D DI V ER SIT Y BOAR D COMP OSIT ION HUMAN RIGHTS: Governance 2 12.5% 20% General Standard 7: Decent work 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, Disclosures Indigenous and economic 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12, 13, 14, 15 • Principle 1: Peoples growth 13, 15, 16, 17, & 16 Businesses should 19, 21, 22, 23, (Board of support and respect Performance SDG 16: 24, 25, 26, 27, Directors) the protection of Standard 8: Peace, justice 29, 30, 32, 34, internationally Financial and non-financial Female composition on Board Increase in Independent Cultural and strong 35, 36 Principle 21, proclaimed human reports released to disclose Non-Executive Directors Heritage institution 22 & 23 rights; and impact to stakeholders Relationship • Principle 2: SDG 17: with ShareMake sure that they Partnership for holders are not complicit in the Goals human rights abuses. Principles 24 & 25 LABOR: • Principle 3: (Business Conduct with Our Sustainability Commitment Businesses should Ethics) uphold the freedom For us, a high level of trust, together with a strong business reputation, makes it easier to operate; attract of association Principle 26 and the effective and retain best quality people, customers, and suppliers; contribute to good relationships in our local (Sustainabirecognition of the lity) communities; and pave the way to confidently entering new markets. right to collective bargaining; Principles 27 • Principle 6: & 28 Our Compliance function serves as an essential element of our company’s culture of integrity The elimination (Transparenof discrimination requiring responsible conduct from all of our employees, suppliers, and third-party business partners in cy) in respect of accordance with all applicable laws, internal codes and policies. employment and Principle 17, occupation. 18, 19 & 20 (Assurance) ANTI-CORRUPTION: • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Aliyu Suleiman Group Chief I believe with the 7 ENVIRONMENT: Strategy • Principle 7: Sustainability Pillars, we Businesses should support a precautionary have a well-defined and approach to environmental challenges; clearly laid out strategy to LEGEND: deliver sustainable growth SEC Code of Corporate Governance SDG Sustainable Development Goals and impact. GRI Global Reporting Initiative NCCG Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance IFC International Financial Corporation NSE Nigerian Stock Exchange UNGC United Nations Global Compact Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 50 51 SUSTAINABILITY AND RISK Institutional Standards ARE TWO SIDES OF A COIN DR ADENIKE FAJEMIROKUN Chief Risk Officer DIL GRI 102: Q. How does risk management help to A. For companies that occupy similar positions AL DISCLOSURES create positive long-term value? GENER like us, compliance to various local, national and global industry standards are a given. As a PER FORMANCE STAND A. Risk identification, assessment and mitigation company with footprints in many localities, we IFC ( 7, 8 ARD ) are critical aspects of any business that wants have to also ensure that we play by the rules to play for a long time. At Dangote Cement, as they relate to our economic, environmental, GCCA* risk management is a top priority and the risk social and governance activities. For instance, implications of every business decision and in our Nigerian market we have to comply UNGC (PRINCIPLES) action are thoroughly assessed from the short with several regulations like NSE Sustainability 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10 to the long term, scrutinising areas of potential Disclosures Guidelines, SEC code of corporate SDGs opportunities and competitive advantage, governance and the Nigerian Code of Corporate 8, 16, 17 and areas where negative impact mitigations Governance. :1,2,3,4,5,6,8,9,10,11,1 are required. We have expanded our risk S,E16C, 17, 3190,,2312, 2,23, 243, ,3254,, 2356, 26, 227,,1239 management scope to cover critical governance, Q. What are the biggest social and 15 NSE social and environmental risks. By doing this, we environmental risks to Dangote Cement? GOVERNANCE Interview are able to account for the various dimensions of NCCG our risk profile, including externalities. Our activities can be socially and environmentally beneficial or damaging ITUTIONA INST L Q. How is sustainability embedded in your depending on the level of responsibility and risk management? the type of management adopted. Our biggest social risk will be those associated with our A. For us sustainability and risk are two sides relationships with communities that play host to of a coin. Leveraging on our sustainability our plants. For our environmental risk, the most 7 SUSTAINABILITY management system and structures, we are able critical are our emissions which contribute to PILLARS to identify business risks and opportunities and climate change. We have identified these risks, proactively take steps to minimise the risks and and have dedicated teams who work tirelessly maximise the opportunities. Our sustainability to mitigate and if possible, avoid them. structure and system being put in place, shapes our perspective and approach of risk, especially Q. What is the 2019 outlook for when they border on governance and sociosustainability related risk management at environmental issues accompanied with external Dangote Cement? Institutional Indicators costs. These set of risk are comprehensively assessed to ensure that negative impact are The first process is to identify our risk, which is Corporate governance Risk management reduced to the minimum. what we have done. We have some systems in place, and we are still building structures to Culture based on ethics and integrity Stakeholder engagement Q. What are the biggest compliance risks to ensure best practices in their management. Dangote Cement? Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 52 53 Corporate governance The Committees A successful business is one that is driven by strong, yet supportive corporate governance that guides its Nomination Audit Committee Finance and Technical Remuneration Committee Members General Purpose and Operations Committee long-term strategy for profitable and sustainable growth. Members Ernest Ebi (Chairman) Members Members Committee Aliko Dangote (Chairman) Olakunle Alake Members Fidelis Madavo (Chairman) Emmanuel Ikazoboh Ernest Ebi Sani Dangote Olusegun Olusanya Joseph Makoju (Chairman) Olusegun Olusanya Devakumar Edwin (Chairman) Olakunle Alake Sani Dangote Emmanuel Ikazoboh Emmanuel Ikazoboh Olakunle Alake Abdu Dantata Abdu Dantata Fidelis Madavo Fidelis Madavo Sani Dangote Ernest Ebi Ernest Ebi Olusegun Olusanya Ernest Ebi Devakumar Edwin Devakumar Edwin Dorothy Ufot Devakumar Edwin Douraid Zaghouani Olusegun Olusanya Emmanuel Ikazoboh Dorothy Ufot The Board of Directors Fidelis Madavo Douraid Zaghouani Joseph Makoju Attended Not attended Not yet joined The Technical and Operations Committee oversees We also comply with several socio-environmental the sustainability function. It is mandated to guidelines and policies that are specific to subensure sustainability acculturation in all aspects of lines of our business such as mining. Aliko Dangote GCON Chairman Joseph Makoju OFR GCSO Brian Egan Abdu Dantata Non-Executive Director the business. Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance To strengthen our Corporate Board performance The Board, in furtherance of its mandate, ensures and to allow for more independent and unbiased that its Committees are composed of members views on Board activities, we increased the with the requisite knowledge, skill set and number of Independent non-Executive directors experience to effectively discharge their duties. by 20%, which brings our Board size to sixteen, Members of the Executive Management team are consistent with the requirements of Section 4 Cherie Blair Devakumar Edwin Dorothy Ufot SAN Douraid Zaghouani Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director often in attendance at Committee meetings in of the SEC Code. We also increased our Board Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance order to provide necessary information, support diversity by on-boarding another woman to the the Committee and give status updates on Board. We believe that a more inclusive Board is decisions from previous meetings. more likely to avert skewed decisions and we hope to further increase the number and participation of Governance at Dangote Cement is managed women in the future. The affairs, composition and in compliance with various local corporate meeting guidelines for the Board Members are laid Emmanuel Ikazoboh Ernest Ebi Fidelis Madavo Sir Michael Davis Independent Non-Executive Director Attendance Independent Non-Executive Director Attendance Non-Executive Director Attendance Independent Non-Executive Director Attendance governance laws such as the SEC Consolidated out on our Board Charter. Rules, Investments and Securities Act, The Complaints Management Framework of the Out of the 28 principles that make up the 2018 Nigerian Capital Market, Code of Corporate Nigeria Code of Corporate Governance, 22 of Governance For Public Companies, Nigerian them are directly related to sustainability and Code of Corporate Governance, NSE Corporate governance issues. We are committed to ensuring Compliance, NSE Sustainability Disclosure that we comply with the provisions way ahead of Olakunle Alake Bachelors degree in Olusegun Olusanya Sani Dangote Viswanathan Shankar Civil Engineering Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Attendance Non-Executive Director Attendance Independent Non-Executive Director Guidelines, King IV Code on Corporate Governance the January 2020 set compliance monitoring date. Attendance Attendance and other relevant local governance guidelines. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 54 55 COMPLYING WITH SEC DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS Culture based on ethics and integrity Interview MAHMUD KAZAURE Head of Legal We recognise that a culture of integrity is critical their commitment to this code on a yearly basis. to achieving our long-term sustainable growth. Our employees are also guided by the same high Q. Diversity and inclusion is topical living conditions and development of In order to achieve this, Dangote prides itself standards of ethics. Our employee code of conduct today. How does Dangote apply this infrastructure, all of which align with Dangote in setting the tone from the top by having a is disseminated to all levels of employees during concept, especially at the executive Cement’s interests. In Nigeria, we have Board Committee The Audit, Compliance and onboarding. It is also contained in the Employee level? contributed significantly to self-sufficiency in Risk Management Committee saddled with Handbook, which all employees can assess. cement production, moving the country from the responsibility of overseeing the Company’s A. We are developing a gender–balanced and a major importer barely a decade ago, to a compliance programme and adherence to the inclusive work environment where diverse net exporter of the commodity. Code of Business Ethics. The Code extends to our other stakeholders and talents can thrive and contribute to superior addresses issues and realities in the different business results. This is evidenced by the Q. What measures are put in place The Board is guided by our Directors’ Code of countries where we operate. These issues include: absence of discriminatory gender policies and to minimise exposures to incidents Ethics, which clearly sets out the standards of confidentiality, bribery and corruption, compliance, practices. We ensure gender equity in our of non-compliance, sanctions and conduct expected of them. Our directors renew money laundering, conflicts of interest, etc. employment across all levels. In line with our litigation? company‘s policy, employees are regarded equally irrespective of race, colour, religion, A. Our legal team works closely with the sex or ethnic background. Risk, Compliance, Internal Audit and other In our recruitment or promotion practices, relevant departments to proactively manage suitability for the job is hinged solely on merit our risk exposures. Our ultimate objective THE STAFF HANDBOOK qualification, leadership qualities, experience, is to ensure that observed risks do not — knowledge of the job, as well as good conduct crystallise. The Staff Handbook was developed as a practical manual to provide useful and character. information for staff on the organisation’s policies, rules and regulations, employee benefits, educational programs, services and the general code of Q. How does Dangote Cement align conduct, ethics and standards expected of them. its business interests with national interests? A. Some of the priorities of any progressive government are job creation, enhanced Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 56 56 57 Whistle-blowing mechanism Human Rights As Nigeria’s foremost manufacturing company protection in all our operations consistent Dangote Cement operates a robust whistle opportunity to make confidential disclosures and a major job provider in the country; we strive with International Labour Organisation (ILO) blowing policy, which guarantees protection, about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing. The to ensure compliance with Human Rights laws Convention No. 182 and IFC Performance Standard anonymity and non-reprisal for whistle-blowers. To Anti-Fraud Committee decides on the appropriate for both our direct employees and players in our 2. In the whole Group, the Child labour abolition ensure best practices, our whistleblowing system method and level of investigation. supply chain. In addition to our employee hand and prevention policy has been implemented, is hosted by an independent global organisation. book – which covers many of the identified human and this policy has been developed and will be This provides an extra layer of credibility and When required, the Anti-Fraud Committee rights areas, we have a number of standalone implemented in consultation with employees at all objectivity. decides on the appropriate method and level of policies. levels. investigation. The Anti-Fraud Committee is made All employees and stakeholders have the up of the following members: Dangote Cement is committed to creating Additionally, we have also implemented forced or awareness among staff and other key stakeholders compulsory labour prevention and abolition policy, on our child rights policies and the prohibition which is binding on all employees. • Chief Executive Officer; • Chief Legal Officer; • Chief Human Resources Officer of child labour. We also support child rights • Chief Financial Officer • Head of Internal Audit; • Chief Risk Officer. The Committee reviews the Group’s whistle-blowing practices every year to assess their effectiveness, Complaints Management and take remedial actions where necessary. Out of all the cases investigated during 2018, 70% have been resolved and 30% are still ongoing. We are committed to building an organisation and the Consumer Protection Council. These that is founded on strong legal compliance, laws safeguard consumer interests and ensure ethical and moral values. We have a Complaints their protection. At Dangote Cement, we have Management Policy that creates a two-way put systems in place that assure product quality communication channel for giving, receiving and and provide customer feedback channels such as Anti-corruption addressing complaints of shareholders and other complaints hotlines on our official website and stakeholders based on the requirements of the product labels. Dangote Cement is committed to fighting bribery Our Anti-bribery and Corruption demonstrates 2015 Complaints Management Framework of the and corruption across all locations with extra the Company’s zero tolerance for all forms Nigeria Capital Market by both the SEC and NSE. The SON‘s Mandatory Conformity Assessment precautionary measures taken in countries of fraud including but not limited to bribery, Programme (MANCAP) and Nigerian Industrial that have been identified as high risk. We have corruption, asset misappropriation and financial To ensure accountability to our customers, we Standard (NIS) certifications received by Dangote an Anti–bribery and Corruption Policy which statement fraud. comply with several consumer protection laws Cement attest to the high quality and consumer is part of the overall Anti–Fraud Compliance of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) friendliness of its products. Programme. It aims to align with all relevant Acts, CONFIRMED INCIDENTS Codes, Laws, Guidelines and Policies designed to prevent, detect and respond to issues on OF CORRUPTION IN 2018 corruption and bribery. — In 2018, one confirmed case of corruption Customer Data Privacy in Senegal was reported. An employee was In our Nigerian operations, we are guided by involved in sending a binding contract offer (Data security, Confidential information protection) two anti-bribery laws which are the Corrupt to a competitor in order to have them as Practices and Other Related Offences Act of At Dangote Cement, we care about how customer and communicate clearly to our customers the a reference for going cheaper. The issue the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission data is used and shared and we place a premium type pf data we collect, what it is used for and was investigated and disciplinary measures (ICPC); and the Money Laundering (Prohibition) on the trust afforded us by our customers. We additional analysis performed on the data if any. were meted as appropriate. Act of the Economic and Financial Crimes utilise the highest standards of data privacy in There were no recorded cases of breaches of Commission (EFCC). storing information sourced from our value chain customer data privacy in the reporting year. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 58 59 Eneni Risk measurement and prioritisation Oduwole We believe that operationalising Head of Risk This requires quantifying the consequences of We also mitigate operational risks such as Management sustainability results in the potential risks or actual risk incidents for the increased cost of operations, hampered mitigation of business risk. proper understanding of the risk exposure to distributions resulting from concentration of relevant stakeholders. Dangote Cement’s overall annual sales volumes around few key distributors; risk rating is based on the severity of impact truck unavailability resulting from ineffective or damage from specific risk, multiplied by its planning and management of spare parts. We probability of occurrence. are focused on growing our customer base, with clear plans for target markets. We also carry out The Company has committed itself to identifying, market segmentation and ensure effective and Risk management measuring and understanding ESG risks; including competitive pricing. Dust pollution and waste health and safety, environmental and social risks disposal risks are mitigated through enhanced and impacts of its operations. resource and operational efficiency and better Good risk management is essential for the creation coordinating all the risk management processes waste management practices. of a robust institutional framework that enables us implemented across the Group and ensures that We are ensuring an alignment between to deliver a long-term and sustainable increase in risk controls are duly implemented. Where risk sustainability and risk management principles in In practice, we handle waste management as a value for our stakeholders. controls remain outstanding, the department all our operations. community risk, alongside other risks that may ensures timely escalation to relevant approving arise from their displeasures owing to unmet The Board through the Audit, Compliance & authorities for the required budgetary approvals Our risk analysis model helps in the identification, expectations; political instability; insecurity; Risk Management Committee drives the overall or control modifications. The risk monitoring impact assessment and mitigation of risks that are ineffective coordination and execution of effectiveness of the company‘s risk management process sometimes leads to the identification and key to our business operations. Our risk universe resettlements following land acquisitions, processes to support its strategy and objectives. assessment of new risks that are then analysed comprises distinct risk types along financial, among others. We avoid creating environmental using the process flow previously described. operational, social, community and personnel hazards by segregating wastes at source and The Group Risk Management department, headed categories. handling storage in line with our Environmental by the Group Chief Risk Officer is responsible for Management Standards. We also maintain good The principal financial risks include credit risk relationships with our host communities by arising from non-payment for goods delivered adopting best practices in our engagements, on credit sales to distributors on the Special including staff volunteerism, social investments Three lines of defence Unsecured Credit Scheme and risk of contraction and compensation for any losses. of EBITDA margins in key markets due to global Our risk culture at Dangote Cement is driven by The second line of defence comprises risk and increases in the prices of commodities such as Finally, we mitigate risks arising from a dearth in key principles embedded in our Enterprise Risk compliance employees and oversees the first line, crude oil and coal. To mitigate these, we have skills and expertise by recruiting employees with Management Framework. These principles are built setting the limits, rules and constraints, consistent built controls around our enterprise resource appropriate qualifications and experience. We around the “three lines of defence”. The first line with the risk appetite of the Group. It ensures a planning (ERP), managing and monitoring sales ensure that our employees are adequately trained comprises the revenue-generating and customerholistic approach to risk management and risk and repayments by auto-blocking accounts and empowered to take on higher responsibilities. interfacing areas, alongside all associated support reporting. with overdue payments, hence limiting credit Risks related to occupational health and safety functions. exposures. We are currently researching for are also addressed through an alignment with the The third line of defence comprises Internal Audit alternatives to coal for fuelling our kilns. highest safety standards and effectively managing The first line identifies the risks, and sets the employees, providing independent assurance to incidents and near misses. policies, standards and controls, within the criteria the Board and Executive Management. The Legal set by the second line of defence. It continuously function does not sit in any of the three lines, but monitors risk positions and reports inherent risks supports all three levels of defence and plays a to relevant stakeholders. role in overseeing legal risk. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 60 61 Risk monitoring and reporting Operational risk and Internal audit controls Risk escalation is an important tool for ensuring on a quarterly basis. Where necessary, special The primary role of the Group Internal Audit on the objectives of the Group and hindrances to that risks are known and understood by the risk reports are sent to relevant stakeholders on a Function (“GIA Function”) is to carry out an achieving them. The methodology analyses risk Dangote Cement staff and managed in a timely need-to know basis. independent, objective, assurance and consulting from a business perspective and focuses on key manner. activity designed to add value and improve processes and controls. It employs a scalable topThe Board Audit, Compliance and Risk Dangote Cement Plc’s operations. The GIA function down, risk-based approach designed to drive value Following proper identification, quantification and Management Committee reviews risk reports and helps DCP accomplish its objectives by bringing a by delivering efficient and effective audits which treatment of existing and potential risks, mitigation approves the implementation of recommended systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and are directly tied to the Group’s strategic objectives. strategies are recommended, implemented, risk control measures. The escalation process for improving the effectiveness of risk management, monitored and reported to the Executive HSSE is outlined below. control and governance processes. The RBIA Methodology comprises five (5) major Committee on a monthly basis and to the Board phases (Risk Assessment, Development of Internal DCP has developed the Group Internal Audit Audit Plan, Audit Execution, Reporting and Quality Policies and Procedures that provide guidelines Assurance) as depicted in the chart below. and minimum standards for the execution of the GIA Function’s responsibilities. Audit execution refers to the process of carrying out internal audit activities based on the Group The GIA Function has adopted a Risk-Based Internal Audit Plan. It involves examining, Internal Audit Methodology (RBIA Methodology) evaluating and documenting the information RECIPIENT: THE GROUP CHIEF HSSE, HIGH RISK Escalation on a group level in performing internal audit activities within the pertinent to the area under audit in order to responsible for the Group Wide Risk Register Group. It is a risk-based approach that focuses support audit results. RECIPIENT: THE BU HEAD OF HSSE, Escalation on a Business MEDIUM RISK responsible for a consolidated HSSE Risk Unit (BU) level (plant) Register which is maintained for the BU QUALITY RISK ASSURANCE ASSESSMENT RECIPIENT: Site/ Project Manager. The Site is LOW RISK Escalation on an responsible for monitoring the timely implementation Operational level of action plans and additional controls RISK BASED INTERNAL AUDIT INTERNAL REPORTING AUDIT PLAN DEVELOPMENT AUDIT EXECUTION PLANNING: EXECUTION: PROJECT AUDIT FINDINGS MANAGEMENT WORK PAPER WORK PROGRAM DOCUMENTATION DEVELOPMENT SPECIALISED AUDITS SAMPLING IT AUDIT TECHNIQUES INTERNAL CONTROL ASSESSMENT FRAUD INVESTIGATIONS Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 62 63 THE IMPORTANCE OF GOOD Good Practices DATA IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING We are an active member of global initiatives: EJURA EJUMEDIA Sustainability Officer, DIL Q. What organisational strategy is being A. Our Dangote SharePoint Platform was Since 2010 Since 2013 Since 2018 Interview deployed in the next sustainability the primary technology utilised for data GCCA World Economic Forum Bloomberg New reporting cycle to ensure a more collection in 2017 and 2018, supplemented Economic Forum exhaustive data collection process? by traditional means of information gathering. A dedicated platform with the An independent international A community of global leaders We chose SharePoint in order to collaborate authority to speak globally on organization committed to engaging with the world’s A. Having begun sustainability reporting just effectively and communicate data in real time behalf of the cement and concrete improving the state of the world most significant changes and last year with the publication of our 2017 SR across remote sites and where our businesses sectors. by engaging business, political, challenges. as part of our annual report and evolving to are located. During this process, which we can academic and other leaders of a standalone report this year, admittedly our conclusively admit was a partial success, we society to shape global, regional sustainability journey is still in its infancy. We gained several revealing insights and learning and industry agendas. are putting in place the necessary framework points. In the coming year, we intend to to ramp up the much-needed systems to build a proper data management system that manage various aspects of our sustainability supports the automated collection and storage functions such as data collection and analysis, of data and to migrate to a more purpose-built DCP Stakeholders’ Mapping sustainability project design, implementation dedicated software that automates the entire and reporting. A review of our adopted data collection process. strategy in the last two years has revealed HIGH Investors Although different stakesome gaps in data collection process such Q. How has your sustainability strategy holder groups may have Government/ as lack of awareness and unavailability or been shaped in striving for increased regulatory the same influence and/or agencies non-capture of the required data. We intend transparency and credibility, and the interests weightings from to leverage on these findings in the coming need to satisfy the appetites of both the table, the map shows Customers/ year to achieve a more holistic data collection your stakeholders and investors? distributors Employees more clearly which holds Financiers/ the higher priority. and validation process. To address some Host Banks communities of the shortcomings, we will proactively A. Globally there has been a renewed call Media and constantly communicate necessary for greater transparency in governance and • Horizontal is NGOs/CSOs information to all involved stakeholders, work operations especially for multinationals like INTEREST axis closely with various departments to collect Dangote. More and more, stakeholders are INFLUENCE Suppliers/ contractors and store relevant sustainability data and demanding that businesses are open about • Vertical is deploy an improved data collection system. their practices and how they affect the larger INFLUENCE axis society. The demands of our stakeholders External Q. How is Dangote utilising cutting including investors, are also in this direction Affiliations/ Competitors edge technology to aid data collection, and this continues to shape our business Associations analysis and dissemination of decisions and choice to be increasingly information? sustainable and accountable. LOW LOW INTEREST HIGH Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 64 65 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder identification and mapping Dangote Cement is committed to paying adequate platforms and tools to interact and capture the attention to the interests of its stakeholders such views of our stakeholders, such as staff meetings Key topics & concerns that have as its employees, host communities, consumers and employee survey, Annual General Meetings, Stakeholder Approach to stakeholder Frequency of been raised through groups engagement engagement and the general public. Our business operations vendor engagement sessions, customer feedbacks, stakeholder engagement have been established with a strong local focus market activations and community engagement that seeks to maintain optimum relationships with sessions. Productivity, cost efficiency, the various stakeholders. It is committedly driven Meetings in small groups, safety, rules, procedures, rights individual contact, notice board, from the Board of Directors level, with cascaded The most notable amongst these engagements Employees As required & obligations, performance emails, newsletters, sustainability governance to Functional Leadership. In every was the 2018 employee survey in which over appraisals, compensation and report, surveys benefits country where we operate, we maintain dialogue 1,170 staff of Dangote Industries Limited across 12 with all relevant stakeholders. Through continuous locations in Africa participated. The survey helped Quality, innovation, value for engagement with them, we are able to identify to capture the views our employees had about our Vendors, suppliers money, workers Emails, personal communication Yearly critical issues at an early stage and gain greater sustainability journey and the kind of impact they and contractors security, training, health & acceptance for our activities. think we are creating. environmental safety We plan to have community stakeholder In the coming year, we plan to develop a more Reliability, quality, pricing, Purchasers, Approved Cooperation and feedback Regular efficiency, cost savings, strategic engagement standards in place which will allow comprehensive stakeholder engagement strategy vendors sourcing, training, reporting us implement our journey towards sustainable and a community engagement plan designed development. in alignment with global best practices and standards. This will further bolster our journey Meeting targets, giving satisfaction Our stakeholders’ engagements were held to towards sustainable development. More and ensuring production Emails, personal Distributors and continuity, Credit line, Customer identify material issues, and to collect and respond specifically, a lot of focus will also be directed communications, meetings, As required customers Trucks Empowerment Scheme’ appropriately to feedbacks. The sessions helped at engaging our external stakeholders whose customer service week (CTES) distributors award to inform us on the most suitable engagement feedbacks were largely uncaptured in our 2018 initiative, product continuity. strategies that are unique to each stakeholder engagements. category. We employed a variety of engagement Host Communities Meetings, personal As required CSR, environment, safety communication Rules and regulations, productivity, target achievement, Labour union Meetings, emails As required rights & obligations, safety working conditions My journey as a sustainability Apochi Annual General Meetings, Alexander champion has also influenced Investors/ShareholEmergency General Meetings, Dividends, bonus shares, investors relations forum, Yearly corporate governance, board ders my personal understanding sustainability report, annual composition, corporate actions report, newsletters of ethics. I‘m committed to adding value to the system. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 66 67 Stakeholder Approach to stakeholder Frequency of Key topics & concerns that have been raised through Did you Know: groups engagement engagement stakeholder engagement Media Press releases, media As required Governance restructuring, Advertisement, public Dangote Cement is already: parley/press conference service announcements, 30% social impacts The most capitalised stock on Accounting for about 25 Official letters/mails, periodic per cent of the value Government/Regulatory assessments, compliance the Nigerian Stock Exchange As required Formal notices, applications, agencies filing, reporting, annual report, sustainability report Financiers/Banks Annual report, sustainability As required Investments opportunities, loan financing, credit Listed on the exchange’s ₦3.34T report, meetings premium board Market capitalisation as at December, negotiation 2018, out of the entire N13 trillion value External Monthly, biannually, Memberships subscriptions, of the Nigerian Exchange. Applications, meetings, forums Affiliations/Associations annually partnerships, policy reviews Community development, Non-Governmental Annual reports, sustainability As required environmental impacts, Organisations/CSOs reports, forums, meetings social initiatives Plant management teams are generally responsible for managing stakeholder relationships. Wherever necessary, they are supported by the Group’s Corporate Communications Department and the Social Impact management team. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT: HOST COMMUNITIES — Community engagement is an integral part of social performance management. In 2018, we established a formal stakeholder engagement process to ensure consistency across the Group. In Nigeria, we are developing a Community Engagement Plan that is consistent with global best practices and in alignment with communities’ needs. We recognise that stakeholder engagement is a business tool and as such will require the commitment of all plants management and personnel. Different departmental heads participated in the process of developing the Nigerian plan. The aim is to have all our operations across Africa develop a formal, standardised stakeholder/community engagement plan that is consistent with global standards. Our host communities are provided with functional platforms through which they can express their worries and concerns about any of our business activities. We ensure that a dialogue exists with all the communities in which we operate. By so doing, our host communities have access to key decision makers who represent Dangote Cement and are trained and committed to addressing their grievances. If the issues cannot be resolved at the local level, they can be escalated to the global headquarters for prompt and mutually acceptable resolutions. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 68 69 Cultural Definition Management Approach Cultural sustainability is one of At Dangote Cement, we are building a culture of ethical business, the distinctive ways in which professionalism, anticorruption, brand loyalty, excellent corporate sustainability is viewed and governance, mutual trust and respect among all major stakeholders. managed at Dangote Cement. We are committed to growing a workplace that is inclusive and It is defined by our cultural accommodates and tolerates the culture of all stakeholders without bias, Musa Rabiu Group Chief, By imbibing a culture of pillar, which is the foundation stereotyping or discrimination. We encourage and reward teamwork, Human Resource upon which our organisational Officer sustainability, we would integrity and meritocracy in our workplace. ethos is built. Every member across every hierarchy, and build a brand that We seek to embody our core values in the way we do business, every operational activity in including a respect for cultural diversity and giving back to the societies outlives us. the organisation functions in tandem with this underpinning in which we operate. We are committed to building a workforce guiding principle. of sustainability champions, and specifically environmental and socio-economic impact enthusiasts, and create a work environment where sustainability is a way of life. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 70 71 The global standards we are committed to Performance Tracker PILLAR: Cultural GRI IFC UN-SDGs SEC Code UNGC NSE NCCG KPIs GRI 102: Performance SDG 4: Code: Principle 7, T R AIN ING E XPEN DIT U R E SUSTAIN ABILIT Y C H A MPIONS T R AINED INTER N AL ENG AGEMENT HUMAN RIGHTS: Governance 134M 500 623 General Standard 5: Quality 14, 18, 28 8, 9, 10, 11, Disclosures Land Educationh 12, 13, 14, 15 • Principle 1: Acquisition & & 16 Businesses GRI 400: Involuntary SDG 5: (Board of should support Social Resettlement Gender Directors) and respect the Standard Equality protection of Expended on training and Sustainability Champions Dangote Cement employees Series Performance Principle 21, internationally capacity building in 2018 designated and trained in 2018 took part in the 2018 internal Standard 7: SDG 10: 22 & 23 proclaimed human stakeholders survey Indigenous Reduced Relationship rights; and Peoples Inequalities with Shareholders • Principle 2: Performance SDG 11: Make sure that Standard 8: Sustainable Principles 24 they are not Cultural cities and & 25 complicit in Heritage communities (Business human rights SDG 16: abuses. Conduct with Ethics) Our Sustainability Commitment Peace, justice HUMAN RIGHTS: For an African economy with a problem of high unemployment rate, we see job creation as a corporate and strong Principle 26 institution (Sustainabiresponsibility. • Principle 3: lity) Businesses SDG 17: should uphold Partnership for Principles 27 Dangote Cement continues to solidify its position as a major employer of labour in Africa, with more the freedom of the Goals & 28 association and than 17,000 employees in its Nigerian operations alone. In line with our strategy to become a major (Transparenthe effective cy) global player in the cement industry, we are expanding into new markets, creating job opportunities in recognition of the right to collective the process. bargaining; • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Musa The company is building a • Principle 5: Hassan-Tom The effective abolition of child Head of corporate culture that goes Compliance labor; and beyond compliance. We are • Principle 6: The elimination entrenching sustainability as of discrimination in respect of employment and our way of doing business. occupation. LEGEND: SEC Code of Corporate Governance SDG Sustainable Development Goals GRI Global Reporting Initiative NCCG Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance IFC International Financial Corporation NSE Nigerian Stock Exchange UNGC United Nations Global Compact Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 72 73 Cultural Standards MANAGING OUR MOST IMPORTANT CAPITAL NERAL DISCLOSU DR. MUSA RABIU 102: GE GRI RES Group Chief Human Resources Officer G R I 400: SOCIAL Q. How does DCP encourage employees environment that allows our people to thrive PERFORMANCE STANDAR IFC ( to imbibe a personal culture of and achieve their full potential. We also 5, 7, 8 D) sustainability? ensure that our employees are carried along in the decision making process, especially on GCCA* A. The Dangote Way and the 7 Sustainability issues that could impact them. Interview Pillars are gradually becoming the way we UNGC (PRINCIPLES) work and the way we live. Our employees Q. How is Dangote cement responding 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 across all functions are aligning with our to the global call for increase in SDGs sustainability agenda which is driven by top women’s participation in STEM related 0, 11, 16, 1 4, 5, 1 7 management. Our cultural pillar is helping fields such as manufacturing? SEC us achieve a cultural shift from mainstream 14 ,18 ,28 thinking to sustainability thinking. A. Internally, we are always happy to NSE say that we offer a level playing ground GO RNANCE VE NCCG To ensure that sustainability is institutionalised, for professionals who are willing to work we work closely with the sustainability team and grow. We practice a culture of nonto identify and place sustainability champions discrimination on the basis of gender, CU LTURAL in every department. These champions are and our recruitment and promotion the key actors that spearhead sustainability processes are unbiased. We understand acculturation across the Group. that a gender balanced perform better, and we are making conscious efforts to Q. How are talents managed and achieve improved gender balance in our 7 SUSTAINABILITY continuously motivated at Dangote workplace. Women employees in Dangote PILLARS Cement? Cement are part of a larger Dangote Women Network. This initiative offers our A. Our employees enjoy robust benefits female staff the opportunity to support one such as Annual Leave, Maternity Leave, another, exchange ideas for growth, network Compassionate Leave, Casual Leave, and support more women to join the Cultural Indicators Examination Leave, Sick Leave, Children manufacturing field. Education Support, Marriage Gift, Birthday Gift, Contributory Pension Scheme, Production New hires and turnover Labour practices Premium Scheme, Sales and Marketing Bonus Scheme, Performance/ Merit-Based Salary Employee distribution Work environment increases and several others. We ensure that we promote a healthy and relaxed working Diversity Learning and development Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 74 75 New hires Total employees in our Nigerian operations (Obajana, Gboko, Ibese and Head Office) excluding transport The total number of new employees by employment COUNTRY contract hired during the reporting period. and expatriates, was 5,835 of which 5.83% (340) were female while 94.17% (5495) were male as at year end, 31st December, 2018. WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN Under 30Yrs Old 30-50 Yrs Old Over 50Yrs Old TOTAL Employee distribution by gender Nigeria HQ 111 COUNTRY Total number of employees by employment contract. Nigeria Gboko 0 Nigeria Ibese 202 WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN Nigeria Obajana Permanent 129 Employees Under 30Yrs Old 30-50 Yrs Old Over 50Yrs Old TOTAL Ethiopia 20 Nigeria HQ 44 68 165 410 9 87 783 Senegal 18 South Africa 39 Nigeria Gboko 20 300 6 250 5 35 616 TOTAL 519 Nigeria Ibese 40 618 0 1306 0 150 2114 Total number of new hires and employee turnover rate in 2018 were 921 and 619, respectively (excluding Nigeria Obajana 18 234 28 1736 4 262 2282 Transport workers). For our Nigerian plants, employee turnover rate in Obajana, Ibese and Gboko were 14% (129); 22% (202); and 0% (0), respectively of these numbers, while the number of new hires in the Nigeria TOTAL 5795 same locations were 17.4% (108), 10% (60), 1% (6) in the year under review. Ethiopia 34 93 40 375 0 21 563 Turnover rate Senegal 4 14 30 180 0 26 254 COUNTRY The total number of employees by employment contract South Africa 23 52 88 239 4 33 439 turnover during the reporting period. WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN Cameroon 17 21 27 128 1 22 216 Under 30Yrs Old 30-50 Yrs Old Over 50Yrs Old TOTAL Congo 4 14 7 80 0 19 124 Nigeria HQ 31 Ghana 6 22 20 197 2 36 283 Nigeria Gboko 6 Sierra Leone 0 2 3 25 0 1 31 Nigeria Ibese 60 Tanzania 37 160 20 127 0 6 350 Nigeria Obajana 108 Ethiopia 34 Zambia 23 62 19 93 1 34 232 Senegal 6 DCP ALL 270 1660 453 5146 26 732 8287 South Africa 23 AFRICA TOTAL TOTAL 268 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 76 77 COUNTRY Total number of employees by employment contract. Temporary WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN Promoting diversity in Employees Under 30Yrs Old 30-50 Yrs Old Over 50Yrs Old TOTAL the workplace Nigeria HQ 1 1 0 0 0 0 2 At Dangote Cement we respect workplace diversity in ethnicity, religion, nationality, age, gender, Nigeria Gboko 5 87 0 0 0 0 92 education, among others. To create a work environment where diversity thrives, we promote a culture of inclusiveness and equal opportunities across all classes of employees. Our diversity and inclusiveness Nigeria Ibese 0 28 0 0 0 0 28 principles include: Nigeria Obajana 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ethiopia 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senegal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 South Africa 1 2 0 6 1 3 13 Managing diversity and Providing equal opportuProviding an enabling Extending our principles inclusiveness as a critical nities for our employees platform for employees of diversity and inclusielement of our business to demonstrate their to communicate freely, veness to our external activities; capability under a strucshare ideas, exchange stakeholders. tured performance and information for continumerit system designed ous learning and developto meet our corporate ment; and, objectives; The diverse composition of our management team enables us to leverage varied experiences from different cultural backgrounds. This allows us to respond more flexibly to global challenges as well as to local market needs. We seek to ensure that the countries in which we operate are well represented in our employment. We benefit considerably from their local knowledge, and this also fosters support from the local communities. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 78 79 Diversity of leadership Of our 16 board membership, 14 were male and 2 were female, a male/female ratio of 7:1, as at year end, 31st December, 2018. Of the 9 members of our executive management in Nigerian operations, 77.78% were male and 22.22% were female. Also, of the 103 members of our senior management team, Abosede 95.15% were male and 4.85% were female as at year end, 31st December, 2018. Adebusuyi Sustainability is the judicious utilisation of resources with a sense of COUNTRY Our Board membership by age group and gender responsibility. WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN Under 30Yrs Old 30-50 Yrs Old Over 50Yrs Old TOTAL Nigeria 0 0 0 0 2 14 16 Ethiopia 0 0 0 0 1 8 9 Senegal 0 0 0 0 0 7 7 CASE STUDY — South Africa 0 0 0 1 0 9 10 DEVELOPING TALENT TO PROMOTE SOCIAL & CULTURAL SUSTAINABILITY IN SENEGAL Dangote Cement is developing a culture of supporting local employees and prioritising local hiring. Through a proactive policy, we want to ensure that home country employees have the necessary knowledge, experience, and support to take up key roles within the company. We have learnt from experience that employees drawn from the local communities and markets are a great value to the company. We are committed to empowering Gender breakdown by permanent staff in DCP Nigeria indigenous employees to achieve deserved career growth and upward mobility as and when due. In Senegal, the company has begun the implementation of what is commonly referred to as a ‘Senegalisation’ Staff Level Grade Policy. This aims at empowering the Senegalese employees to take up key positions within the business. (Permanent OBAJANA GBOKO IBESE HEAD OFFICE Level Operation staff) A major part of this policy is focused on developing a culture wherein expatriate jobs are to be seen as GRAND temporary positions that facilitate knowledge transfer, as required. The policy aims to gradually reduce MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE TOTAL the number of expatriates employed by the business by enhancing the skills and capacity of Senegalese employees to take up leadership positions. The policy prioritises effective hiring and succession planning, Executive 19 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 2 9 and expatriates are gradually handing over to qualified and competent indigenous hires. In order to ensure Senior fair representation and equal opportunity, diversity is being managed in Dangote Senegal not just across 15 18 27 0 8 0 15 0 48 5 103 nationalities, but also along regional and ethnic lines within the country. All non-Sengalese hires are required Management to speak basic French or Wolof, to encourage local communication and alignment with the local culture and Management 12 14 68 1 8 0 34 1 62 11 185 values. Professionals 07 11 29 392 146 7 400 33 395 200 1602 In the Dangote Senegal operations, the local employees make up about 95% of the total and this figure is still increasing, compared to around 60% in 2015. In departments such as Administration, Transport, Commercial Juniors 01 06 1778 20 416 8 1640 15 5 77 3959 and Mines, the local presence is already (close to) 100%, management positions inclusive. In the cement and power plants, a well-planned gradual transfer of skills and management roles to indigenous employees is TOTAL 1902 413 578 15 2089 49 517 295 5858 being realised. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 80 81 CASE STUDY Non-discrimination — Dangote Cement‘s recruitment policy stipulates WOMEN IN MANUFACTURING non-discrimination in its recruitment process. Personnels in charge of recruitment are constantly Globally, the cement industry is not one that readily admits and attracts For every position that is open the most qualified trained on the company‘s non-discrimination women. This is due to the stereotypical perception of the nature of person is recruited irrespective of gender, policies. Furthermore, our employees receive the job as masculine, and the low number of women in the Science, religion, ethnic group, physical condition or state trainings on identifying, managing and addressing Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) space. Irrespective of of origin. Where employees become disabled instances of discrimination and harassment in these factors, we are aligning with Goal 5 of the SDGs which seeks to they are retrained to be able to cope in the the workplace. We are dedicated to sustaining promote equity and fairness irrespective of gender. work environment as much as is practicable. an ethical workplace. We periodically, assess We are deliberately seeking out opportunities to attract qualified women information about the Company through the employees’ perceptions using surveys and other to various departments of the company. In Nigeria, Ethiopia, Senegal Internal Communications Unit, which publishes forms of engagements. and South Africa, women make up 9% of our workforce. We are looking information on our website and intranet. to improve on the diversify of our senior management and Board in the years ahead. CASE STUDY — Labour practices In Zambia, there were two reported cases of discrimination in 2018. The first one centred around unequal pay (including benefits) for equal work performed by locals and expatriates. The second allegation was that the locals were denied the opportunities to rise beyond certain positions. For instance, GM positions Our Leadership Principles support respectful have deployed multiple programmes that foster are held only by expatriates. behaviour towards all staff members, employee inclusiveness, such as our quarterly CEO forum, Steps have been taken to investigate and address these concerns. For example, succession planning that development, and a culture of strong feedback. Departmental meetings and workplace surveys in prioritises local employees is being implemented. Job evaluation is also being carried out to determine addition to our open door policy which encourages which locals qualify for what managerial positions. Salary survey to benchmark what competitors are A clear tone at the top encourages an inclusive staff to engage with line managers on personal paying still needs to be done in the near future. workplace where all employees are given a level and work related problems. playing ground to thrive in their careers. We Freedom of association and collective bargaining Child, forced and compulsory labour In all the markets where we operate, we ensure compliance with all applicable labour laws and regulations. We remain committed to entrenching best practices in collective bargaining for all categories of employees. Whether at our corporate head office, plants, to work outside their own volition and consent. About 10.4% of our employees in the following markets were covered by collective bargaining agreements or in third party engagements, we uphold the In some of our business locations, we have begun as at year end 2018:w prohibition of all forms of child, forced, compulsory the process of monitoring our partners to ensure or slave labour. We carry out internal due diligence compliance with these labour policies. In Ethiopia, on workers in our direct employment as well as Senegal and South Africa, for example, our vendors Number of employees covered by 2018 on contractors, to ensure that all members of the are assessed using social criteria such as whether collective bargaining agreements workforce meet the nationally determined working or not they use child, forced and compulsory Nigeria N/A age limit. We also ensure that no worker is forced labour. Ethiopia 420 Senegal 120 South Africa 190 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 82 83 DANGOTE ACADEMY – Building a Work Environment LEARNING FOR EMPOWERMENT where employees are Interview empowered to thrive JULIET OSHAGBEMI Head of Dangote Academy Q. Tell us about the thoughts behind the setting up of Dangote Academy Benefits and Compensation A. The Dangote Academy was set up to develop the much needed human capital that will We motivate our workforce by offering attractive and competitive salaries and other benefits which sustainably run various aspects of our business, now and in the foreseeable future. Our industry is include a generous annual leave allowance, marriage allowance, and child‘s school support, birthday labour intensive and highly skills based. As we all know, there is dearth of highly skilled (especially technical) workforce in several of the countries where we operate. It was therefore very expedient allowance, loans/salary advances, health insurance and long service awards among others. The Company that we set up a structured skills development and education centre – the Dangote Academy. also operates a contributory pension scheme for its employees in Nigeria, in line with the provisions of Additionally, we envisioned that the academy could help address the dearth of technical manpower the Pension Reform Act 2014. The scheme is funded through employees’ and employer’s contributions in in our home country, Nigeria by providing training to thousands of Dangote employees. The the ratio of 8% and 10% of the total emoluments of the employee, as prescribed by the Act. Academy was also identified as a medium through which we could infuse professional, ethical values in all employees, including all trainees that would be absorbed into the company’s workforce. Q. How has the impact of the training been measured in the output of staff over time? A. We have various mechanisms for monitoring the impact of our Learning and Development Good Practices initiatives. At the point of training, we have a post-training feedback form which is shared to get feedback on the knowledge gained and how this would impact job performance and productivity going forward. We also conduct performance measurements during employees’ career milestones Creating a work environment for growth such as post probation period, annual year-end employee review, and several others. The performance review process gives Line Managers an opportunity to asses if learning took place and if employees’ productivity/output is directly linked to specific training/development initiatives. We place a premium on supporting our employees to achieve their career goals and aspirations, we do this by providing a work environment where they find job satisfaction and are motivated for higher productivity. Q. What criteria determined the selection of training programs in 2018? We have systems in place (including employee recruitment and promotion processes, employee training and A. Our understanding of the types of skill sets we need to function optimally as a business is the development, performance measurement and monitoring, etc) that define and support employees‘ growth primary criteria for the selection of training programmes. These skill sets are often not acquired in trajectory. Our desire is to build leaders that are capable of functioning optimally under varying conditions. traditional learning environments. It is therefore critical that we build these requisite skills for the growth of our employees and the business. Our training programmes are also selected in line with the requirements of the technological age that we are in, so that our employees are progressive, able CIP – Corporate Interactive Platform to utilise modern tools, and compete globally. Our appraisal system makes provisions for employees to identify the training that they believe they need to be able to perform their functions optimally. As a multinational entity, we recognise the importance of uniformity in measurement methodologies and metrics. This feedback is taken into account in developing our training programs. This is why we have designed an intelligent platform using Microsoft SharePoint to protect the integrity of data input and retrieval retrieval. Q. What initiatives are planned for 2019? A. In 2019, we would continue with our Graduate Engineers Training Scheme (GETS), the Vocational Leveraging this interactive platform, we have deployed a uniform data gathering tool used across all our business Training Scheme (VTS) and the Junior Technician Scheme (JTS), through which hundreds of young operations. Information inputed by data owners are validated for completeness, accuracy and integrity before they persons are trained, and a good percentage retained. In addition, we are currently designing the are submitted to the SharePoint platform. structure and strategy for Training existing staff within the Group. The planned initiatives centre around Functional training, Technical Training and Leadership development programmes, VDMA, Management development programs and E-learning (Learning Management System). The Dangote Academy will be working in partnership with Business Unit Management to ensure that all the necessary training interventions are identified in line with our overall business objectives/ goals. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 84 85 Learning and development COUNTRY Total Number of Employees Trained per Employee Level Executive/Snr Mgt Management Senior/Professional Junior/Technician TOTAL We understand the critical importance of learning and development to our business growth and for the career advancement of our employees. This is why at Dangote Cement, we take the issue of learning very WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN seriously and have a robust annual training plan which accommodates employees at all levels. Nigeria HQ 0 4 5 82 39 115 0 28 44 229 Nigeria Gboko 0 0 0 16 15 126 2 232 17 374 Nigeria Ibese 0 0 1 26 20 392 7 1034 28 1452 Nigeria Obajana 0 0 0 52 18 318 7 1443 25 1813 Good Practices Ethiopia 28 462 0 2 0 11 1 41 27 380 Senegal 2 13 2 20 14 48 8 44 26 125 South Africa 4 19 23 23 47 248 130 442 204 732 Full-time education study leave TOTAL 6 38 31 230 154 1288 181 3603 372 5159 At Dangote Cement, we prioritise the educational development of our employees. We understand that the optimal performance of every business is directly linked to the capacity of its employees. It is expected that quality education and training yield high return on investment (ROI) and improved efficiency which positively impact profitability. At Dangote Cement, we grant study leave of up to 2 years to qualifying employees who wish Number of training hours (without hours of anti-corruption training) provided to to undertake full-time studies. On completion of such approved studies, employees are eligible for educational COUNTRY employees subsidy and other benefits which includes increase in basic salary where applicable. Executive/Snr Mgt Management Senior/Professional Junior/Technician TOTAL WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN Nigeria HQ 0 72 80 1352 6800 1952 0 224 760 3600 Nigeria Gboko 0 0 0 384 360 3024 48 0 408 3408 We are mindful of employees’ concerns about their career growth and development. By providing Nigeria Ibese 0 0 24 416 320 6272 112 16512 456 23200 them a platform for continuous learning and development, we are supporting the achievement of their Nigeria Obajana 0 0 0 832 432 7632 168 23088 60 31552 aspirations while also enhancing our own business productivity. Ethiopia 0 2 0 6 0 4 0 25 0 37 In 2018, 44.5% (11,707) of our employees across all our plants and head office (including transport Senegal 72 430 144 729 112 384 64 352 392 1895 workers) were trained for a total of 381,704 hours. Within the reporting year, N134 million was spent on South Africa 376 496 369 272 752 2441 2136 5976 3633 9185 employee training and development. TOTAL 448 1000 617 3991 2656 21709 2528 46177 6249 72877 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 86 87 CASE STUDY Graduate Drivers Academy — — REWARDING CULTURE – Dangote Cement’s drivers are perhaps the most highly visible part of our workforce. As such, we INTERNATIONAL SECONDMENTS believe that they must be seen as good ambassadors of our brand, conveying its values properly IN SENEGAL as they go about their daily deliveries. Our Graduate Drivers Academy is designed to improve the quality of transport fleet drivers. We teach them safe and defensive driving techniques, highway The most important component of the Senegalisation Policy is the empowerment of local employees. Through knowledge and skills transfer programmes, we support management standards and HSE awareness, thereby helping to reduce accident rates and improve them to take on managerial positions. In 2018, our capacity building initiatives drivers’ attitudes when managing the delivery of Dangote Cement products to our customers. included an exchange programme to other African plants such as Sephaku in South Africa and, in some cases, to European countries like Denmark. One of the participants, Bachir Lo, shared the following insight about his experience. “This training in a mature industrial environment was clearly an eye opener, teaching us a lot about technology driven processes, sustainability (emissions, alternative fuels, circular economy) and industrial behaviour (timeliness, Professional Trainee Programme (PTP) accountability, leadership, reactivity). It was definitely a real career boost.” — Our Professional Trainee Programme is a graduate initiative focused on developing technical expertise. PTP is a new programme commencing in 2019 and is similar to our existing MTP, but with emphasis is on technical skills development. The main objective is to increase the organisation’s capability by generating a pool of highly qualified and skilled technical professionals in-house, that can competently manage technical/operational challenges in our plants. Training engineers — Due to the evolving nature of the manufacturing process and new production facilities in our plants, Dangote Cement consistently needs competent engineers. We have therefore established three training schemes, the Graduate Engineers Training Scheme (GETS), the Vocational Training Scheme (VTS) and the Junior Technician Scheme (JTS). Between them, they provide a wide range of skills necessary for the operation and maintenance of our cement factories across Africa. Of these, GETS offers the most advanced training, preparing graduate engineering students with all the necessary technical and supervisory skills they need to become team leaders within Dangote Cement. GETS operates in four phases, covering engineering theory, workshop skills, information technology and management skills. In 2018, nearly 50 students graduated from GETS, with more than 100 graduating from JTS. Many will be deployed at Dangote Cement, with others finding work at other Dangote Group companies, such as Dangote Flour Mills and Dangote Sugar Refinery. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 88 89 Dangote Sustainability Survey Effective employee engagement and assessment the respondents were aged between 31 and 50 To further our alignment with the SDGs, we communities’, 14.30%; ‘educational activities’, of level of awareness are important to years. 32% of these respondents had advanced collected responses on our top 5 contributions to 12.81%; ‘provision of internship opportunities for sustainability acculturation. This is why we degrees. Employees in the management and the United Nations Goals. Responses indicated young people’, 10.09%; ‘networking opportunities’, made concerted efforts to “actively listen to senior management cadre recorded the highest that, amongst other goals, Dangote is contributing 9.40%; ‘establishment of partnerships with global ourselves” during the reporting year. In May participation in the survey vis-à-vis other employee most significantly to ‘No poverty’ (SDG1), ‘good and local NGOs’, 8.97%; while other initiatives 2018, we engaged a demographically diverse groups, contributing 82% of all responses. health’ (SDG3), ‘quality education’ (SDG4), ‘decent including angel investments in small businesses, group of internal stakeholders through a survey work and economic growth’ (SDG8) and ‘industry, mentoring, etc., made up the remaining 44.43%. administered across Dangote Industries Limited The outcome of the survey demonstrated that innovation and infrastructure’ (SDG 9). This to bolster sustainability awareness and enhance employees believe are being carried along in was according to 9.51%, 9.35%, 9.32%, 8.70% Respondents also offered their perspectives the scope of sustainability reporting in our the Group’s efforts to entrench sustainability, as and 8.14% of respondents, respectively. We are on the “nice-to-haves” that could facilitate the organisation. We asked questions ranging from more than 90% of the respondents admitted to leveraging feedback from this survey to strengthen achievement of desired results. While nearly employees’ views and perceptions about our being aware of the development of a strategic and maximise our SDGs impact. 25% agreed that it will be nice to have employee internal processes and structures, our external sustainability agenda by the Group. volunteering programmes, about 33% opined that activities and how these are reported. The Social Pillar targets enhancing inclusivity the incorporation of sustainability performance In response to the question on their perception and cordiality in our working environment. To evaluation into the staff appraisal system is of The survey was administered to employees in about Dangote‘s business impacts, the this end, we also engaged employees on issues utmost importance in order to realise impressive 12 locations across Africa. 1,170 respondents (of respondents ranked our top five impacts to include that are most critical to them. For 18.44% of results. This comes against the backdrop of which 84.7% men and 15.3% women) completed job creation, 18.89%; economic growth, 18.06%; respondents, it was ‘enhancing career growth and more employees admitting that sustainability the survey. 53.25% of the respondents were training and development, 13.96%; community development opportunities’; 17.46%, ‘skills and implementation and engagements are important personnels of Dangote Cement, the biggest development, 11.98%; tax contributions, 11.06%. knowledge development’; 15.19%, ‘compensation for their overall performance on the job business unit of the Dangote Group. 70.52% of and benefits’; 14.03% ‘equal opportunities for throughout the various categories. all employees’. For our external relations, the major areas of concern were, ‘support for local Job Creation 18.89% Boosting economic growth 18.06% Employees ranking of sustainability success factors Training and people development 13.96% Host community 11.98% Tax contribution 11.06% Local content and participation 7.47% Sustainability thinking 6.91% CSR/Social license to operate 4.01% Governance 2.74% Cultural development 2.59% To make Dangote sustainability To make Dangote sustainability Biodiversity 1.93% Employees’ ranking of agenda successful, it will be nice to agenda successful, it will be nice Dangote’s impacts on host have management buy-in to have incentives and rewards for 0.42% employees’ sustainability led projects Others countries and communities Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 90 91 Dangote Sustainability Champions Training Program As a direct outcome of our 2018 employee survey, mind-set and reporting practices. Attendees where 1,170 staff members participated and participated in breakout sections which focused, gave insights on their state of sustainability in among other topics on expectations from the organisation, training programmes were held Dangote Sustainability Champions and how to in collaboration with the Sustainable Business do things differently towards achieving positive Initiative, University of Edinburgh Business School. environmental and social impact. To make Dangote sustainability agenda To make Dangote sustainability agenda A total of three programmes were held in 2018 successful it will be nice to have successful, it will be nice to have sustainability training for all effective management/communication April, July and August. The first of these was Following the insights acquired from the survey, of information on sustainability introductory and facilitated by in-house experts. our collaboration with the University of Edinburgh It focused on sustainable business principles aimed at facilitating data collection and analytics and had over 300 employees in attendance. The on sustainability management across Dangote subsequent two were facilitated by the University Group. Part of our aim was also to create greater of Edinburgh and held at the Dangote training sustainability and impact awareness, and to Academy in Ikeja and the Dangote headquarters, introduce an innovative reporting culture across Ikoyi, respectively. Participants were drawn from Group. These strategic objectives were pursued in across the various DCP operations in Africa. order to: In all, approximately 500 Sustainability Champions and 99 data owners were trained on introduction to sustainability, industry peer review, leadership To make Dangote sustainability agenda successful, it will be nice to have To make Dangote sustainability agenda successful, it will be nice to have 01 02 03 sustainability performance evaluation employee volunteering programs in staff appraisal exercises Help internal stakeholders Enable better measurement, Introduce a formal platform for understand Dangote’s increased understanding and communicating both positive impact on a wide range of seamless communication of and negative sustainability sustainability issues, enabling Dangote Group’s economic, performance and impacts increased transparency environmental, social, about emergent threats and institutional, cultural, operational Over 40% rated having management buy-in and introducing incentives and rewards for employees’ opportunities. and financial performance against set goals and manage changing sustainability-led projects as highly crucial success factors. Respondents in excess of 50% opined business environment more that effective management/communication of information on sustainability and facilitation of effectively sustainability training for all are critical. Learning style preferences were also considered in the survey. A disproportionate number of employees preferred face-to-face classroom trainings to e-learning The training explained the notion of sustainability as a business imperative in the present era and training. Precisely, these were 30.6% and 6.5%, respectively. The majority, standing at 62.9%, opted for highlighted “The Dangote Way” of operationalising sustainability within the Group. As an outcome of the a blend of both physical and online-based classes. Other suggestions towards enhancing employees’ training, participants collectively agreed to participate in one or more of the listed initiatives: sustainability engagement, in the order of importance, include awareness programs, staff welfare and motivation, communication, reward, etc. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 92 93 • Create a sustainability champions’ Sustainability network (mobile or web-based) • Develop and imbibe a culture of responsible waste management, Following this exercise, all Week backed by policy participants were requested to volunteer for at least • Implement a staff volunteering one of these initiatives in initiative, backed by policy addition to becoming active members of the Sustainability • Develop a strategic data integrity Champions‘ Network. and impact measurement/ tracking system, backed by policy • Introduce Dangote Sustainability Week Training objectives: Challenges identified: • To create greater awareness on sustainability • Multiple reporting frameworks impact and foster innovative thinking and • Lack of standardisation of data collection reporting culture across Dangote Group techniques • To facilitate data collection and analytics for • Lax company reporting culture sustainability reporting • Fear of fallouts from disclosures. • To set the foundation for the development of GRI Standards sustainability reporting Solutions proffered: Building a corporate culture of long-lasting sustainability begins and ends with effective • Harmonise frameworks, metrics and indicators employee mobilisation and involvement. One of the highlights of our 2018 activities was • Create a multi-year reporting strategy and the Dangote Sustainability Week which was held in tandem with the United Nations General design reports that serve the information needs of Assembly. The Dangote Sustainability Week is all about unleashing the initiatives of our different stakeholders employees our greatest resources to solve social, economic and environmental challenges • Adopt a culture of zero backlash on full in our host communities and markets. disclosure backed by corresponding policies. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 94 95 2018 Dangote A list of some major initiatives during Sustainability Week the 2018 Dangote Sustainability Week: Nigeria Cameroon In September 2018, the Dangote Group The massive success of the 2018 embarked on its first Sustainability Week. Sustainability Week clearly illustrates the The Sustainability and Governance Unit business case for sustainability and the provided centralised coordination of critical synergy that should exist between HQ • Donation of educational materials and visit to bilingual secondary school, Diedo the initiative, but allowed employees the trio of employees, host communities and to come up with ideas on the kinds of corporate leadership. It also demonstrates • Environmental Sanitation and Economic Impact Project Oniru Block Makers Village, activities that could benefit our host that when impact is bottom-up, measurable, Lagos communities. Different locations came up meaningful to employees and host with customised, innovative programmes that they identified as most beneficial to communities (i.e. based on stakeholder engagement and proper needs assessment), Ibese Congo local communities. In the end, the Week it is more sustainable and better appreciated • Donation of materials to Ibese market women • Rehabilitation of clinic and road in Bounsa was a massive success with so many great by communities and markets. We believe District testimonials. that the business case becomes even more viable when driven by our employees and During the programme which held from backed by a sustainability culture, even Obajana Tanzania September 24 to 28, 2018, hundreds without any direct financial investments. • Community clinic road rehabilitation of employees in 12 locations across 6 • Community clinic refurbishments African countries including Ghana, Congo, There have been extensive feedbacks, • Tree planting Cameroon, Tanzania, Senegal and Nigeria’s including letters of appreciation from • Educational outreach to Obajana • Tree planting around plant Obajana, Ibese and Gboko, volunteered. The communities that benefitted from the Community Secondary School • Sustainability awareness programs for plant staff initiatives took place under the theme “Living initiatives. From the joyous faces of the the Dangote Way”. Employee participation school children in Deido, Cameroon across our Pan-African business units was who received educational and sanitation Gboko entirely voluntary and self-driven. materials, to the district hospital chief in Bounsa, Congo who declared “it is the • • Educational outreach Rehabilitation of road at Yandew roundabout Ghana In addition to providing a unique platform first of this kind of social involvement • Beach sanitation in Tema for bonding and networking among from any company in Congo”; and the DCP Depot Isolo colleagues at different levels, the week-long emotional gratitude expressed by cement initiative also offered the Dangote brand retailers in Oniru, Lagos where staff from • Community Environmental Sanitation an opportunity to demonstrate its social commitment to host communities and the headquarters including Group Chiefs and officers convened to clean up the immediate programme Senegal • Plant sanitation and sustainability awareness countries in which it operate. It let loose environment, the feedbacks from the NASCON Nigeria programmes a lot of positive goodwill and reflected initiatives has been most complimentary. positively on our brand. • Community awareness and environmental sanitation Dangote Apapa (Flour, Sugar, Greenview, Port Operations) • Environmental sanitation • Refuse disposal Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 96 97 Did you Know: NIGERIA Most populous country in Africa 7th Most populous 203,452,505 country in The World July 2018 est. Population growth projected to reach 392 Million in 2050 (This would make Nigeria the world’s fourth most populous country) Multi-ethnic population, with over 250 ethnic groups in total: 27.4% 14.1% 13.9% 6.3% HAUSA IGBO (IBO) YORUBA FULANI Including heterogeneous religious population: 50% 40% 10% MUSLIM CHRISTIAN TRADITIONAL Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 98 99 5. OPERATIONAL & ENVIRONMENTAL SECTION Strategic objective: 2.1. Management systems, policies, monitoring tools TWO Description Establish and maintain control systems, policies and standards that ensure effective operational risk management, production efficiency and environmental stewardship in all our business locations. How we improve our operations Strategic 2.2. objective: Continuous improvement OPERATIONAL Description PILLAR We implement the policy of continuous improvement in our production processes, and invest in state-of-the-art production facilities that minimise our negative environmental and operational ENVIRONMENTAL impacts, while working assiduously to optimise the socio-economic value we create. Our value PILLAR chain is perhaps the largest in the African cement market. We are constantly evolving best practices in procurement, in an effort to build a supply chain that provides win-win opportunities for all stakeholders in the economies, societies and ecosystems where we operate. Strategic 2.3. objective: Innovation Description Adopt, develop and invest in innovative systems and technologies which will enable us to save cost, especially with regards to energy consumption. 2 Excellence in Innovation ESG management Diversity Continuous Management Improvement STEP 2 Prioritisation of OPERATIONAL efficiency. Serve and satisfy our markets by working together with partners to deliver the best products and Compliance with Management EXPECTED services to our valued customers and stakeholders through continuous product improvement, National, Pan-African Systems, Policies, OUTCOME: new business development, product innovation, and employing state-of-the-art technologies and & Global standards Monitoring tools systems to constantly deliver cost efficient and a ‘circular economy’ approach to business. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 100 101 Operational Driving operational efficiency for us means striving to attain the highest standards in product responsibility, product quality, products information dissemination and labelling, efficient production processes as well as service delivery that exceeds the expectations of our esteemed customers. We seek to maintain operational standards that are aligned with global best practices in occupational health and safety, making our work environment and project sites safe for all internal and external stakeholders. To foster operational sustainability, we continuously invest in innovative technologies and processes that promote our goal of utilising available production capital optimally and resourcefully minimise our negative environmental and operational impacts, while working assiduously to optimise the socio-economic value we create. Definition Management Approach Serving and satisfying Our focus on operational sustainability demands that we maximise our markets by working the addition of value to raw materials and local resources, whilst being together with partners to mindful of health and safety and our impact on the environment. We deliver the best products and services to our valued strive to improve efficiency at every stage of the production process, Arvind Pathak Group Chief We are committed to customers and stakeholders from mining to distribution, and have demonstrated our commitment to through continuous product innovation by launching new products in our key market, Nigeria. Operations Officer continuous innovation improvement, new business and are moving away development, product We are exploring ways to improve our use of alternative fuels in our kilns innovation, and employing and researching how we can recycle by-products such as fly ash for use from the traditional linear state-of-the-art technologies and systems to constantly as extenders when we grind clinker into cement. mode of production optimise cost efficiencies. towards a ‚circular N208.6B 3Mta TOTAL VALUE OF BOUGHT-IN OUR LARGEST KILNS, IN economy‘ approach to doing business across MATERIALS AND SERVICES NIGERIA AND TANZANIA, ACROSS ALL DANGOTE CAN PRODUCE UP TO 3MT our value chain. CEMENT OPERATIONS IN 2018 OF CEMENT PER YEAR Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 102 103 The global standards we are committed to Performance Tracker PILLAR: Operational GCCA GRI IFC UN-SDGs UNGC NSE NCCG KPIs Circular GRI 103: Performance SDG 8: LOC AL PROCU R EMENT C APAC IT Y U T ILISAT ION SU PERDIST R IBU TOR S HUMAN RIGHTS: EnvironPrinciple 26 79% 49% 568 Economy: ManageStandard 3: Decent work mental (Sustainability) • Promote ment Resource and economic • Principle 1: the principles Approach Efficiency growth Businesses of a circular and Pollution should support economy Prevention SDG 9: and respect the across the Performance Industry, protection of 85% patronage of local Ccapacity utilisation of plants in Super-distributors in our value chain innovation and internationally contractors, suppliers, our Nigerian operations Nigerian operations Performance infrastructure proclaimed human vendors, distributors, in our • Guidelines Standard 5: rights; and supply chain developed for Land SDG 12: fuel and raw Acquisition & Responsible • Principle 2: material use Involuntary consumption Make sure that in cement Resettlement and production they are not complicit in SDG 13: human rights Climate Action institution abuses. Our Sustainability Commitment Key elements of our business model are: ANTI • To target high-growth, populous markets with cement deficits and older/less efficient producers CORRUPTION: • To be the leader in product quality, pricing and service delivery wherever we operate • Principle 10: • To adopt and develop a circular economy approach to business across our value chain. Businesses should work against In all our markets, we offer excellent quality products at competitive prices. This strategy has been effective in corruption in all its rapidly enhancing our market share. forms, including extortion and bribery. Both Nigerian and Pan-African operations performed well in 2018 despite challenges such as unfavourable weather conditions, civil unrests and production disruptions. Ejura Ejumedia It is our individual Sustainability Officer, DIL responsibility to ensure we leave the world a better, not worse place LEGEND: than we met it. GCCA Global Cement and Concrete Association SDG Sustainable Development Goals GRI Global Reporting Initiative NCCG Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance IFC International Financial Corporation NSE Nigerian Stock Exchange UNGC United Nations Global Compact Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 104 105 Operational Indicators NURTURING PEOPLE, THE ENVIRONMENT AND OUR BUSINESS GRI 103: ARVIND PATHAK Chief Operational Risk GEMENT APPROACH MANA Q. Sustainable business practices attract penalties. Our operations across Africa sometimes come with a cost. What has are guided by these global standards. (PE RFORMANCE STANDARD the Dangote experience been? Q. With over 500 super-distributors IFC 3, 5 ) and 7000 sub-distributors, how is A. We understand how the burden of initial Dangote Cement working to imbibe GCCA* costs could sometimes influence decisions sustainability practices across tour R ECONOMY CIRCULA on sustainability adoption. At Dangote value chain? UNGC (PRINCIPLES) Cement, we overcome this constraint by 1, 2, 10 having the end in mind from the very A. Our sustainability journey is in its infant Interview SDGs beginning. For example, we know that every stage and we are still building systems and 8, 9, 12, 13 dollar spent on renewable energy today, structures that will enable us manage our S EC could save us huge energy cost in the future, footprints and enhance our positive impact. while also ensuring our environmental We have identified our supply chain and NSE stewardship in form of cleaner energy. In the procurement practices as critical areas where I NMENTAL RO ENV end, sustainable investment is a win-win for improvements are required. This is why NCCG our business. we are now set to integrate environmental RATIONAL and social risk management across our OPE Q. As the leading cement company supply chain. Our ultimate goal is to make in Africa, is Dangote Cement looking environmental and social responsibility to assume the leadership role in condition precedent for our business sustainable cement production in the relationships. continent? 7 SUSTAINABILITY Q. What are the key of areas focus for PILLARS A. As one of the founding members of the Operations Unit in 2019? the GCCA which evolved from the Cement Sustainability Initiative, Dangote Cement A. In 2019, we are looking at incorporate is already a leader in sustainable cement sustainability indicators into our procurement Operational Indicators production in Africa. As you may be aware, practices. We are also looking to make more the GCCA is a quasi-regulator that mandates sustainability related investments in the form it members to adopt nothing but global best of innovative technologies and incorporation Innovation Suppliers due diligence practices in their cement production. Cases of systems that will enable us achieve of non-compliance with GCCA‘s stringent resource and cost efficiencies as well as Product quality Resource management sustainable cement production standards create positive footprints. Product health and safety Health and safety Customer service Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 106 107 Product quality and market competitiveness BUILDING REQUISITE SYSTEMS AND STRUCTURES Interview Who are our customers? EUNICE SAMPSON GM/Head, Sustainability, Government Construction Dangote Cement Plc Contractors companies Distributors Q. The leadership and staff of Dangote Cement seem very enthusiastic about the Real estate and acculturation of sustainability. Do you think that the requisite systems and structures are Private sector infrastructure Retailers in place? contractors developers A. Indeed, the Dangote Cement family is excited about the ongoing integration of sustainability principles and standards into every aspect of our business operations. Much has already been done in terms of building the requisite systems and structures for driving sustainability implementation and more is being done to fill observed gaps. For example, we are integrating sustainability indicators Innovation into the reporting template of all key departments across Dangote Cement. We are also developing We are committed to improving our research ideal for buildings such as single-storey houses, policies and standards that would make our sustainability implementation as seamless as possible. As and development as a strategy for improving our walls, mortaring and driveways. Our new you know, sustainability is a journey of continuous improvement. Building the relevant systems and overall efficiency and productivity. We have a BlocMaster cement is a premium 42.5R product, structures is critical at this point because we do not want sustainability to be an appendage to our dedicated Research and Development unit across rapidly setting to provide excellent early strength business processes. We are building our entire business around it, in line with our 7 Pillars which cover all our operations, and are constantly striving after one day, and superior strength after 28 all aspects of the business. We are on track in our goal of building processes and standards that are to improve our quality and standards based on days. It is ideal for block makers, often small global and yet customised to meet our business goals and objectives. feedbacks from engagements with our customers entrepreneurs in the informal sector, enabling and employees. them to turn their moulds quicker than with other Q. Let’s talk about data. How important is data management in sustainability products. implementation and reporting? DCP plants are all equipped with cutting edge A. Data management is critical to sustainability implementation and reporting. For reporting to be technology like Prompt Gamma Neutron Activation Both Falcon and BlocMaster were developed after seen as compliant with global reporting standards, it must be based on data that is qualitatively and Analysis (PGNAA) for online analysis, robotic extensive in-house research and feedback from quantitatively reliable. A global best practice in sustainability and business management is documenting laboratory, and fully automated central control the market. We will continue to drive product how your processes are managed. Good quality data helps us make informed decisions, track our room system equipped with Human Machine innovation to meet the needs of local builders progress, address weak links and monitor performance. Without a robust data management system, Interface technology (HMI). across the ten markets in which we operate. quality sustainability reporting cannot be achieved; neither is it possible to effectively track and measure implementation challenges, progress, milestones and material indicators. Our brand, Dangote 3X Cement was formulated to 32.5N meet the yearnings of our customers for cement Q. How would you rate the level of progress that has been made in putting a robust with extra strong, extra life and extra yield quality. sustainability data collation system in place at Dangote Cement? We have constantly deployed the most advanced A. The issue of data integrity is taken very seriously at DCP. One of our milestones in 2018 was A CEMENT GRADE SUITABLE FOR machinery at our new plants that improve overall LOW-LOAD BUILDING NEEDS working with external consultants to set up a sustainability data base that aligns our 7 pillars with efficiency in cement production. global sustainability standards, such as the GRI, UNGC, IFC, SDGs, GCCA, NSE Sustainability Disclosure 42.5R Guidelines, and so on. This way, we are sure that our principles and standards are world-class and In 2018, we launched two new products into our yet custom-built to serve our unique sustainability objectives. Also during the year, Dangote Cement main market, Nigeria: Falcon and BlocMaster. designated and trained about 100 data owners across different functions in our Nigerian and PanA STRONGER, MORE RAPIDLY Falcon is a 32.5-grade cement that addresses SETTING CEMENT FOR African operations. With this initiative, we now have data champions that understand our sustainability MULTIPLE APPLICATIONS needs at the lower end of the market, where data needs and have been trained on best practices and requisite tools for gathering them. With strength is less of a requirement. As such, it is sustainability implementation and reporting, virtually everything hinges on availability of quality data, and having in place systems and standards that give clear directions on how set goals will be actualised. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 108 109 Product Quality Our plants are required to disclose all relevant safety information on the product bags. We aspire to achieve a culture of excellent product quality. Our goal is to carry Disclosure of product components our suppliers and vendors along in this quest for product excellence Dangote Location as well as safe use and disposal information In previous years, we had audited the suppliers on In 2019 we will begin the process of holding our our production sites and supply points against the major suppliers, vendors and contractors for their Ethiopia YES DCP Guiding Principles. We work closely with our environment and social practices. For instance, vendors to safeguard the quality of products they they will be required to commit to and implement Nigeria Obajana YES supply to us. our sustainability Code as a condition for our business relationship. Nigeria Ibese YES South Africa YES Product health and safety We understand that our products could sometimes employees and contractors. Management is Good Practices be hazardous and cause injury to people especially held accountable for ensuring safe behaviour, when they are not used correctly. We therefore implementing workplace improvements on a Our Safe Work Initiative provide instructions on usage, leveraging the regular basis and promoting a culture of safety in CEMBUREAU guidelines on use of wet cement. our everyday activities. In order to minimise exposure to hazards and prevent incidents and near-misses, Dangote Cement plants have designed a Safe System of Work. The initiative seeks to enhance workplace safety through pre-work inspections, job Health and safety (H&S) is a top priority at DCP. At our plants ensure that all of their products hazard analysis and regular HSE meetings and audits. We strive to achieve zero incidents by improving and services are tested for quality assurance and and reinforcing safe behaviours among our safety. During job hazard analysis, near-misses and actual accidents are investigated and findings are leveraged to develop and implement corrective actions. Percentage of significant product and Dangote Location service categories for which health and Dangote Cement plants are also obliged to The quality of our supply chain management safety impacts are assessed report incidents of non-compliance concerning attracted several positive feedbacks and accolades product and service information and labelling. in 2018. These include Award for Best Quality Ethiopia 100% Of all the reporting plants (Ethopia, Nigeria – Cement by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria; Obajana, Nigeria – Ibese, Senegal, South Africa), the SERAS Award for Best Company in Supply Nigeria Obajana 100% none reported any incident of non-compliance Chain Management; and, MANCAP certificates Nigeria Ibese 100% concerning product labelling and marketing from the Standards Organisation of Nigeria for communications. various cement products. South Africa 100% Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 110 111 Supply Chain Management Customer service Suppliers Sustainability Programme Our core strategic goal is to become the most Moreover, our experts in fields such as geology, We continue to develop strong relationships Our 2020 goal is to evaluate at least 30% of our customer-centric company in our industry. We chemistry, materials science, and various across our supply chain. We have begun the major suppliers and vendors using environmental are moving from a product-selling company to a other engineering disciplines work alongside process of creating sustainability awareness and social criteria. As part of our procurement comprehensive solutions provider. behavioural scientists, cultural anthropologists, across our suppliers network, which is aimed practice, we prioritise patronage of local vendors. and commercial strategists to anticipate and at communicating and promoting responsible In 2018, 79% of our total procurements were Ultimately, we aim to create solid relationships understand evolving societal trends, and to create practices. We are also now developing KPIs to sourced locally. Of the total of N208.6 billion, N165 with our customers by establishing the innovative, sustainable construction solutions that actively measure and track suppliers performance billion was spent on local purchases. Our suppliers foundations for long-lasting partnerships. We satisfy our customers’ current and future needs. in this regard. range from Small and Medium-scale Enterprises leverage our cutting-edge business processes to (SMEs) to large multinational companies. develop superior cement solutions. We will also develop and administer a standardised Sustainability Code of Conduct for Vendors, Suppliers and Contractors from 2019. Good Practices Good Practices Customer Service Week Customer Trucks Empowerment Scheme (CTES) The Dangote Group’s Customer Service Week is a yearly to the 5th of October 2018 and will hold from the 7thWe support our SME distributors by investing towards their business growth. For example, we invested over N3 event that helps to create awareness and consciousness 11th of October 2019. Dangote Cement Operations in on the critical importance of excellent customer service Nigeria has 7,248 direct retailers (customers) of which billion to purchase 125 trucks that we gave out to our distributors (with a 5 year payback period at no interest). This across various business functions. In the preceding two approximately 568 are classified as Super Retailers is a win-win investment that ensures seamless transportation of our products from our depots to retail outlets. The years, our Customer Service Week has created great responsible for the distribution of a significant amount of initiative has also helped us in enhancing efficiency in our operations and those of key business partners. Between opportunities to specially appreciate our valued internal our products across various geo-political zones. 2017 and 2018, the trucks under the initiative grew by 178, from 408 to 586. and external customers. The ambience that typifies the As part of activities to commemorate the 2018 Customer event creates the right atmosphere for team bonding, fun, Service week, each of our external customers received enlightenment and healthy competition among Dangote a specially customised e-card to symbolise Dangote staff. Cement’s appreciation for their contributions that have ensured our market dominance. Our key distributors Our 2018 Customer Service Week captioned “Excellence Happens Here-The Dangote Way”, supported our goal are critical not just to our business but to the Nigerian economy. They oversee tens of thousands of other In 2018, two DIL subsidiaries received of creating continuous awareness on the need for commercial re-selling operations providing employment, the SERAS Sustainability Awards for: exceptional customer service across the Group. While the sustaining livelihoods and empowering households in customer service week is not unique to Dangote, we have different markets. Also as part of the event, employees succeeded in ingraining it into our corporate culture. participated in competitive quizzes and were rewarded Best Company in Best in Supply Chain with cash prizes. The quizzes sought to improve working Hunger & Food Security Management The 2018 edition focused on how we could leverage the knowledge of all aspects of the business and to foster global event to achieve great service delivery, productivity, corporate ownership among team members. and build lasting relationships with customers and among co-workers. The event took place from the 2nd Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 112 113 Suppliers due diligence Dangote Cement seeks to completely eradicate the suppliers where they are made to disclose any past risks of incidents of child, forced and compulsory criminal offences or indictments. Provision is being We are committed to supporting our distributors Dangote subsidiaries are expected to screen new labour in its operations and across its supply chain. made in 2019 for background screening to be to build sustainable businesses and also to suppliers using environmental criteria. None of the countries reporting in 2018 (Nigeria, done on key suppliers to rule out environmental optimise our indirect environmental and social Ethiopia, Senegal, and South Africa), recorded any and social violations. performance. In 2018, Senegal considered hiring new suppliers such incidents in the year under review. However, and screened all of them according to established Senegal classifies all suppliers that provide labour The same precautions are taken with regards to In our Ethiopian, Senegal and South African environmental criteria. Conversely, South Africa services as being at risk of employing child labour the risk of compulsory or forced labour. Ethiopia operations, a third-party evaluator performs considered hiring 12 suppliers but did not screen or young workers, and is highly proactive in reports no such incidents in their operations. environmental and social assessments on them according to laid-down environmental combating this risk. In order to ensure that this risk South Africa also identifies no such threats, as suppliers using ISO 26000 standards. They are standards. Our Ethiopian plant, on the other hand, does not crystallise, Dangote Cement Senegal has its labour practices are governed by the Basic also assessed on Health & Safety (H&S), Business did not contract new suppliers in the year under close engagements with suppliers that have high Conditions of Employment Act 75 of 1997, which Ethics, Stakeholder Relationships and Financial review. employee numbers. regulates working conditions in the country. Performance. The outcomes of these assessments Violation of the Act is a criminal offence. are documented and corrective actions are In addition to environmental criteria, we also seek Our Senegal operation also evaluates the salaries recommended to suppliers where necessary. to ensure that our new suppliers are screened and social conditions of third party employees On the other hand, Senegal recognises that such according to established social criteria. For the to ensure that the rights of young worker are not risks could occur with service providers used for This evaluation is periodically reviewed and countries reporting in 2018, Ethiopia did not violated. South Africa, on the other hand, is not temporary or permanent jobs during shutdowns or suppliers scored based on their performance. screen any of its 6 potential suppliers using social a high risk country for child labour. Use of child for fixing faulty equipment. In order to combat this Suppliers‘ ratings are integrated into their criteria. Senegal screened 80% of its prospective labour in South Africa is a criminal offence under threat, Dangote Cement Senegal applies the same scorecards to track and reward those that suppliers. South Africa screened 100% of the section 43 of the basic conditions of employment measures that govern direct employees to such demonstrate improved sustainability practices. potential 118 new suppliers. act and the National Child Labour Programme of service providers. Every job on site that is done by Action for South Africa, Phase IV. However, as a third party workers starts with a clear explanation preventive practice, Sephaku administers Standard of what the labour and safety rules are. Request for Proposal (RFP) questionnaires to Resource Management Our business operations are dependent on having Ore in cement production which is a cheaper long-term access to mineral based raw materials alternative to traditional components. At Dangote within the vicinity of our plants. Such resources Cement, we understand that water is a finite are finite and their local exploitation often leads to resource that should be managed responsibly. local community concerns. We therefore, view the In our operations, we ensure that water is used sustainable sourcing of raw materials and resource efficiently and reused or recycled as much as is efficiency as a key strategic task. practicable. Our strategy for resource efficiency also involves the use of alternative raw materials such as Iron Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 114 115 Health and Safety As the leading cement company in Africa, we inspections, frequent HSE meetings and a Permit to HSSE System Framework understand the importance of health and safety for Work system. We implemented corrective actions our workers, visitors and host communities. from near misses reported, accident investigated and We are continuously improving our processes to audit reports. Dangote Cement has also developed an E&S Policies enhance safety and minimise harmful incidents. We annual HSE Plan & Objectives, which will enable us HSSE Policy HIV/AIDS Policy are working towards achieving our “Goal Zero” on manage HSE the way we manage our core business. Malaria Policy E&S Risk & fatalities and recordable injuries by implementing the In developing their various HSE Plan & Objectives for External Impacts best health and safety practices across all our sites. 2019, all operating countries will be expected to set Communications ESIA In 2018, we focused on improving compliance with targets for tackling material HSE risk indicators. These HSSE Risk Management Sustainability applicable laws, regulations and Dangote Cement’s will also be accompanied by corrective action plans Reporting own HSE policies and standards. for identified risk factors. Organisation We have started to diligently document, track and Leaders at all levels are responsible and accountable Capacity Competence report on plant fatalities, lost time injuries and lost for HSE affairs in their areas of operations. In Stakeholder time injury frequency. Between 2017 and 2018 our 2019, we will begin the process of developing and Engagement DIL Strategy & Company Organogram lost time injuries fell from 47 to 22, representing implementing an integrated HSE management system Business Model Role & Responsibility Stakeholder Knowledge & skills a 53% decrease. However, we remain committed in line with the newly introduced ISO 45001. This will Engagement to achieving zero lost time injuries, fatalities and help us in the transition to becoming a world-class accidents frequency rates in all our operations. HSE performer. Management Monitoring Program We are strengthening our accident investigation We trained a total of 24 HSE professionals across processes and competencies are being developed in Obajana, Ibese and Gboko (plant and transport) up & Review Safety Management this area. We closely monitor implementation of all to the UK NEBOSH International General Certificate Incident Reporting & Investigation Occupational Health corrective actions arising from all incidents and HSE standard. This is a significant investment in capacity HSSE Performance Reporting Emergency Management audits. We try to ensure that no accident is repeated. building with expected long-term positive impact HSSE Assurance Planning Environmental Management Emergency Land Acquisition & We are also more proactive in our HSE risk on the Group’s HSE records and performance. We Resettlement Preparedness and management, entrenching it from being a standalone continuously train our employees on best practices Response Sustainable Social activity into a key performance indicator. During 2018, in health and safety in the workplace and emergency Investment Security Management we emphasised to our employees the benefits of response procedures. We also ensure that we provide reporting all incidents without fear of punishment. We the personal protective equipment they require to promoted compliance with the Group’s 15 Golden carry out their jobs safely. Our Health and Safety Safety Rules and strengthened our safety reporting Policy is championed by the Chief Executive Officer format. and is designed to achieve continuous improvement in safety practices across the Dangote Group, for In 2018, we also introduced our Safe System of Work employees, contractors, host communities and all Elvis Akalusi Head, Health & I am glad to be associated initiative, including job hazard analysis, pre-work stakeholders. Safety, Ibese with The Dangote Way. I am beginning to see LOST TIME INJURIES LTI PERCENTAGE DECREASE a paradigm shift where 22 53% safety is now everyone’s 2017: 47 business in the plant. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 116 117 Did you Know: MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT AT SEPHAKU New trends in the CIRCULAR ECONOMY Interview cement industry: PETER FOURIE CEO, DCP South Africa, Sephako Cement The cement industry is able to use waste from municipalities or companies by co-processing: Q. Sephaku currently control 22% of the environmental and social impact of our business South African market, are there plans to across its entire value chain by observing closely By using the high amounts of energy from waste as fuel to heat the kiln increase this share in the future? the activities of our business partners. We engage By replacing primary mineral materials in cement with fractional mineral third-party evaluators to conduct assessments of traces from wastes. A. Despite facing stiff competition here in suppliers using the ISO 26,000 Standards and The very high 1450°C Southern Africa and considering the cyclical nature provide detailed report. This practice has help of building and infrastructural development, us to mitigate some third-party related negative temperatures reached in Sephaku Cement have done well to win the socio-environmental footprints such as curbing a cement kiln ensure the Cement producers need to reach process is residue-free and 1450°C in their oven to be able to market share we currently lay claim to. Our the incidence of child, forced and compulsory the end product contains transform raw materials in the clinker leadership mandate remains that we PLAY TO labour. no hazardous substances. to cement. WIN. Our immediate goals are to continue to grow and consolidate our market leadership, hence we Q. Water stress is a material issue in the are continuously taking steps to secure more wins. whole of South Africa, what steps taking to While doing this however, we commit to playing address this? fair and to conduct ourselves in a responsible A. Water scarcity is a global issue but in South manner. Africa the situation is much dire. At Sephaku, we are taking intentional steps to manage our Q. Tell us more about your assessment of water consumption. At our plants, multiple water third-party vendors using environmental sources are being deployed to reduce pressure and social criteria? on underground sources. Water is also recycled at our plants as part of our water management A. We take responsibility for our actions and we campaign. Beyond our efforts to reduce water are interested in those of our partners. We hold all usage, we also ensure that we also ensure our vendors, suppliers and third-party consultants that our wastewater is responsibly re-used or to the same high levels of expectations that we channelled to minimise or completely prevent set for ourselves. To achieve regulatory social pollution to the waterbodies that serve our host and environmental compliance, we monitor the communities. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 118 119 Environmental Definition Management Approach Entrenching sustainable We continuously seek to improve on our operational efficiency as a environmental management way of optimising our impact on the natural environment. We adopt practices to address the improved business practices and processes that support the protection challenges, and leverage of host communities, preservation of air and water quality, promotion of Massimo This year, we decided the opportunities of climate Bettannin biodiversity and ensuring the overall sustainability of natural resources. change, while optimising Group Chief, HSSE to consolidate key our performance in energy efficiency, water usage and We strive to adhere to sustainability principles that will ameliorate global environmental indicators, and local environmental challenges and mitigate the negative impact of greenhouse gas emissions. including energy climate change. Our business activities are undertaken with conscious thoughts for our natural environment and the need to consistently consumption, water enhance our environmental stewardship while also leveraging the usage, greenhouse gas opportunities this presents . emissions in order to make better informed business decisions. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 120 121 The global standards we are committed to Performance Tracker PILLAR: Environmental GCCA‘s GRI IFC UN SDG‘s UNGC NSE NCCG KPIs Climate GRI 300: Performance SDG 6: ENVIRONMENT: Environ Principle 26 TOTAL VOLUME OF CO2 EMISSIONS [ T CO2] WATER CONSUMP T ION Change & EnvironStandard 1: Clean water and mental (Sustainability) GR EEN HOUSE G A SES 687Kg CO2 -7.2% +29% Energy: mental Assessment & sanitation • Principle 7: • Develop a Standard Management of SGD Businesses climate change Series Evironmental & should support mitigation Social Risks and SDG 7: a precautionary strategy, and Impacts. Affordable and approach to publish targets Clean Energy environmental Per tonne cementitious material Reduction in CO2 emissions Increase in water usage in and progress. Performance challenges; produced in 2018 in our South African our South African operations Standard 6: SDG 9: operations due to increased production Environment & LBiodiversity Industry, • Principle 8: Nature: Conservation innovation and Undertake initia• Apply & Sustainable infrastructure tives to promote Environment Management of greater environ& Nature Living Natural SDG 12: mental responsiguidelines Resources Responsible bility; and Set emission Performance consumption Environmental targets and and production • Principle 9: report publicly Performance Encourage the on progress Management & Compliance Standard SDG 13: development 3: Resource Climate Action and diffusion of Efficiency and institution environmentally Pollution Prefriendly technovention logies. Dangote Cement believes that sound technologies and systems that would help to environmental management, together with a significantly reduce our environmental impact. strategic, proactive approach to addressing the challenges and opportunities of climate change Our goal is to minimise the negative footprints and water scarcity, is fundamental to maintaining a that our business operations could pose to the successful and resilient cement business. environment. As the largest cement company in Africa, we We are committed to implementing ISO understand the environmental impacts of our 14001:2004 Environmental Management System operations and are committed to complying (EMS), which would improve our approach to with all relevant environmental regulations in environmental management within the defined the countries where we operate. We invest in scope of our operations. LEGEND: GCCA Global Cement and Concrete Association SDG Sustainable Development Goals GRI Global Reporting Initiative NCCG Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance IFC International Financial Corporation NSE Nigerian Stock Exchange UNGC United Nations Global Compact Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 122 123 ENVIRONMENTAL Environmental Indicators STEWARDSHIP AT DCP Interview MASSIMO BETTANIN Group Chief, HSSE Q. What are the key environmental Q. Can you describe DCP’s approach to GRI 300: impacts of Dangote Cement‘s operations? environmental sustainability? ENVIRONMENTAL A. As the largest cement manufacturer in A. We understand that our line of business Africa, Dangote Cement has potentially high could come with huge environmental footprints (PERFORMANCE STANDAR environmental impact. The major polluting if not properly managed. This is why we IFC 1, 3, 6 D) substances emitted during cement production continuously look for better ways of combating GCCA* are dust, Nitrogen oxide (NOx) and Sulphur our actual and potential impacts. We keep ATE CH ANGE & ENE dioxide (SO2). The actual amount emitted is of taking precautionary steps to tackling the impact CLIMI RON MENT & NATURGY ENV RE course dependent on the production inputs (the our business could have on the wellbeing of UNGC , 8, 9 IPLES) (PRINC raw materials and fuels used), processes applied, the physical environment. Our ultimate goal 7 and the condition and quality of the plant. is to reduce, as much as is feasible, our CO2 SDGs Dangote Cement is continuously working emissions, water consumption, waste generation 6, 7, 12, 13, 17 to mitigate and minimise the impacts of its and dust emissions. We also plan to leverage SEC production on the environment. We strongly the advantages offered by the Circular Economy believe that sound environmental management, business model, by re-utilising wastes produced NSE ONMENTA together with proactive approaches to addressing in our sites, such as old tyres and packaging VI R EN CC L these challenges are fundamental to achieving materials. This way, we would be improving N G ENVIRONMENT environmental responsibility. on our environmental performance and also significantly reducing our operational costs. IRONMENTAL ENV Q. What distinguishes DCP’s factories from its peers? Q. The Chairman and Founder of DCP A. Our factories are mostly ultra modern, with recently signed the GCCA Charter, how most of our lines having opened in the last does DCP plan to comply with the 7-10 years. They have been designed to be requirements? 7 SUSTAINABILITY intrinsically efficient through the adoption of A. The global cement industry is a major PILLARS cutting edge technology in cement production producer of carbon dioxide emissions. Therefore, such as: it is necessary that major players in the sector, • Pre-heater and pre-calciner technologies, which such as Dangote Cement, are accountable are regarded as the most efficient technology for their impacts and strive to manage them because they recycle heat from the kilns to preefficiently. We have started compliance with this Environmental Indicators heat the raw mixture and achieve much of the all-important cement operations standards by chemical transformation of limestone before it mapping the 5 pillars of the GCCA Charter with Environmental management Circular economy even enters the kiln; our operational, environmental and social pillars. and compliance • Vertical rolling mills for raw material, coal and The HSSE Group will be working closely with Dust emissions cement grinding which are 40–50% more relevant departments and function owners to Operational efficiency efficient than traditional ball mills; ensure that DCP achieves full compliance with Water management • Mechanical material transport and transfer the GCCA Charter. Precautionary approach systems equipped only with conveyors and bucket elevators, which are up to 80% more Carbon management efficient than the traditional pneumatic systems. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 124 125 Operational Efficiency Understanding & Managing The production of cement requires a lot of energy, which has significant economic and environmental is a cleaner energy source, to improve our overall energy and operational efficiency. This could come our Carbon Footprint implications. It is therefore imperative that we with availability challenges. But we are committed The yearly global demand for cement increases Also in 2018, we further consolidated our continue to enhance our energy efficiency. We plan to adopting global best practices in energy usage as at an average of 5-7%, with much of the demand greenhouse gas emission monitoring and reporting to optimise the utilisation of Natural Gas, which much as is feasible. growth driven by emerging markets such as system to re-verify the actual carbon footprints of Africa, owing to rapid urbanisation, economic and all our operations and identify areas that require Our plants are designed to achieve particulate emission levels (30mg/Nm3) far below demographic growth. improvements. Despite the newness of our what the environmental emission (100mg/Nm3) regulations in Nigeria permit. plants, we understand the need to always explore We have deployed measures to maintain overall efficiency across our plants including: The cement industry accounts for over 5% of the innovative ways to continuously reduce carbon total global CO2 emissions annually. Approximately footprints across our entire value chain. Utilising effective particulate emission control systems, including baghouse filters and electrostatic precipitators; 60% of these emissions are produced during the conversion of limestone (CaCO3), a key natural Total greenhouse gas emissions resulting from Efficient energy recovery in kiln operation using mechanical flow regulator in the coolers; ingredient, to clinker (CaO), an essential component captive power plants and generators, kilns and Use of cement additives to have a high cement clinker ratio which improves both energy usage of cement; whilst the remaining 40% of CO2 is vehicles used at the quarries and sites (Scope 1), as and CO2 emissions per tonne of cement produced. generated by the combustion of fossil fuels in the well as those associated with the use of purchased Use of storm water harvesting and recycling (South African and Obajana operations) and use of kiln and to produce electricity. electricity (Scope 2), were estimated at 16.4 water decanting from other mines (our Zambian operations); million tonnes, equivalent to a specific or average Vertical roller mills for raw material, coal and cement grinding which are 40-50% more efficient However, our plants are mostly new and ultraunit based emission of 687kgCO2eq / tonne of than traditional ball mills; modern. They have been designed to be more cementitious material produced. Mechanical material transport and transfer system equipped only with conveyors and bucket elevators which are up to 80% more efficient than the traditional pneumatic system; energy efficient using cutting edge technology in cement production. These measures have resulted Use of long OLBC conveyors for raw material transport rather than the less efficient dumpers; in operational cost savings and, at the same time, Robot lab equipment for automatic sampling and preparation for X-Ray screening which allows less CO2 emissions in our operations. for a better process control with direct effect on the quality of our cement and indirectly, a 3-5% energy reduction compared to plants provided with manual sampling system; Big process fans provided with Variable Frequency Drivers (VFD) to vary the ventilation rate based on the actual demand/operating conditions. VFD can reduce input power by 40-80% (depending on the % flow rate) compared to dampers; Pre-heater and pre-calcinate which is regarded as the most efficient technology. Energy Consumption [ GJ ] Precautionary Approach to Ethiopia YTD 4,607,769 Environmental Management Nigeria Gboko 2,784,265 Nigeria Ibese 24,613,136 We have a robust risk assessment and We proactively manage any identified hazard Nigeria Obajana 13,620,909 management system that enables us to identify and continuously deploy new technologies that and manage environmental risks before they would help improve our operational efficiency Senegal 2,985,808 actually crystallise. As much as possible, we and environmental stewardship. Some of our South Africa 3,872,732 strive to identify and pre-empt operational processes are being redesigned to improve TOTAL 52,484,619 and environmental risks as our way of our performance in resource efficiency, waste averting irreversible damages to our business management, carbon emission and so on. environment, employees, host communities and the general public. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 126 127 Tackling future challenges – CASE STUDY first step into circular economy — ALTERNATIVE ENERGY USE IN ETHIOPIA This year, we started exploring the feasibility of However, the amount of wastes that we generate in using alternative fuels in our kilns through effective our operations are minimal, and so we understand By collecting and utilising combustible wastes, we generated 1 GJ=277.778 kwh at and fit-for-purpose re-utilisation of wastes produced that, to leverage the opportunities presented by the our Ethiopian plant, reducing dependency on conventional fossil fuels and ensuring in our sites. This is a further step towards the Circular Economy business model, we will need to that we meet our energy needs without increasing costs. adoption of greener energy sources than coal and collaborate and partner with third parties. heavy oil, in addition to the current use of natural gas to minimise emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants in our Nigerian operations. CASE STUDY — CASE STUDY WASTE UTILISATION IN ZAMBIA — The plant burns waste tyres and waste bags as additives to the Kiln inlet. In doing CIRCULAR ECONOMY – this, we have observed no significant spikes in CO emissions and there have been no THE ONLY WAY TO A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE recorded Kiln malfunction. Tyres are hoisted up to the chute feeding point via a winch and fed into the kiln, along with other materials. Human population keeps growing, with more and more of us living in urban areas. The world population more than doubled from 3.7 billion in 1970 to 7.6 billion in 2017 and is projected to keep expanding, to 11.18 billion in 2100 UN World Population Prospects (2017). Growths in global population and consumption threaten to deplete the planet’s natural resources, especially as we use them inefficiently. The solution is to move to a circular economy, which aims to avoid waste and ensure the longest possible (re)circulation of raw materials. This helps reduce over exploitation of the natural environment and curbs negative climate changes. Good Practices Building a circular economy helps achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and is in line with the global climate policy. Use of renewable energy sources and materials, sharing, dematerialisation of consumption, efficient waste management and the design of products for longer use, easy repairs and reprocessing, contribute to limiting the depletion of natural resources. We are committed to continuous improvements and enhanced efficiency in our business processes and practices. We have established an internal governance committee that drives the implementation of green technology and best practices in our plants. We are working to support Nigeria in actualising its Paris Climate Action commitments. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 128 129 Controlling our Dust Emissions Cement manufacturing processes generate dust emissions that, if not properly managed, could have Implementing Efficient Water Management significant impacts on both the workforce and neighbouring communities. At Dangote Cement, we understand that a (ii) handling of raw materials, intermediate and final We understand that scarcity of water is a global Most of our cement plants have been designed to significant reduction in dust emissions is both products by means of completely closed conveyors, issue. We are aware that just 2.5% of the earth‘s recover, store and recycle groundwater from quarry technically and economically feasible. To achieve with bag house filters at the transfer points, and; water is fresh water. Africa‘s fast growing population operations and/or storm water run-off from plants. this, all our plants have been designed and and urbanisation is also accompanied by a This reduces our consumption of freshwater and provided with state-of-the-art dust abatement (iii) continuous dust suppression by water spray significant rise in water demand. Consequently, mitigates negative impact on local communities and equipment, including bag house filters and and use of binding material on roads, both at the although our operations do not require large farming activities. electrostatic precipitators. Continuous control of plants and quarries. quantities of water in comparison with other operating parameters and routine maintenance sectors, we are committed to reducing the amount In 2018, our total water consumption, including activities are carried out by trained site personnel The state-of-the-art design, combined with the of freshwater utilised in our business activities. for purposes such as production, cooling, dust to ensure that the abatement systems operate as control and maintenance measures adopted, Our responsible use of water will ensure more suppression, gardening, and domestic and sanitary, specified by the suppliers. allow our plants to achieve average dust emissions availability for the local communities, especially in was 6,284,882m3, equivalent to specific or average ranging between 20 and 30 mg/Nm3. This is way those regions that are characterised by endemic unit based water consumption of 270 litres water/ In addition to the control measures adopted for the below the typical regulatory threshold limits and water scarcity. tonne of cementitious material produced. stack emissions, we are developing programmes in the international best standards (50 mg/Nm3). some of our plants that help mitigate the potential impact from fugitive dust emissions. Best practices in this regard include Volume Water Consumption / Water Consumption [ m3] Cementitious Products [ ltr/t] (i) the storage of raw materials in warehouses and/ or silos (we are improving our processes to avoid CEMENT PLANT YTD YTD stockpiling of dusty materials in open areas, except AVG in emergency cases; Ethiopia 118925 77 Nigeria Gboko 133222 167 Nigeria Ibese 389067 77 Nigeria Obajana 129 26 Nigeria HQ 734351 270 CASE STUDY Senegal 533067 486 — DUST MANAGEMENT AT OBAJANA South Africa 33469 27 At our Obajana operations, we ensure that our dust emissions are within ambient air quality limits. We have taken steps to control fugitive dust emissions by utilising initiatives such as the installation of site wide sprinklers, dust shields within our silos, and constant monitoring to assess the effectiveness of these measures. By doing these, we are protecting our employees and host communities from the impact of dust emissions. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 130 131 CASE STUDY — INVESTORS’ ENVIRONMENTAL WATER PRESERVATION IN SOUTH AFRICA CONCERNS Although the cement industry is not a large user of water, we recognise the need to reduce the Interview amount we use, conserve local supplies and ensure that we do not pollute water bodies. CARL FRANKLIN Head, Investor Relations In South Africa, Dangote Cement is committed to reducing its water impact for the benefit of its local communities. Our Aganang facility, situated approximately 40km west of the town of Lichtenburg in the North West Province, sits in an area known well for agriculture and cement Q. You interface with Dangote Cement’s gaining traction among top business executives production. investors on regular basis. What would you worldwide, environmental, social and governance say are their environmental concerns? issues will become key considerations in the Both industries, which have a major impact on the region’s economy, are largely dependent on the area’s available groundwater resources. investment decisions made by key investors. A. Greenhouse gas emission is seen as the Companies that demonstrate sustainability The Aganang Plant has been designed in such a way as to drain storm water into concrete lined biggest contributor to climate change and global stewardship will of course attract good investment canals and pathways leading to a single discharge point. From this point, the wastewater is further directed into two return water dams. warming. Given that cement production is rated opportunities relative to their peers. as the third largest producer of CO2 in the The plant has three authorised dams: a borrow pit of 275 000m3 and two Return Water Dams, world, our investors, like other investors around Q. In the light of these investors’ concerns each with storage capacity of 45 000m3. the world, are interested in our CO2 emissions, and your thoughts about how significant The borrow pit, which is situated in the mining area, collects almost 190 000m3 per annum, resource efficiency, waste management practices, this will become in the future, what and this is used for dust suppression. About 122,500 m3 volume of water from the return dust emission, health and safety issues, and so is Dangote Cement doing to ensure water dams is recycled and re-used as process water, reducing our need for boreholes. This means that we take far less groundwater, which can instead be used by local communities for on. Their major concern of course revolves around environmental sustainability? agricultural and domestic purposes. how effectively these issues are managed to ensure business and environmental sustainability. A. At Dangote Cement, we are already tackling This is part of Dangote Cement’s commitment to reducing the water footprint of its operations. these issues. We are designing innovative Q. Given this development, how do you strategies and investing in new technologies as think environmental issues will affect the we strive to minimise our negative environmental future of institutional investments in the impacts. We are infusing environmental Cement industry? considerations into all aspects of our operations, in the effort to ensure that sustainability becomes A. I think environmental concerns will become integral to how we run the business. even more significant for investors in the future. Eunice Sampson If we are to leave behind for our General Manager/ With sustainable finance framework increasingly Head, Sustainability, descendants a world where they can coDangote Cement Plc exist harmoniously with nature and continue to enjoy its FINITE resources, then we must take the concept of sustainability seriously. When the natural environment is violated, it Did you Know: pushes back with calamitous consequences. Conversely, when you nurture the physical Cement is the most widely consumed commodity after water. It is the main component in the construction of infrastructures and for the development of environment, it nurtures you back. residential houses, public buildings, water and sewage systems, and much more. That is comparable to offsetting the yearly average carbon emissions from 1.3 million passenger vehicles. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 132 133 6. ECONOMIC , SOCIAL, FINANCIAL SECTION Strategic objective: 3.1. Economic Impact, strategic community investment THREE Description We aim to apply economically sound sustainable development principles to our business. As a leading African brand, we are partners of governments and local communities in the effort to build a prosperous African economy. This is why our social impact projects are deliberately targeted at meeting the How we build license most pressing needs of the different communities in line with the outcome of our community engagement programmes. to operate ECONOMIC Strategic 3.2. PILLAR objective: Strategic stakeholder engagement SOCIAL Description It is important to us that we respond to how our stakeholders see our company and we strive to create PILLAR an environment in which their feedback and opinions can be gathered, understood and acted upon in order to sustain and strengthen our business and our strategic relationships. We are consciously creaFINANCIAL ting a learning environment and platform for our employees to grow and achieve their fullest potential, while adhering to the highest standards of health and safety. In our host communities, we strive to dePILLAR velop resilient and sustainable prosperity through direct and indirect employment, skills transfer, local entrepreneurial development and the prioritised patronage of local suppliers and contractors. Strategic 3.3. objective: Financial and non-financial Impact Description We focus our efforts on demonstrating to stakeholders the importance we attach to value creation. We create value by leveraging all available capital to ensure the sustainable growth and impact of our organisation. 3 Impact, Strategic Excellence in Community Innovation ESG management Investment Strategic Diversity Continuous Stakeholders LICENSE TO OPERATE achieved. Management Improvement Engagement STEP 3 We aim to be the leading brand in the infrastructural development of the new African EXPECTED continent that we envision. We recognise that our brand values must reflect all the Compliance with Management commitments we make to our esteemed stakeholders. This way, we sustain our license to National, Pan-African Systems, Policies, Non-financial Integrated Reporting OUTCOME: operate. & Global standards Monitoring tools Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 134 135 Social Definition Management Approach Creating a learning At Dangote Cement Group, our approach is to build a competent workforce that will support environment and a platform our current and future business objectives. We ensure continuous training and capacity that allows our employees to building as a way of empowering our employees to carry out their functions efficiently while grow and achieve their fullest also equipping them to achieve their future career plans. We prioritize the health and safety I am happy to be a potential, whilst adhering Brian Egan of our employees and ensure that they are trained on best working practices, emergency to the highest standards responses and the use of personal protective equipment as may be required. We also Group Chief Financial Officer part of the remarkable of health and safety. In our host communities, we ensure that the work environment is safe and does not constitute harm to our workers and impact that Dangote host communities. strive to develop resilient Cement is leaving in all and sustainable prosperity through direct and indirect We support employee volunteerism as a way of promoting closer engagement with the the locations in which it employment, skills transfer, host communities. This approach ensures that we listen to the concerns and needs of local entrepreneurial our stakeholders, and informs our approach to building more productive and harmonious operates in Africa. development and prioritised long-term relationships. We invest in social projects that are beneficial to our local patronage of local suppliers communities by creating jobs, promoting entrepreneurship, increasing household incomes, and contractors. building skills and capacity, improving the overall human capital development index. We believe in developing sustainable local economies and supporting governments’ efforts at improving access to quality water, education, healthcare and other social amenities. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 136 137 The global standards we are committed to Performance Tracker PILLAR: Social GCCA‘s GRI IFC UN SDG‘s UNGC NSE NCCG KPIs Health & GRI 400: Performance SDG 1: LABOR: Social Principle 26 COMMUNIT Y COMPENSAT ION HE ALT H IN V ESTMENTS EDUC AT ION AL IN V ESTMENTS +102M +102M +101M Safety: Social Standard 1: No poverty • Principle 3: (Sustainability) • Apply the Standard Assessment and Businesses good safety Series Management of SDG 3: should uphold practice guiEnvironmental Good health and the freedom of delines of the and Social Risks wellbeing association and GCCA and Impacts the effective Spent on land acquisition and Spent on health initiatives in our Spent on scholarships and other Promote the SDG 4: recognition of the involuntary resettlement in our Nigerian operations educational investments in our sharing of Performance Quality right to collective Nigerian operations Nigerian operations good health Standard 2: Education bargaining; practices Labor and Wor• Principle 4: The king Conditions SDG 5: elimination of all Social ReGender Equality forms of forced sponsibility: Performance and compulsory • Publish a Standard 4: SDG 10: labor; Our Sustainability Commitment Code of ConCommunity Reduced • Principle 5: duct incorHealth, Safety, Inequalities The effective We understand that social stewardship and effective engagement with internal stakeholders and porating the and Security abolition of child local communities are critical to earning and sustaining our license to operate. We treat our social principles of SDG 16: labor; and internationalPerformance Peace, justice • Principle 6: responsibility with utmost priority. ly proclaimed Standard 5: and strong The elimination human rights Land Acquisitiinstitution of discrimination Apply Soon and Involunin respect of cial Impact tary Resettleemployment and Assessment ment occupation. guidelines Establish a Performance ANTIsystematic Standard 7: CORRUPTION: dialogue Indigenous Peo• Principle 10: process with ples Businesses should stakeholders work against Performance corruption in all its Standard 8: forms, including Cultural extortion and Heritage bribery. LEGEND: GCCA Global Cement and Concrete Association SDG Sustainable Development Goals GRI Global Reporting Initiative NCCG Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance IFC International Financial Corporation NSE Nigerian Stock Exchange UNGC United Nations Global Compact Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 138 139 Social Standards S/No DCP NIGERIA’S SOCIAL INVESTMENTS IN 2018 Name of Project/Activity Start Date Cost of Project (N) 1 Health 2018 102,047,950 2 Empowerment 2018 350,000 3 Education and scholarships 2018 102,053,184 GRI 400: 4 Community compensation 2018 102,562,905 , 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16 5 Donations and grants to host communities 2018 15,636,000 1 6 Donations and grants to government 2018 547,078,000 MANCE STAND C ( PERFOR ARD 7 2018 IF 1, 2 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 ) Donations and grants to CSOs/NGOs 251,540,841 8 Donations and grants to religious organisations 2018 100,000 GCCA* HEALTH & SAFETY 9 Donations and grants to events 2018 35,250,000 RESPONSIBILIT SOCIAL Y 10 Donations and grants to charity 2018 112,000,000 UNGC (PRINCIPLES) Total 1,428,605,082 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 SDGs 5, 1, 3, 4, 10, 16 SEC Community investment NSE SOCIAL Community engagement is very important to us at areas in their local communities and investing their NCCG Dangote. We see this as our social responsibility resources towards combating the issues identified. ALTH & SAF IAL, HE ETY to our host communities and work assiduously More often than not, these needs generally fall SOC SOCIAL to enhance the wellbeing of the people around within the purview of health, education and us. Each plant is tasked with identifying key need infrastructural assistance. SC HOL AR SH IP S OU R SOC IAL IN V ESTMENT 7 SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 900 OVER 900 BENEFICIARIES IN ₦1.4B IN OUR NIGERIAN OPERATIONS (GBOKO, OBAJANA AND IBESE), OVER N1.4BILLION WAS SPENT ON NIGERIAN OPERATIONS ALONE SOCIAL INVESTMENTS WHICH INCLUDE DONATIONS AND CHARITABLE GIFTS. THIS REPRESENTS 0.55% OF OUR PROFIT AFTER TAX IN 2018. Social indicators We have a Community Engagement Policy that employees’ volunteering activities. prioritises the establishment and nurturing of Community investments Safety and employee wellbeing a mutually benefiting relationship with host As much as is practicable, we endeavor to support communities. We value their useful feedback on host communities in addressing practical needs Health Educational infrastructure how we could be better neighbours and partners that are thrown up in the course of community for development. Besides sponsorship and engagements. community investments at the HQ and BU levels, we also support local communities through our Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 140 141 TOP 5 EXTERNAL SOCIAL ISSUES THAT ARE IN RESPONSE TO THE IMPORTANT TO UNDERPERFORMING EMPLOYEES IN CLINIC: DANGOTE GROUP — — • Our Ibese plant reconstructed and renovated the healthcare centre • This has had a significant impact on the community as the centre has recorded a sizable increase in the number of patients seeking medical care there, compared to before the renovation was carried out • The plant was also able to deliver a clinic equipped with medical facilities and a labour room • This clinic was provided to address reported incidents of untrained personnel offering medical care to locals who had Health no other alternatives. Growing Medical/ Health Clinics Staff at our Ibese plant were able to identify general of the clinic was so critical that members of the health issues in the local community. This was community were unwilling to use the medical achieved through communication with key officials facility. and community representatives as well as through general interactions with other stakeholders in the As the health clinic was set up to treat cases of community. malaria, typhoid and infectionsall very prevalent ailments in the Ibese community, these aliments A health clinic in the community that was in dire were going largely untreated. need of renovation was identified. The condition Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 142 143 Skills development CASE STUDY Dangote Academy — DCP GBOKO NIGERIA The Dangote Academy was launched in 2010 to equip employees with the technical and managerial skills We understand the impact that quality education could have on a person’s life as well as on the that are needed for the sustainable growth of the business. socioeconomic wellbeing of a community. Because of this, education is a major priority for us in our community investment efforts. This is why scholarship investments have always, and will always be important to us at Dangote Cement. In 2018, our plant in Gboko, Benue State invested Specifically, the Academy was established to be the umbrella organisation for all talent development about N10m on scholarships for university students in Mbayion community. Altogether, about and learning initiatives in the Group and to provide facilities and platforms for technical skills acquisition 493 students have so far benefited from scholarships offered by our operations in Gboko. benchmarked against world standards. It was created in recognition of the fact that we cannot rely solely on African universities and colleges to provide the specialised technical and managerial skills that we require to run major cement plants such as ours. In 2018, the Academy offered 114 different training courses on a wide range of technical, administrative and marketing areas, from the “7 Habits of Highly Effective People” to “Smarter Selling”. CASE STUDY Approximately 11,707 staff attended these courses, with around 5,500 being trained by the Dangote — Academy itself, with the rest being trained by 26 external training providers. In total 381,704 Hours of EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING training were offered. DURING THE 2018 SUSTAINABILITY WEEK To demonstrate our commitment to sustainability, the company marked its first Sustainability Week in September 2018. The aim was to promote sustainable development ‘The Dangote Training courses were held at eleven locations in Nigeria, with many staff Way’. Activities carried out included clean up, health and safety awareness, education and empowerment for small businesses. from Pan-African facilities visiting Nigeria for training in engineering skills at To address the growing global challenge of waste, sustainability champions in our Headquarters our flagship campus at Obajana in Kogi State. With eight classrooms, five volunteered to clean up several sites which include Oniru Block-makers’ village, Victoria Island, workshops, a 450-seat lecture theatre and leisure facilities, the Obajana Lagos; Ajibese community was cleaned up by DCP at Ibese; Anjorin market in Apapa was cleaned up by our Apapa Greenville; and Isolo community by DCP Cement Depot, Isolo. campus provides a convenient learning environment for our people. Across our Pan African operations, there were hospital sanitation and clean-ups in Bounsa by DCP Congo; educational outreach in Douala by DCP Cameroon; beach clean-up and tree planting in Tema by DCP Ghana, which aligns with the themes of the World Environment Day and World Oceans Day, 2018 which were, ‘beating plastic pollution’, and ‘clean our oceans’, respectively. These volunteering initiatives represent our local approach to addressing global challenges and CASE STUDY creating impact that matters. — DCP IBESE NIGERIA We understand the critical importance of high-quality education for the development of host communities. This is why we have introduced scholarship schemes to help students in these communities achieve their educational and career aspirations. Nearly 900 students were offered scholarships to study at different levels of education in 2018. In our Ibese communities, for example, the advent of the scholarship programme has reportedly increased the rate of children’s enrolment in schools. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 144 145 Building strong relationships LEAVING LASTING MARKS IN OUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES with local communities Interview LUK HAELTERMANN CEO, Dangote Cement, Our host communities are among our most infrastructure development and patronage of local Senegal important stakeholders. They live close to our plants vendors and contractors. and usually constitute part of our workforce. They Q. What can you say were your most and healthcare were added to ensure equitable are impacted by our operations in ways that can be We are committed to helping young businesses and impactful social activities in 2018? coverage of all four major communities. We beneficial or potentially harmful. They have given entrepreneurs in host communities to grow. This also financed a skills development program in us, directly or tacitly, the right to build a factory, we do by prioritising the patronage of local startups, A. We logically continued in 2018 the longfood preservation for women in a neighbouring mine their land and transport our products through all in the effort to boost their productivity, earnings term actions that we started in earlier years. community that is rich in the cultivation of fruits their communities. In effect, they have given us a and profitability. The main project of course being the local and vegetables. The objective was to educate the “social licence to operate”. empowerment program called ‘Senegalisation’. women on how to convert the excess quantities We also strive to minimise the negative impacts of Our Senegalisation program has led to a of fruits and vegetables into jam, juice and We recognise that the benefits of this licence must our operations on host communities, by taking care reduction in the number of foreign workers in our powder for sale in other markets. This way, they be mutual. This is why we continuously invest in to respect their land and property, their animals, the workforce, from around 250 in the early days of will be minimising wastes and business losses. and support these communities. quality of air that they breathe, their dignity, their the operation to less than 20 at the end of 2018. cultural and religious beliefs and their way of life. Dangote Cement Senegal is also taking steps Q. What plans does DCP Senegal have to Our presence in local communities creates new to reduce water consumption (DCS is in a very increase its market share? job opportunities, scholarships for students, arid area). We are helping local communities to better healthcare facilities, potable water, local improve the condition of the roads, hospitals and A. Growth figures in volume may likely slow schools, while also ensuring that we respect the down in the near future (2019 is estimated at people‘s religion and culture. 5% increase) because we are approaching the maximum capacity of the plant. Past feasibility Q. How is your business unit managing the studies have focused mainly on optimisation interests of diverse stakeholders in host of the plant and processes. We are now also communities? focusing on examining the possibility of capacity increase in a financially feasible and sustainable A. 2018 marked the start of our structured manner. engagement with local communities through a Strategic Support Committee. This committee, with the participation of all major stakeholders, developed four projects for 2018 and 2019, one per community. They include, amongst others, the construction of a health post, 2 schools and a maternity. Other smaller projects on education Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 146 147 CASE STUDY — Israel Our focus is to increase Chukuwenga HOW DANGOTE DEVELOPS SUSTAINABLE Group Lead-Socisocial investments in host al Performance, LOCAL ECONOMIES HSSE communities across all our The case of one single community business that created 150 jobs and tens of operations. millions in revenues in South Africa. Dangote Cement South Africa, also known as Sephaku Cement, draws 42% and 70% of its employee base from local communities in the Delmas and Aganang Cement plants, respectively. There are also several SMEs facilitated and supported by Sephaku, which include: the bakery, the catering firm and the cleaning companies that service the Aganang and Delmas Plants, of Sephaku Cement. In South Africa, Dangote practices a strong local employment policy, in compliance with the national Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Programme (BBBEE) – and serves as a good example of “THE DANGOTE WAY.” In 2018, South Africa’s Sustainability Champions, including Nigeria’s Dr. Ndidi Nnoli, Group Chief Sustainability & Governance Officer, and Israel Chokuwenga, Q&A Group Social Lead, HSSE, convened in South Africa as part of the DCP 2018 Sustainability pre-reporting initiative. The objective was to engage all Sephaku Sustainability Champions and Data Owners on Dangote Group’s 7 Sustainability Interview Pillars and GRI reporting standards. The capacity building initiative also addressed DANILO TRUGILLO common issues regarding the Dangote Sustainability Journey. It identified Plant Director, Ethiopia inspiring case studies that showcase Dangote’s business impact; explored areas of synergy and collaborations, as well as knowledge-sharing on best practices Q. How does DCP Ethiopia plan to stabilise and regulations. Our social practices are for that could be mutually beneficial across all operations. relationships with the local communities in example guided by global standards, including Since the visit, South Africa has improved in its sustainability performance, the coming years? ISO26000 Standard on Social Responsibility. We especially in terms of its responsiveness on data collation, validation and also benchmark our social, environmental and completeness as required for sustainability reporting. A. In response to the 2018 events, we are now governance practices with the Dangote Group’s Our South African business has been motivated by its own story of a small proactively engaging with members of our local Sustainability policy that mandates compliance entrepreneur it supported. ‘New Era’, founded by Thokozane Mangana, was communities. We will continue to engage them with global best practices. selected by Dangote Cement South Africa in 2014 as a contractor. Beyond serving as business partners who have a stake in the the logistics needs of the Dangote subsidiary, engaging with Thokozane propelled the growth of his start-up company, which in turn has meaningfully contributed business and whose stake should be protected. Q. What new social investments do you to regional economic growth through job creation and positive socio-economic We are improving on our grievance mechanism plan to make in 2019? impact. and will make it even easier for them to come Since 2014, New Era has recorded revenues of over 70 million Rand per annum. forward and express their concerns. We believe A. We will keep engaging our host communities The Logistics company which transports clinker from Aganang to Delmas; that the coming months and years will be conflictto identify social projects that they need support and coal from the mine near Delmas to Aganang, employs 150 persons and free and we will build better and more cordial with. We will ensure that we establish a winhas 30 trucks which serve Dangote Cement South Africa. To give back to the relationships with the host communities. win relationship by investing in projects that will community, Thokozane also works with Dangote to offer on-the-job training to improve the wellbeing of host communities and community members. This includes engaging trainees from the Sephaku Skills Q. Does DCP Ethiopia align with any global households. Development Programme and introducing youths to professional driving skills social standard? and job opportunities. These are just a few of the many ways that Thokozane’s company is giving back to his community. This case study also demonstrates the ripple effect of Dangote’s impact, and how we strive to build sustainable local A. Our aim is to build a sustainable business economies in host communities and markets in which we operate. that aligns its practices with relevant laws Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 148 149 NIGERIA SOUTH AFRICA CASE STUDY — ETHIOPIA It is fair to say Dangote Cement has experienced a difficult relationship with its host communities in Ethiopia, a country with a complex and sensitive sociopolitical and cultural landscape. In July, three of our colleagues, including country CEO Deep Kamra, were murdered on the road to Addis Ababa, for motives that even now remain unclear. In Nigeria, we have three plants at Our operations in South Africa are In addition, our local operating environment has been made Obajana, Ibese and Gboko, with spread between our Aganang and difficult by demands from the local community, with respect to total combined production capacity Delmas facilities, which between employment and business opportunities, that we were unable of 14.2Mt. Our Nigerian operations them can produce 2.8 million to meet. commenced in Gboko in 2007 and tonnes of cement a year for sale in rapidly grew to support the country key markets across the country. We have continued to engage with local communities, as well as local authorities in Mugher and in achieving self-sufficiency in the regional authorities of Oromia, in an effort to create trust and build mutual respect so that we cement production. In 2018, Dangote Cement South can maintain our “social licence to operate”. Without it, our business success in Ethiopia will be Africa carried out a number of diminished, affecting the performance of one of our most successful plants. In 2018, Dangote Cement local community investments, We are continuously reviewing our stakeholder engagement and social investment projects’ Nigerian operations invested including: implementation processes to ensure effective and efficient project execution, at the same time approximately 1.4B in social improving communication processes with both our internal and external stakeholders. projects for the benefit of • Scholarships awarded to 15 In addition, we will review our employment practices to offer the local communities greater local communities. These university students to pursue opportunities for employment and engagement with us. investments covered healthcare, engineering and other graduate The plant has continued to invest in community development projects, including the construction of education and infrastructure courses; seven classroom blocks, two training centres and one water system that supplies potable water to developments, amongst others. • Leadership training to empower Mugher town’s 33,000 people. We have continued to offer employment opportunities to our host local community leaders in the communities, with 1,600 locals currently in our employment. We are contributing significantly to the • In Gboko, scholarship grants Springbokpan and Verdwaal socioeconomic development of host communities and have supported 15 micro-enterprises that totaling N10m were awarded to 493 communities, with a focus on employ more than 600 persons. youths in Mbayion community; mining legislation, codes of conduct • At Ibese, blocks of classrooms and general transformation; We remain committed to working closely with stakeholders in the communities to build more cordial were constructed in Aga Olowo for • Youth training in driving relationships. 80 students; 230 students in local (50 students), computer skills communities were also awarded (25 students) and basic electrical scholarships valued at N20m; and mechanical engineering skills • At Obajana, 249 students (15 students). benefited from a N25m scholarship grant, among other social investments.. Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 150 151 COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT Interview ARMANDO MARTINEZ Plant Director, Ibese Q. What would you say is the biggest mobilise your colleagues in Ibese plant Dangote Cement impact in Ibese in 2018? towards the 2018 Dangote Sustainability Week? A. One of the areas of DCP interventions in Ibese has been in healthcare. We have built and A. What Mr. Makoju said is very crucial. Our renovated hospitals, and sometimes donated colleagues at Ibese were very enthusiastic about medical facilities to public health institutions. We the 2018 Sustainability Week. They came out also try to minimise incidents of diseases through in large numbers to carry out community clean nutritional intervention programmes, especially ups activities, volunteered their time to teach for children. We also have education support in schools and offered grants to support small initiatives. We support talented young persons businesses. No persuasion was needed. Our to achieve their full potential by providing them colleagues were more than willing and very scholarships to ensure that they can afford to excited to come together to show support and complete their education. Regarding economic care for the local communities. At Ibese, the empowerment, we support local entrepreneurs to initiative was a huge success. sustainably increase their earnings. We do this by ensuring that we patronise local content. Q. Has there been feedback from the communities or individuals that have Q. The Dangote Sustainability Week, benefited from the Sustainability Week? according to the DCP Group Managing Director, Engineer Joe Makoju; “is built A. There has been extensive feedback, including on the premise that sustainability must letters of appreciation from some of the be owned and practiced by employees at beneficiaries. Considering the huge impact we every level of the organization and powered recorded in 2018, we eagerly look forward to the by the highest levels of institutional 2019 edition. governance.” How were you able to Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 152 153 APPENDIX About the Report The SERAS Award DCP won the 2018 Sustainability, Enterprise and Responsibility Awards in Supply Chain Management Dr. Ndidi Nnoli This is the first standalone sustainability report for Dangote Group Chief Sustainability & Cement. The Report is prepared In Accordance with the Governance Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, core option. Beyond GRI, our Reporting Framework is centered around the 7 Pillars of Sustainability adopted by Dangote Cement Plc as a key aspect of “The Dangote Way”. Out 7 Pillars are benchmarked against 8 national and global sustainability principles and standards. This year’s Sustainability Report focuses on 4 major markets: Nigeria (Gboko, Ibese and Obajana), South Africa, Senegal and Ethiopia, it however also provides an insight into all our areas of operation. We will reach full GRI compliance across the whole Dangote Cement Group by 2020.” Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 154 155 Input-output Methodology Our 2018 Sustainability Report is the first standalone report for the Dangote Cement Group prepared based on the most recognized international standards and guidelines: In order to measure the impacts of Dangote Cement on the Nigerian economy, an advanced Input-Output model is used. The model is based on the work of Noble Prize winning economist Wassily Leontif, and it uses the latest available input-output tables for the Nigerian economy. Thanks to the model, one is able to quantify the “backwards” positive economic effect Dangote has on the Nigerian economy through its direct production and its value chain. The following impacts were captured in the analysis: In accordance with the Global Reporting Referencing to The Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA) sustainability Initiative (GRI) Standards core option, labeled by Direct Impacts the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service guidelines, IFC’s Performance standards and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Which are the effects of Dangote Cement Nigeria activities themselves. Indirect Impacts In line with Nigerian Stock Exchange In line with UN Global Compact requirements Which relate to the company’s business transactions with its suppliers. Dangote Cement Nigeria’s purchases of goods and services from local suppliers generate business for these suppliers, thus enabling them sustain and create jobs, while also generating value added and income. Additionally, indirect impacts also include the second tier of suppliers, so the suppliers of Dangote’s suppliers. These suppliers’ Corporate Governance Code production is also the result of the initial impulse from Dangote’s business activities. This creates a ripple effect in the economy. All such effects are taken into account in the model. The sustainability report comes out annually across Africa (relevant information marked within Induced Impacts covering the events and actions of each reporting the content). In 2020, Dangote plans to prepare period starting from the 1st January to the 31st the GRI report covering the whole Cement Group. December each year (2018 in this example) [GRI Which are consequences of an additional impulse created in the economy through the spending of 102-50; GRI 102-52]. Previous report (released Limited external assurance was carried Dangote Cement’s employees and the employees of their first and second tier suppliers. This impulse in April of 2018) was embedded as part of the out on some indicators in the report by comes from the increased in demand, then causes an increase in output in the economy and leads to the Group’s Annual Financial Report for 2017 [GRI 102PricewaterhouseCoopers, using the ISAE 3000 creation of additional jobs, value added, and income generation. 51]. Standards in line with non-financial reporting assurance principles. [GRI 102-45]. [GRI 102-45; GRI 102-48; GRI 102-49] This year’s The Report is structured to align with our 7 report focuses the scope of GRI indicators on the customized Sustainability Pillars, which are 4 major markets for Dangote Cement: Nigeria institutional, cultural, social, financial, economic, (Gboko, Ibese and Obajana), South Africa, Senegal operational and environmental. The 7 Pillars are and Ethiopia. Additionally, case studies on a reflection of our business impact materiality performance and key initiatives are presented also and demonstrate our commitment to embedding from other 6 Pan-African locations (Cameroon, sustainability principles across our entire value Congo, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Zambia). chain. In some cases, GRI indicators cover all 10 markets Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 156 157 Materiality Dangote’s Materiality Matrix 2018 process – Determining material topics & indicators fo the 2018 sustainability report As part of our journey to best reporting. In addition, an external and shared with a cross-section of practices in Reporting, we had benchmarking of topics reported by employees, data owners and board referenced our 2017 Sustainability manufacturers in both the cement members at Dangote Cement for Report against the Global Reporting and non-cement industries was validation. These individuals were Initiative (GRI). This year, the carried out, looking at CEMEX, asked to rate each indicator’s level of Sustainability & Governance Function LafargeHolcim, Argos, Heidelberg importance from their perspective, mapped those topics that significantly Cement, Budimex and our joint especially where influenced the assessments and venture Sephaku Cement, which is they disagreed with the proposed decisions of stakeholders regarding listed on the Johannesburg Stock placement on the matrix. Once the our economic, environmental and Exchange. This process contributed matrix was updated we presented social impact. In 2018, we have significantly towards enabling us to it for final validation and conclusion. complied with the GRI Sustainability create a meaningful and high-quality The result is shown to the right. Reporting Guidelines in determining sustainability report for Dangote materiality according to our internal Cement this year and on which we This is the first standalone stakeholders, with the aspiration to could improve in 2019. sustainability report for Dangote Our process for materiality identification followed GRI Standards methodology: fully engage all external stakeholders Cement. The Report is prepared in 2019. We are aware that public and In Accordance with the Global 1. STEP 1: IDENTIFICATION shareholder feedback is crucial within Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, Identification of relevant topics from the perspective of sustainable development within the key areas of In May 2018, we carried out a the guidelines set by the core option. Beyond GRI, our the organisation‘s impact: economic; environmental; social comprehensive employee survey GRI board and therefore must Reporting Framework is centered How we accessed it? across all of our locations which be factored into every action around the 7 Pillars of Sustainability o Review of Dangote’s 7 pillars has guided the development we take in our journey towards adopted by Dangote Cement Plc o External benchmark of topics reported by cement and non-cement industry and focus of this report. Also as GRI compliance. Although external and benchmarked against 8 national o Review of media survey GRI recommends that qualitative stakeholder engagement was not and global indicators. This year’s o Review of employee survey analysis, quantitative assessment and our aim this year, we decided that Sustainability Report focuses on 4 o GRI sector supplements (cement and non-cement) discussion be used to determine if a some form of public engagement major markets: Nigeria (Gboko, Ibese topic is material, this survey targeted should be carried out. This resulted and Obajana), South Africa, Senegal 2. STEP 2: PRIORITISATION a diverse group of employees for a in a media survey from which our and Ethiopia however also provides Involvement of key stakeholders in the process of assessing the relevance of the indicated topics representative sampling of Dangote team identified key topics frequently an insight across all our areas of from the perspective of the organisation‘s interior. We have conducted a survey fulfilled by over 1000 Cement across Africa. A total of 1,170 reported, to identify at least the operation. employees stakeholders across twelve locations direction of public interest. This participated. Through this survey, we insight was factored into the topics We will reach full GRI compliance 3. STEP 3: VALIDATION were able to identify the main topics considered as material for 2018 across the whole Dangote Cement In order to confirm the effects of prioritisation of relevant topics, we have conducted around 15 that Dangote Cement’s employees A list of prioritised indicators was Group by 2020. interviews with top management which enabled us to define key issues to be reported and constraints consider to be material for our then created on a materiality matrix occurring within key impact areas (relevant topics). Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 Dangote Cement | Sustainability Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY DEPARTMENT — Dangote Cement Plc Union Marble House 1, Alfred Rewane Road Ikoyi, Lagos P : +234 809 913 1313 +234 905 879 1441 +234 815 104 7777 M : sustainability@dangote.com W : www.dangotecement.com DANGOTE GROUP © 2018 All Rights Reserved.
