COP FRAMEWORK 1 INDHOLD About this report 4 Statement from CEO 6 REKOM at a glance 8 Our commitment to sustainability 14 Our supplier relations 16 Assessing our impacts 18 a. Human rights and labour 18 b. Environment 30 c. Anti-corruption 31 Measurement of outcomes 33 2 1.0 ABOUT THIS REPORT With this report we want to share with our stakeholders, how we have made progress on CSR Activities during the financial year 2018 and what we plan to focus on in 2019. The report constitutes REKOM GROUP A/S’ Communication on Progress (COP) report, which serves to document and communicate the way we work with the UNGC’s 10 principles, to be become a more sustainable company. The report is prepared in accordance with section §99a and §99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report presents our work with CSR in the financial year 2018, with focus on a specific venue in Denmark. 4 5 2.0 STATEMENT FROM CEO Therefore, I am pleased to confirm that REKOM Group A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, EnviSince opening our first venue in 2007, REKOM Group has grown ronment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication into the biggest bar group in Scandinavia. Our vision is to keep on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve accelerating this growth and over time become the world’s the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into largest bar group. This is a visionary plan requiring a long-term our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also perspective and that we keep raising the bar in everything we commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using do. While we strive for growth, we also take pride in acting our primary channels of communication. responsibly in all aspects touched by our business. Ambition, integrity and responsibility have been in the DNA of REKOM since we started, and those values are still the cornerstones of Sincerely yours, our business today. We want to contribute to a safe, exciting Adam Falbert and vibrant nightlife in the cities where we are present. Chief Executive Officer and Founder 2018 has been an exciting year in many ways and our work with CSR is no exception. During the year, I proudly announce, that we have chosen to be a part of two initiatives, which main purpose is to raise the bar, inspire and do even more, to run our business in a responsible and sustainable manor – UN Global Compact and REGA (Restaurateurs’ Guarantee Association). We operate in a highly fragmented industry with many independent market players and as the biggest market player in the Nordic market, REKOM has a clear mission to be a part of shaping the industry and contribute to raising standards. We want to take an active role in the work to make the world a more sustainable place, and we feel, that our commitment to Global Compact and REGA is a big step in that direction. We will continue this journey in our work with the UNGC’s Ten principles and our due diligence analysis in REGA, in the years to come and I am very excited to be a part of this journey with REKOM. 6 7 3.0 REKOM AT A GLANCE REKOM Group A/S was founded in 2007. The idea behind REREKOM is the KOM was to create a common and strong foundation for opening more bars and developing new concepts. This idea quickly largest bar group in turned out to be beneficial and since then REKOM has grown Scandinavia rapidly and is today the largest nightlife group in Scandinavia. We operate in the fragmented bar industry with many independent market players. As the biggest market player in the Nordic with 2,500 employees (the majority are part-time emMore than 2,800 ployees), REKOM has a clear mission to be part of shaping the industry and contribute to raising standards. We want to take dedicated employee an active role in relevant industry bodies and public networks and proactively engage in dialogues with authorities and political stakeholders on relevant business issues and corporate social responsibility (CSR) issues. Clear focus on During the past years, we have worked to crystalize our corprofessionalism, porate values and policies and as part of this process, we have responsibility and adopted a holistic approach to CSR, as we systematically seek integrity to prevent any negative impacts of our business conduct on human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption, while we also strive to contribute to sustainable development through strategic initiatives, incl. contribution to the sustainable development goals. This approach requires a constant +10 million guests effort to understand and integrate stakeholder expectations per year and systematically advance our activities for the benefit of the business, our stakeholders and society. We will continue this journey in the years to come, delivering on our vision. More than 20 years of experience from the industry 8 9 REGA REKOM’s due diligence process has to this date focused on bar operations in Denmark. As part of REKOM’s commitment to In 2018 REKOM chose to be a part of REGA (Restaurateurs’ CSR, REKOM will continuously work to ensure alignment of all Guarantee Association), which is the world’s first industry-wide company guidelines and activities with the policy commitment initiative that works specifically with Corporate Social Respon(see below: our commitment to sustainability). During the next sibility (launched in 2018). REGA’s ambition is to create a solid three years, REKOM will expand its due diligence to both Norfoundation for a leap forward in the whole industry’s work with way and Finland. CSR and by joining the initiative we wish to inspire our employees and others in our industry to create a more sustainable way of doing business. As a member of REGA, REKOM is committed to prevent negative impacts on all three bottom lines while also engaging UN GLOBAL COMPACT in activities contributing to sustainable development. REKOM In 2018 we proudly announced that we joined The will continuously conduct its due diligence in alignment with UN Global Compact because we believe it is crucial the global minimum standards for responsible business conto support and take part in such an exciting and necduct; the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights essary global corporate sustainability initiative. Beand the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises, ensurcoming a signatory is an important step in further ing social, environmental and economic due diligence. Furaligning REKOM’s CSR approach with international thermore, REKOM will continuously engage in REGA activities standards and expectations. By signing up, we comin support of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. While mit to implementing the 10 principles of the UN GlobREKOM has integrated sustainability measures throughout the al Compact within human rights, labour, environment company for several years, we have in 2018 with REGA taken a and anti-corruption and as a part of joining UN Globstep further towards meeting our goal of running a sustainable al Compact, REKOM has committed to annually combusiness. municate on progress (COP), as we do in this report. As part of our due diligence process, we have, based on a location in Copenhagen, Denmark, identified potential adverse impacts on social, environmental and economic sustainability as well as actions to prevent and mitigate such impacts. Furthermore, we have identified indicators to measure our progress and the effects of our preventative actions. In 2019-2020, we will assess our effectiveness against these indicators. 10 11 MISSION We are Quality-conscious We are Responsible REKOM as an organization is based on the passion of want• We are aware that only • We take responsibility ing to create unique experiences for people who go out. What the best is good enough for our businesses, our drives us is the ambition to develop and operate bar and club • We know and preserve community, and our concepts that make the nightlife more exciting. We wish to our concepts employees have happy, motivated, service-minded and skilled employees • We give the guests more • We always lead the way and managers who are able to give our guests the positive exthan they expect and show the expected perience that keeps them coming back. We are profit-orient• Our service must be responsibility ed and at the same time, we take pride in doing business in a noticeable • Our employees must proper and respectable way. know the importance We are Ambitious of taking action even • We set the bar higher when it is not expected VISION In REKOM we are ambitious. We always strive to improve and • We are innovative We are Reliable grow. Our vision is to be the innovative market leader of the • We have a winning • We keep our promises nightlife in Northern Europe. As an organization, we follow mentality • We want our guests strategic plans for growth and we continuously seize any op• We are untiring to experience that we portunities that may arise for us to grow. practice what we preach We create Happiness when they visit our VALUES • In REKOM, we focus venues on creating happy and Because we have a lot of employees and because we constant• We want to be known committed employees ly grow in numbers, it is important that we are consistent in the in our industry as the way we conduct our work and that we have a shared under• We want our employees ones that can always be standing of both how we treat each other and how we treat to feel joy in achieving counted on our guests, suppliers, stakeholders and the environment. This success requires us to work on the basis of the same values no mat• We want everyone to ter which venue or country. We have five values that unite us feel that he or she is across the organization. valued In 2018-2019 we have used a lot of time working with the mindset and values in REKOM and during 2019 we will roll out a whole new manifest throughout the Group, to create a more meaningful workplace for our employees, that supports our vision, mission and values. 12 13 4.0 OUR COMMITMENT TO We need to diligently manage the impacts, that our neighbors will experience in particular in regard to noise from our venSUSTAINABILITY ues and guests. We also depend on good relations with the REKOM establishes and runs multiple bars, bodegas and nightauthorities, but we will never engage in corrupt practices to clubs in Scandinavia. We provide venues and opportunities for enable such relationship. our guests to fully enjoy their time for rest, leisure and holidays. In addition, we form an integral part of cultural life in WHAT WE EXPECT FROM OTHERS Scandinavia. We will continue to develop innovative solutions We expect our employees to act in compliance with this comfor our guests to enjoy their right to leisure and take part in mitment. Employees shall act to prevent or mitigate and raise cultural life. concerns with their management, if they identify potential or actual adverse impacts involving our services or our business HOW WE DELIVER relationships. As basis, we comply with national regulations, wherever we operate. With our considerable size in the industry we are also We will also seek to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts, that fully aware of our responsibilities to sustainable social, envimay be directly linked to our operations or services by our ronmental and economic development. We will continuously business relationships by raising the expectation, that they identify, prevent or mitigate our potential adverse impacts that commit and act to avoid causing or contributing to adverse we may cause or contribute to on internationally agreed prinimpacts on human rights, the environment and anti-corrupciples for sustainable development; human rights, including tion; and that they address such adverse impacts, when they labor rights, the environment and the economy. When actual arise. Should un-attended adverse impacts occur in our value impacts occur, we will provide for access to remedy. We make chain, we will use or build our leverage to make the business in our commitment to the principles referenced in UN Global question cease the impacts and demonstrate respect for huCompact operational by applying the global standard from the man rights, environmental and anti-corruption principles. UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (OECD); EMBEDDING THE COMMITMENT IN ALL WE DO and we will account for our actions. Our commitment is publicly available and we will continuously communicate it internally and externally. Every three years we SOME KEY CONCERNS will revisit the commitment and ensure that it is continuously Our industry faces some particular risks for adverse impacts, embedded in all our policies and processes. where we intend to display extra due diligence. Consuming alcohol leads to adverse impacts on the right health; we promote responsible drinking. Discrimination, harassment and impacts on personal integrity will occur at our venues; we promote respectful interactions and safe environments. Creating such atmosphere and serving our guests, also during nighttime, require us to constantly be on top of our employees’ well-being. 14 15 5.0 OUR SUPPLIER RELATIONS v As mentioned in our commitment to sustainability, we will seek to prevent and mitigate adverse impacts, that may be directly linked to our operations or services conducted by our business relationships. In 2019 we will compile a Code of Conduct for our Business Relationships (CoCBR) that serves the purpose of ensuring that our suppliers demonstrate responsible business conduct in relation to managing risks of actual and potential adverse impacts in relation to internationally agreed principles on human rights (including labour rights), the environment and anti-corruption, as we do ourselves. 16 17 6.0 ASSESSING OUR IMPACTS THE RIGHT TO SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKING CONDITIONS Ensuring the safety and security of our employees is one of In 2018 we began assessing REKOMs risks by identifying pothe greatest responsibilities we have. We work in an industry tential adverse impacts on social, environmental and economic where the working hours mainly are at nighttime and it can sustainability on a location based in Copenhagen. Afterwards sometimes be hectic and tough work. Therefore, we have eswe identified actions to prevent and mitigate such impacts. tablished a wide range of solid procedures, as well as continuWe identified 29 CSR risks that fall within the four statutory ous focus from management, employees and security personcategories: Human Rights, Society and Employees, Environnel, to reinforce that safety and good working conditions, is ment and Anti-corruption. always our top priority. A. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR In our human rights impact assessment we have identified 18 areas which REKOM Group might have adverse impacts on. In order to prioritize our efforts, we have conducted a risk analysis based on our findings in our human rights impact assessment. Based on this risk analyses, we have chosen to prioritize our efforts in 2019-2020 to focus on the following human rights: • The right to safe and healthy working conditions • The right to health • The right to work • The right to non-discrimination 18 19 REKOM acknowledge that we may have adverse impacts on THE RIGHT TO HEALTH the rights to safe and healthy working conditions. To secure REKOM acknowledge that we may have adverse impacts on safety for our employees, all of REKOM’s venues have an emerthe right to health. It is essential for REKOM to ensure a safe gency and evacuation plan in place as well as fire extinguishand secure environment for our guests to go out and have fun. ing equipment. The evacuation plan is required by law and is Our guests feel secure coming to our bars and clubs due to a part of our emergency procedure, that is well known to the high level of diligence and safety, and it is one of the reasons staff. The fundamental elements of the procedure are visible why they come back. at key locations at all our venues and are also covered by the Manager handbook. Staff are regularly trained in the evacuation plan in order to know and understand responsibilities in SAFETY AND SECURITY case of an emergency, and a step-by-step guideline is placed REKOM has a strong partner in our professional security perat all positions in case of emergencies. Managers also follow an sonnel, which we know are crucial to the safety at our bars, evacuation plan checklist as part of the preparation for every clubs and cocktail bars. Not only by checking ID and avoiding opening night. overcrowded venues, but also through diligence, proper training and strong service skills, they are part of ensuring the opREKOM has during 2018 carried out an annual workplace astimal experience for our guests. All our security providers are sessment of all venues, annual employee appraisals and enlicensed and trained in multiple disciplines in addition to core couraged internal promotion and career development. security services, communication, first aid and handling situIn 2018, REKOM also introduced an investment program and ations where drugs and alcohol can be involved. Our security had a satisfactory employee turnover rate. We have also during personnel also undergo further training in how to de-escalate 2018 rolled out REKOM Academy to all employees across the conflicts and handle threatening individuals through dialogue. Group to ensure that all our employees have not only the needOur policy is that all guests must contribute positively to the ed skills, but also know about and comply with the relevant venue atmosphere, which is why threatening or rowdy guests policies and values in their daily work. are handled professionally and are ultimately asked to leave. Together with regular feedback from our in-house security To give our employees the best conditions for a safe and consultant, REKOM has a proactive and regular dialogue with healthy working place, we will, in collaboration with REGA, do the police on specific security risks and trends in the street a yearly employee impact survey, which works as a “employee scene. Digital cameras are placed in strategic positions at all feedback system”. This ensures that our employees have the our bars and clubs for the safety of our guests and staff. Video possibility to give feedback and express their concerns and/or can be used to clarify any unlawful conduct and is provided to experiences relating to the right to safe and healthy working the police on request. conditions, and it gives REKOM insight in what we need to improve in order to care for our employees 20 21 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING We take a professional and respectful approach to guests who should not be served anymore alcohol. Our standard proceREKOM’S STAND ON dure is to offer the guest water to freshen up. Our bartenders RESPONSIBLE DRINKING are trained to recognize signs of intoxication and to act on ear• Alcohol is served by professionals in a ly warning signs. Staff will be ready to arrange for safe transresponsible way. portation home for intoxicated or otherwise vulnerable guests. • No alcohol is served to young people below Security personnel at the door also make sure that guests are the legal drinking age. able to navigate safely home when they leave. • Guests who should not be served anymore REKOM has a zero tolerance policy for the sale of alcohol to alcohol are treated professionally and with young people below the legal drinking age. Security personnel respect. verify guest ID at the entry, and bartenders check ID at the • We create unique nightlife experiences – bar when necessary. While it is legal to offer special events for serving alcohol is just one component. young people from the age of 16, we have made the choice not • We expect all employees to act as responsible to engage in this segment. We only allow adults older than 18 ambassadors for the company when they are years into our bars, clubs and cocktail bars. at work, at home or going out. • We do not offer special events and private parties for young people under the age of 18. • All marketing material is marked with responsible drinking statements and legal drinking age. 22 23 DRUGS THE RIGHT TO WORK REKOM does not tolerate any kind of drugs at our bars, clubs REKOM acknowledge that we may have adverse impacts on and cocktail bars. Using drugs is illegal and incompatible with the right to work, which among others includes the right to the nightlife experience that REKOM stands for. Individuals a contract, as well as the adequate training to do your job as suspected to be under the influence of drugs are denied acan employee. Most of REKOM’s employees are young people cess to our venues, and guests who are caught doing drugs are working part time and are often taking their first steps onto quarantined and reported to the police. the career ladder. We commit to provide decent and flexible working conditions for our employees, just as good employSecurity personnel and operational staff are regularly trained ment terms and benefits strengthen retention and general emin spotting individuals under the influence of drugs. All staff ployee wellbeing. are expected to be aware of warning signs and to report potential incidents to the security personnel. REKOM’s drug polTherefore, we have implemented different procedures to enicy and procedure are formalized in the employee handbook sure that, that is in fact what we do. We have implemented a and covered regularly at staff meetings at each venue. system through our employee portal, with different levels of alarms that makes sure, that no employees can work until they have a signed contract. We also know that training and employee development are integral to ensuring high employee motivation and retention. To this end, we provide solid job introduction to new colleagues, on-the-job coaching and regular internal training courses, e.g. within service excellence, sales and various job-specific skills. Additionally, we are currently developing REKOM university, a programme offered to top 24 25 talents from our organisation providing the opportunity to be THE RIGHT TO NON-DISCRIMINATION part of our 1-year management trainee programme, aiming to In terms of discrimination, we acknowledge that REKOM may fast-track talents onto a professional career path with us. have adverse impacts on the right to non-discrimination both in terms of our guests and employees. REKOM wants to enIn 2017 we introduced REKOM Academy a dedicated employsure that the nightlife and our bars, clubs and cocktail bars are ee training platform, covering preand onboarding of new emopen to anyone who wants to contribute in a positive way. We ployees, e-learning courses and international classroom trainhave adopted two charters serving as our policies preventing ing. As a part of the onboarding process, all new employees discrimination at our bars and clubs: are required to complete the courses at the Academy platform before having their first shift, just as all other employees are ex1. Diversity Charter developed by the industry association pected to take part in ongoing training and skill development. for Denmark’s restaurants and cafés (DRC) aligned The aim of the Academy is to provide efficient and high-qualiwith the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human ty training to our employees and in doing this, making sure all Rights. employees are and feels properly prepared for working in our 2. Charter for a fair nightlife without discrimination company. We also believe that it will align skills and help build developed by the industry association HORESTA, a consistent approach across the group. In 2018 we rolled out DRC (Danish Restaurants and Cafes) and the City of REKOM Academy in the whole group, including Finland and Copenhagen. Norway. By adopting these charters, we commit to ensuring equal We know, that different people, have different ways of learntreatment of guests and to implementing the necessary meaing, and because of this, we are planning to roll out REKOM sures to prevent discriminatory behavior. The charters specify Campus in 2019, which is a practical supplement to our online the human rights dilemmas in play and provide guidelines and training platform. REKOM Campus consists of basic learning/ actionable measures for tackling these. training material, where new employees get to try out the difAs part of this, we clearly display our rules for entry, which apferent workflows and basic skills in their position within the ply to everyone irrespective of nationality, ethnicity, skin color, first month of their employment at a REKOM venue. Furthersexual orientation or belief. Furthermore, we instruct staff and more, we plan on offering different advanced courses for all security personnel in the company’s diversity policy and regemployees, which includes service courses, advanced cocktail ularly follow up on enforcement. Moreover, we engage in diacourses and much more. logue with individuals on the legitimate reasons for rejections, whenever necessary. Therefore we have secured adequate training in anti-discrimination for all employees, with guidelines and charters concerning anti-discrimination. We have also secured adequate training in conflict management for all employees. Furthermore we have a visible customer complaint system through the App 26 27 “stamped” (“Stemplet” a collaboration between Copenhagen board member in 2019. municipality, HORESTA, DRC, REKOM and others in the night life industry). We also make sure our security personnel have the adequate training in anti-discrimination, which is obligatory for them as well. DIVERSITY Regarding discrimination in terms of gender composition, REKOM recognizes the importance of attracting, developing and retaining the right talent of all genders, which are chosen solely because of their professional qualifications. We are aware that diversity among employees is a strength, and that gender composition, and an equal gender balance, not only enhances our international work environment and job satisfaction, but also helps us get more perspectives into our business processes and give our customers a much better experience in our bars. To reach our goals and to prevent adverse impacts, REKOM makes sure that all gender specific language is eliminated from all job descriptions. Furthermore we annually report on representation in the board of directors and top management as of 2018. We also continuously seek to uphold the equal representation of men and woman in our bars and use statistics on representation of men and women amongst management staff in order to improve the representation in cases of underrepresentation, and to motivate and encourage underrepresented gender to seek career moves in the company. BOARD OF DIRECTORS REKOM did not set targets for the underrepresented gender in 2018, but following CataCaps acquisition of REKOM in May a new Board of Directors was established. The Board currently consists of men only, however we are in the process of finding female candidates for the Board. We have set targets for women on the Board, so that we will have minimum one female 28 29 MANAGEMENT The environmental areas that REKOM may have severe adverse For other management levels, REKOM seeks to increase both impacts on are mainly areas which we are linked to through the number and the proportion of women. In 2018, we sucour suppliers. Therefore we are planning to establish a code ceeded in increasing the number of our female middle managof conduct to all our suppliers in 2019, where we of our supers, so we have approx. 30% female middle managers. REKOM pliers require to conduct and submit regular impact assessis constantly working to improve and secure the right condiments on social, environmental and economic sustainability. tions for both sexes to utilize their competencies and achieve This, amongst other, makes sure, that our beverage suppliers, management responsibility. which is some of our biggest business partners, accounts for specific adverse impacts in relation to use of water and waste In 2019, REKOM will continue focusing on attracting and hiring which we know is a challenge for that industry. employees of both genders on an equal basis. And REKOM Through REGA, we attend initiatives and workshops, which also aims to increase awareness about career opportunities for seeks to debate and develop sustainable solutions for cleaning all employees with a particular focus on the underrepresented materials, waste, package solutions amongst other. gender, and to encourage female candidates to pursue their career goals in the Group. As a result of the relatively limited impact on climate and the well-regulated market, REKOM does not have any formal environmental policy in place. REKOM is environmentally aware B. ENVIRONMENT and works to reduce the environmental and climate impact of In our environmental impact assessment we have identified 4 business operations. In 2019-2020, the Group intends to conareas which REKOM Group might have adverse impacts on. In duct a comprehensive environmental and climate impact asorder to prioritize our efforts, we have conducted a risk analysessment of business operations to provide a better undersis based on our findings in our environmental impact assessstanding of organizational challenges and opportunities which ment. Based on our risk analyses, we have chosen to prioriwill result in the development of an environmental policy. tize our efforts in 2019-2020 to focus on the following human rights: C. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Water consumption In our impact assessment on anti-corruption we have identified 7 areas of risk. In order to prioritize our efforts, we have • Use of chemicals conducted a risk analysis based on our findings in our impacts • Waste management assessment on anti-corruption. Based on the risk analysis. We • Noise emissions have chosen to prioritize our efforts in 2019-2020 to focus on the following areas of risk: We have analyzed each of these and come to the conclusion that our potential severe negative impacts is limited and mainly • Inaccurate books and records stems from energy and water consumptions at our bars, clubs • Bribery of any sort and cocktail bars, as well as waste management. 30 31 7.0 In terms of inaccurate books and records, we acknowledge MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES that REKOM may have adverse impacts regarding this area. By conducting business in a responsible way, we limit risks of After finishing our first impact assessment and prioritizing our corruption and build trust with our stakeholders. Employees in efforts on Human Rights and Labour, Environment and Anthe nightlife industry handle both large amount of cash payti-corruption, we have chosen specific indicators, to measure ments and products. With day-to-day handling of cash and the effectiveness of our actions. These indicators specifically products, there is a risk of wastage and loss. To minimize these address actions to prevent negative impacts, and as part of risks, REKOM has introduced a range of solid compliance and our due diligence and our continuous reporting on our CSR efcontrol measures to ensure that the handling of money is done forts we will communicate on our effectiveness once we have in a responsible way. This includes creating a policy in our emcompleted our first measurement. ployee handbook, that states that REKOM has a zero-tolerance Impact survey policy towards any use of black money and moonlighting. FurIn collaboration with REGA, we will do a yearly employee imthermore, we have implemented digital payment solutions and pact survey, which works as a “employee feedback system”, cashiers at all positions at all our venues, which provide an which ensures that our employees have the possibility to give oversight of all transactions, as well as reduces the volume of feedback and express their concerns and/or experiences, cash payments and thereby the risk of loss. This initiative also which relate to Human Rights and Labour, Environment and allows financial tracking so managers can monitor deviations Anti-corruption. Through the survey we can measure incidents from performance indicators and take actions on early warnand it can help us become aware of concerns regarding the ings. Venue surveillance and cash register checks have a predifferent areas and what we need to improve. ventive effect and provide oversight. In case of variations in performance indicators, use of mystery shoppers helps spot STEMPLET check compliance with procedures. We have a visible customer complaint system through the App “stamped” (“Stemplet” a collaboration between Copenhagen In terms of bribery of any sort we acknowledge that REKOM municipality, HORESTA, DRC, REKOM and others in the night may have adverse impacts on risks regarding corruption. To life industry). The complaint system can help measure the minimize these risks, REKOM will during the years 2019-2020 number of complaints from our guests and handle them in a develop explicit guidelines to improve transparency and preresponsible manor, which follows the guidelines in UNGC. dictability concerning acceptance of gifts and procedure for approval. Furthermore REKOM plans to develop a gift log, We will keep evolving our measurement of outcomes and add which will show even more transparency. new ones, as we progress in our work with sustainability and the UN Global Compact. 32 33 34
