Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit Group We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 1 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 2 Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Contents We believe in people and Nykredit – a Nykredit’s businesses all lender to corporate over Denmark people and responsibility Page 16 businesses all Responsible over Denmark Page 11 business conduct Page 6 We will actively support sustainable development Page 37 Page 25 Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive 5 Equal pay and women in management: Not there yet 46 Nykredit – a lender to people and businesses all over Denmark 6 New targets for energy, climate and environment 51 Nykredit’s corporate responsibility 11 Organisation and governance 55 We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark 16 Key figures for corporate responsibility 57 We will actively support sustainable development 25 GRI reporting 67 Investments that make a difference 30 Responsible business conduct 37 Ramping up the fight against financial crime 39 Data security: We protect data 40 Skills for the future 44 3 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 This report forms the Nykredit Group’s: 1. Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact, which we signed in 2008. 2. Report on corporate responsibility, see section 135 of the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Firms, etc. 3. Report on the gender composition of management, see section 135a of the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Firms, etc. The report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, and Nykredit’s GRI Index is included at the end of the report. 4 Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive Dear reader customers today enjoy the lowest administration margin like exist in our organisation that we are unable to explain payments in four years and the lowest administration or defend. This is not a task with a clear beginning and a For the entire Danish financial sector, 2018 served as a margin payments in the market on the most popular loan clear ending, but rather a corporate culture that we must reminder of the importance of operating a responsible types. support and follow up on through a structured approach. and resilient business that adds value to society. Naturally, this also holds true for a modern customerWe actively support sustainable development Assuming corporate responsibility is a task that develops owned company like Nykredit. The second main theme is about our contribution to with the changing challenges faced by society, and a sustainability. Climate changes pose a challenge that premise shared by all businesses. Nykredit’s corporate This report gives a detailed account of our corporate calls for action and collaboration between citizens, responsibility is particularly embedded in our mission to responsibility performance in 2018. Here, three main businesses and politicians. The transition is most provide affordable, secure loans across the country. This themes will characterise Nykredit’s future work in the effective if everyone concentrates their efforts on the is a mission that extends across centuries and area. Naturally embedded in our core business, the first areas in which they can make the largest positive impact. generations. Because we believe in people and two main themes are about mutual value creation Nykredit must be a qualified partner to homeowners and businesses all over Denmark. between customers, the communities and Nykredit, and businesses wishing to contribute to sustainable the third main theme is about Nykredit’s business development. Therefore, in 2018, we laid down a number integrity and the avoidance of negative impacts on of ambitions aimed at strengthening our contribution to society. the green transition and promoting sustainable lending and investments. We will continue to engage in We believe in people and businesses all over responsible and sustainable investments, and, in 2018, Denmark we obtained the Nordic Swan Ecolabel as the first The first main theme builds on an ambition to contribute investment fund under Danish management. to a coherent Danish society and a stable Danish economy. As the largest lender in Denmark, we are Responsible business conduct particularly committed to ensuring that our lending Our adherence to responsible business conduct makes activities benefit society as a whole. And therefore, up the third main theme of our corporate responsibility Nykredit’s overarching objective is to offer affordable and commitment. The world must always have confidence in secure loans in urban and rural districts alike – at all Nykredit, and I am strongly committed to building an times. In meeting this aim, we strive to contribute to the organisation where everyone at all levels is able to development in all parts of Denmark – something that lies navigate responsibly and is ready to openly discuss and at the core of our corporate responsibility. And that is one act on dilemmas when and as the need arises. In 2018 of the reasons why I am very pleased that last year, our we expanded the Group’s risk management efforts to subsidiary Totalkredit grew its lending in 96 out of 98 include the task of regularly addressing whether any Michael Rasmussen Danish municipalities. I am also very pleased that our conduct, propositions, products, advisory services or the Group Chief Executive KundeKroner discount scheme means that our personal Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive 5 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit – a lender to people and businesses all over Denmark Nykredit is the largest lender in Denmark, the largest In the following pages, you can read more about the core lender to homeowners and one of the largest lenders to elements of our business and the foundation of our small and medium-sized businesses, the agricultural corporate responsibility: our business model, our core sector and the housing sector. values, our strategy, and what it means to us to be owned by an association. Predominantly owned by an association, Forenet Kredit, which represents our customers, Nykredit is a unique entity in the Danish financial landscape. As such, we have a special responsibility for operating our business in ways that create value to our customers and to society. The investor consortium consists of PFA Pension (10.03%), PensionDanmark (2.40%), PKA (2.40%), AP Pension (1.63%) and MP Pension (0.44%). Please refer to the latest Financial Statements of Nykredit Realkredit A/S for a full Group chart. 6 Nykredit – a lender to people and businesses all over Denmark Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit was founded by the customers and is large cities together with our 55 Totalkredit partners in Business customers with a Nykredit mortgage loan predominantly owned by the customers. This has a 2018, and we recorded lending growth in 96 of the 98 receive a similar discount (ErhvervsKroner). The significant bearing on our approach to conducting municipalities in Denmark. ErhvervsKroner discount is awarded for every million financial business. The fact that we are owned by the Danish kroner borrowed up to DKK 20 million. Naturally, customers is particularly seen in two areas: We share our progress as commercial property prices are highest in the capital Forenet Kredit wants the dividend it receives from the region, more customers in this region reach the limit of We have a nation-wide presence Nykredit Group to benefit our customers. The association DKK 20 million. The implication of this is that more We have made a pledge to be active and support growth has therefore decided to make a contribution to the discounts are awarded to business customers outside the in all of Denmark. At all times. The Nykredit Group’s Group, which Nykredit and Totalkredit may pass on to capital region. capacity to provide loans to homeowners and businesses their customers. all over Denmark across economic cycles lies at the core Last, but not least, in 2018 we launched a new benefits of our corporate responsibility. As a result, all customers with a Totalkredit mortgage programme, MineMål, also brought about thanks to loan are awarded a unique discount (KundeKroner). Forenet Kredit’s contribution to the Nykredit Group. Maintaining active lending in all of Denmark is a matter of Thanks to these discounts, customers who had a priority for Nykredit, and together with our Totalkredit Totalkredit loan at the end of 2018 enjoy the lowest partners, we provide 40% of all home loans. Nykredit administration margin payments in the market on the loan provided 64% of all new home loans in areas outside the types most popular among Danish homeowners. Totalkredit customers also enjoyed the lowest average administration margin payments in four years. About Forenet Kredit Forenet Kredit is the association behind Our customers’ administration margin payments are decreasing Nykredit and Totalkredit. The association promotes stable home loans for homeowners all over Denmark – now and in future – and has identified five key priorities: 1. The world’s best home loans 2. Mortgage lending – also in times of crisis 3. Loans to our children and grandchildren 4. Fair loans to all of Denmark 5. We share the profits. Read more about Forenet Kredit at Forenetkredit.dk The KundeKroner benefits programme has reduced the borrowing costs for Totalkredit customers. Today Totalkredit customers make average monthly administration margin payments of DKK 642 for each DKK 1 million borrowed. At the beginning of 2015, this amount was DKK 692. Nykredit – a lender to people and businesses all over Denmark 7 How we shared Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 our progress in 2018 KundeKroner All our personal customers with a Totalkredit mortgage loan are awarded discounts. In 2018 and 2019 our Customer ownership means more customers receive annual discounts of DKK 1,500 for every million Danish kroner borrowed. value to more people. In 2018 Totalkredit awarded KundeKroner discounts of DKK 956 million. DKK 2 billion returned to ErhvervsKroner homeowners in 2018 and 2019. All our business customers with a Nykredit mortgage loan are awarded discounts. Until 2019 our business customers will receive annual discounts of DKK 1,500 for every million Danish kroner borrowed. Business customers with loans exceeding DKK 20 million will receive discounts on the first DKK 20 million. Nykredit awarded discounts to its business customers the first time in Q3/2018 and awarded a total of DKK 143 million in 2018. MineMål benefits programme In 2018 Nykredit launched the homeowner benefits programme MineMål. All customers covered by the programme received a welcome discount of DKK 1,000 and a cash contribution of DKK 250 paid into their MineMål account in 2018. Once every three months – so far throughout 2019 – DKK 250 will be paid into the customers’ MineMål accounts. We are currently developing the benefits programme together with our customers. 8 Nykredit – a lender to people and businesses all over Denmark Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit – a lender to people and businesses all over Denmark 9 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our core values are our foundation Our strategy sets the course Our strategic focus on homeowners and the Totalkredit Nykredit’s core value statement, The Story of Nykredit: Our Group strategy – Winning the Double – sets the partnership also guides the way we prioritise our Nykredit in Denmark, describes the Group’s historical course for our business development and aims to ensure corporate responsibility efforts. foundation, which was laid more than 160 years ago, and a more customer-centric, profitable and efficient Nykredit. defines our ambition, which reaches many decades We want to make a difference to our personal and ahead: We want to be homeowners’ first choice and a business customers and strengthen our collaboration pillar of strength in the Danish economy. Throughout with the Totalkredit partner banks in support of their Denmark – at all times. endeavours to make a difference to their customers. We have therefore made six pledges to the communities, our customers, our Totalkredit partners, our staff, our owners and our bond investors. We have made six specific and long-term pledges to our customers, business partners, the communities, staff, owners and bond investors: Pledge to our customers Pledge to our staff We will help our customers stay on top of their finances and will provide We will prioritise development and opportunities for engaged and skilled them with opportunities and security. We want to share their dreams and people. We want to be known for our trusting culture guided by customer worries and help them find the right solutions. focus, team spirit and empowerment. Pledge to our business partners Pledge to our shareholders In collaboration with our Totalkredit partners, we want to make a As one of Denmark’s largest financial institutions, we will strive to difference to our customers by offering attractive products and effective maintain a strong and stable share, delivering attractive risk-adjusted solutions. We will actively develop the partnership to strengthen our returns and dividends. combined competitiveness. Pledge to communities Pledge to our bond investors We will be active in all of Denmark and support growth – in urban and As one of Europe’s largest bond issuers, we will provide a stable and rural districts alike. At all times. secure investment opportunity for domestic and foreign bond investors. 10 Nykredit – a lender to people and businesses all over Denmark Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit’s corporate responsibility As one of Denmark’s largest financial undertakings, Nykredit’s Group Executive Board makes up our Nykredit is committed to actively supporting long-term, Corporate Responsibility Committee. The Group Risks stable and sustainable development of society. With this Executive Board defines the priorities and goals that lie Nykredit’s business activities entail certain comes a responsibility to address the risk of any negative behind corporate responsibility initiatives, business risks that have an impact on society as well as impact on society resulting from our business activities. procedures, products and processes. on our business. The framework of our corporate responsibility work is Materiality analysis Societal risks include the risk that our activities described in Nykredit’s corporate responsibility policy (in In 2018 our corporate responsibility work pivoted around have a negative impact on communities, Danish only). The policy covers the entire Group. It is defining our key priorities and efforts. To provide a people, the environment and the climate. One updated annually and approved by the Board of foundation for decision-making, we have – on the basis example could be investments in companies Directors. of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) – conducted a that fail to fully meet human rights standards. materiality analysis with focus on: These societal risks and our societal risk management are described in more detail in  Society’s goals. The UN’s 17 Sustainable the individual sections of this report. Development Goals, the Paris Agreement and the EU’s and Denmark’s goals have provided the Business risks include credit, market, liquidity yardsticks for determining the main challenges that we and operational risks. If we fail to properly can help overcome. manage our business risks, it may have ”We are committed to minimising Nykredit’s core business. We have identified areas consequences for society. Credit risk, for any negative impacts of our  example, includes the risk of losses on the where, by way of our business activities, we can make business and to contributing loans we provide to personal and business the largest positive difference, and areas where we positively to society by creating customers. If we suffer very significant losses, run the largest risk of exerting a negative impact. maximum shared value for our they may have a negative bearing on our owners, our customers and society  Customer and stakeholder expectations. We have performance and resilience and inhibit our conducted analyses of our customers’ and our as a whole. We expect all members ability to offer loans to people and businesses stakeholders’ expectations of Nykredit’s corporate all over Denmark. of staff to carry this commitment responsibility. with them every single day.”  The role of the financial sector. The materiality This is why our risk management focuses on analysis took as its basis the special role of the financial solutions that are viable for Nykredit Nykredit’s Corporate Responsibility Policy financial sector in the context of economic cohesion and for society in the short and long term. and sustainable development of society and in the Business risks and our handling of these risks fight against financial crime. are described in more detail in our Risk and Capital Management Report Nykredit’s corporate responsibility 11 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 The Sustainable Development Goals as Five prioritised SDGs Integration to be continued in 2019 our guide Using the analysis as our basis, we have picked the five The UN has developed the SDGs as a political tool. Being a customer-owned financial institution, Nykredit is SDGs most central to Nykredit’s work. In Denmark, Being a financial undertaking, Nykredit needs to translate naturally inclined to assist in achieving the UN’s 17 Nykredit can be a vital contributor in promoting economic the Global Goals, targets and indicators into a financial Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the growth and stability, in line with SDG No 8. We help context. We will continue this process in 2019, and in the world’s leaders in 2015. The SDGs offer a common achieve SDG No 11 via funding for development of next year, we will re-evaluate the way we prioritise the language for addressing the main global challenges and sustainable cities and local communities. We can SDGs, develop better indicators and calibrate measures how we overcome these challenges together. contribute to resolving the climate and energy challenges across the organisation to bring them in line with the addressed in SDGs Nos 7 and 13 – through our SDGs. In 2018 we integrated the SDGs into our strategic operations and our business. Nykredit is a systemically corporate responsibility efforts 1. We have analysed the important financial institution (SIFI), and our efforts in connection between Nykredit’s business and the 17 countering financial crime therefore play a vital role in SDGs and the risk of exerting a negative impact. Each of achieving SDG No 16. the 17 SDGs has been analysed based on an assessment of the impact on the overall goal as well as Through investments – on behalf of ourselves and of our on their related targets and indicators. In the summary at customers – we can influence developments globally and the end of each section of the report, we define the SDGs in a wide range of areas. This is why we have focus on and targets that Nykredit is particularly contributing to all SDGs when we invest. In 2018 we initiated a process through its work. of integrating the SDGs into our investment activities. 1 The SDG Compass – a tool developed by the UN Global Compact, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the GRI – has set the framework for our work with the SDGs in 2018. 12 Nykredit’s corporate responsibility Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 New corporate responsibility priorities We have, based on our materiality analysis, framed three main themes for our corporate responsibility efforts. The themes are closely linked to our key business activities:  We will support growth in all of Denmark – at all times.  We will support sustainable development.  Responsible business practices. The main themes of Growth in all of Denmark and Sustainable development are being implemented through a string of prioritised efforts aimed at contributing to resolving main societal challenges while creating value for our customers and opportunities for our business. The main theme of Responsible business practices embraces key areas where we are responsible for taking action and areas where we risk having a negative impact on society. The main themes, which are illustrated overleaf, guide our corporate responsibility efforts and are core elements of Nykredit’s overall strategic development. Nykredit’s corporate responsibility 13 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 14 Nykredit’s corporate responsibility Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 As market leader in its field, Nykredit has a special responsibility to be present coast to coast. Forenet Kredit’s key priority is for Nykredit and Totalkredit to offer fair loans to people and businesses all over Denmark – giving people in Denmark an opportunity to own their own homes and Danish businesses the means to finance development.” Nina Smith, Chairman of Forenet Kredit Nykredit’s corporate responsibility 15 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark Nykredit has a special task. We want to be active in all of out of 98 municipalities in 2018, which means that Denmark and support growth – in urban and rural lending grew in almost all areas of Denmark. districts alike. At all times. This is a pledge that places We are continually launching Group-wide initiatives demands on the Group’s profitability, capital resources aimed to support home ownership and growth throughout and lending practices in the area of banking as well as in Denmark. The Totalkredit partnership was strengthened the area of mortgage lending. in 2018 with the introduction of a shared property valuation set-up. The set-up is locally integrated across The Totalkredit partnership with 55 Danish banks allows Denmark and is available to all banks in the partnership. banks, small or large, to offer their customers affordable This way we ensure that all our partner banks can call on and secure mortgage loans. Nykredit, together with its 55 the best experts when providing property valuation and Totalkredit partners, experienced lending growth in 96 advisory services to their customers. Lending growth throughout Denmark Main risks The risk of losses on the loans we provide to personal and business customers, for example, is also one of Nykredit’s main societal risks. If we suffer significant total losses, they could have a negative bearing on our performance and resilience, limiting the Group’s capacity to offer loans to people and businesses all over Denmark – also in times of economic fluctuation. We also risk becoming too prudent in the sense that we put unnecessary restrictions on lending. Therefore, striking the right balance between active lending and solid capital and credit policies is a central Loans all across the country. Nykredit, together with its 55 Totalkredit partners, aspect of our corporate commitment. increased its lending to Danish homeowners in 96 out of 98 municipalities in 2018. 16 We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark Lending Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 at all times Lending at all times which began in 2008, Nykredit issued new loans in all Nykredit’s overall risk appetite A professional credit assessment of all customers is parts of Denmark. We had the capacity necessary to We aim to maintain active lending to the Group’s full-service essential to our efforts to provide loans to people and support the Danish economy. And we want to retain that customers and Totalkredit customers, also in a challenging businesses all over Denmark. And for several reasons. capacity if another crisis strikes. To this end, we are economic climate. We share a responsibility for ensuring that our customers committed to ensuring a solid capital position and strong do not borrow more money than their budgets allow. risk and credit management at all times. This is best done through: Moreover, we are under an obligation to make sure that we do not provide loans that carry too much risk, seeing In 2018 Nykredit participated in the EU-wide stress test, Risk and capital management as all of our portfolio of customers will end up footing the published by the European Banking Authority (EBA) on 2 bill if we suffer a loss. And as a systemically important November 2018. In the EBA’s stress scenario, Nykredit’s Nykredit focuses on having a risk management framework financial institution (SIFI), Nykredit has a huge Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio decreases that ensures agreement between risk profile, risk appetite responsibility towards our customers and towards from 20.5% to 15.6%. The decrease falls within the limits and having a robust capital structure. The risk appetite Denmark for operating a steady business. defined in Nykredit’s capital policy. The stress test thus reflects our overall tolerance for assuming risks in the reflects Nykredit’s resilience to a severe downturn in the context of our business model and strategy. Sound credit assessment practices and a solid capital Danish economy. position also lay the foundation for our capacity to provide loans at all times. During the most recent crisis, Credit management Nykredit’s credit policy regulates the level of large exposures, the composition of the loan portfolio, lending to Development in CET1 capital and own funds personal customers and special lending segments. Nykredit manages credit risk according to a portfolio management CET1 capital ratio (%) Total capital ratio (%) approach whereby significant concentrations are avoided, supplemented with reviews of single-name concentration 30 and exposures as well as continuous controls. 25 Read more in our Risk and Capital Management Report 20 15 10 5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The Group has CET1 capital of DKK 72.4 billion, equal to a CET1 capital ratio of 21% of the total risk exposure amount (REA), and total own funds of DKK 80.9 billion, equal to a capital ratio of 23.5%. The high level bears evidence of favourable economic trends and satisfactory results in recent years. The level is deemed to adequately cover the Group’s capital need – also after the implementation of the forthcoming Basel requirements. We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark 17 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit’s pledge to communities also signifies our in 2018, Nykredit was a member of a committee under the issue of some senior customers experiencing specific readiness and willingness to enter into dialogue and look the auspices of the Joint Council of Rural Areas together problems of obtaining a loan. In the light of that, in 2018 into own practices when certain customer groups face with a number of major trade associations to address we talked to a Danish membership organisation for difficulties obtaining a loan. In 2018 we continued to future growth conditions in rural districts. elderly people, the DaneAge Association, and the Danish focus on the development in rural districts, senior Consumer Council, among others, about senior borrowers’ loan options and challenges in the agricultural Nykredit’s majority owner, Forenet Kredit, engaged in customers and their financial circumstances. And, further sector. finding a solution to the challenge of obtaining a home to these talks, we have analysed our credit policy and loan in rural districts. Forenet Kredit has contributed DKK advisory services. An extra mile for the rural districts 1.56 million to an independent research project at the While several villages and rural districts are undergoing a University of Southern Denmark. Under the project, Nykredit’s credit policy does not contain any criteria that positive development, many others are facing challenges. researchers at the Danish Centre for Rural Research trigger off any direct or indirect age discrimination. The rural population is shrinking, villages are losing some (CLF) will be tasked with mapping and offering solutions However, we see how some senior customers face the of their vital institutions, such as schools and grocers, to the problems. Nykredit is monitoring the work closely challenge of obtaining loans when retirement is not an and citizens and businesses alike are migrating to the so that we and our owners can stand together in learning integral part of their financial planning. Therefore, as to cities. As a result, the housing market in rural districts is how we can contribute to creating sustainable property the loan options of senior customers, it is essential that often marked by insecurity as to marketability and pricing financing in rural districts. their income and wealth are taken into consideration and and an oversupply of properties for sale. Consequently, it projected forward on loan establishment and financial may be difficult to sell a property and difficult to obtain a Improving the dialogue on senior planning in general. loan for your dream home in the rural districts. customers’ finances Danish mortgage loans are characterised by a high level To this end, Nykredit Bank will introduce a range of new However, these challenges do not deter Nykredit from of security combined with minimal losses. Mortgage loans advisory tools in 2019, based on the analyses. Thanks to providing loans in rural districts. Through the Totalkredit allow a huge number of Danes in different life phases these new initiatives, we hope that our customers, as partnership, Nykredit accounted for 64% of all new and circumstances to own their own home. they get older, will be better equipped to assess and plan lending in areas outside the large cities in 2018. Nykredit’s total mortgage lending to customers aged 65 their future finances together with their advisers. and over amounts to DKK 101.9 billion, and the share of Alongside our lending practices, we strive to be an active senior customers is expected to increase in future years. voice in the public debate on rural districts. For example, Central voices in the public debate have, however, raised Table 1: Selected key figures for development throughout Denmark Area Indicator 2016 2017 2018 Lending throughout Denmark Lending growth in municipalities, Totalkredit 88 out of 98 94 out of 98 96 out of 98 Lending to businesses throughout Denmark Mortgage loans to the agricultural sector (DKK billion) 93 91 89.5 Lending to homeowners in different life Mortgage loans to customers aged 65 and over (DKK billion) 93.8 98.3 101.9 phases New loans to customers aged 65 and over (DKK billion) 11.9 11.5 10.7 Based on a number of key figures, we can track how we are contributing to enhancing development in all of Denmark. See the overview on page 57 for more key figures for the development in all of Denmark. 18 We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark The Nykredit Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Foundation supports A helping hand to the drought-stricken steady hand when responding to a given local communities agricultural sector situation. Accordingly, we approached the extraordinary summer with the declared intent of across Denmark Having issued loans worth around DKK 90 billion, ensuring that no farmers were to experience Nykredit is the largest lender to the Danish agricultural increasing administration margins solely A new square in front of the multi-purpose venue K.B. sector, and we see it as part of our pledge to because of a drought-related challenge. Hallen in Copenhagen, two artificial grass pitches in communities to further development and growth in the Eastern Jutland and a new heat pump for the village hall in agricultural sector at all times. Bringstrup. The Nykredit Foundation closed 2018 by distributing DKK 1.3 million to 18 projects throughout In 2018 the agricultural sector faced the driest summer Denmark. for many years. The drought has led to financial challenges for large parts of the sector, and Nykredit has ”We believe in local communities and in local commitment. been in contact with many of our agricultural customers That is what it takes to make the kind of places where to find a solution to the challenge. As a guiding principle, people enjoy living. Commitment as a driver of creating we are ready to go to great lengths to find a lasting something bigger to the benefit of all members of the local solution where this is financially feasible and responsible. community is the ever recurring theme in the projects that As responsible lenders we cannot guarantee that we, the people behind the Nykredit Foundation, have individual farmers will never again be charged a higher chosen to support,” says Nina Smith, Chairman of the administration margin. We can, however, seek to keep a Nykredit Foundation and Forenet Kredit. Nykredit’s five regions are collaborating with the Nykredit Foundation in seeking out local associations and communities and encouraging them to apply for the Foundation’s funds. This way Nykredit’s staff can apply their insights into local needs when contributing to the local communities of which Nykredit is a part. ”The project also underpins Nykredit’s pledge of being active in all of Denmark and support growth – in urban and rural districts alike. And there is no doubt that every single krone distributed by the Nykredit Foundation will be put to good use,” says Anders Jensen, Group Managing Director, Nykredit. 2019 will see continued development of the partnership with the Nykredit Foundation aimed to support local communities that benefit balanced cities and viable villages. We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark 19 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Loans all across the country. Together with our Totalkredit partners, we provide 65% of new home loans in areas outside the 20 We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark large cities. Nykredit NykreditGroup – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Group– CASE: Campus Bornholm High-quality education quality education here on Bornholm, and they no longer and more workplaces have to leave the island to receive an education,” says A campus for young people and others in education. This Benjamin Schou, Head of Nykredit’s Customer Centre, was the overarching vision behind the construction work Rønne. initiated in 2016. The work was finished in June 2018 when Campus Bornholm was opened to students. Above all, the new Campus Bornholm is a huge gain for Nykredit helped turn the vision into reality by providing everyone wanting to receive an education; however, access to funds. being the first large construction project on Bornholm for several decades, Campus Bornholm also brought some “At Nykredit, we feel a special responsibility for providing positive side effects. loans throughout Denmark, thereby contributing to life and developments in urban and rural areas, and being “First and foremost, Campus Bornholm will help maintain financial partner to Campus Bornholm really means a lot and develop educational opportunities on Bornholm, but to us. A strong, unifying educational institution is a huge much to our delight, we also witnessed how Campus win for the island. Our young people can now get highBornholm was realised using mainly local labour, which again led to the creation of a great many workplaces for a period of time,” says Benjamin Schou. When we venture into projects like this one, we must of course be certain that the project is a viable business case for us. It was in this case, and we look forward to following the campus and not least all the young people who leave the campus with a diploma.” Benjamin Schou, Head of Customer Centre, Rønne We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark 21 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 UN Sustainable Development Goals Nykredit’s work is in particular contributing to achieving the SDGs and related targets set out below. We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark – in brief Value to society 8.1 Sustain annual per capita economic growth. Banks that are able and willing to provide loans to people and businesses all over Denmark are essential for the Danish society. Giving the Danes access to affordable and secure loans lies at the core of our 8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support corporate responsibility. productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalisation and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized businesses, including through access to financial services. Value to Nykredit A cohesive Denmark provides the foundation for Nykredit’s business. It is in Nykredit’s interest that we 8.10 Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial contribute actively to creating a stable Danish economy with development in all parts of the country. institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all. Nykredit’s ambitions We want to provide access to affordable and secure loans for people and businesses all over Denmark. At all times. In addition, knowing that a healthy economic climate rests on strong financial institutions, we want to extend loans in a responsible manner at all times. 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and Activities and achievements in 2018 affordable housing and basic services and upgrade slums.  64% of loans granted to homeowners in areas outside the large cities 11.7 By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive  Lending growth in 96 out of 98 municipalities and accessible, green and public spaces.  Strengthened the Totalkredit partnership through Shared Valuation  Bolstered Nykredit’s capital position 11.a Support positive economic, social and environmental  Focus on access to loans in rural districts, to senior customers and to the agricultural sector links between urban, peri-urban and rural areas by strengthening national and regional development planning. Initiatives in 2019  Continued focus on ensuring that Nykredit can be active in all of Denmark and support growth – in urban and rural districts alike  Continued focus on districts and customer segments faced with difficult access to loans  Development of the partnership with the Nykredit Foundation aimed to support projects that promote balanced cities and viable villages. 22 We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark 23 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Climate changes pose a challenge that calls for action and collaboration between citizens, businesses and politicians. Nykredit is not in a position to tackle the challenges on its own. Our main task is to be a good partner to homeowners and businesses wishing to contribute to sustainable development.” 24 Anders Jensen, We believe in people Group and businesses Managing Director, Retail all over Denmark Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 We will actively support sustainable development Global warming and climate changes represent one of We have concentrated our work in three areas of Main risks the main challenges for society, and the financial sector Nykredit’s core business: Nykredit invests in and provides plays an essential role in the transition towards a more lending for a wide range of properties sustainable economy.  Sustainable housing and businesses. Climate changes entail a risk that our assets may lose  Sustainable financing value because of extreme weather As Denmark’s largest lender and with extensive  Responsible investment conditions or because the transition to investment activities, we are in a position to support a sustainable society affects the society’s sustainability transition goals. We therefore aim In addition to these three areas, we aim to reduce market – in the form of new regulation to help: Nykredit’s own climate and environmental footprint as and otherwise. There is also the risk that our financing and investment much as possible. To this end, we have set ambitious activities have an indirect negative  fulfil Denmark’s and the EU’s target of reducing targets to reduce our own energy consumption, carbon impact on the climate and the greenhouse gas emissions and moving towards a lowfootprint and amount of waste. environment. emission society, independent of fossil fuels.  meet global temperature increase targets set by the Paris Agreement.  fulfil the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Focus on the core business Nykredit facilitates funding of and investment in many types of property and business, each affecting the climate in different ways and at different scales. For example, together with our Totalkredit partners we provide more than 40% of all home loans. And we invest more than DKK 211 billion on behalf of our customers. With that in mind, we can make the biggest difference if we focus on how we, together with our customers, can contribute positively to the green transition. We will actively support sustainable development 25 Nykredit’s lending for Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 energy-efficient housing More sustainable financing and many of them call for energy renovation if Denmark High building standards in Denmark help ensure that homeowners Nykredit will increase the amount of green assets in our is to reach its climate targets. build sustainable houses. For decades, Danish homeowners have portfolios year by year. This target guides our work and also looked to invest in energy efficiency measures. All this has a ensures that Nykredit contributes increased funding of Aside from climate effects, energy renovation may bearing on Nykredit’s residential lending activities. sustainable activities at all times. increase the value of homes mortgaged through Nykredit and may ensure lower energy bills and improved housing Facts on energy-labelled homes mortgaged through Nykredit: As a first and crucial step, we have begun to map the quality for the individual homeowners. 100% climate impact of activities for which we provide loans. Based on our mapping, Nykredit can target its efforts and at the same time ensure more effective sustainability of dwellings built after 2008 investments. carry energy label A, B or C. 97% This is a complicated task since Nykredit provides lending to many different sectors in which it is difficult to Sustainability assessment determine the environmental impact. Since home financing makes up the bulk of our lending, we have of all products of dwellings built after 1999 carry energy label A, B or C. started by focusing our mapping on the sustainability of Going forward, all Nykredit products – ranging Approx 15% the around 500,000 properties mortgaged through from banking and mortgage products to Nykredit in Denmark. investment products – will be assessed for economic, social and environmental/climate of dwellings built before 1977 have, according to our assessment, In 2019 we will continue our work of mapping the climate sustainability. This way we aim to ensure that likely been thoroughly improved for energy efficiency, given that impact of our lending. In parallel with that, we are closely we fulfil our pledge to communities and they carry energy label A, B or C today. monitoring the drafting of new reporting requirements and support sustainable development. standards by the EU and the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures to get a good overview of The assessment will be made as part of the Many of the most energy-efficient homes are located in rural sustainable financing volumes. overall review by Nykredit’s Products districts, which Nykredit is particularly committed to supporting with Committee, which approves all new products lending at all times. Housing holds the largest climate and evaluates existing products on an annual potential basis. Specifically, the report submitted to the In an analysis 2, the Danish Council on Climate Change Products Committee for review will from now points out that energy renovation in buildings is the one on contain a section with assessment of the initiative that can bring the largest contribution to the sustainability of the product in question. green transition at the lowest costs for society up until 2050. Approx 90% of our buildings will still exist in 2050, The framework for assessment will be defined and implemented in the Products Committee’s working procedures in 2019. 2 “Status for Danmarks klimamålsætninger og -forpligtelser 2018” at https://www.klimaraadet.dk/da/nyheder/analyse-status-danmarksklimamaalsaetninger-og-forpligtelser-2018 26 We will actively support sustainable development Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Financing of energy renovation needs by, for instance, including or excluding the choice Nykredit provides financing for energy efficiency of an indoor climate test, a radon test, a mould analysis, improvements and has for several years worked with heat source replacement, insulation etc. We also aim to sustainable value propositions aimed to help our introduce new value propositions, such as assistance customers get an overview of possibilities and financing regarding client consultancy, to make renovation an easy available in the various phases of housing renovation. choice for our customers. We offer our customers a Home Check-Up by an expert, who can make recommendations for energy efficiency The new solutions will help us achieve our ambition of optimisation, climate adjustments and maintenance. supporting the green transition together with our Nykredit Home Plan offers the customer a digital customers. overview of home projects based on the recommendations made during the Home Check-Up. Last, but not least, customers can get quotations for Facts on Home Check-Up home projects from a network of skilled builders via Nykredit Home Project Support. DKK 190,000 We are moving in the right direction. For example, 20% Average improvement costs of the homeowners in Nykredit with an energy-labelled home built before 1900 have improved energy efficiency to energy label A, B or C. This means that they have DKK 3,463 improved the energy efficiency of their homes by more Average annual savings potential per than 25%. homeowner A need for speedier renovation Home Check-Up – homeowners’ overview of maintenance, energy Renovation of the housing stock is, however, not efficiency improvements and climate adjustment of the home. Figures progressing fast enough, leaving a large untapped are for home check-ups carried out in 2018. potential for energy savings. The causes are manifold. Low energy prices, long repayment periods, nuisance caused by renovation work, lack of knowledge of the options available etc are all barriers that may deter homeowners from choosing energy renovation. In 2019 Nykredit will focus on developing products that incentivise homeowners to invest in healthy and energyefficient homes. Among other things, we will look into ways in which we can further digitise and enhance the flexibility of our solutions, offering our customers the possibility to structure their renovation efforts to their We will actively support sustainable development 27 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 CASE: Smart technology to guide the way to renovation Under the auspices of the Hardtech Entrepreneurship A group of students at the Technical University of Programme, Nykredit is collaborating with the Technical Denmark have now been entrusted with the task of University of Denmark on a project that seeks to improve developing a product called Hyve, an inexpensive and the quality of Danish homes with focus on incentivising easy-to-use device for homeowners for air quality homeowners to renovate. monitoring in rooms and for generation, via an app, of easily accessible data that have a strong bearing on the ”We want to make Danish homes future-proof with data homeowner’s health and energy consumption. from the Internet of Things devices to show, for instance, that renovation makes good sense, not only as a way to In collaboration with the Technical University of Denmark, create a healthy indoor climate, but also financially,” says Nykredit seeks to identify the technical possibilities of Philip Theut Stehr-Nielsen, Data Scientist at Nykredit such a set-up and how it may be put to use in the Digital Innovation. everyday lives of the customers. The business concept is not yet in place, but the Hyve project group is applying a subscription model, under which customers may, against a monthly fee, monitor their indoor climate and receive notifications from the app that help ensure, for example, that rooms are sufficiently aired. If data received from the home show a need to further improve the air quality, a calculation may be made Nine in ten Danes do not monitor of the renovation cost and how fast the homeowner can the air quality in their homes, and recoup the cost in energy savings. This way, improved air quality can go hand in hand with money savings and many do not know that better reduced CO 2 emissions. ventilation, new windows and other initiatives that improve the air quality pay off and that they can recoup the cost within a reasonable number of years.” Claes Ronnenberg, student, Design & Innovation at the Technical University of Denmark and a member of the Hyve project group 28 We will actively support sustainable development UN Sustainable Development Nykredit Group – Corporate Goals Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit’s work is in particular contributing to achieving the SDGs and related targets set out below. We will support sustainable development – in brief 7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services. Value to society Limiting and adapting to climate changes require that businesses, too, contribute to actively supporting 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable sustainable development. energy in the global energy mix. 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in Value to Nykredit energy efficiency. We are committed to actively supporting long-term, stable and sustainable development of society. Nykredit’s value creation occurs in tandem with and because of a well-run society. Nykredit’s ambitions We will contribute to fulfilling Denmark’s and the EU’s target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and moving towards a low-emission society, independent of fossil fuels, and to meeting the targets for global 11.3 By 2030, enhance inclusive and sustainable temperature increases set out in the Paris Agreement. We will also contribute to achieving the SDGs. urbanisation. 11.6 By 2030, reduce the negative per capita environmental Activities and achievements in 2018 impact of cities.  Mapped the sustainability of Nykredit’s residential lending  In future, Nykredit’s products are to be assessed based on their economic, social and environmental sustainability Initiatives in 2019  Reporting on initiatives taken to increase the share of green assets mortgaged through Nykredit  Development of Nykredit’s housing value propositions with the aim of becoming homeowners’ 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climatepreferred partner in the area of energy efficiency improvement. related hazards and natural disasters in all countries. 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. We will actively support sustainable development 29 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Investments that make a difference The world is facing major social and environmental of the Paris Agreement. And we strive to find new ways challenges, and investments are key to improvement. of making it easy for our customers to make investments This is the guiding principle of Nykredit’s work in the area that align with their ethical, climate and environmental Main risks of responsible investment. values. Nykredit and Nykredit’s customers have invested in more than 2,000 We continuously focus on strengthening our processes to In 2018 Nykredit decided to give higher priority to companies across the world. ensure that the companies we invest in adhere to developing solutions that help more customers to make Consequently, there is a risk that we international law and contribute to achieving the UN sustainable investments. invest in companies that act in violation of human rights, obstruct the Sustainable Development Goals and the climate targets green transition or otherwise act in ways that do not promote sustainable development. Sustainability assessments form an integral part of a growing number of equity investments (DKK bn) 10 Sustainability in the investment process 9 Nykredit invests DKK 211 billion on behalf of our 8 customers and our own portfolio of DKK 100 billion. We apply sustainability analyses in our active asset 7 management and for assessing the risk of all our portfolios. The sustainability analyses are a means to 6 compare the individual company with relevant competitors using environmental, social and 5 governance (ESG) factors. An increasing share of 4 Nykredit’s investments in equities involves the use of sustainability analyses (see table). 3 2 1 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Nykredit relies on sustainability analyses when conducting risk analyses of all our funds, in the active selection processes and in a string of equity funds. In 2018 funds that underwent sustainability assesments generated significantly higher returns compared with the market. The chart above illustrates the development in investments involving sustainability analyses. 30 Investments that make a difference Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Policies that guide the framework for our work: Responsible investments in figures  Responsible investment policy DKK billion 2016 2017 2018 Nykredit’s total investments, 303 279 301 covered by the responsible investment policy Number of companies subjected to quarterly screening 2,281 2,320 2,283 Companies with which Nykredit engages in dialogue because of 17 21 22 breach of standards Principles for responsible Excluded companies 23 32 51 investment Participation in general meetings  Nykredit’s investment products are all – No of general meetings N/A 589 772 in compliance with the – Ratio of AUM where Nykredit participated in general meetings N/A 58% 85% recommendations set out by the UN– Votes cast against the Board of Directors, % N/A 8.4% 8.1% supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Data for participation in general meetings are not available for 2016. Read more about our work with responsible investment here Investments that make a difference 31 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit Invest is the first Danish fund to obtain the Nordic Swan Ecolabel In 2018 Nykredit Invest Bæredygtige Aktier was the first fund under Danish management to obtain the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. Previously known as an environmental certification programme for consumer products, the Nordic Swan Ecolabel has introduced a certification for investment funds, awarded based on 25 different criteria, such as exclusion and inclusion of companies, transparency and influencing companies to move in a more sustainable direction. The certification is an important step towards offering Nykredit’s customers an extended range of sustainable solutions. ”We know that a large group among our customers would like to know how they can contribute positively to the climate. That is why we are very pleased to offer our customers a Swan Ecolabelled investment fund,” says Søren Larsen, Head of ESG, Nykredit Invest. We regularly benchmark our funds against the market to This is the outcome of a firm strategy of regularly Improved information on companies’ assess their performance on their overall ESG rating and updating our process and developing new products that climate efforts their climate footprint. This information is used to optimise apply the most recent sustainability analysis methods. Nykredit’s sustainable investment activities depend on processes of own and external managers. One of the reliable and sufficient information about the companies benchmarks is the companies’ and thereby the funds’ we invest in. Nykredit encourages companies to prepare carbon footprint. 78% of our funds outperform the market their reporting in accordance with the recommendations in terms of carbon footprint. of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). This applies to the way that the climate is integrated in the strategy, governance and risk management of the individual company, among other things. Improved information on how the company approaches climate challenges will help facilitate climatefriendly investments – for Nykredit and for our customers. Nykredit Asset Management decided to adopt the TCFD’s recommendations in 2018 and will start implementing them in 2019. In addition, through the Climate Action 100+ network, Nykredit will, jointly with pension funds and other institutional investors, seek to get the world’s largest CO 2 emitters to contribute to the green transition. 32 Investments that make a difference Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Persistence and dialogue can make a fruit, and together with other investors, we are successful supporting due diligence practices in the companies is a difference in influencing the relevant companies to rectify their corporate responsibility. Nykredit requires that the companies we invest in adhere behaviour. However, this is not always the case. If a to international law and respect human rights at all times. company does not improve its conduct, we will exclude it As part of our ongoing dialogue, we vote at general On a quarterly basis, we screen more than 10,000 from our investments. Currently, 51 companies are on meetings in the companies we invest in. Nykredit different securities for breach by the issuer of our exclusion list. In 2018 a number of producers of coal participated in more than 770 general meetings in 2018. international law. If a company is in breach of and oil extracted from tar sands were added to the list for Nykredit voted against management recommendations international law, we will attempt, through dialogue and lack of plans to bring their activities in line with the Paris on 8.1% of the almost 10,000 agenda items. In almost together with other investors, to make them remedy the Agreement. half of the cases, this was owing to the composition of a breach. At the end of the year, we were in dialogue with board of directors, with a candidate not meeting the 22 companies of this kind. Active ownership standards. Every fifth negative vote was cast because Nykredit is in regular contact with the companies in which management’s salary or bonus package did not match One of the companies we are in dialogue with is we make active investments for the purpose of following the market or was insufficiently defined. Facebook, which has violated the right to privacy for their development closely. If there is cause for concern, millions of people, and the pharmaceutical company Nykredit will share it with the company. Our active Novartis, which has engaged in corrupt business ownership builds on our ability to take care of our practices in all its major markets. Our efforts often bear customers’ investments at all times. In addition, Engagement in mining company brings results In 2018 Nykredit continued its engagement with BHP Billiton brought about by the dam collapse in their Brazilian mine, which killed 19 people, destroyed 700 homes and left extensive contamination. Together with several other investors, Nykredit argued that the company should remedy the damage. The company has undertaken to find the cause of the collapse, make sure it will never be repeated and to remedy the damage. After being greenlighted by the Brazilian authorities, the reconstruction of the villages was finally commenced in the autumn. The work has not been finished yet, but our conclusion is that the company wants to live up to its responsibility. Investments that make a difference 33 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 CASE: Ship recycling transparency The ship breaking industry is characterised by a lack of ”The problems in the sector are obvious, but as transparency and social and environmental problems. responsible investors, we lacked tools to handle them Large container ships are built in one location, sail and to make informed decisions. Against this backdrop, around the world and are usually recycled in a location Nykredit immediately gave its support when Mærsk different from the original shipyard. Often, the ships sail presented the idea of creating more transparency in the under several different owners and operators during their sector,” says Søren Larsen, Head of ESG at Nykredit. lifetime, and the lack of global regulation of the area means that ships are recycled under varying Transparency creates investor value circumstances. SRTI launched an Internet-based platform on 10 December, allowing investors and carriers to request The Ship Recycling Transparency Initiative detailed information from shipowners and shipowners to In response to this, Nykredit, together with Mærsk and a share their information with a wide circle of stakeholders. number of other investors, carriers and shipowners, This is subject to a number of criteria, such as criteria for established the Ship Recycling Transparency Initiative disclosure of recycling policies and practices. (SRTI) in March 2018. SRTI targets to promote a voluntary market-driven approach to socially and Increased transparency creates significant value for environmentally responsible ship recycling practices. investors such as Nykredit. ”As investors we look forward to being able to use the information to gain a better insight into our investments and to improve our dialogue with shipowners. In 2019, we look forward to spreading the message about this new opportunity of promoting responsible recycling,” says Søren Larsen. It is our hope that the SRTI platform will serve as a one-stop shop for ship recycling information and be used by financial investors and customers to make informed shipping decisions.” John Kornerup Bang, Head of Sustainability Strategy, Mærsk 34 Investments that make a difference UN Sustainable Development Nykredit Group – Corporate Goals Responsibility Report 2018 When it comes to investing, Nykredit works with the impact on all 17 SDGs. Investments that make a difference The five SDGs to which Nykredit generally contributes the most appear below: – in brief Value to society The world is facing major social and environmental challenges, and investments can make a difference. By investing in the right companies and sectors and by staying away from investments in companies that engage in irresponsible conduct, investments can support sustainable global development. Value to Nykredit Typically, companies that contribute to sustainable development and have decent labour conditions also make good business partners and investment opportunities – for us and for our customers. Nykredit’s ambitions In Nykredit’s investment universe, we always strive to make a positive contribution to the world that surrounds us all. Both when we invest our customers’ money and our own. By offering knowledge to our customers, we empower them to use their investments to make a difference – while getting a good return. Activities and achievements in 2018  Sustainability analyses involving more than 6,500 companies  Better integration of sustainability in the investment process  Exercised active ownership and added more companies to the exclusion list  Nykredit Invest Bæredygtige Aktier was the first fund under Danish management to obtain the Nordic Swan Ecolabel  Co-founder of the Ship Recycling Transparency Initiative Initiatives in 2019  Continued upgrading of processes and products that use the latest sustainability assessment methods  Development of product offering and communication that make sustainable investment easier for our customers  Integration of the SDGs in the context of investment processes. Investments that make a difference 35 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 We must demonstrate every day that we make responsible decisions that take into account the long-term consequences for our customers and for society. I am strongly committed to building an organisation where everyone at all levels is able to offer our customers responsible advice, navigate fast and correctly under current legislation and contribute to combating financial crime.” Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive 36 Investments that make a difference Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsible business conduct As a financial undertaking, Nykredit has a great By applying a more structured focus on conduct, the legislation, human rights, labour standards, principles of responsibility for offering advice, products and services Group wants to support a culture in which Nykredit’s staff environmental responsibility and rules of anti-corruption, that are responsible in a societal context and relative to and management are able to openly discuss dilemmas including bribery and financial exploitation, the Ten the personal finances of the individual customer. This and act on them. This culture is also supported through Principles of the UN Global Compact form an integral calls for thorough risk management practices and a management training. part of our credit policy. healthy and open corporate culture. Last, but not least, Nykredit’s Code of Conduct, in Expanded risk management combination with a number of Nykredit’s other policies, Nykredit has long-established and structured risk sets the framework for proper staff behaviour. In 2019 we practices in place, aimed at identifying and managing the will strengthen the effort of training new staff members to risks associated with operating a financial undertaking live up to Nykredit’s behavioural standards. and ensuring that all parts of the business act in a responsible, diligent and sustainable manner. Besides ensuring a healthy and open culture in our dayto-day work, it is essential that our staff can file Nykredit’s policy for operational risk sets the framework anonymous reports if they experience irregularities. for handling of operational risks, including the risk of loss Nykredit has established an online whistleblower scheme resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, where staff members can anonymously report any Main risks: human or system errors and legal risks. The policy concern about potential irregularities, including violations describes how to report and handle risks and the or potential violations of the law. Nykredit’s advisory services, lending and products responsibilities assigned to different management levels. have significance on our customers’ financial position Responsible lending and on the national economy. This may, for instance, entail the risk that the individual customer receives At the end of 2018 these risk management efforts were Loans provided by Nykredit are based on the customer’s inadequate advice or that a specific product has a expanded to include the task of regularly addressing creditworthiness. We examine the customer’s personal negative impact on financial stability. whether any conduct, propositions, products, advisory finances and assess the customer’s ability and will to services or similar exist in the organisation that we are honour agreements entered into with Nykredit. We do As a financial undertaking, Nykredit is governed by, and will at all times abide by, existing legislation and unable to explain or defend. These expanded risk this to ensure that individual customers do not borrow regulation. This may, for instance, entail the risk that management efforts are referred to as conduct more money than their budgets allow. And we do so in processes and products do not comply with the most management, and in line with current practice, identified order not to grant loans that imply too much risk, as the recent regulation in the area. risks are discussed at the relevant management level business at large – and thereby the customers – will have and followed up by product changes or changes in to foot the bill if we suffer losses. Last, but not least, there is a risk that Nykredit does not meet society’s and our customers’ expectations conduct. of us. This may lead to breach of trust in Nykredit’s To best ensure that we do not enter into transactions with business. customers who engage in activities in violation of existing Responsible business conduct 37 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Product assessment based on Sustainability assessment of the Group’s entire product complaints are reported to Nykredit’s Group Executive sustainability portfolio was adopted in 2018 and will, going forward, be Board, and Nykredit also publishes facts about Nykredit’s products and services – in the areas of made as part of an overall review by Nykredit’s Products complaints on its website. investment, banking and mortgage lending – must Committee, when the committee approves new products comply with Nykredit’s product policy. and evaluates existing products on an annual basis. In 2018, 180 customers filed a complaint, and half of them succeeded in full or in part in their complaints. The product policy sets the framework for a responsible Transparency of price and risk and sustainable approach to development and Uniform and transparent prices are a common feature of Anti-corruption management of products and services. Accordingly, all Nykredit’s pricing structure for personal customers. All Nykredit has a zero tolerance policy with respect to products must comply with current legislation as well as personal customers of Totalkredit pay the same price for corruption. We have adopted an anti-corruption policy in with Nykredit’s policies, including its credit and tax the same type of loan. This means that the price varies the Group, which sets the framework for Nykredit’s antipolicies, and be developed with a long-term perspective with the loan-to-value ratio and loan type, but not with the corruption work. The policy determines management and – as something new – assessed in terms of customer’s income or address. Nykredit BoligBank responsibilities in the context of procedures for economic, social and environmental/climate sustainability operates with three customer propositions, and within identifying, preventing and handling the risk of corruption by Nykredit’s Products Committee. each proposition, the prices of bank or home financing in the Group and defines the primary types of corruption products are the same for all. that the organisation should look out for. The policy is supported by business procedures for fraud, nepotism, Last, but not least, we risk label loans as well as independence and receipt of gifts. investment products, allowing customers to assess the risk of existing or future loans and investments. The Customer Ambassador – customers’ guarantee of fair treatment – Naturally, we want to remedy Nykredit has had a Customer Ambassador since 2007. errors if and when they occur. Our The Customer Ambassador’s role is to ensure that customers allow us to do just that customers are heard and that a customer’s complaint is when they file a complaint. dealt with fairly if – contrary to expectations – a case has reached a deadlock. The Customer Ambassador sees to Policies that guide our work: Just below 20% of enquiries directed it that all members of Nykredit’s staff treat a dissatisfied  Operational risk policy to the Customer Ambassador in 2018 customer in the same professional manner, no matter  Credit policy resulted in specific initiatives or who receives the customer’s complaint.  Policy covering products in the Nykredit changes to Nykredit’s approach or Group This work is governed by Nykredit’s complaints handling practices. So it actually pays to  Code of conduct policy “FAIR treatment of dissatisfied customers”, the complain.” purpose of which is to find a reasonable solution for the  Tax policy  Complaints handling policy Pernille Hirshals, Customer Ambassador customer. The policy is implemented through business  Anti-corruption policy procedures, which include a specification of response times, escalation levels etc for complaints. Twice a year, 38 Responsible business conduct Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Ramping up the fight against financial crime Money laundering, terrorist financing, tax evasion and financing. We are also preventing financial crime through other types of financial crime are extremely harmful at cross-sectoral collaboration and active collaboration with both the national and international level. A central the authorities, for instance by participating in the element of our responsibility is therefore to prevent and preparation of the anti-money laundering guidelines of counter any misuse of the Nykredit Group for financial the Danish FSA. crime purposes. Our staff are key to prevention A number of cases in 2018 have emphasised that Nykredit’s staff play a vital role in fighting financial crime. financial crime remains a huge challenge to the financial We focus daily on preventing financial crime and report sector, and equipping our organisation to tackle this suspicious customer behaviour and suspicious challenge is a task that we take very seriously. transactions to the State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and International Crime. In 2018 we doubled Strengthening the framework and the number of cases reported to the State Prosecutor. collaborating across the sector This is only possible thanks to highly qualified staff Policies that guide our work: We are continuously improving our set-up for preventing resources and the strong vigilance exercised by  Policy for the prevention of money financial crime so that the measures we take reflect the management and staff alike. laundering, terrorist financing and violation risk involved in our business activities. In 2018 we of financial sanctions adjusted our risk scoring model, our management Through Group-wide measures in 2018, we have  The Group Executive Board’s risk appetite reporting and our internal controls. We incorporate new ensured that our staff have sufficient knowledge of the policy and policy for customer consent for legislation and monitor trends in areas such as requirements in the field of financial crime. This has been prevention of financial crime laundering of funds from criminal activities or terrorist achieved through mandatory training and specialised  Whistleblower policy training of all relevant staff in customer-facing entities, relevant staff functions and management. 96.7% of Nykredit’s staff have completed and passed anti-money Managing our efforts laundering certification and e-learning programmes. The Group Executive Board has appointed a Group Managing Director to be in charge of Main risks These measures will continue in 2019 and contribute to implementing and ensuring management focus Nykredit may be misused for money reinforcing and maintaining a robust compliance culture on measures to prevent financial crime laundering, terrorist financing, tax where strong management combined with sufficient and throughout the Group. The Group Managing evasion and other financial crimes that qualified staff resources and adequate training Director is also anti-money laundering officer would have major negative programmes at all levels and all lines of defence exhibits at the executive level in Nykredit Realkredit consequences for society, Nykredit and Nykredit’s customers. and drives a Group-wide, risk-based approach to the A/S. prevention of financial crime. Ramping up the fight against financial crime 39 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Data security: We protect data Customers’ confidence in how companies treat and Customer and staff data are only on loan stakeholders. We have also worked closely with our main protect their data is essential to an efficient market as It is important to us that Nykredit’s customers and staff IT providers, and we keep informed of and monitor well as to growth and progress. This is especially true in have control over and the right of self-determination compliance with service agreements as well as IT the financial sector where large data breaches may harm regarding their personal data – they are only on loan to security. society and where a loss of customers’ personal data us as a business, and we will return them or delete them may have serious consequences. as required. This is also the fundamental idea of the new Only as strong as our weakest link General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which took We know that data protection and IT security rely At Nykredit, we collect and process the personal data of effect on 25 May 2018. We therefore made a targeted extensively on the staff who handle personal data on a millions of Danes every year. We are therefore constantly effort in 2018 to offer customers a simple and easy way day-to-day basis. In 2018 97.1% and 98.3% of Nykredit’s seeking to create a strong and coherent data protection to exercise their rights, including the right of access to or staff completed and passed certification and e-learning framework throughout the Group. Our efforts in 2018 erasure of their personal data. programmes in data protection and IT security, focused especially on preparing for the new General At the same time, we are transparent about why we respectively. Through their training and certification, they Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), enhanced IT collect data and what we use the data for. This also have gained basic knowledge of the provisions of data security and training of our staff. applies if data security is breached. Like many other protection legislation and know how to comply with them companies, Nykredit reported breaches of personal data in their day-to-day work. In 2019 we aim to make the customer experience simpler security to the Danish Data Protection Agency in 2018. and easier when we handle customer data. We will Naturally, we would have preferred avoiding these become even better at protecting personal data, for breaches, but we nonetheless see our collaboration with instance through even greater focus on controlling how the Data Protection Agency as part of a positive our staff treat personal data. And we will maintain a high development as it heightens the sense of security and IT security level through ongoing monitoring, testing and safety regarding the protection of personal data. evaluation. Enhanced IT security Nykredit has launched a raft of initiatives in recent years, which all contribute to ensuring a high level of information security. In 2018 we allocated more resources to IT security and conducted an IT risk assessment exercise, ensuring that IT security activities are prioritised Policies that guide our work: Main risks: according to risk and materiality. We have tested the organisation for vulnerabilities and launched projects to  Privacy policy Data security breaches may result in manage them. We have participated in forums for sharing  Personal data policy serious harm to society and violations of individuals’ privacy. and exchanging knowledge and experience with respect  IT security policy to threats against the financial sector and its 40 Data security: We protect data UN Sustainable Development Nykredit Group – Corporate Goals Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit’s work is in particular contributing to achieving the SDGs and related targets set out below. Responsible business practices – in brief Value to society It is essential for the individual customer and for society in general that financial undertakings provide 8.10 Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial responsible advice to customers, comply with current legislation, protect customer data and actively institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, prevent financial crime. insurance and financial services for all. Value to Nykredit Nykredit relies on the external environments trusting that our advice, products and services are responsible in a societal context and relative to the personal finances of the individual customer and that we treat customer data responsibly and actively prevent financial crime. Nykredit’s ambitions 16.4 By 2030, significantly reduce illicit cash and arms All parts of Nykredit’s business must be responsible, correct and sustainable. We are committed to strong flows, strengthen the recovery and return of stolen items risk management practices and a healthy corporate culture. We will contribute to the fight against financial and combat all forms of organised crime. crime and ensure appropriate protection and proper treatment of personal data. 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms. Activities and achievements in 2018  Expanded risk management activities to include the task of regularly addressing whether any conduct, propositions, products, advisory services and the like exist in the organisation that we are unable to explain or defend  Online whistleblower scheme  Mandatory training and special training of all staff relating to the prevention of financial crime and data protection  Increased dialogue with relevant authorities on financial crime  Implemented the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation  Prepared user-friendly solutions for insight into or deletion of personal data Outlook/targets for 2019  Enhanced training of management and staff  Increased focus on Nykredit’s internal control environment for data protection purposes  Continue the development of data protection solutions  Continued strengthening of cross-organisational frameworks and collaboration for the purpose of preventing financial crime. Data security: We protect data 41 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 42 Data security: We protect data Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit’s staff are the ones creating value to customers and the business. We are committed to continuing staff development to ensure that our staff possess the requisite skills to remain current on developments, match customer needs and hold a strong position in a changeable labour market.” Trine Ahrenkiel, Head of HR and Corporate Communications Data security: We protect data 43 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Skills for the future Nykredit’s most importance resource is its staff. This is assessment and staff satisfaction survey, which did not We have also invested in training in compliance with new also true in a time when digitisation and technological give rise to any actions at Group level either. The next regulatory requirements and business procedures aimed developments are changing the way we work and workplace assessment survey will be conducted in spring at enhancing data security and our efforts against operate our business. 2019. financial crime. For example, 97.1%, 96.7% and 98.3% of Nykredit’s staff completed and passed certification and eWe must ensure that our staff have the skills and Individual development and digital learning programmes in the GDPR, anti-money competencies required by our customers, that they can learning systems laundering and IT security, respectively. provide the best advice, utilise digital capabilities and We believe the high staff satisfaction (see page 45 for comply with new regulatory requirements. At the same details) is to do with the fact that staff development time, we focus intensely on investing in training and mostly takes place during their daily work and through development of our staff, preparing them for a reflection and collaboration. This is combined with changeable labour market. feedback and a one-on-one dialogue with the immediate supervisor, who will ensure, together with the individual This is the background to the pledge given to our staff as staff member, that specific development activities are launched and evaluated. Nykredit’s staff may apply for Main risks: part of Nykredit’s core value statement: support for supplementary training through a joint training Nykredit’s most important resource is ”We will prioritise development and opportunities for scheme for financial sector staff, and for the period from its staff. For this reason, it is important that Nykredit takes an active approach engaged and skilled people. We want to be known for our June 2018 to March 2020, we have booked 1,200 paid to preventing and resolving any trusting culture guided by customer focus, team spirit and training days for our staff. challenges in terms of wellbeing, empowerment.” satisfaction and perception of the In 2018 we launched a string of initiatives and working environment. At the same Staff satisfied with development focus development programmes across the organisation based time, Nykredit must ensure that our staff possess the right skills – today The core element of Nykredit’s HR activities is the regular on our shared ambition to become the customers’ and for the future. staff satisfaction and working environment surveys. The preferred bank, including training in good customer latest staff satisfaction survey conducted in November communication, mental readiness and online meetings. 2018 focused particularly on our staff’s perception of Also, we have implemented a new, intelligent learning development. We are therefore especially proud to see tool aimed at making skills enhancement easily available our high scores on parameters such as assessment of and an integral element of the day-to-day work of our job content, learning and development and whether staff. The system offers step-by-step guides to Nykredit lives up to the pledge to its staff. The survey processes, tips and explanations exactly where and showed no consistent, major challenges regarding staff when the need arises. This ensures a more independent Policies that guide our work: conditions that would give rise to actions at Group level. and efficient workflow.  Working environment policy In 2017 we conducted a combined workplace 44 Skills for the future Main results Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Read more about Nykredit’s graduate programme: Job satisfaction: 76 Development programmes External benchmark: 75 www.nykredit.com/karriere/karriereveje/#gradu In parallel with the day-to-day development of all staff, we ate provide a number of individual development programmes Loyalty: 82 for selected staff members, enabling them to develop External benchmark: 82 Meet Nykredit’s staff and read professionally and personally – and to contribute to more about their development: developing Nykredit. Our development programmes E-NPS: 31 include our graduate programme for development of External benchmark: 31 future business talents, Nykredit Academy for www.nykredit.com/karriere/mod-os/ enhancement of our advisers’ professional and personal Reputation: 78 skills, and a Group talent programme for accelerating External benchmark: 75 the development of talents and of Nykredit in general. Stronger management Executive management: 75 External benchmark: 73 Staff development, a good working environment and entrenchment of new ways of working begin with effective management, and Nykredit has had a keen Immediate supervisor: 81 focus in recent years on strengthening management External benchmark: 79 skills throughout the organisation. In 2018 we celebrated that all Nykredit managers had attended our ambitious Collaboration: 83 Part of the Danish labour market management academy aimed at strengthening External benchmark: 81 model managers’ ability to unlock our staff’s and Nykredit’s Nykredit forms part of the Danish agreementpotential. Against this backdrop, we will in 2019 continue Working conditions: 72 based labour market, where constructive focusing on stronger management in Nykredit while External benchmark: 71 dialogue between employees and employers renewing our focus on performance management. results in broad-based collective agreements Job content: 80 to the benefit of both parties. Nykredit has External benchmark: 79 agreed forums and procedures that safeguard staff participation at the workplace and protect Pay and employment terms: 72 our staff’s rights, including through the Group External benchmark: 71 Works Council and the representative system. Learning and development: 78 External benchmark: 76 Customer orientation: 83 Risk and legal compliance: 88 Results of staff satisfaction survey 2018 (Interval 1-100) Benchmark: Comparable financial instututions in Denmark Skills for the future 45 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Equal pay and women in management: Not there yet At Nykredit, we see diversity as a prerequisite for new We collaborate and share experience with other thinking and development of our business. We know that companies, and we enter into strategic partnerships that we can only create the workplace we want and the bank support diversity. In 2018 we started cooperating with Main risks: we want to be for our customers by having a diverse staff Female Invest, an organisation that seeks to engage A lack of diversity and an uneven and management group. We are therefore working to more women in the world of investing. gender composition may indicate a promote diversity and female management failure to exploit the full potential of current and potential staff members. representation at all stages from recruitment of new staff The gender composition of management did not change Therefore, Nykredit must ensure that members and internal recruitment to career development markedly in 2018, however. Nykredit has 32% female discrimination does not occur – neither and a manager pipeline for directorships. managers and 68% male managers, and the number of during the ordinary workday, nor female managers at the first management level dropped during internal and external Female managers from 48% in 2017 to 43% in 2018. This should be seen in recruitment. In 2018 we focused on creating a pipeline of female the context of a general gender distribution of 44% management talent through effective internal recruitment female and 56% male staff in the Group, which ranks us and mobility. We ensure that our employment and just above average in the financial sector where female recruitment procedures contribute to uncovering female managers represent 30%. We will keep working towards management talent so that both female and male increasing the share of female managers, and we have candidates are represented during internal and external launched a number of initiatives to get there, see the next recruitment. We are also working to ensure diversity in page. Policies that govern the area: the selection of candidates for talent programmes.  Diversity policy  Remuneration policy Female managers by management level 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 Long-term target target* target* Top 17% 18% 22% 20% 20% ≥25% 45% Middle 25% 28% 29% 29% 30% ≥32% 45% First 46% 45% 48% 43% 50% ≥45% 45% * With a view to stepping up the effort of raising the number of women in management, flow targets will be applied from 2019 as targets for measuring female management representation. Flow targets are defined as the gender composition when filling management positions (appointment, internal/external recruitment). 46 Equal pay and women in management: Not there yet Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Female board representation Development initiatives in 2019 In line with current legislation, Nykredit has set diversity  More women in management will be a special focus targets for the Board of Directors. Our diversity policy area in the annual organisational review of our emphasises that, in addition to professional and personal organisation’s readiness to realise our strategy and skills, regard must be had to diversity in relation to for business objectives. example gender, age and nationality when composing  In the recruitment phase, we will introduce a “reversed and recruiting for the Board of Directors. The aim is to burden of proof”. If no female candidates are available ensure that the Board of Directors is composed of the for vacant manager positions, such non-availability best qualified persons, also reflecting the diversity seen must be explained, and it must be assessed whether across the organisation. In 2018 the target was met by to expand the field of candidates with female Nykredit A/S and Nykredit Realkredit A/S, but not by candidates. Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit Bank A/S.  Using specific initiatives, we will step up the effort in relation to female managers at the first management Continued focus on equal pay level, as the numbers clearly show that many female Another important parameter for Nykredit’s diversity and managers do not climb further up the management anti-discrimination efforts is equal pay to women and ladder. The goal is to qualify and motivate female men. Equal pay statistics based on job titles show that managers to strive for a management position in the gender salary differences are still very small. The middle and top management. weighted average of the pay gap between men and  Equal distribution of men and women in our Group women in 2015 was 1.9% in favour of men. This talent programmes and strengthening the abilities of percentage has since dropped to 0.8% in 2018. immediate supervisors to spot talents and determine manager ambitions.  We will single out female role models in management positions and motivate male managers to take on more family responsibilities, for instance in connection with parental leave. Weighted salary difference in favour of men Women on the Board of Directors 2015 2016 2017 2018 Company 2015 2016 2017 2018 Target 2018 Target 2019 Salary Nykredit A/S 22% 22% 28% 33% 30% 35% difference 1.90% 0.80% 0.70% 0.80% (5 out of 15) Nykredit Realkredit A/S 20% 20% 33% 38% 30% 35% (5 out of 13) Nykredit Bank A/S 20% 0% 0% 0% 25% 25% (0 out of 7) Totalkredit A/S 22% 11% 11% 11% 25% 25% (1 out of 9) Equal pay and women in management: Not there yet 47 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 CASE: Nykredit staff volunteer their time to advise battered women For ten years, Nykredit staff have volunteered their According to surveys by Mødrehjælpen (Mother’s Help), professional expertise and commitment to help women 66% of the users experience improved quality of life as a who are struggling in their lives. result of the advice they receive. Getting a hold on your THE PROGRAMME TEN YEARS ON personal finances provides stability and a better sense of Karin creates security and clarity your options.  Advice provided to more than 4,500 women Karin Steffensen, Senior Credit Specialist, has since  32 volunteers in 2018 2009 helped battered women sort out their finances as a The future for Råd til Livet  17 crisis centres and other locations offering advice volunteer in the programme called Råd til Livet. After ten years with the Mary Foundation as project  66% of the users at Mødrehjælpen experience manager, the programme will enter a new phase in 2019. improved well-being as a result of the advice they ”They are a special type of customers, from all walks of The project is now running so smoothly that receive. life, but the thing they have in common is typically that Mødrehjælpen and the women’s crisis centres will take they are humble about the situation they are in and have over responsibility. Nykredit’s contribution will remain the ”Råd til Livet” is a social partnership between the Mary low self-esteem,” says Karin. same – dedicated, voluntary advisers who use their skills Foundation, Mødrehjælpen (Mothers’ Help), LOKK to help battered women move on in life. (the National Organisation of Shelters for Battered Karin often sees the women leaving the conversation Women and Children), Nykredit, Østifterne and local with shoulders down and with more self-confidence than attorneys. The Råd til Livet programme offers battered when they arrived. women free social, financial and legal advice. Nykredit’s staff offer financial advice aimed at providing the individual women with a better overview and empowering them to manage their own personal finances. I do it for the children. If the mother can make ends meet in everyday life, the children’s everyday lives will improve as well.” Karin Steffensen, Senior Credit Specialist and programme volunteer at Råd til Livet 48 Equal pay and women in management: Not there yet UN Sustainable Development Nykredit Group – Corporate Goals Responsibility Report 2018 Nykredit’s work is in particular contributing to achieving the SDGs and related targets set out below. Staff – in brief Value to society Strong and productive businesses that make use of society’s entire talent pool are important to society as 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and a whole. That requires skilled and engaged staff who are offered the opportunity to develop, thrive and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and realise their potential in their professional lives – as well as strong focus on higher diversity. vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. Value to Nykredit Without skilled and engaged staff, Nykredit will have limited value creation and thus insufficient value creation for our customers. Value creation relies on Nykredit meeting customer expectations and understanding and accommodating our customers’ needs and requirements. This is only possible if we focus on both skills enhancement and a diverse staff. Nykredit’s ambitions 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and Nykredit aims to build a desirable workplace, attracting skilled staff and strong talents. equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decisionmaking in political, economic and public life. Activities and achievements in 2018  At or above the level of the external benchmarks on all significant parameters in the staff satisfaction survey  Allocated 1,200 paid training days for our staff through the joint financial sector training scheme  Completed a number of skills enhancement programmes  Launched an intelligent learning tool 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and  Progressed towards our targets for female management and board representation decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. Initiatives in 2019  Continue to equip our staff to comply with regulatory requirements and meet customer demands 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure  Improve management quality in Nykredit working environments for all workers.  Inclusion of women in management as part of our annual organisational review  Introduction of ”reversed burden of proof” when recruiting managers 8.10 Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial  Equal distribution of men and women in our Group talent programmes institutions to encourage and expand access to banking,  Promote female role models in our internal communications. insurance and financial services for all. Equal pay and women in management: Not there yet 49 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 50 Equal pay and women in management: Not there yet Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 New targets for energy, climate and environment With the launch in 2012 of our Climate and frame. Also in 2018 we implemented the ISO 14001 Environmental Strategy, we set an ambitious target of environmental management system to improve our reducing the Group’s CO 2 emissions by 65% by the end business processes and ensure better documentation of Main risks: of 2020. At the close of the year 2018, this target had our environmental performance. Nykredit may have a negative impact nearly been reached. Therefore, we have set new targets on the climate and the environment for our work of reducing our energy consumption, carbon Focus on promoting a circular economy through the operation of our locations footprint and waste volumes, which will drive our efforts and sourcing of goods or services. With new targets for reducing our waste volumes and Moreover, Nykredit’s suppliers may be in the years ahead. increasing the proportion of recyclable waste, Nykredit involved in human rights violations and has made a clear commitment to contributing to a circular corruption. Clear objectives and processes economy. We launched several projects in 2018 aimed at Our experience from the process of reducing Nykredit’s reaching those targets. One project involved pilot testing CO 2 emissions is that setting clear objectives and of source separation of bio-waste, and on that basis we conditions is the key to success. Consequently, our new decided to separate the bio-waste from our largest office targets are ambitious, specific and have a clear time buildings and have it gasified into biogas. Going forward, all new carpets must be made from recycled plastic Policies that govern the area: recovered from the ocean, and all furniture and building Total CO 2 emission, materials must be recycled as far as possible in Nykredit Group (tonnes) cooperation with Genbyg, Denmark’s largest online store  Policy for climate, energy and environment for used building materials. In 2019 our focus will include  Procurement policy how to replace the use of plastic by our suppliers and  Supplier Code of Conduct 12,000 business partners. Read more about our work here 10,000 Buildings focused on sustainability 8,000 We continuously focus on making our locations – future and existing – more energy-efficient. The buildings that 6,000 Nykredit owns or leases must be as climate-friendly as possible, for instance by means of LED lighting and solar 4,000 cell systems. In 2018 one of the consequences of this ambition was that sustainability was among the six 2,000 parameters for deciding on the new headquarters in Nordhavn, which Nykredit will move into in 2022. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 New targets for energy, climate and environment 51 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Placing demands on our suppliers campaigns is for Nykredit’s staff to contribute even more We place demands on our suppliers and their suppliers to reducing the Group’s climate and environmental of services and products in respect of human rights, the environment, labour standards and ethics. Through our footprint. In 2018 we participated in the international campaigns Earth Hour and Earth Overshoot Day and New targets for Supplier Code of Conduct we ensure that our suppliers live up to the social, ethical and environmental standards conducted a ”print less” campaign. energy, climate laid down in ISO 26000 and the UN Global Compact. However, the fact that our suppliers consider our Code of We will also participate in these campaigns in 2019 and are looking out for new initiatives that may contribute to and environment Conduct when concluding a contract is no guarantee that raising the awareness of our staff. they will satisfy the requirements in the future. We  Total MWh consumption to be therefore reserve the right to check that our suppliers reduced by 25% by the end of comply with our Code of Conduct – and if not, we are entitled to terminate the contract. 2025 In 2019, in cooperation with our largest suppliers, we will  CO2 emission per staff member articulate the importance of these issues being to be reduced by 5% annually addressed by themselves and their own suppliers. until 2025 A joint effort  Maximum 20% of Nykredit’s In 2018 we completed a number of behavioural campaigns among Nykredit’s staff. The purpose of the waste will be incinerated in 2023 – the rest will be recycled  Waste volume per staff member to be reduced to 100kg in 2023 All electricity generated by wind turbines As of 2019 all Nykredit’s electricity will be generated by two wind turbines located in northern Jutland as we have purchased certificates of origin covering our annual consumption of electricity. Against this backdrop, our next focus is more energy-efficient operations – we target a 25% reduction of our consumption of electricity and heating by the end of 2025. 52 New targets for energy, climate and environment Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 New targets for energy, climate and environment 53 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 UN Sustainable Development Goals Nykredit’s work is in particular contributing to achieving the SDGs and related targets set out below. Energy, climate and environment – in brief Value to society With some 3,400 staff members and nearly 50 locations, operating the Nykredit Group makes its mark on 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable the climate and the environment, and we are therefore dedicated to reducing our negative impact as energy in the global energy mix. much as possible. Value to Nykredit When we do it right, the work of reducing our energy consumption, carbon footprint, waste volumes etc also generates benefits such as lower costs and higher job satisfaction. Nykredit’s ambitions 11.6 By 2030, reduce the negative per capita environmental impact. Nykredit has an ambition to contribute to making Denmark greener – and this requires keeping order in our own house. Accordingly, we have set clear and ambitious targets for our CO 2 emission, energy consumption and waste. Activities and achievements in 2018  Attained 97% of our target to reduce our CO 2 emission by 65% by the end of 2020  Decided to purchase 100% wind turbine power in 2019  Implemented ISO 14001 environmental management system 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and  New targets for our CO 2 emission, energy consumption and waste institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. Initiatives in 2019  Continued conversion to sustainable solutions at both existing and future locations  Mapping of Nykredit’s use of refrigerants and formulation of Global Warming Potential (GWP) target  Verification of our climate and environmental targets as Science-Based Targets  10% reduction of paper consumption. 54 New targets for energy, climate and environment Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Organisation and governance . Organisation and governance 55 Nykredit Group– Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 [Tekst NB! Slet ikke sektionsskiftet på næste linje] 56 Organisation and governance Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Key figures for corporate responsibility Development throughout Denmark INDICATORS 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of municipalities with lending growth 89 out of 98 88 out of 98 94 out of 98 96 out of 98 Lending to senior customers Number of loans to senior customers aged 65 and over 114,603 117,927 121,589 124,015 Bond debt outstanding (DKK billion) 89.6 93.8 98.3 101.9 New loans to senior customers aged 65 and over 15,020 11.683 10,918 9,325 Bond debt outstanding (DKK billion) 15.1 11.9 11.5 10.7 Lending to young customers Number of loans to young customers aged 30 years and younger 29,147 22,005 22,158 30,315 Bond debt outstanding (DKK billion) 25.9 21.3 23.9 36.1 New loans to young customers aged 30 years and younger 10,943 7,964 8,210 10,431 Bond debt outstanding (DKK billion) 12.9 9.5 10.4 14.5 Public housing lending Lending for youth housing (DKK billion) 4.5 4.8 4.9 4.9 Lending for senior housing (DKK billion) 7.6 7.3 7.1 7.1 Key figures for corporate responsibility 57 MORTGAGE LENDING TO THE BUSINESS SEGMENT THROUGHOUT DENMARK DKK billion Entire Denmark Capital Region Sealand North Denmark Central Denmark South Denmark of Denmark Region Region Region Region Mortgage lending to business customers, DKK billion 388 112 43 57 98 77 of which private rental 79 29 5 10 22 13 of which industry 16 1 2 3 6 3 of which office and retail 91 32 11 9 22 16 of which agriculture 90 2 13 23 28 24 of which public housing 63 23 7 8 12 13 of which cooperative housing 36 19 3 3 5 5 of which other 14 5 1 1 4 2 Customers NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS (1,000) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of customers 1,065 1,067 1,101 1,159 of which personal customers 398 396 409 440 of which business customers 73 68 69 71 of which Totalkredit customers 617 625 644 676 of which ”double customers”* (23) (22) (21) (28) * Customers who are customers of both Nykredit and Totalkredit. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 2015 2016 2017 2018 Personal customers (EPSI 1-100) 70 71 71 72 Business customers (EPSI 1-100) 66 66 63 67 Number of complaints 267 195 184 180 58 Key figures for corporate responsibility Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Human Resources STAFF 2015 2016 2017 2018 Permanent staff, year-end 3,432 3,227 3,105 3,025 of which part-time staff 349 313 278 410 Staff paid by the hour 626 586 544 518 New staff 285 321 322 316 Disposals 543 459 647 433 New staff as percentage of permanent staff 8.30% 9.90% 10.40% 10.40% Average number of full-time staff* 3,709 3,640 3,502 3,382 Staff turnover 15.10% 13.10% 19.30% 13.70% of which voluntary 8.80% 9.40% 10.80% 9.00% of which involuntary 6.30% 3.70% 8.50% 4.60% Members of staff per region employed in Denmark 99.8% 99.8% 99.8% 99.8% employed in France and Spain 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% STAFF SATISFACTION SURVEY Staff satisfaction survey (levels 1-100) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Staff satisfaction 74 73 73 76 Assessment of indoor climate (good indoor climate) 69 N/A 70 N/A Assessment of noise level (low noise level) 82 N/A 83 N/A Impact on sick absence rate (low impact) 99 N/A 99 N/A Key figures for corporate responsibility 59 WORK-LIFE BALANCE 2015 2016 2017 2018 Part-time staff 349 313 278 410 of which women 318 286 249 305 of which men 31 27 29 105 Average number of days per paid maternity leave 125 128 131 128 Number of staff members on leave 371 340 340 340 Health 2015 2016 2017 2018 Average days of absence because of illness 6.1 5.8 5.5 5.6 PERCENTAGE OF FEMALE MANAGERS % 2015* 2016 2017 2018 Executive-level management 17% 18% 22% 20% Middle-level management 25% 28% 29% 29% Lower-level management 46% 45% 48% 43% Total female managers 31% 32% 34% 32% Note: The individual categories are defined as: Executive-level management: Managers reporting directly to a member of the Group Executive Board. Middle-level management: Managers to whom five or more staff members report directly. Lower-level management: Managers to whom four or fewer staff members report directly. FEMALE BOARD REPRESENTATION % 2015 2016 2017 2018 Nykredit A/S 22% 22% 28% 33% Nykredit Realkredit A/S 20% 20% 33% 38% Nykredit Bank A/S 20% 0% 0% 0% Totalkredit A/S 22% 11% 11% 11% WEIGHTED SALARY DIFFERENCE IN FAVOUR OF MEN % 2015 2016 2017 2018 Salary difference 1.90% 0.80% 0.70% 0,80% 60 Key figures for corporate responsibility Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 STAFF RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS 2018, % of staff Men Women Total Management 72% 80% 75% Total 73% 73% 73% Numbers are lower than 100% because of maternity and other leave, illness, change of jobs etc. Climate and environment NYKREDIT WANTS TO RUN A SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS. WE HAVE THEREFORE SET A TARGET OF REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT BY 65% BY THE END OF 2020. TODAY, WE HAVE REACHED 97% OF THIS TARGET. RESOURCE CONSUMPTION HQ + staff Customer Subsidiaries JN Data Nykredit Group Nykredit Group Nykredit Group Nykredit Group Index Index building centres ** 2018 2017 2016 2012 2017-2018 2012-2018 Number of locations 6 39 1 1 47 53 63 74 89 64 of which leased premises 6 33 1 0 40 41 54 56 98 71 Heated area (sqm) 63,515 39,509 1,473 2,483 106,980 110,995 128,922 146,784 96 73 Number of staff (total) 2,680 914 44 83 3,721 3,816 4,224 4,807 97 77 Number of full-time staff (FTE) 2,194 893 40 83 3,210 3,304 3,623 4,100 97 78 Consumption data Electricity (MWh) 4,883 2,098 45 2,694 9,720 10,780 12,476 16,054 90 61 Heating (MWh) 4,229 3,861 108 76 8,275 9,412 9,570 12,010 88 69 Heating, degree-day adjusted (MWh)* 5,352 4,451 127 85 10,015 10,697 11,693 14,094 94 71 Direct energy consumption (MWh) 363 552 0 0 915 772 857 806 119 114 of which energy via renewable energy systems (MWh) 252 82 0 0 333 301 304 111 Indirect energy consumption (MWh) 9,001 5,489 153 2,770 17,413 19,720 23,616 29,343 88 59 Energy intensity (excl renewable energy systems) 1% 9% 0% 0% 3% 2% 2% 3% 140 122 Total energy consumption (MWh) 9,364 6,041 153 2,770 18,328 20,492 24,474 30,149 89 61 KPIs Heated area per staff member (sqm) 29 44 37 30 33 34 36 35 99 95 Electricity consumption per staff member (kWh) 2,340 2,440 1,136 32,612 3,132 3,354 3,527 3,773 93 83 Key figures for corporate responsibility 61 Electricity consumption per square metre (kWh) 77 53 31 1,085 94 100 99 107 94 88 Heat consumption per staff member (kWh) 2,439 4,985 3,171 1,025 3,120 3,238 3,228 3,312 96 94 Heat consumption per square metre (kWh) 84 113 86 34 94 96 91 94 97 100 Total energy consumption per staff member (kWh) 4,268 6,765 3,835 33,536 5,710 6,202 6,755 7,085 92 81 Total energy consumption per square metre (kWh) 147 153 104 1,116 171 185 190 200 93 86 Transport Company car travel (km) 625,425 N/A 3,405 13,460 642,290 803,839 815,885 927,097 80 69 Own car travel (km) 3,646,534 N/A 0 0 3,646,534 4,528,042 4,693,385 6,426,549 81 57 Taxi travel (km) 211,054 N/A 1,581 2,220 214,855 298,296 251,849 524,697 72 41 DriveNow electric cars (km) 5,549 N/A 0 0 5,549 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Rail travel (km) 1,367,687 N/A 11,233 16,237 1,395,157 1,526,397 1,694,399 2,170,475 91 64 Air travel (km) 3,348,836 N/A 10,409 225,753 3,584,998 3,153,262 3,722,689 9,119,566 114 39 CO2 emission Total heat consumption (tonnes) 428 353 11 8 800 1,017 1,328 1,688 85 53 Electricity consumption (tonnes) 1,060 455 10 584 2,109 3,089 2,911 6,609 68 32 Air travel (tonnes) 368 N/A 1.2 20 389 379 457 1,191 103 33 Rail travel (tonnes 49 N/A 0.4 1 50 56 66 52 89 95 Own car travel (tonnes) 511 N/A 0 0 511 634 657 1,060 81 48 Company car travel (tonnes) 88 N/A 0.5 2 90 113 114 143 80 63 Taxi travel (tonnes) 31 N/A 0.2 0.3 32 44 37 78 72 41 Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) 2,534 808 23 615 3,980 5,332 5,570 10,821 75 37 CO2 emission per staff member (tonnes) 1.15 0.90 0.58 7.45 1.24 1,61 1.54 2.64 77 47 CO2 emission per DKK 1 earned (DKK per kg N/A N/A N/A N/A 3,016 2,628 2,408 1,089 0 0 CO2 ) *The calculation is based on degree-day adjusted heat consumption, corresponding to a standard year. ** Approximately 12.7% of the energy consumption of JN Data has been included in 2018 as Nykredit took up about one-eigth of its operations. The number of kilometres and emissions from transport for JN Data are based on the distribution also applied to expenses. 62 Key figures for corporate responsibility Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 CO2 EMISSIONS: CURRENT LEVEL TOWARDS TARGET OF 65% CO2 REDUCTION – BY SOURCE Direct and indirect emissions OUR AIR EMISSIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO THREE CATEGORIES:  Scope 1 – Direct greenhouse gas emissions are  Scope 2 – Indirect greenhouse gas emissions are  Scope 3 – Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions emissions from sources that are owned or controlled emissions that result from the consumption of the are emissions from sources that are not owned or by Nykredit. They include emissions from direct electricity we purchase. They include emissions that controlled by Nykredit. They include third-party combustion of fuels and our vehicle fleet. result from our consumption of electricity and district deliveries, business travel and use of products and heating. services sold. Reporting of Scope 3 emissions is optional. Nykredit includes the following elements: CO 2 emissions from air and rail travel, work-related own car travel and taxi travel. CO 2 emissions (Scopes) 2018 2017 2016 2012 Index 2012-2018 LocationMarketLocationMarketLocationMarketLocationMarketLocationMarketbased based based based based based based based based based Total CO 2 emissions (tonnes) 3,980 6,780 5,331 8,419 5,570 9,196 10,821 12,399 37% 55% Direct CO 2 emissions (Scope 1) 90 90 186 186 228 228 308 308 29% 29% Company car travel (tonnes) 90 90 112 112 114 114 143 143 63% 63% Heat consumption (tonnes) – oil and gas 0 0 73 73 114 114 165 165 0% 0% Indirect CO 2 emissions (Scope 2) 2,909 5,708 4,033 7,121 4,125 7,751 8,131 9,710 36% 59% Electricity consumption (tonnes) 2,109 4,908 3,089 6,177 2,911 6,537 6,609 8,188 32% 60% Heat consumption (tonnes) – from CHP plants 800 800 944 944 1,214 1,214 1,522 1,522 53% 53% Other indirect CO 2 emissions (Scope 3) 981 981 1,113 1,113 1,217 1,217 2,382 2,381 41% 41% Air travel (tonnes) 389 389 379 379 457 457 1,191 1,191 33% 33% Rail travel (tonnes) 50 50 56 56 66 66 52 52 95% 95% Own car travel (tonnes) 511 511 634 634 657 657 1,060 1,060 48% 48% Taxi travel (tonnes) 32 32 44 44 37 37 78 78 41% 41% Note: Source of the market-based emissions from electricity is RE-DISS European Residual Mixes. Key figures for corporate responsibility 63 Waste NYKREDIT DIVIDES THE GROUP’S WASTE VOLUMES INTO THE BELOW COMPONENTS. THIS SHOWS THAT ABOUT 50% OF NYKREDIT’S WASTE WAS RECYCLED. WE HAVE SPECIAL FOCUS ON INCREASING THIS SHARE. HQ + staff buildings Customer centres Subsidiaries JN Data Nykredit Group Nykredit Group Nykredit Group Index 2017-2018 2018 2017 2016 Total waste (tonnes) 373 82 N/A N/A 454 413 421 110 Waste per staff member (kg/FTE) 170 91 N/A N/A 141 125 120 113 Waste sent to incineration (tonnes) 194 32 N/A N/A 227 225 245 101 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 0,3 0.2 N/A N/A 0.5 4 1 11 Waste recycled (tonnes) 178 49 N/A N/A 227 186 175 122 of which food waste (tonnes) 81 0 N/A N/A 81 46 21 176 of which paper waste (tonnes) 70 44 N/A N/A 114 131 147 87 of which cardboard (tonnes) 9.6 4 N/A N/A 13.8 N/A N/A N/A of which plastic (tonnes) 6.6 0 N/A N/A 6.6 N/A N/A N/A of which electronic waste (tonnes) 2 0 N/A N/A 1.9 2 2 108 of which glass waste (tonnes) 4.1 0.6 N/A N/A 4.7 5.6 3.3 84 of which iron and metal waste (tonnes) 4.8 0 N/A N/A 4.8 1.9 1.3 253 of which batteries (tonnes) 0.06 0 N/A N/A 0.06 0.03 0.05 183 of which other waste (tonnes) 0.2 0.1 N/A N/A 0.3 0.07 0.5 457 Recycling (%) 48% 60% N/A N/A 50% 45% 42% 111 Other fragments (%) 52% 40% N/A N/A 50% 55% 58% 91 Water consumption HQ + staff buildings Customer Subsidiaries JN Data Nykredit Group Nykredit Group Nykredit Group Index 2017-2018 centres 2018 2017 2016 Total water use (cubic metres) 27,120 8,059 488 822 36,488 36,717 39,928 92% of which recycling of water (cubic metres) 647 N/A N/A N/A 647 N/A N/A N/A Number of staff (FTE) 2,194 893 40 83 3,210 3,304 3,623 91% Heated area (sqm) 63,515 39,509 1,473 2,483 106,980 110,995 111,843 99% Water use per staff member (litres) 12,361 9,025 12,188 9,947 11,369 11,113 11,021 101% Water use per square metre (litres) 427 204 331 331 341 331 289 114% 64 Key figures for corporate responsibility Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsible investments RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS IN FIGURES DKK billion 2016 2017 2018 Nykredit’s total investments, covered by the Responsible investment policy 303 279 301 Number of companies subjected to quarterly screening 2,281 2,320 2,283 Companies with which Nykredit engages (enters into dialogue) because of breach of standards 17 21 22 Excluded companies 23 32 51 Participation in general meetings – No of general meetings N/A 589 772 – Percentage of AGM in which Nykredit participated N/A 58% 85% – Votes cast against board of directors, % N/A 8.4% 8.1% Key figures for corporate responsibility 65 66 Key figures for corporate responsibility Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GRI reporting Nykredit’s Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index contains references to relevant reports and websites that describe the relevant areas. Annual Report = Nykredit Group Annual Report 2018 CR Report = Corporate Responsibility Report 2018, Nykredit Group Fact Book = Fact Book 2018, Nykredit Group Risk and Capital management Report = Risk and Capital Management Report 2018 Corporate Governance Report = Corporate Governance Report 2018 General Disclosures: 102 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance General Disclosures No 102-1 Name of the organization Annual Report: Page 41 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services CR Report: Pages 6-10 102-3 Location of headquarters Annual Report: Page 41 102-4 Location of operations Nykredits primary location of operation is Denmark. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report: Page 41 102-6 Markets served See our Fact Book 2018 for information regarding our activities broken down by geographic location and sectors served. 102-7 Scale of the organization CR Report 2018: “Key figures”: Page 59 Fact Book 2018: Page 8-9 102-8 Information on employees and other workers CR Report, ”Key figures”: Page 59 102-9 Supply chain The supply chain of Nykredit is in line with the guidance of the Global Compact. As a provider of financial services, our employees represent the main element of our value proposition related to the organization's activities. Cleaning services, canteen and outdoor facility maintenance are operated by external suppliers subject to our Code of Conduct, which can be found at: https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/samfundsansvar/filer/nykredit-code-of-conduct.pdf CR Report, Placing demands on our suppliers : Page 52 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes to the organization and its supply chain have occurred. Annual Report: Page 11. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Nykredit is a signatory to the UN Global Compact's principles, which include the Precautionary Principles. To comply with the Precautionary Principle, Nykredit always strives to mitigate and avoid negative externalities caused by our operations, and our products and services are assessed continuously. In addition, our suppliers and GRI reporting 67 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance subsuppliers are subject to our Code of Conduct, which outlines the minimum standards required in terms of social, ethical and environmental matters. CR Report, Placing demands on our suppliers : Page 52 https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/samfundsansvar/filer/nykredit-code-of-conduct.pdf 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact Principles for Responsible Investments ISO 14001 ISO 26000 GRI Standards OECD Guidelines UN's 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Carbon Disclosure Project World Economic Forum Dansif Danish Committee on Corporate Governance 102-13 Membership af associations Ecolabelling Denmark (Miljømærkning Danmark) Finance Denmark Landsdækkende Banker Joint Council of Rural Areas (Landdistrikternes Fællesråd) 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CR Report, ”Foreword”: Page 5 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities CR Report, Lending at all times : Page 17 CR Report, We will actively support sustainable development : Page 25 CR Report, Investments that make a difference : Page 30 CR Report, Responsible business conduct : Page 37 CR Report, Ramping up the fight against financial crime : Page 39 CR Report, Data security: We protect data : Page 40 CR Report, New targets for energy, climate and environment : Page 51 CR Report, Skills for the future : Page 44 CR Report, Equal pay and women in management : Page 46 https://www.nykredit.com/filarkiv/?searchText=&documentTypeCategories=&legalEntities= &documentTypes=89&years= 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior CR Report, In brief : Pages 6-19 CR Report, Our business concept is our foundation : Page 10 CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 CR Report, We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark : Page 16 https://www.nykredit.com/samfundsansvar/ https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/om-os/politik_for_samfundsansvar_november_201811-27_da.pdf 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and norms of behavior All relevant units and employees contribute to the design of Nykredit's Corporate Responsibility Policy, from which initiatives, products, procedures and policies are derived. Nykredit has formed policies on whistleblowing, anti-corruption, nepotism etc. An overview of Nykredit's policies can be found at https://www.nykredit.com/omos/organisation/politikker/ 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report, Organisation and governance : Page 37 68 GRI reporting Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance 102-19 Delegating authority Annual Report , Organisation and governance : Page 37 CR Report, Organisation and governance : Page 55 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics The Group Executive Board represents our Corporate Responsibility Committee and is responsible for designing our social responsibility policy, which is approved by the Board. Annual Report, Organisation and governance : Page 37 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Nykredit follows the Managerial Code of Conduct of the Danish Bankers Association, which recommends that the Board of Directors ensure ongoing dialogue between the company and its shareholders in order for the shareholders to gain relevant insight into the company's potential and policies, and in order for the Board of Directors to be aware of the shareholders' views, interests and opinions on the company. Nykredit prioritises ongoing dialogue with our customers to ensure they are consulted regarding our company policy and that our products and services match their needs and demands. CR Report: Page 18 Find our Corporate Governance at https://www.nykredit.com/globalassets/nykredit.com/pdf/corporate-governance-rapport2017_nykredit-koncernen_dk.pdf See our communication policy for further information at: https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/om-os/politik-for-kommunikation_opdateretnovember-2018_2019-01-17.pdf 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees The Board of Directors has 15 members, five of whom are staff-elected. Composition of the Board of Directors is available at https://www.nykredit.com/en-gb/omos/organisation/bestyrelsen/ Nykredit has established the following committees: Credit Committee Asset/Liability Committee Risk Committee Contingency Committee Products Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee For a description of these committees, see: Annual Report, Organisation and responsibilities : Page 37 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Chairman of the Board of Directors is Steffen Kragh, who is not an executive at Nykredit A/S. Annual Report, Company details: Page 37 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Report, section 1.1.1.: Page 4 Annual Report, Organisation and responsibilities : Page 37 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Report, [section 3.2.1.]: Page 4 GRI reporting 69 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy The Corporate Responsibility Committee is handling environmental and social issues and regularly reviews the organization on issues related to economic, environmental and social topics. Annual Report, Organisation and responsibilities : Page 37 CR Report, “Organisation and governance”: Page 55 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance Report, Organisation and responsibilities : Page 19 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Annual Report, Organisation and responsibilities : Page 37 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Risk and Capital Management Report 2017, 2.4 Risk governance and culture : Page 8 CR Report, Responsible business conduct : Page 37 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risk and Capital Management Report, Risk Monitoring”: Page 13 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics CR Report, Organisation and management : Page 55 Risk and Capital Management Report, Risk Monitoring : Page 14 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting The Corporate Responsibility Committee has reviewed and approved the contents of this report. The Board of Directors is responsible for the final approval of the CR Report. CR Report, Page 55 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Critical concerns can be communicated anonymously through our whistleblower scheme. Reportings will be screened by an external lawyer before being handed over to our head of Group Legal Affairs or to Internal Audit. 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns No critical concerns are to be reported for 2018. 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report, Remuneration : Page 47 Remuneration Policy: Pages 3-12 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Remuneration Policy: Page 47 Remuneration Policy: Pages 3-12 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Remuneration Policy: Page 3 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Annual total compensation ratio: 20.5 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the highest-paid individual to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees: 0.76 102-40 List of stakeholder groups CR Report, Pledge to our customers : Page 10 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Nykredit has entered into a collective agreement with NYKREDS, a company-specific branch of the Danish Financial Services Union. See: https://www.finansforbundet.dk/da/Kredse/Nykreds/Overenskomst/Sider/default.aspx 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 Corporate Responsibility Policy: https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/omos/politik_for_samfundsansvar_november_2018-11-27_da.pdf 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 Nykredit's communication policy includes guidelines on Nykredit's conduct in relation to its stakeholders both in and outside the Group. Find our communication policy at: https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/om-os/politik-for-kommunikation_opdateretnovember-2018_2019-01-17.pdf 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report: Page 37 70 GRI reporting Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 102-47 List of material topics CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 102-48 Restatements of information No information given in the previous report had been restated. 102-49 Changes in reporting See CR Report, New corporate responsibility priorities : Page 13 for a description of our new priorities in our work with responsibility and sustainability. In addition, we have converted our reporting on GRI from the GRI G4 Index to Standard Disclosures. Furthermore, we are now able to report on disclosure 302-3: Energy intensity and disclosure 303-3: Water recycled and reused. 102-50 Reporting period CR Report, Foreword : Page 5 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 report, released February 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report For questions regarding the report or its contents, please contact: Emilie Turunen, Head of Public Affairs and Responsibility E-mail: EMTU@Nykredit.dk Tel: +45 44 55 14 89 Uffe Lembo, Senior Consultant at Public Affairs and Responsibility E-mail: UL@Nykredit.dk Tel: +45 44 55 14 71 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index The full GRI Content Index is included in the CR Report, which can be found on our corporate website: www.nykredit.com 102-56 External assurance The GRI Content Index has not been subject to external assurance. Management Approach: 103 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance Management Approach No 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 CR Report, Main themes and prioritised measures : Page 14 103-2 The management approach and its components CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 CR Report, Main themes and prioritised measures : Page 14 CR Report, We will actively support sustainable development : Page 25 CR Report, Investments that make a difference : Page 30 CR Report, Responsible business conduct : Page 37 CR Report, Skills for the future : Page 44 CR Report, Energy, climate and environment : Page 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach CR Report, Nykredit's corporate responsibility : Page 11 CR Report, New corporate responsibility priorities : Page 13 GRI reporting 71 Economic: 201-206 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance Economic Performance No 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report, Financial highlights : Page 5 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change CR Report, We will actively support sustainable development : Page 25 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans See our collective agreement at: https://www.finansforbundet.dk/da/Kredse/Nykreds/Overenskomst/Sider/default.aspx Page 17 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Nykredit has not received financial assistance from the government in 2018. Market Presence No 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Standard entry level wage paid in Nykredit is significantly above the local minimum wages, and we do not differentiate between gender, ethnicity or other. For information regarding general wage levels by gender, see the CR Report, Equal pay and women in management : Page 47 For further information, see our remuneration policy at: https://www.nykredit.com/engb/om-os/organisation/politikker/ 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 100%: Nykredit's most senior management (the five executive directors) are all Danish citizens and are all located at the Nykredit headquarters in Copenhagen. For an overview of our senior management, see: https://www.nykredit.com/omos/organisation/ Indirect Economic Impacts No 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Nykredit has a large engagement with the commercial sector in Denmark and facilitate both infrastructure and supply services. Examples of this is described in CR Report, “Campus Bornholm”: Page 21 In 2018 Nykredit launched 'Infrastructure Fund 1', which facilitates infrastructural investments on behalf of customers. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts The Danish FSA (Financial Supervisory Authority) has declared Nykredit to be a SIFI (Systemically Important Financial Institution) for the Danish national economy. Nykredit is a SIFI due to its large lending portfolio. This means that Nykredit has to comply with stricter financial regulations than non-SIFI companies in order to ensure financial stability in the Danish economy. See Risk and Capital Management Report Page 40 for information regarding our market policy in relation to risk associated with our loan portfolio. As a SIFI institute, Nykredit has a significant economic impact on society through the portfolio and services provided. The impact is not measurable, but Nykredit is very conscious about how it can contribute positively through its activities. Examples of this can be found in: 72 GRI reporting Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance CR Report, We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark : Page 16 CR Report, We will actively support sustainable development : Page 25 Procurement Practices No 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Information unavailable. Nykredit is looking into whether and how this can be reported in the future. Anti-Corruption No 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption CR Report, Ramping up the fight against financial crime : Page 39 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Nykredit's anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated and executed to the entire organization. In addition, all employees have received mandatory education and special training to prevent financial crime. CR Report, Ramping up the fight against financial crime : Page 39 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption have been reported. Anti-competitive Behavior No 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No violations or legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices are to be reported for 2018. Enviromental: 301-308 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance Materials No 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Not applicable Nykredit provides financial services as its main product. 301-2 Recycled input materials used Not applicable Nykredit provides financial services as its main product. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Not applicable Nykredit provides financial services as its main product. Energy Yes 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization CR Report, Key figures : Page 61 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization CR Report, Key figures : Page 61 302-3 Energy intensity CR Report, Key figures : Page 61 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption CR Report, Key figures : Page 61 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services CR Report, Key figures : Page 61 Water No 303-1 Water withdrawal by source CR Report, Key figures : Page 64 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not applicable 303-3 Water recycled and reused CR Report, Key figures : Page 64 Emissions Yes 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions CR Report, Key figures : Page 63 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions CR Report, Key figures : Page 63 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions CR Report, Key figures : Page 63 GRI reporting 73 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance 305-4 GHG emissions intensity CR Report, Key figures : Page 63 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions CR Report, Key figures : Page 63 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Disclosure to be reported from 2019 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Information unavailable. Nykredit is looking into whether and how this can be reported in the future. Effluents and Waste No 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Not applicable 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method CR Report, Key figures : Page 64 306-3 Significant spills Not applicable 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not applicable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Not applicable Environmental Compliance No 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No incidents were reported in 2018 Supplier Environmental Assessment Yes 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria All of Nykredit's suppliers are subject to our Code of Conduct for suppliers and subsuppliers. CR Report, Placing demands on our suppliers : Page 52 Code of Conduct for suppliers and subsuppliers is available at: https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/samfundsansvar/filer/nykredit-code-of-conduct.pdf 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken No negative environmental impacts in the supply chain have been recorded for 2018. Social: 401-419 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance Employment No 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover CR Report, Key figures : Page 59 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partNykredit's collective agreement can be found at: time employees https://www.finansforbundet.dk/da/Kredse/Nykreds/Overenskomst/Documents/Nykredit_K oncernoverenskomst_17.pdf 401-3 Parental leave Return to work rate, men: 95.4% Return to work rate, women: 96.4% Labor/Management Relations No 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Nykredit is subject to collective agreements with a minimum notice period of 3-6 months depending on seniority. Nykredit offers addionally up to 13 months' notice depending on seniority. 74 GRI reporting Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance However, according to collective agreements, the minimum notice period is down to one month if seniority is below 5 months. Training and Education No 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee The actual number of registered training hours has not been recorded, but in the period from June 2018 to May 2019, a total of 1,200 paid days of education and training have been reserved. CR Report, Skills for the future : Page 44 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs CR Report, Skills for the future : Page 44 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development CR Report, Key figures : Page 61 reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity No 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Composition of the Board of Directors is available at https://www.nykredit.com/en-gb/omos/organisation/bestyrelsen/ 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men CR Report, Equal pay and women in management : Page 46 Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken No 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents were reported in 2018. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining No 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective CR Report, Placing demands on our suppliers : Page 52 bargaining may be at risk Supplier Social Assessment No 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria All of Nykredit's suppliers are subject to our Code of Conduct for suppliers and subsuppliers. CR Report, Placing demands on our suppliers : Page 52 Code of Conduct for suppliers and subsuppliers is available at: https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/samfundsansvar/filer/nykredit-code-of-conduct.pdf 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken No negative social impacts in the supply chain have been recorded for 2018. Marketing and Labeling No 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling All of our investment products are subject to risk labelling. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Not applicable 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Two incidents were recorded in 2017. See our press releases on both incidents: https://www.nykredit.com/siteassets/presse/presse-ognyheder/pressem/pressemeddelelse_nykredit_indgar_aftale_med_forbrugerombudsmand en_2018-12-20_da.pdf https://www.totalkredit.dk/siteassets/pdf/danskepressemeddelelser/2018/sag_mod_totalkredit_afgjort_2018_04_26_da.pdf GRI reporting 75 GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance Customer Privacy No 418-1 Substantiated complaint concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of Nykredit has not received any substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer customer data privacy. Socioeconomic Compliance No 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No incident of non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area have been reported Financial Sector Specific Supplements (fsss) GRI Disclosure title Reference/Report External assurance G4-DMA (FS1) Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines CR Report, We will actively support sustainable development : Page 25 No G4-DMA (FS2) Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business CR Report, We will actively support sustainable development : Page 25 No lines G4-DMA (FS3) Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with Information unavailable No environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions G4-DMA (FS4) Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and CR Report, We will actively support sustainable development : Page 25 No social policies and procedures as applied to business lines FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size, and by sector CR Report, Key figures : Page 58 No FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit Information unavailable. We are currently unable to report the monetary value of products for each business line broken down by purpose and services. See CR Report, “We believe in people and businesses all over Denmark”: Page 19 for a description of initiatives designed to provide social benefits No FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental Information unavailable. We are currently unable to report the monetary value of products benefit for each business line broken down by purpose and services. See CR Report, “We will actively support sustainable development”: Page 19 for a description of initiatives designed to provide environmental benefit No G4-DMA (FS9) Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and CR Report, “Organisation and governance” Page 55 social policies and risk assessment procedures No FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the CR Report, Persistence and dialogue can make a difference : Page 33 reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues No FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social CR Report, Responsible investment : Pages 30-31 screening No G4-DMA (FS12) Active ownership CR Report, Persistence and dialogue can make a difference : Page 33 No FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type Nykredit has 42 centers distributed all around Denmark. While the distance varies between the cities and low-populated areas, most of Nykredit's services are available online, providing a digital access point for the whole country. No FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people Not applicable No This document is an English translation of the original Danish text. In the event of discrepancies between the original Danish text and the English translation, the Danish text will prevail. 76 GRI reporting Nykredit Group – Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Kalvebod Brygge 1-3 DK-1780 Copenhagen V +45 70 10 90 00 Nykredit.com/corporate responsibility This report was printed at Nykredit’s Swan Ecolabelled printing facility. GRI reporting 77
