EFG Hermes February 21, 2019 EFG HERMES Communication on Progress Submitted to the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Introduction At the start of 2018, EFG environmental, social and Egypt (GCNE). This Hermes became a signatory governance issues, Communication on of the United Nations transforming our business Progress (CoP) report Principles for Responsible culture and integrating provides an overview of Investment (PRI), the global sustainability policies into activities undertaken by benchmark for investors our organizational strucEFG Hermes to uphold the and financial service ture. Our journey started Ten Principles of the UNGC providers to publicly when we joined the United on human rights, labour, the demonstrate their comNations Global Compact environment and antimitment to responsible (UNGC) in 2011 and since corruption and presents investment. As the first then, we have made EFG Hermes policies and Egyptian financial services tremendous progress, but progress in each area. corporation to take this we know that it is just a start Page step, we understand that it and we look forward to Human Rights 2 brings with it many continuing to champion responsibilities, but it also sustainability issues. Labour 6 provides us with the ability Environment 9 EFG Hermes is proud to to seize new opportunities. Anti-corruption 12 continue to be an active This step was the participant in the UNGC and Measurement of culmination of seven years a founding member of the Progress/Outcomes 15 of hard work to mainstream Global Compact Network Human Rights EFG Hermes’ goal is to uphold the UNGC principles on human rights by engaging with stakeholders and committing to policies that minimize risk on human rights issues and improve living standards in the communities where it operates. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Spotlight on … Development NAGA’ EL FAWAL AND EL focuses on stimulating the for students from DEIR VILLAGE INTEGRATED local economy, providing kindergarten to twelfth DEVELOPMENT PROJECT educational and job grade (K-12), to jointly opportunities, and upgrading establish a new platform In May 2018, Orascom community infrastructure in focused on Egypt’s highly Construction joined the line with needs identified in a underserved K-12 education partnership between the EFG gap analysis conducted in sector. With 20 million Hermes Foundation, the collaboration with the enrolled students, Egypt Kuwaiti Initiative to Support Governorate of Luxor, local offers significant opthe Egyptian People and the authorities and beneficiaries. portunities for creating value Sawiris Foundation for Social in education. Development to support the Women and youth emimplementation of the Naga’ powerment are pillars in the In December 2018, EFG El Fawal and El Deir Village project and significant Hermes announced the integrated sustainable progress has been made in successful first close of the development project. training women to find Egypt Education Fund with employment and become total commitments of USD The village in Esna, Luxor leaders in their community. 119 million indicating the (Upper Egypt) lies in an area commitment of investors to with high rates of poverty GEMS EDUCATION the sector. As a first project, and unemployment, limited INITIATIVE EFG Hermes and GEMS access to healthcare, poor Education have established a housing conditions, inIn May 2018, EFG Hermes, strategic alliance with Talaat adequate infrastructure, and via its private equity arm, Mostafa Group (TMG) to few opportunities for entered into an exclusive acquire, operate and develop economic independence. partnership with GEMS K-12 schools in the cities of The dynamic EGP 70 million Education, one of the world’s Madinaty and Al Rehab. project benefits more than leading providers of private 60,000 inhabitants and English-language education 2 Policy & Progress Review – Human Rights Policies/Actions Progress EFG Hermes Continued dedication to our four core values of integrity, leadership, value values creation and commitment. Commitment to Continued support for the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Department sustainability as the lead EFG Hermes division responsible for the advancement of sustainability issues within EFG Hermes. Over 91% of employees have participated in mandatory responsible investment training. Release of the fourth annual sustainability report (SR) covering 2017 and preparation of the fifth annual SR to be issued in March 2019. Stakeholder Hanaa Helmy, Chief Executive Officer of the EFG Hermes Foundation and engagement Head of CSR, named one of 10 global SDG Pioneers for 2018 by the United Nations Global Compact. Speaking engagements at numerous high-profile events including: o UNGC Leaders’ Summit (New York, September 2018) o Global Compact Network Egypt Conference (Cairo, October 2018) o Business for Peace Annual Event (Cairo, November 2018) Continuing internal awareness campaigns to highlight sustainable development issues and promote the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 20 collaterals published for CSR initiatives on multiple assets (Facebook, Twitter, Portal, Screens, LinkedIn, etc.). Promotion of sustainability measures within the investment and finance industry through membership in the Sustainability Advisory Committee (SAC) of the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) and the GCNE. Employee Participation by employees in voluntary activities promoting sustainability engagement including fundraising activities, community development initiatives, and social media engagement. Corporate Expansion of the EFG Foundation’s Naga’ El Fawal and El Deir Village citizenship integrated development project to EGP 70 million after Orascom Construction joined the partnership with the Kuwaiti Initiative for the Support of the Egyptian People and the Sawiris Foundation for Social Development. Thanks to Foundation efforts, Naga’ El Fawal was included in the official governmental urban plan. Development and refurbishment of El Deir Health Unit to serve more than 60,000 citizens. Licenses, legal paperwork and beneficiary approval obtained for the demolishment and reconstruction of the first phase of the houses with 17 houses ready and 7 more in the pipeline. MOU between the Foundation and the Luxor Company for Water and Wastewater (LCWW) to replace asbestos-containing water pipe network and provide all houses with clean water. Work on the water network is now complete and the Foundation is now working on the sanitation network and the establishment of a wastewater treatment plant in cooperation with the community and the LCWW. In collaboration with the Luxor governorate, Luxor city and the local unit, land has been allocated to the EFG Hermes Foundation to establish a 3 Policies/Actions Progress community centre that includes a nursery, a sewing workshop and a training centre. Literacy eradication training using the Montessori method conducted for 23 beneficiaries in collaboration with the MOVE Foundation for Children with Cerebral Palsy to economically empower residents and encourage economic independence and entrepreneurship. A further 24 beneficiaries received training from the Move Foundation to be able to identify different types of disabilities based on the demands and needs of the Fawal community. The community centre nursery will also include a class for children with special needs. The EFG Hermes Foundation, together with the local community, the Esna local unit and the governorate of Luxor, joined forces to establish a local community development association (CDA), El Fawal Association for Integrated Development, registered under the Ministry of Social Solidarity. Its board members are from Naga’ El Fawal and it will be responsible for managing the local income generating projects. Accessible EFG Hermes Leasing successfully signed three agreements with commercial financing banks to finance SMEs at subsidized interest rates, the Egyptian Arab Land Bank, Ahli Bank of Kuwait and HSBC. The company succeeded in directing EGP 500 million of its available funds towards the SME segment throughout the past three years, which helped to increase the contribution of SMEs in the portfolio to 16% by end of year 2018 compared to 6% at end of 2017. EFG Hermes continues to provide microfinance solutions through its subsidiary Tanmeyah Microenterprise Services, Egypt’s leading privatesector microfinance provider. Tanmeyah offers comprehensive microfinance solutions to owners of very small businesses across Egypt who would otherwise have no access to the banking sector. In 2018, Tanmeyah increased its number of branches from 150 to 248 and reached a milestone of serving over one million clients since its establishment. Tanmeyah is also an active participant in local community engagement projects, particularly those that further the development of human capital and help create jobs. The company has contributed to the establishment of vocational training workshops that teach carpentry and pottery to community members with special needs, so they can obtain the skills necessary to establish income-generating projects. EFG Hermes also continued to operate state-of-the-art Fintech solution under the brand name ‘valU’, offering Egyptian consumers payment-oninstalment programmes as part of the firm’s continuing efforts to ensure equitable access to financing throughout the country. Right to Successful first close of the Egypt Education Fund with total commitments of education USD 119 million in partnership with GEMS education. A strategic alliance with Talaat Mostafa Group (TMG) to acquire, operate and develop K-12 schools in the cities of Madinaty and Al Rehab. Model Egyptian Stock Exchange (MESE) Cairo University conference attended by 210 students in addition to two Juniors Programme Sessions (150 students); two sessions at EFG Hermes HQ (114 students); and a Specialization Day (100 students). 4 Policies/Actions Progress Human rights New policy statement on Human and Labour Rights. The EFG Hermes The EFG Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to uphold sustainability Supplier Code of beliefs shared by EFG Hermes and all applicable laws regarding labour and Conduct human rights, health and safety, environmental protection and ethics practices whenever they make products or perform services for EFG Hermes. 5 Labour EFG Hermes upholds the UNGC principles on labour with a clearly defined set of policies and a commitment to investing in the professional development and well-being of its employees. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Spotlight on … Policy Development With the firm belief that and regulations of the employees, visitors and protecting the rights of its countries we operate in; customers is essential to our employees is of paramount where our internal sustainable success. The importance and in line with standards supersede what is commitment to a Health the UN Guiding Principles mandated by law, we will and Safety policy will help on Labour & Human Rights, always apply what enhances the Group achieve a healthy EFG Hermes articulated two to employee rights and and safe work environment statements in 2018 to entitlements. Where local and applies both to Group complement its existing laws may stand in the way of offices and to people who policies. the application of our carry out work at the standards for human rights, direction of the Group. The Statement on Human and we will ensure we comply primary aim of the policy is Labour Rights with the laws while having to fulfil all corporate and In keeping with the conversations with the legal health and safety definition of human rights related organizations to find responsibilities by impas rights inherent to all ways of ensuring our lementing and maintaining human beings, regardless of adherence to our human policies, procedures and race, sex, nationality, rights standards. practices to provide a ethnicity, language, healthy and safe Statement on Health and religion, or any other status, environment for all Safety this statement extends to all employees, visitors and EFG Hermes employees. EFG Hermes believes that customers. We comply with the laws health and safety of our 6 Policy & Progress Review – Labour Policies/Actions Progress Career 6169 in-class training hours (excluding online hours) delivered to 520 development employees amounting to an overall increase in the number of training hour programmes by 23.4% (YoY), including virtual and in-class courses. 1760 training hours delivered via the Academy, EFG Hermes’ online platform for professional development. The percentage of untrained employees dropped by 8.6% in 2018 vs. 2017. A 18% increase (a total of 191 interns in 2018) in the intake of interns for the Experiential Learning Programme across EFG Hermes offices. New-hire training sessions have been extended to frontier market offices through the Online Onboarding Programme which includes all forms and policies they need to sign as well as any country-specific requirements to ensure compliance with local regulations. The EFG Hermes The EFG Hermes Employee Handbook clearly sets out employee rights in Employee terms of conditions of employment, performance management, leave Handbook entitlements, recruitment, and employment termination procedures. It is available to all employees on the company intranet. The EFG Hermes The EFG Hermes Code of Conduct defines a clear set of standards for Code of Conduct business conduct of employees and is available to all employees on the intranet. Policies to ensure New policy statement on Human and Labour Rights. labour rights Policies to ensure Policies to prevent discrimination by nationality. workplace ‘Know Your Employee’ Policy. diversity and fair Mandatory pre-employment background checks for New York office recruitment employees by an independent outside agent as mandated by state practices regulations. Wellbeing, safety New policy statement on Health and Safety. and health All employees in the UK, USA, Kenya, Bangladesh and Pakistan receive life policies insurance benefits through the same coverage and provider. Medical Insurance coverage is provided to UK, Kenya and Bangladesh employees in line with coverage offered to other employees. Pakistan employee medical insurance coverage has been upgraded in line with EFG Hermes standards. Medical insurance for USA employees is offered through a local provider in line with EFG Hermes standards. A pension scheme for UK employees as mandated by local law. 401k pension scheme offered to US employees according to market and industry norms even though not mandated by law. The ‘Fit-for-Life’ programme supervised by a certified fitness trainer and nutritionist. On-site gym facilities. Encouragement of employees to participate in team activities such as the World Health Day in-house fitness tournaments and the Bloomberg Square Mile Relay in Dubai. Organization of cultural activities such as book fairs and handicraft exhibitions. Medical and Life Grant policies for all employees. 7 Policies/Actions Progress Policies to An online portal to provide new hires with vital information ranging from encourage minor details such as the dress code, to more important matters such as employee regulatory requirements and policies. engagement The EFG Hermes Connect app is designed to streamline processes such as requesting vacations and HR letters, checking official holidays and pay days and provides access to all internal announcements and other important information. Automation of travel workflows starting from requesting the business trip, getting approvals and digital settlement of employee expenses. The system is integrated with EFG Connect to allow employee to request business trip remotely. ‘Whistle-blowing’ Policy. The ‘Voice It’ programme is an online tool for employees at all levels across the firm to communicate innovative ideas and voice complaints anonymously and discreetly. 8 Environment EFG Hermes is committed to upholding the UNGC principles on the environment by minimizing the environmental risk surrounding our operation and investments. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Spotlight on…the SDG Pioneers Chief Executive Officer of the organization’s holistic the EFG Hermes approach to sustainable Recognition Foundation and Head of development, educating CSR Hanaa Helmy was and onboarding internal Hanaa Helmy recently recognized by the stakeholders and overUN Global Compact—the seeing the growth of its 2018 SDG Pioneer world’s largest CSR projects and partnerships. The United Nations Global initiative—as one of 10 Through the efforts of Compact Sustainable Development Helmy and the Foundation, Goal (SDG) Pioneers in 2018 EFG Hermes joined the UN Best Sustainable for her work in investing in Global Compact in 2011, Financial Provider social development and aligned its social investment The European’s Global advancing sustainability in efforts with the SDGs, Banking & Finance Awards Egypt. developed tailored environmental, social and FTSE4Good Emerging Since 2006 and as the governance strategies for Index founding CEO of the EFG relevant business lines, One of only six MENA Hermes Foundation, Helmy and—as of 2018— became a constituents has championed numerous signatory of the United social development Nations Principles for initiatives across the Responsible Investment. country. She has also been instrumental in cultivating 9 Policy & Progress Review – Environment Policies/Actions Progress Environmental, A commitment to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Social and Investment (PRI) in Q1 2018. Governance Policy PRI preparation workshops held for four business lines in both Cairo and Dubai. Enrolment in Responsible Investment eLearning Course now mandatory for all staff. The course provides an introduction to PRI requirements as well as to EFG Hermes’ Environmental, Social and Governance policy launched in 2017. In line with the UNPRI requirements for reporting and the Egyptian Exchange model guidance for reporting on ESG performance, EFG Hermes is transparent about its ESG activities and has made the EFG Hermes ESG summary policy available on its website and internal portal. Disclosures on EFG Hermes ESG integration efforts are made on an annual basis in the sustainability report. Responsible Managed by EFG Hermes’ Private Equity Department, the Vortex investing Renewable Energy platform, one of the largest renewable energyfocused investment managers in Europe, is currently expanding into global markets, with an aim to geographically diversify its clean energy footprint. Vortex continues to actively engage in new clean energy investment opportunities. Further it has established a specialized asset management arm in the United Kingdom. The UKbased office provides day-to-day technical and financial services to Vortex’ solar PV portfolio, aiming to improve performance and create further value to the platform through potential synergies. EFG Hermes Finance, Egypt’s only alternative energy lease finance solution, has entered into two vendor agreements with solar station suppliers Karm Solar and Solarize in a strategic alliance to provide clients with solar stations through a leasing facility. By providing agribusiness with access to subsidized financing for renewable energy solutions, clients can generate savings from the product itself and decrease their carbon footprint. EFG Hermes Finance also signed a specialized agreement with the Saudi Development Fund to finance the renewables and health care sectors with a portion of the fund directed to finance SMEs in different governorates. Energy conservation Continued migration to clean energy solutions by installation of solar panels at the Egypt HQ with a capacity of 24KW which is equal to 2% of current electric consumption. Promotion of Felsekka, EFG Hermes’ carpooling initiative to encourage employees to reduce their carbon footprint. Employees are also encouraged to use ride-sharing apps such as Careem for business-related trips to decrease stress related to poor traffic conditions (13,181 Careem rides in 2018). Green IT Transformation of several manual tasks (debit interest, order compliance, commission, monitoring of pending orders & reporting, etc.) into automated processes across brokerage and compliance, 10 Policies/Actions Progress resulting in increased compliance assurance, time saving (137 working days to 36 working hours) and resources (100% reduction in paper consumed). Reducing the power consumption of the computing devices in the headquarters by replacing 50% of the old desktop computers with more energy efficient power supplies. Using online meeting, web conferencing and videoconferencing applications for an average of 3,600 meetings in 2018. Continued transformation of physical servers to virtual ones using cloud technology. Safe disposal of all e-waste via certified companies in Egypt and the UAE. Resource EFG HR Connect continues to minimize the use of paper by providing management employees virtual access to internal documents such as CEO Notes, leave requests and approvals, latest corporate news, etc., to reduce waste and increase savings. Continued recycling practices across all EFG conferences and events. 11 Anti-corruption To uphold the UNGC principles on anti-corruption, EFG Hermes takes an energetic, proactive approach to corporate governance, compliance, auditing and risk management. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Spotlight on…Governance We pride ourselves on being 22301:2012 certification in industry leaders in terms of Egypt, KSA and the UAE Highlights corporate governance and from the British Standards we demand the highest Institution (BSI) in Completed the two-phased ethical standards of our recognition of our Cyber Security employees. We have also compliance with the highest Compromise and Risk invested considerable time, international standards for Assessment for all EFG effort, and resources in business continuity Hermes networks and establishing internal management. systems. policies and controls that In light of our expansion into Obtained a license from ensure that all of our frontier markets and the FINRA for EFG Hermes activities are in compliance establishment of a Pakistan USA. with international best office, we make sure that all practices. Complied with Markets in those who join our firm are We also believe that it is up to date in terms of Financial Instruments imperative that we promote mandatory courses and Directive (MiFID II), an EU good governance throughpolicy awareness through law that seeks to boost out our areas of influence. our Online Onboarding investor protection and This extends to our awardProgramme which includes market transparency. winning research deall forms and policies as well Complied with the partment, which has started as any country-specific Common Reporting to place greater focus on forms to ensure compliance Standards Regulations. corporate governance in with local regulations. For research reports, parPakistan, we instituted a ticularly in frontier markets. phased roll-out of policies to avoid overwhelming our We have also successfully new staff members and to passed the surveillance make sure each policy is audit for the third year in a understood. row to retain ISO 12 Policy & Progress Review – Anti-corruption Policies/Actions Progress Corporate In 2017, EFG Hermes announced a comprehensive corporate governance restructure in the wake of its sale of its stake in Credit Libanais, signalling the end of the 2013 – 2016 strategic plan and the achievement of all goals set out by the Board of Directors in conjunction with the management team. The new management structure is designed to streamline operations, increase efficiency and help in the achievement of the new 2017 – 2020 strategic plan. The new structure has been disclosed to all stakeholders and ratified by the Board of Directors. Under this new framework, the Board of Directors was restructured during the year to comply with the Egyptian Financial Regulatory Authority’s (FRA) corporate governance regulations. EFG Hermes is fully compliant with FRA regulations and EGX listing rules, which require companies to appoint new board members every three years. To better instil sound corporate governance practices, the Firm restructured its Board committees, splitting the Audit and Risk functions into two independent committees and adding a Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee and Business Risk and Compliance Committee. The Firm also obtained a license from FINRA for EFG Hermes USA; complied with the Common Reporting Standards Regulations; and complied with Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II), an EU law that seeks to boost investor protection and market transparency. Policies on: All policies are available to employees on the intranet. Code of Conduct 100% of the workforce have signed and acknowledged the Staff Dealing Code of Conduct. Group An orientation package is available to give all trainees and Compliance newly hired employees a comprehensive view of all policies Information and operations. Disclosure Whistle-blowing Mandatory antiThe training completion rate for the anti-money laundering, money laundering anti-fraud, responsible investment, general data protection and anti-fraud regulation (GDPR), and cyber security courses is over 91% for courses 2018. Rigorous due diligence processes are in place. Internal audit, Strong internal control and risk management culture serves to compliance and risk ensure the alignment of business to management’s strategic management goals. policies Internal Audit renewed its commitment to monitor, assess and, where possible, strengthen business and support functions’ sustainability efforts, including integration of the ESG policy in its standard procedures. 13 Policies/Actions Progress EFG Hermes maintained its ISO22301 certification from the British Standards Institute renewing its commitment to business continuity management. Continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, a market-leading tool for investors that wish to align their portfolios with their values or seek to invest in companies based on their management of ESG risks and demonstration of leading management practices. Cybersecurity After completing the ‘Cyber Security Compromise Assessment’ for all EFG Hermes networks and systems in 2017, the IT department successfully implemented the second phase, the ‘Cyber Security Risk Assessment’ in 2018. International best practices are followed in the operation of all EFG Hermes data centres. 14 Measurement of Progress and Outcomes EFG Hermes has always held the belief that prudent management and a strict culture of compliance, auditing and risk management is the only way to manage the rules and regulations of multiple authorities and regulators in Egypt, Jordan, the US, the UK, Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and beyond to our new frontier markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh and Kenya. To maintain our reputation and market leadership as we expand into new countries and launch new products, we insist on the highest levels of transparency, accountability and integrity. Our Auditing, Compliance, Risk and Human Resource Departments continuously monitor and evaluate performance against KPIs, benchmarks and policies. As the Firm continues with its bid to incorporate ESG best practices into every facet of the operation and to start reporting on UNPRI requirements, the scope of our audit has expanded to include close monitoring of progress and outcomes related to sustainability KPIs. These stricter measures are designed to ensure that sustainability commitments and all applicable laws regarding labour, human rights, the environment and anti-corruption practices are met across all business lines, subsidiaries and markets. 15
