UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress (COP) 2019 Nathan Associates December 2019 Contents Statement of Continued Support By the Chief Executive Officer 3 Human Rights 4 Labor Standards 6 Environment 8 Anti-Corruption 10 ABOUT NATHAN Nathan is a private international economic and analytics consulting firm that works with government and commercial clients around the globe to deliver practical solutions and achieve lasting results. Whether building frameworks for economic growth or navigating regulatory hurdles, securing infrastructure financing or evaluating and assessing disputes, Nathan’s experts serve as trusted partners, offering clients the analysis, technical advice, and strategies they need for sound decision-making. Known for both technical and service excellence and with corporate offices in the US, London, and India and more than 40 program offices around the world. More information about Nathan can be found at nathaninc.com NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 12th December 2019 As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, Nathan Associates strongly supports this corporate sustainability initiative. This document represents Nathan’s second annual Communication on Progress report. I am proud of our accomplishments to date and our continued commitment to the Compact’s 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Nathan Associates is an international private consulting firm that delivers sound, and defensible analytic and economic solutions and analyses for government and commercial clients around the world. For almost 75 years, clients have relied on Nathan Associates to handle complex, high-stakes assignments, and provide exceptional value while maintaining the highest standards of integrity and ethics. We will leverage our successes and continue to focus on the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. In this report, we provide a summary of the key actions undertaken in 2019. We also commit to sharing this information with interested parties. Susan Chodakewitz President & Chief Executive Officer Nathan Associates NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 3 SECTION 1: HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Nathan is fully committed to upholding human rights principles and frameworks, promoting and supporting the rights of employees, Businesses should suppliers, partners and beneficiaries with whom we work or come into support and respect contact. We are also absolutely committed to safeguarding people and the protection of ensuring that our actions do no harm. internationally Nathan applies the highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct proclaimed human to all its affairs and activities. Nathan embraces a culture in which rights; and employees are free and encouraged to speak up when they see behavior that is not aligned with our policies including those related to human Principle 2: rights abuses. make sure that they are These commitments are set out in a range of corporate policies and not complicit in human guidelines, including: rights abuses. • Code of Business Conduct:establishes the standards of ethical behavior for all employees, suppliers and partners. • Anti-Modern Slavery Policy:sets out our policy for the prevention of modern day slavery, in particular human trafficking and forced labor, in our organization and our supply chain. • Safeguarding Policy:describes our commitment to the safety and protection of all children and vulnerable adults from physical abuse, emotional abuse, sexual abuse and neglect. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 4 HUMAN RIGHTS Nathan is fully committed to upholding human rights principles and frameworks, promoting and supporting the rights of employees, suppliers, partners and beneficiaries we work with, or come • Whistleblowing:guides our employees, suppliers, partners and into contact. associates on how they are able to speak up and confidentially report any suspicions or concerns they may have. • Data Protection Policy:aligns our polices and processes with data protection legislation, including GDPR. PROGRESS TO DATE Nathan continues to improve the integration of Principles 1 and 2 in our work. This year, we updated our Code of Business Conduct so that it remains timely and relevant. Our London office demonstrated additional accomplishments, which included: • Appointing a Safeguarding Champion and a Safeguarding Focal Point to lead on the implementation of the Safeguarding Policy; • Strengthening due diligence and vetting procedures, incorporating specific safeguarding and modern day slavery assessments of the supply chain; and • Working with British Expertise International, our partners and suppliers to strengthen the private sector’s actions on the prevention of sexual exploitation, harassment and abuse in international development sector. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Policy Review and Attestation:All Nathan’s employees, suppliers and partners reviewed and signed Nathan’s Code of Business Conduct. • Compliance Training:All Nathan’s employees received training on an updated version of the Code of Business Conduct. • Reporting:In 2019, there were no reports made to Nathan’s Global Hotline of human rights incidents. Nathan did not identify any incidents of employees or subcontractors causing or contributing to human rights violations. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 5 SECTION 2: LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: Nathan has a responsibility to ensure a safe and trusted environment for our employees, suppliers, partners and beneficiaries. This includes our Businesses should uphold aim to tackle the issues of forced labor and modern slavery as detailed in the freedom of association Nathan’s Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Modern Slavery Policy. and the effective More specifically: recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • All firms that are part of our supply chain are provided with contracts and must review the policy and sign the attestation for Nathan’s Code of Business Conduct, which Nathan is able to audit Principle 4: at any time for compliance. the elimination of all forms • All employees are made aware of company policies, setting out of forced and compulsory their rights, responsibilities and benefits, and the need to take an labor; online Code of Business Conduct training. Nathan’s policies related to labor practices include provisions relating to: Principle 5: • Diversity and Equal Employment:Nathan has adopted a formal the effective abolition of Equality and Diversity Policy to ensure employees, contractors, child labor; and associates and applicants are treated equally. Nathan recruits in all job areas, without regard to age, disability, gender reassignment, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, marriage and civil Principle 6: partnership, or pregnancy/maternity status. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 6 LABOR STANDARDS • Harassment in the Workplace:Nathan prohibits harassment of Nathan is fully any employee by another employee, manager or third party. committed to Harassment is conduct that has the purpose or effect of creating ensuring a safe and an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment and trusted environment unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance. for our employees, Harassment may consist of verbal, physical, visual or sexual harassment and may also include retaliation for reporting suppliers, partners harassment or threatening to report harassment. and beneficiaries. • Commitment to Non-retaliation:Nathan prohibits any form of retaliation against an employee, supplier, or partner who files a complaint in good faith, or participates in an investigation regarding a violation of Nathan’s Code of Business Conduct or any other policy. Nathan will not tolerate any harassment, retaliation or reprisals of any kind. PROGRESS TO DATE In 2019, Nathan continued to consistently improve the integration of the four Principles related to Labor Standards. Accomplishments included: • Strengthening workplace practices and policies to ensure fair compensation and to better support employees in balancing their family and work obligations. • Improving the performance management system to ensure that it is applicable across all of our permanent offices. • Appointing a Mental Health Champion at Nathan London to drive the development and implementation of a Mental Health Policy in the London office. • Reviewing and strengthening Nathan London’s due diligence and subcontracting templates, including provisions related to protection of labor standards and alignment with the Supplier Code of Conduct of the UK Department for International Development. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Compliance Training:This year we required all employees to participate in training, which covered workplace harassment rules, regulations and expectations. • Reporting:Nathan has not received any complaints or concerns related to discrimination or Principles 3 – 6 of the UN Global Compact. • Human Capital Management:Performance and salary evaluations are conducted annually. We achieved a 100% completion rate of the 2019 Annual Performance Review for employees across all of our offices. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 7 SECTION 3: ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Nathan has an Environmental Policy in place which is communicated through the Code of Business Conduct and vetting and due diligence Businesses should procedures. We maintain a policy of “minimum waste” and recycling. support a precautionary Our employees and all those who work for us are expected to promote approach to this policy by minimizing printing, collecting and recycling office paper, environmental or avoiding use of disposable products. challenges; PROGRESS TO DATE Nathan continues to improve the way that we work in line with our Principle 8: Environmental Policy. Accomplishments this year included: undertake initiatives • Appointing an Environment Champion in our London office, to to promote greater raise awareness of environmental matters and to promote and environmental monitor the implementation of our Environmental Policy. • Introducing more environmentally-friendly technologies to enable responsibility; and virtual working and to keep our international travel to a minimum. • Promoting the sustainable use of resources, including use of tap Principle 9: water, wherever possible in our offices. Where tap water is not encourage the safe for drinking, we ensure that offices have clean potable water development on site to minimize the purchase of bottled water as much as possible. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 8 ENVIRONMENT Nathan is committed to MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Legislative Compliance:Nathan has not been served any fines or integrating sustainable non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental practices into our laws and regulations. operations. • Reporting:Nathan has not received any complaints or concerns about potential or real environmental impacts resulting from Nathan’s work. • Supply Chain Management:All UK supply partners are assessed in relation to their compliance with relevant environmental criteria prior to contracting. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 9 SECTION 4: ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Nathan has zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. Nathan will conduct its business in an honest and ethical manner. Nathan’s AntiBusinesses should work Bribery Policy represents our commitment to conduct operations against all forms of ethically and in compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and corruption, including regulations in jurisdictions in which Nathan operates. extortion and bribery. Nathan does not tolerate corruption in any form, whether directly or indirectly. Corruption causes poverty, inhibits economic growth, is damaging to businesses, and may result in criminal and civil liability and penalties for any personnel or person working on behalf of Nathan. Nathan has several policies and procedures in place which cover AntiCorruption: • Code of Business Conduct:establishes standards of ethical behavior for all employees, suppliers and partners. • Anti-Bribery Policy:presents our commitment to conduct operations ethically and in compliance with applicable anticorruption laws and regulations. • Whistleblowing:guides our employees, suppliers, partners and associates on how they are able to speak up and confidentially report any suspicions or concerns they may have. The Global Hotline is accessible to anyone anywhere in the world, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Nathan has zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. Nathan will conduct its business in an honest and ethical manner. • Vetting and Due Diligence Processes:All employees, suppliers and partners undergo a rigorous vetting and due diligence process prior to contracting. This includes managing conflicts of interest and verification of compliance with tax obligations. PROGRESS TO DATE Nathan continues to operate in a way which is consistent with the above mentioned policies and practices and upholds our commitment to Principle 10. This year additional progress was driven by Nathan London as part of the alignment of our UK business with the new Supplier Code of Conduct of the UK Department for International Development. Accomplishments included: • Developing an Anti-Fraud and Corruption Policy for Nathan London to complement the existing Nathan Anti-Bribery Policy. The purpose of this policy is to set out our stance on fraud and corruption and our approach to preventing, detecting, reporting and investigating fraud and corruption. It also reinforces our commitment to developing an anti-fraud culture and ensures we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, namely the UK Fraud Act 2006 and the UK Bribery Act 2010. • Strengthening due diligence and vetting procedures at Nathan London to include disclosure of links to Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs), which is particularly relevant for our work in underdeveloped, fragile or conflict-affected regions. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Compliance Training:All employees completed Nathan Code of Business Conduct training so that everyone understands what corruption is and how to report it. • Reporting:No instances of fraud were reported to the Global Hotline. Allegations of fraud were investigated and successfully addressed in line with our policy. NATHAN | UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 11
