2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS TABLES Table 1 Table 9 Executive Summary 4 Progress on UNGC 62 Access Bank's Financial Performance 34 Energy Consumption in 2017 87 and Socio-Economic Benefits About This Report 5 Progress on NSBP 65 Table 10 Table 2 Emissions in 2017 88 Chairman’s Statement 6 Access Bank’s Employees 66 Project Financed with consideration 39 to the Equator Principles Table 11 CEO’s Statement 8 Annual Appraisals 70 Business Travel in 2017 (Miles) 88 Table 3 Table 12 Our Sustainability Journey 10 Communication with Employees 72 Updates on Partnerships and Coalitions 50 Paper Usage in 2017 88 Our Materiality Process 18 Occupational Health and Safety 77 Table 4 Table 13 Access Bank’s Progress on SDG 54 Access Bank’s Blueprint for Success 20 Access Bank’s Customers 78 Water Consumption in 2017 88 Table 5 Table 14 Our Business: 22 Financial Inclusion 81 Access Bank’s Update on 63 Solid Waste Management 88 Organizational Information United Nations Global Compact Rewarding Our Customers 86 Table 6 Table 15 Our Geographical Distribution 34 Breakdown of grants by Act 97 Environmental Stewardship 87 Composition of Employees by Gender 66 Foundation in 2017 Responsible Business, Profitable Business 36 Our Supply Chain 90 Table 7 Table 16 Sustainability Statement 40 Gender distribution of Board of 67 Details of Employee Volunteering 100 Community 92 Directors since 2008 Activities for 2017 Access Bank’s approach to Sustainability 42 Supplementary Information 110 Table 8 Access Bank’s 2017 Stakeholder 44 Women Empowerment Principles 68 GRI content Index/Data Table 110 Engagement Independent Limited Assurance 116 Statement to Access Bank Plc Access Bank’s Progress on Collaborative Partnership/Membership 49 Contact Us 119 FIGURES Progress on SDGs 54 Figure 1 Figure 8 Participation Rate of Employees 72 Competencies with Satisfaction 75 Indexes of 3.5 Figure 2 Employee Satisfaction Index 73 Figure 9 Competencies with Satisfaction Indexes 75 Figure 3 of 3.0 and below Employees Satisfaction Level by Grade 73 Figure 4 Figure 10 Branch Performance 79 Satisfaction Index by Length of Service 74 Figure 5 Figure 11 Staff Performance 80 Satisfaction Index by Gender 74 Figure 6 Figure 12 Satisfaction with Mobile Banking 80 Satisfaction Index by Top Performer 74 This report is printed on paper obtained from sustainably managed plantations Figure 7 and is Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)TM Competencies with Satisfaction 75 certified. index of 4.0 and above Our FSC 100% label means that the wood used to produce paper for this report has not been manufactured at the expense of the forest, or the animals, plants, and people who rely on them. We all make choices every day – choose to live sustainably. Access Bank Sustainability Report 2017. Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T EXECUTIVE ABOUT THIS SUMMARY REPORT At Access Bank, Our Sustainability focus reflects our than N500 million in philanthropic grants to nonprofit The first Sustainability Report of Access Bank Plc was To deliver sustainable value, we consider that when values, presents tremendous business opportunity and organizations that help create economic opportunity in published in 2009, and covered CSR activities undertaken customers and clients do well, so do we. When the allows us to create shared success with our customers communities where our employees and customers live and in 2008. The report also adopted the Global Reporting communities we live and work in thrive, we do, too. And and communities. We continuously find innovative ways work. We also provided more than N1 billion in loans and Initiative G3:1 Guidelines. In 2014,Access Bank adopted when society prospers, we all do – it’s not one, or the other. to deploy capital and activate partnerships to fuel social investments, creating more affordable places to live and the new reporting standards, and published its 2013 These simple concepts help us focus on creating shared and economic progress around the world. Investing in our providing job opportunities for people. Sustainability Report based on the Global Reporting value to our stakeholders and they define our approach to employees has become part of DNA— ensuring they have Initiative G4 Guidelines, which are the most widely sustainability and the business model we operate. the resources to reach their goals at work and at home. Recognizing the real threat of climate change and our recognized and used non-financial reporting standards. And it’s focusing on customers — developing lasting ongoing responsibility as a good corporate citizen, we This year’s edition of the Bank’s Sustainability Report relationships through responsible products, services continuously seek out new and effective ways to reduce offers a new quality in reporting. The document shows and advice. All of this is underscored by disciplined risk our environmental impact and improve our operations We various aspects of Access Bank’s sustainability reporting ...we consider that when have made significant progress reducing the greenhouse management that ensures we’re building a financial institution that will endure as a place that people want to gas (GHG) emissions of our facilities, sourcing more as defined in the consolidated set of Global Reporting Initiative Standard of 2016, published in October 2016. customers and clients do well, so work for, invest in and do business with. renewable energy, increasing the number of green buildings, using more environmentally preferred paper, The purpose of our Sustainability Report is to inform do we. When the communities our key stakeholders about the environmental, social Guided by our vision to be the most respected African and engaging employees in environmental sustainability and governance (ESG) aspects of our business and our we live and work in thrive, we do, Bank, we continue to deliver strong value to our many efforts. 2017 performance, which is relevant to Access Bank’s stakeholders in an ever-changing environment. Trust is Sustainability pillars enumerated as Education, Health, too. And when society prospers, critical to our business and we work hard to deliver value A good relationship with our vendors helps us to not just to our customers and shareholders but also to the enhance our service delivery capacities. In line with our Environment, Arts, Sports and Social Welfare. we all do – it’s not one, or the sustainability goals, in 2017, we were able to achieve communities that we are a part of. cost reduction, improve cycle times for service delivery, The concept of materiality is central to our sustainability reporting and it helps us determine the types of ESG other. At Access Bank, we measure our efforts by the success improve service levels for our internal and external issues to address and report on. Access Bank continues to our customers enjoy. We stay attuned to their insights and customers and improved productivity of our internal align our Sustainability Report with the Global Reporting candid feedback to ensure we are delivering innovative resources. Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. Using these guidelines, the products and tools that meet their changing needs. In report also defines our material aspects as those that 2017, we continued reimagining our brand experience and Following a decade of Sustainability, we have been reflect our significant economic, environmental and finding new ways to support customers. recognized by local and international institutions for our social impacts; or those that substantively influence performance in leading sustainability across Nigeria, Africa the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders. We Our approach to community engagement encourages and beyond. As part of our unwavering commitment, we include data related to our ESG performance, as well as both positive change within the community and personal stay committed to the ten Principles of the United Nations information about how we are managing the impacts, risks pride for our stakeholders. Our employees are unfailingly Global Compact (UNGC), which promotes economic and opportunities. generous with their time, resources and talents outside of development in a manner that is beneficial to the the office, volunteering to ensure that certain needs of our community and to future generations. This is a milestone communities are me. In 2017, employees dedicated about we are proud to achieve, and strive for continuous 1,712,516 hours serving individuals and communities significant achievements in the coming years. in need in 2017. Through Act foundation, we gave more 4 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 5 lead the way in driving sustainable development in the local environment. and global sphere. Having launched our Corporate Social Responsibility function in 2008, our Employee volunteering Over the last year, we remained committed to driving scheme was established and adopted Bank-wide. By sustainable development whilst responding to the 2009, we became the pioneering signatory to the Equator material issues raised by our valuable stakeholders. Principles, United Nations Principles for Responsible Our innovative interventions and initiatives effectively Investment, United Nations Environment Programme addressed key social, environmental and economic issues Finance Initiative, amongst other global sustainability within our communities and beyond. Our Malaria-toinitiatives. We were appointed to the board of the Global Zero initiative continued to address the funding gap in Chairman’s Statement Business Coalition on Health in recognition of the Bank’s HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria eradication efforts. In 2011, we providing innovation solutions, reaching 4,537 pregnant women and sensitizing 1,032,000 people on malaria. Our founded the Access Women Network (AWN), providing Employee volunteers remained committed to building a platform for female employees to accelerate their the communities we serve by implementing strategic professional and personal development. community development initiatives that address key issues in Sports, Arts, Health, Education, Environment and Also in 2011, we initiated and led the process that Social Welfare. culminated in the development of the Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP) in 2012. The NSBP are a set of Our investment in health also enabled us address key principles that now guide the Nigerian Banking industry health issues, including: HIV/AIDS, Cancer, Sickle Cell, on sustainability. That year, we were also appointed as amongst other health related challenges. We were member of the Private Sector Delegation to the Global able to improve our environmental footprints through Fund Board. Access Bank was appointed Co-Chair United the implementation of more environmentally-focused Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative, initiatives, including: the expansion of our waste recycling Africa & Middle East Task Force, and member of the initiative – achieving a 92.64% reduction in waste to Over the last year, we Global Steering Committee in 2014. We also launched landfill. The review of our Early shut-down policy and the the Maternal Health Support Scheme (MHSS), which use of alternative energy in more of our buildings enabled remained committed to driving offers discounted financing for medical procedures us achieve a 24.9% reduction in diesel consumption sustainable development whilst peculiar to women in that year. In 2016, we pioneered a (year-to-date). We also took advantage of our local and international partnerships such as – the UNEP FI, CAMA, comprehensive waste recycling initiative in the Nigerian responding to the material financial sector and launched the Malaria-to-Zero initiative UNGC etc., to partake in thought leadership initiatives, joining global leaders and leading organizations in issues raised by our valuable focused on galvanizing resources of the private sector to eliminate malaria. We also partnered with the Lagos State shaping the cause for achieving the global sustainable stakeholders. Government to successfully host the maiden edition of the development goals. Access Bank Lagos City Marathon in 2016. These efforts in different permutations yielded immense MOSUN BELO-OLUSOGA, FCA Our “Save today, Take Tomorrow” campaign, which was global and local recognition for the Bank. In 2017 alone, we launched in 2017 focused on driving financial inclusion received over 14 awards on sustainability, becoming the CHAIRMAN locally. Most recently, in early 2018, Access Bank joined first Nigerian bank to win the Karlsruhe Sustainable Finance 27 other international banks and the United Nations Awards for ‘Outstanding Business Sustainability’ two Environment Programme Finance Initiative, as part of times in a row. Access Bank also became a 7-time winner A decade ago when we started our sustainability journey, at ‘transforming our world’ for Sustainable Development the Core Group for the development of the Responsible of the World Finance award; we arose as the pioneering we had a clear vision – to be the most sustainable and by 2030. The SDGs principles now guide the Bank’s Banking Principles – a set of principles that are set to guide first-place winner of the first-ever Sustainability awards of respected bank in Africa, financing and facilitating brighter Sustainability strategy. the global banking sector to embed sustainability in line the Central Bank of Nigeria, winning all categories. These futures for all of our stakeholders through innovative Furthermore, in 2010, the UN Women Empowerment with the SDGs and the Paris Climate Agreement. awards and recognitions reaffirm the effectiveness of the services and best-in-class operations. With a strong Principles were launched to provide guidance on driving Bank’s sustainability strategy in driving the sustainable commitment to creating a sustainable future, we have gender-balance in the workplace globally. Two years later, All our strategic investments, efforts and collaborations development of the industry, nation and the world at large. in the last decade, worked with key stakeholders and partners across industries. And guided by the material Access Bank was appointed Leadership Group Member, over the last ten years have enabled us support vibrant and successful communities in every market we work As we look towards the next ten years of financing and issues of relevance to our stakeholders, we developed United Nations Women Empowerment Principles. in – including helping to drive out corruption, promote creating a sustainable future for Nigeria and indeed strategic interventions and initiatives that have facilitated Africa, we remain committed to our goal of changing Another very significant milestone globally, was the signing and protect human rights and ensure a healthy and our goal of financing a future that is socially developed, the world through finance. As a responsible financial of the Paris Climate Agreement, which focused on dealing rewarding working environment for our employees. environmentally responsible and economically advanced. institution, we would continue to utilize our resources and with greenhouse-gas-emissions mitigation, adaptation, Through these strategic investments, we have been able and finance, starting in the year 2020. Commendably, to lead the way on financial inclusion and education. We leverage our relationships with key stakeholders to form Globally, the world has advanced further towards Nigeria signed on to the Paris Agreement on the side-lines have also helped to develop enterprises and stayed at partnerships, develop strategies, and execute initiatives sustainable development over the last decade. of the UN General Assembly in New York in 2016. the forefront of sustainability regulation and thought that will transform the world, ensuring social responsibility, One very important feat in the advancement of leadership. Furthermore, we now have a competitively creating economic value, and driving environmental sustainable development this past decade, was the launch Since 2008, we have continuously benchmarked our low environmental impact for a bank in our markets. impact. of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the business practices and operations with local and We have achieved this feat by successfully improving United Nations in 2015. Building on the footprints of the international best practices. Understanding the key trends the efficiency of our operations, minimising energy and Mrs. Mosun Belo-Olusoga, FCA Millennium Development Goals, the 17 SDGs are aimed and challenges as a tool for shaping our strategy and resource consumption and mitigating any impacts on our Chairman, Board of Directors informing our decision-making processes has helped us 6 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 7 have invested over N3.48 billion in CSR, impacting over 853 year, as we developed and implemented innovative communities, reaching over 20,071,453 beneficiaries, and interventions and initiatives that effectively addressed over 358 Non-Governmental Organisations. Today, 100% key social, environmental and economic issues within of our employees have volunteered a total of 2,017,620 our communities and beyond. We continued proactively hours, in over 160 strategic community initiatives to grow our national and international banking footprints across the six geo-political zones under the employee by ensuring that the ‘unbanked’ in Nigeria and Africa gain volunteering scheme. Furthermore, the Bank has invested access to the financial sector in due time. We pursued this over N1.4 billion in capacity building programmes objective through the Family Banking Scheme, which is CEO’s Statement for female employees. The Access Bank Lagos City Marathon is encouraging healthy living in communities being driven by the ‘Save Today, Take Tomorrow’ campaign. The campaign aims to drive financial inclusion, by starting through sports. Through the UNICEF Fifth Chukker Polo from the smallest unit of the society – the family. Tournament, the Bank has supported over 10,000 orphans and vulnerable children in Northern Nigeria. We expanded the Bank’s waste recycling initiative to 37 new locations, achieving a further 92.64% reduction in In terms of promoting the protection of the environment, waste-to-landfill. This reduction amounted to a rise from over the last decade, we have utilized alternative energy the 50.3% recorded in 2016. The Bank also achieved a as a tool for fighting climate change. Our Ogunlana Drive further 24.9% reduction in diesel consumption (year-tobranch is fully powered by solar energy with no connection date) with the review of its early shut-down policy in 2017 to the national grid. We have four branches powered by a by an additional hour at the Head Office and annexes. The hybrid of solar energy and power from the national grid, ‘No-Paper’ initiative of the Bank also facilitated a 39.79% whilst all our other 311 branches are powered by a hybrid reduction in paper usage. We developed a partnership with of alternative energy sources. Furthermore, the Bank Aspire Coronation Trust Foundation, providing funding We continued proactively has installed LED Lightings in all its facilities nationwide. for the delivery of grants to non-profit organizations This has greatly impacted our footprints over the past 10 across Africa. Through this partnership, ACT foundation to grow our national and years, reducing our CO2 emissions from electricity across has supported multiple organizations through its 2017 Nigeria by 63.4%. CO2 emissions from diesel have been grant cycle with 22 Grantee Organizations funded, 54,941 international banking reduced by 28.8%, and our CO2 emissions from petrol direct beneficiaries reached across 23 states in the six footprints by ensuring that has been reduced by 16.7%. Furthermore, the Bank’s early geopolitical zones in Nigeria. shutdown policy was introduced in 2015 and was further the ‘unbanked’ in Nigeria reviewed in June 2017, resulting in an 11.37% reduction in In early 2018, Access Bank joined 27 other international banks as the only Nigerian bank on the Core Group of the and Africa gain access to the diesel consumption bank-wide from 2016 to 2017. United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative financial sector in due time. In July 2016, Access Bank also commenced its waste developing the Global Responsible Banking Principles recycling initiative, which enabled us to reduce our wastethat is set to guide the global banking sector to drive to-landfill by 92.64%. The Bank also partnered with the sustainable business practices. Herbert Wigwe Lagos State Government on e-waste policy for the state. Now, more than ever, stakeholders are seeking Group Managing Director The year 2017 was a truly interesting year with local accountability from organizations on the impact of and global atmospheric conditions that challenged the their affairs on the environment, economy and society. status-quo for business and for sustainability. The global Leadership on sustainability is globally paralleled with We are proud to present to you, the 10th Year Anniversary In driving economic progress in the last decade, our financial markets and the global economy enjoyed a leadership in business and diplomacy, as globally, thought Edition of our Independent Sustainability Report. This Maternal Health Service Support Scheme has provided year of progress. The year ended on favourable terms leaders are expected to embed sustainability in their year is particularly exciting for us as we celebrate a decade finance, helping individuals complete their families. with global GDP growth rising and global stock markets operations and activities. of our Sustainability journey at Access Bank. Over the The Betta Mama Betta Pikin initiative has provided an strengthening, fuelled by strong underlying growth. There past decade Access Bank has evolved from a business opportunity for mothers and their children to gain access was also a recovery in investment from increased capital As an innovative leader in business, we remain committed simply operating based on high ethical standards, human to health insurance. Over 30 hospitals have benefitted spending, which boosted international trade. to identifying key risks and opportunities to develop rights and societal support, to a truly Sustainable Bank, from the Hospital Facility Upgrade Support Scheme sustainable solutions. We are also committed to working locally and globally recognized for financing a future that is (HFUSS) developed to address inadequate equipment/ In the Sustainability space, 2017 saw several new trends. with key stakeholders to meet the needs of generations to economically progressive, environmentally protected and facilities that are barriers to quality healthcare. Our N1 From threats to globalization, to cyber security challenges, come. Over the next decade and beyond, we will continue socially developed. This, we have achieved by continuously billion Access NollyFund has been set aside for financing these developments placed a number of businesses to set standards for sustainable business practices, interlocking our stakeholder concerns with our mediuminnovation for the sustainable economic development of at risks. There were also pressures on climate change leveraging innovative solutions and technology to create a term targets, as guided by our long-term sustainability the entertainment industry. In 2016, the Bank partnered leadership, and uncertainties in the achievement of truly sustainable future, as Africa’s Gateway to the World. vision, mission and core values, as well as local regulatory with Aspire Coronation Trust Foundation, providing the SDGs. In 2017, investors also paid some attention requirements and international best practices for financing opportunities that reached 2,643 aspiring to sustainability, and the rise of Artificial Intelligence. sustainable development. entrepreneurs in Lagos, Osun and Oyo states. Our These developments marked a year of both progress and partnership with the Africa Fintech Foundry, placed challenges for sustainable development in Nigeria and Herbert Wigwe Our strategic investments and programmatic the Bank in the epicenter of the discussion for driving Group Managing Director Africa. interventions aimed at driving sustainable development sustainable finance in the Nigerian and indeed African locally and globally over the past ten years, have led fintech industry. In 2017, we continued to respond to the material issues to significant progress and valuable impact for the raised by our valuable stakeholders. These responses sustainability journey. To ensure social development over the last ten years, we guided our strategic goals and objectives for the 8 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 9 OUR SUSTAINABILITY 2008 • Access Bank’s Sustainability Unit was created. • Access Bank’s Sustainability governance JOURNEY structure was created. Social Environment • We developed a framework, • We took steps in reducing our which adopted the London CO2 emissions – for instance, we Benchmarking Group (LBG) partnered with several organizations for community investment involved in environmentally-friendly to enhance our Monitoring initiatives. and Evaluation of Employee • We piloted initiatives aimed at Volunteering exercises. 90% recycling and reducing the usage of of employee volunteering was paper. achieved. 2009 • We launched our first CSR report in accordance with GRI guidelines of 2006. • We became the Nigerian pioneer signatory of the LBG, UNEP FI, BITC, UNPRI. Social Economic Environment • We launched “Mirror the Master” • We integrated Environmental • Access Bank initiated and Supported initiative aimed at developing the and Social Governance (ESG) tree planting campaigns. arts. considerations into our financial • We launched the “Going Green, • We created formidable transactions. beyond words” intervention relationships with international programme aimed at battling organizations, code, conventions, climate change through tree and principles such as the London planting while engendering Benchmarking group (LBG), environmental sustainability. Business in the community (BITC), 2800 trees were planted, and 16 United Nations Environmental secondary schools and over 500 Programme Finance Initiative students were taught on basic (UNEP FI), United Nations Principle environmental issues. for Responsible investment (UNPRI) to drive impact through collaboration and partnerships. 10 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 11 2010 2011 Social Economic Environment Social Economic Environment • We launched “Gift from Africa” • We provided exemplary leadership • With the Idea Builder’s initiative, • Our management approved • We convened the first-ever • We partnered with Idea Builders Campaign with a $1 million to others by being the first we hosted the “My tree and I” the launch of a Female Network Nigeria Sustainable Finance Initiative on the “Going Green; donation to the global fund – A Nigerian bank to fully convert its nationwide essay competition. with the aim of providing women Week under the theme, Beyond Words” tree-planting first by an African organization. accounting systems and policies • We launched green clubs in 36 within Access Bank with the “Moving Frontiers – Sustainable project. • Each employee benefited from to comply with International schools under the “Going green; opportunities, tools, networks and Finance.” This initiative was in 46.5 hours of training. Financial Reporting Standards beyond words” project. support they require to assume collaboration with the United (IFRS). future leadership roles within the Nations Environment Programme • Employee volunteering activities • A cost-benefit analysis study was organization. Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and increased. conducted on our sustainability • We partnered with Friends The Netherlands Development • Capacity building for indigent Company (FMO), with the aim programme. of Africa to support the fight entrepreneurs was launched to of educating stakeholders in the • We signed the equator principle against AIDS, TB and malaria reduce poverty among indigent Nigerian financial sector about – a risk management framework through education, multi-sectoral entrepreneurs and build their opportunities in sustainable for determining, assessing, and advocacy and documentation. capacity to lead growth and build finance. (This led to the sustainable businesses. managing environmental and • The bank trained staff on development of the Nigerian social risks in projects and is environmental and social • We gave scholarships to orphans Sustainable Banking Principles.) primarily intended to provide governance with a focus on the and vulnerable children whose • Access Bank became the first a minimum standard for due dynamics of the Equator Principle lives were affected by HIV/AIDS. financial institution in Nigeria to diligence and monitoring to as well as environmental and social • We launched the Cervical Cancer support responsible risk decisionrisks (E&S), which show them how deploy a customized Sustainable Health Campaign, a three-year making. to use the bank’s finance toolkit Finance toolkit that will assist in infrastructural upgrade and career when screening lending projects. screening projects to identify • We also recruited a highly counselling programme at Herbert potential environmental and social regarded Chief Risk Officer Macaulay Senior Girls’ Grammar (E&S) risks. to oversee the extensive School. investments the Bank has made in • Our then-CEO, Aigbojie AigRisk Management, particularly the Imokhuede, was appointed as Co-chair of GBC health board. functional implementation of our Basel II compliant risk framework. 2012 • We partnered with relevant stakeholders to develop Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles in 2012. • Access Bank was appointed Member, Private Sector Delegation to the Global Fund Board in 2012. • Access Bank was appointed Leadership Group Member, United Nations Women Empowerment Principles in 2012. 12 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 13 2013 • Access Bank was appointed Chair, Steering Committee on Nigerian Sustainable 2014 Banking Principles in 2013. Social Economic Environment Social Environment • Access Bank Launched the • Access Bank emerged first in • Through our generator shutdown Maternal Health Support Scheme independent CSR ranking on the policy, Access Bank was able to (MHSS), which offers discounted 3C Index in 2014. save energy of up to 97706.91 • Access Bank became a pioneering member of the • We introduced a Generator financing for medical procedures • We developed a robust Kilowatthour of diesel-generated Private Sector Health Alliance of Nigeria (PHN), shutdown policy, which involves peculiar to women. Sustainability strategy, themed energy in 2014 through our shutNigeria’s foremost private sector platform, to shutting down generators at the • Access Bank unveiled the “W” ‘Financing the Future.’ down policy. At an emission factor of contribute to the Saving One Million Lives movement Head Office at 9pm and 6pm at the initiative – a one-stop focal point 0.893 kg CO2e/ kWh, this amounted and advance progress in meeting the health target branches. This helped us to reduce • Access Bank was appointed Cofor all Access Bank’s women to avoidance of an estimated of the Millennium Development Goals by focusing our CO2 emission significantly. Chair, United Nations Environment empowerment offerings. The 87252.27 kilogramme of CO2e on innovation, partnerships, advocacy and impact Programme Finance Initiative initiative includes capacity building greenhouse emissions by the Bank investments. (UNEP FI), Africa & Middle East programmes exclusive to women, in that year. • We established Development Banking Group, which Task Force, and Member, Global mentoring programmes, and Steering Committee in 2014. • We leveraged resource-efficiency achieved a record high of 99% employee volunteers maternal health services, all models internally to manage our Bank-wide in 2013. • Access Bank sponsored the aimed at helping to build a bigger, consumption of water, energy and • Through our employee volunteering scheme, we were 6th edition of the West Africa stronger and more sustainable paper whilst also cushioning the able to reach out to people living with disabilities in Trade and Export Finance society. Under the “W” initiative, environmental and social effects of Atanda-Olu School for the Physically and Mentally Conference. The conference is participating women and their our financial products and services. Challenged in Surulere, Lagos through the project, one of the foremost trade finance families have access to an entitled “Serving Our Community: Ordinary People, conferences in West Africa, extensive variety of opportunities. Extraordinary things.” convening typically over 200 Part of these privileges includes local, regional and international • Through our employee volunteering scheme, we access to loans and credit delegates annually to discuss new also organized a forum and an exhibition of arts facilities; access to the ‘W’ business opportunities within the and crafts by the children, titled “Ordinary People, community in which they can get well-established and emerging Extraordinary Things.” The forum was organized insights concerning family-related trade and commodity sectors. to recognize and commend the role of guardians, matters and finance-related educators and professionals within the organizations matters. • Access Bank also organised a in their endeavours to bring normalcy to those living variety of knowledge sharing • Our employees contributed over with Down’s syndrome and to further raise awareness events for SMEs in 2014, most 280,000 volunteer hours investing among people and encourage support for the children notable of which was the “Power in host communities. through volunteering and donations. A total of N3.7 Breakfast” forum for customers. million was raised for this project which was used At the event, senior officials from to touch the lives of 130 children living with Downs the Bank spoke to attendees, syndrome, Autism, cerebral palsy, and effects of polio. exposing them to the relevance of SMEs, and the range of financing opportunities that the Bank avails to SMEs. 14 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 15 2015 • Access Bank was appointed Member, WeConnect National Advisory Board, Nigeria Steering Committee in 2015. • Access Bank was appointed Board Member, 2017 in 2015. Nigerian Business Coalition on Sustainable • We were also appointed Co-Chair, United Development. Nations Global Compact Local Network Social Economic Environment • We launched Employee • We launched the “Save Today, • Access Bank expanded its waste Social Environment Volunteering Awareness Day. Take Tomorrow” campaign, which recycling initiative to other branches • We launched the Salvus project is focused on driving financial in Lagos, and donated two waste – A sexual violence response inclusion and stimulating a savings recycling trucks to waste off-takers • We reached out to over 50,000 Nigerians • We introduced initiatives such as intervention platform aimed at culture among families. The (Recycle Points and Parallel Points). through our community programmes, which the paper-and-print saving scheme increasing access to support for Scheme also provided access to The Bank was able to achieve 92.64 include education programmes, capacity building aimed at cutting-down printing victims of sexual violence. people who are currently excluded reduction in waste-to-landfill in 37 initiatives, mentoring of the girl child, infrastructural and paper use by 50%; the water from financial services whilst locations. • Through our diabetes outreach projects for communities in dire need of conservation campaign aimed at promoting capital accumulation • Our Energy consumption reduced programme, we were able to reach educational facilities, art exhibitions for children encouraging the reduction and and investment boom. Currently, significantly (24.9% reduction 1,256 people with information, living with Autism, correctional heart surgeries for reuse of water resources; the over 26,522 families are banked in diesel consumption) and education, and communication children living with congenital heart disease, among utilization of video conferencing under the “Save Today, Take improvement of employee work-life materials, medical counseling, others. as well as the continued Tomorrow” initiative. balance through the 7pm bank-wide blood pressure test, blood glucose implementation of the bank-wide shutdown policy. test, and measurement of body shut-down policy to reduce the mass Index. Bank’s carbon footprints. • We reached out to people living with disability and supported 2016 • Access Bank was appointed as Co-Chair, Nigerian Business Coalition Against AIDS. the launch of the book, titled “Needle’s Eye,” written by Ngozi Ukpai-Okoro – a person living with disability. • Access Bank held a symposium on depression in partnership with Hacey Health initiative with a focus Social Environment on helping young people identify and get help on depression. • Through ACT foundation, we • We launched the Malaria-to-Zero initiative on April • We pioneered waste recycling in the supported 22 organizations 25, 2016 (World Malaria Day) at a CEO Roundtable Nigerian financial sector. on projects relating to health, led by Access Bank CEO, Herbert Wigwe, in entrepreneurship, environment, partnership with the Private Sector Health Alliance and leadership. The projects of Nigeria (PHN) and HACEY Health Initiative impacted 54,941 Nigerians in 23 (HACEY). The initiative seeks to reach over 20 states. million lives and save at least one million lives, particularly women and children, in Nigeria in four years. • We partnered with the Lagos State Government to successfully host the maiden edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon. • We launched the Access Nollyfund, a new and innovative financial service aimed at improving and providing financial solutions for the Nigerian movie industry. • Through our employee volunteering scheme, the Bank positively impacted over 20,000 students, 10,000 children, 4,000 patients and 3,800 persons in retirement homes. 16 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 17 OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS Through a materiality process that we carry out annually, inform Access Bank’s approach to risk and opportunity. we focus our Sustainability approach and our reporting The topics of greatest concern for internal and external on the areas of greatest concern to our stakeholders. We stakeholders that we identified and prioritized in 2017 are assess the non-financial drivers that emerge from this plotted on the matrix below: F process within a context of global change, which, in turn, PA RT O N ’ T BE LD . G S HOU LENGES IN AL Y B A N K I LY C H A A RY D YO U R D EVE Use any of our e-channels for transfers, payments or balance enquiries. #AvoidTheQueues *901# . CARDS . MOBILE BANKING . ONLINE BANKING 18 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 19 ACCESS BANK’S BLUEPRINT FOR SUCCESS Corporate Philosophy and commitment. lifting people up throughout the value chain; Professionalism • Our approach is not that of excellence at all costs – it Financial education: We help people clearly • Putting our best foot forward in everything we do, is excellence on all fronts so that we deliver outcomes understand how our products and services work; especially in high pressure situations; Our Vision that are economically, environmentally and socially responsible. Financial inclusion: We provide finance to those • Consistently bringing the best of our knowledge and individuals and communities that traditionally have To be the World’s Most Respected African Bank. expertise to the table in all our interactions with our limited or no access to finance; and Leadership stakeholders; Treating customers fairly: This entails building • Leading by example, leading with guts; • Setting the highest standards in our work ethics Our Mission • Being the first, being the best, sometimes being the long-term relationships based on trust, fairness and transparency. behaviours and activities in the way we treat our customers and – just as importantly-each other; Setting standards for sustainable business practices that only bank; • We must embody the change we want to see; Empowered Employees • Putting our customers’ needs ahead of our own; unleash the talents of our employees, deliver superior value to our customers and provide innovative solutions • Recruiting and retaining the right people and teams • Maintaining composure and clear thinking at all times; • Setting the standard; for the markets and communities we serve. based on shared values and vision; and • Challenging the status quo; • Developing our people to become world-class • Ensuring continuous learning through continuous • Market making; and growth and career development. professionals. Our Core Values • Self-awareness in being able to maintain a balanced • Encouraging a sense of ownership at individual level, Innovation assessment of externalities and costs incurred in the whilst fostering team spirit and loyalty to a shared Excellence pursuit of leadership. • Identifying new market needs and opportunities; vision; • Surpassing ordinary standards to be the best in all Passion for Customers • Promoting a sense of belonging and community. • Creativity, invention, inspiration, exploration; that we do. • Facilitating continuous learning by providing the • Pioneering new ways of doing things, new products • We are in business to serve our customers. • Setting the standard for what it means to be training, tools and coaching to help our people grow; and services, new approaches to clients/customers; • In addition to delivering excellent customer service. exceptional. • Helping them take care of their health; • Being first, testing the waters, pushing boundaries; • Never losing sight of our commitment to excellence, We focus on • Pursuing a positive work/life balance for increased • Going from concept to market/reality; and even when the going gets tough. productivity and improved employee satisfaction; and • Anticipating and responding quickly to market needs Economic empowerment: This entails enabling • Remembering that excellence requires dedication people to achieve more through provision of finance, • Encouraging a diverse workforce; respect for and with the right technology, products and services to appreciation of differences in ethnicity, gender, age, achieve customers’ objectives. national origin, disability, and religion. 20 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 21 OUR BUSINESS: ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION Access Bank is a leading financial institution with subsidiaries within West Africa, East Africa and the United headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria. We are driven by strong Kingdom. The Bank also has business offices in the core values through which we have continuously delivered Republic of China, Lebanon, United Arab Emirates and solid and consistent performance. We are in business to India. help our growing customer base build a sustainable future by offering bespoke products and solutions through a skilled workforce across Sub-Saharan Africa, United Nature of Ownership and Legal Kingdom, the Middle East and Asia. Form Access Bank is licenced to provide international With our focal station in Nigeria, Access Bank serves more banking services and is renowned for its comprehensive than 10 million customers. The Bank is approved to give range of financial product offerings. The key business all-inclusive financial services and is similarly known for a segments of the Bank are: Corporate and Investment broad assortment of offerings. Banking, Commercial Banking, Business Banking and Personal Banking. The key customer segments include: Access Bank was incorporated as a private limited liability Telecommunications, Beverages, Manufacturing, company on February 8, 1989, while business operations Construction, Oil and Gas, Parastatals, High Net worth commenced on May 11, 1989. On March 24, 1998, the Individuals and Middle-Income Professionals. Bank was converted into a public limited liability company, and its shares were listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange At Access Bank, we take pride in our ability to add value (NSE) on November 18, 1998. As an endorsement of our to clients and to leverage our unique value proposition continued growth, Access Bank was issued a universal to provide innovative and proactive solutions across banking licence by the Central Bank of Nigeria on February the entire economic value chains. In deploying products 5, 2001. Our principal business activities include the and services, the Bank adheres to responsible business provision of money market products and services, retail practices and readily commits resources to social banking, granting of loans and advances, equipment investments in fulfillment of its corporate social leasing, corporate finance and foreign exchange responsibility convictions. We are in all major commercial operations. centers and cities across Nigeria. We operate seven 22 Access Bank Plc Download the MOBILE BANKING App or Visit any of our branches to get started! Access Bank’s Business Model Our Value Proposition Power Breakfast Series: The Power Breakfast Series is designed to provide capacity The Business Banking Division provides tailored development solutions to SMEs in our various focus financial products and services to Small and Medium sectors. The breakfast meetings are held periodically and Enterprises (SMEs) with annual financial turnovers of up offer free training and workshops to business owners to N1 billion. Over the years, the Division has displayed from the various SME sectors with a view to building their a strong commitment to the growth and expansion of business and financial management skills. small businesses in many ways, but particularly through the provision of loan capital and unique business support solutions. The Division is structured to add value to SME AccessNolly Scheme: businesses across different sectors of the economy by This is a N1 billion facility, which was setup to promote providing products and services to suit each focus market the growth of the Nollywood Film Industry. The loan funds segment, with a special interest for women-led businesses are specially tailored towards Producers, Film Makers and Asian SMEs. We serve 14 key sectors, namely: and Distributors wishing to boost the production and distribution of films of international quality and standard, • Importers but are constrained by the lack of funding. • Educational Institutions • Hospitals SME Toolkit: • Travel Agencies In line with the Bank’s objective to build the capacity of • Contractors SMEs, the SME Toolkit was designed to offer a platform • Traders for small businesses to learn and implement sustainable • Religious Bodies business management practices to increase their productivity and efficiency. The toolkit portal offers • Entertainment Industries information on business news, as well as industry trends • Manufacturing Industries and events. Our SME Toolkit also provides access to new • Oil and Gas (Marketing and services) partnerships and markets. • Distributors and Dealers Our other products include the Platinum Credit Card, • Healthcare Organizations which provides traders with access to instant credit, and • Professional Associations and firms the MPower Biz Account series, which offers zero COT and Our business model is centered on value creation for The business segments are supported by sector competitive interest rates to our customers. We are set our stakeholders. Our focus and vision remain clear – to champions in each geo-political zone in Nigeria. These to continually respond to the dynamic needs of our SMEs ensure that our clients WIN regardless of economic champions have developed specialized skills to cater to the even as we take the lead in becoming the preferred SME trends. Consequently, we deploy bespoke financial solutions for our clients. These solutions include: Financial peculiar needs of both public and private sector entities, thereby guaranteeing our dominance as the preferred Our Products and Programmes growth partner in the Nigerian banking space. Advisory, Trade/Structured finance, Cash management, business partner to our clients. As partners to our SMEs, we understand that our Tailored Lending/Intervention schemes and Value Chain In 2017 the Commercial Banking Division leveraged on success is tied to the individual successes of each of Strategic Partnerships management that enhanced their business operations our customers. Therefore, our array of products and while addressing the concerns around foreign exchange its bespoke financial solutions and the Bank’s latest digital Over the years, we have bolstered the offerings to our programmes is tailored to suit the specific needs of all fluctuations. offering– PayWithCapture – to enhance the business retail clients through a customer-centric approach to fourteen (14) focus SME sectors. In addition to meeting the operations of our customers within the private sector. In service. This approach has continued to set us apart financial needs of our customers, we offer: Our business model is structured to serve institutions and working with the public sector, we partnered with State in the industry. Our differentiation has been sustained corporates operating within the public and private sectors • Tailored Financial Advisory Services through the wide range of innovative financial and lifestyle of the economy with annual gross turnovers between N1 Governments by creating specialized solutions with the solutions designed and refreshed to suit the varying needs aim to increase efficiency in tax revenue collections, • Capacity Building Opportunities billion and N10 billion. Our clientele is stratified as follows: of our clients. support strategic state infrastructural plans, provide salary • Business Networking Hubs • Federal, State, and Local Governments support programmes, etc. Consequently, we grew our • Timely Market Information Our Products and Segments Group manages and • Ministries, Departments and Agencies state mandate by 23% in 2017. fosters the Bank’s relationships with customers through • Flexibility an array of integrated products and services that suit • Asian / German Corporates With agriculture being a focal point of the Government, every unit in a family. This entails providing products and • General Commerce we saw the Division of the Bank participate significantly services for children, women, youth, seniors and the across the agricultural value chain. We also leveraged • Lifestyle and Hospitality the Federal Government’s specialized lending initiatives China Trade Loan Scheme: affluent customers. The Private Banking Group sustains • Contractors / Construction the relationship with the Ultra High and High Net worth to accelerate the country’s shift from an import-based With growing volumes of trade between Nigeria and customers through personalized wealth management • Manufacturing economy to one that exports. China, we anticipated a growing need for credit facilities to solutions and services. Our customers also enjoy financial • Agriculture. support these trade flows. The China Trade Loan Scheme advisory services provided by our dedicated relationship was introduced to provide SMEs with convenient time/ and segment managers who equip them with the term loans required to support the rising volume of their rudiments of personal financial management and planning business operations. to help them navigate a recovering economy. 24 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 25 Providing innovative solutions for a sustainable future is individuals and businesses to acquire new vehicles in a families to save together and access exclusive privileges guide them throughout their lifetime. our key driver in 2018 and we are committed to developing cost-effective manner. The new partnership with GAC while they continue to enjoy the confidentiality of their • Annual Celebrations: By actively participating in a revolutionary business that will accelerate our journeyto Motors in Nigeria, ensured that our clients had even more banking relationship, manage their accounts as unique annual celebrations such as the Global Money Week, becoming the World’s Most Respected African Bank options to choose from in their vehicle purchase process. individuals and get rewarded together. Financial Literacy Day, World Savings Day, and Children’s Day, we were able to empower thousands In line with the aspiration of the Bank to be digitally-led, Participation in the Family Savings Scheme enabled of children with financial literacy. Franchise the frontiers of product development and innovation are being challenged, as we strive to evolve greater levels of families to adopt a healthy financial lifestyle. Tens of thousands of families participated in the scheme with • 1-Child-1-Bank Account Initiative: We reached out The Franchise Group provides remittance services capabilities and solutions on the back of technology to 2,800 families winning gifts, ranging from a family home, a to vulnerable and out-of-school children through through International Money Transfer. The Group also fastserve our customers with more convenient, flexible loan family car, family vacations, scholarships, generators and the 1-Child-1-Bank Account initiative. The initiative tracks seamless collections of utilities and Government products that meet a broad spectrum of needs. other exciting prizes in the first season of the scheme. was designed to help orphans and vulnerable revenue and provides financial services to development children as well as children of parents with limited agencies such as embassies and Non-Governmental financial resources gain access to formal financial Children Banking Organisations (NGO). In our journey towards becoming Private Banking services. This objective was realized by working with Government, NGOs and philanthropic individuals. Africa’s Payment Gateway to the World, we enabled over A critical element of the Bank’s overall strategy is to 1,000,000 customers to send and receive funds across the The Bank’s Private Banking clients enjoy exclusive product ensure that we actively participate in nurturing our future • Periodic Newsletters and Magazines: In addition to world through various platforms such as Western Union, offerings through innovative and sustainable financial customers, shareholders, and staff members. Thus, the an active microsite www.earlysavers.accessbankplc. MoneyGram, Ria Money Transfer, Earthport and Cross solutions. From basic banking products and services Children Banking business provides a bouquet of financial com, we educate, entertain and inform children Border Transfers to and from Ghana. to elite financing structures and programmes, we are solutions that help children develop the capacity to make on money management skills through quarterly committed to understanding the evolving needs of our informed money decisions. edutainment newsletters. In recognition of parents The facilitation of collections for utilities and Government clients while providing unmatched personal services that as being integral parts of building life skills for revenue increased significantly with the Bank winning exceed their expectations. We agree with the Organization for Economic Cochildren, parents are regularly kept abreast of product additional mandates in different geopolitical zones across operation and Development (OECD), that “people should updates. the country. Given our reputation for quality service We once again demonstrated our commitment to be educated about financial matters as early as possible in providing best-in-class solutions to our premium clients their lives”. Thus, our children banking strategy for raising • Early Savers Teens Card: The latest in our value delivery with key State Governments and Institutions, by the launch of the ‘Access Visa Infinite Metal Card,’ which a generation of financially savvy children is multi-faceted. proposition to children is the Early Savers Teen Card strong relationships were deepened, and we were delivers unprecedented levels of service and outstanding Our Children Banking solutions include the following: – a prepaid card designed to provide teenagers with a appointed lead agents for collections in additional States. benefits for a limited few. Against the backdrop of practical way of embracing money management. The We proactively deployed robust technology for the volatile economic realities, we consistently created • Early Savers Club: Since its launch, the Club has card enables children between the ages of 13 to 19 to States to simplify revenue collections and help the States opportunities for our clients to surpass their personal grown its membership base in schools, faith-based carry out basic independent transactions that help actualize their specific business objectives. wealth management goals and objectives through the organizations and children-focused clusters where them imbibe a culture of financial accountability and introduction of the Fixed Rate Deposit Advantage (FRD we deploy our game-based financial literacy kit, at no financial planning at an early stage in life. Advantage) -a high-yield investment option that assures cost. • Youth Banking: We repositioned our offerings to Lending Solutions wealth preservation in a fragile economy. • Holiday Banking for Children: This initiative was suit the youth segment by creating innovative value borne out of the need to promote financial inclusion propositions and modifying existing products to Our commitment to supporting our customers with Our dedicated Relationship Managers go the extra mile and literacy for children between the ages of 5 to 16. create value for Nigerian youths. innovative products and lending solutions that meet their to build long-term relationships with our high net worth Since its commencement in 2014, it has hosted over • Campus Hubs: We revamped 22 campus branches personal, financial and lifestyle needs remain very strong. clients based on knowledge, trust and accountability, ten thousand children who were exposed to handsnationwide with the objective of creating a vibrant The robust bouquet of offerings includes Personal Loans, with the aim to help our clients establish a secure and on banking experience for the first time. The initiative youth appeal that aligns with the ever-evolving needs Vehicle and Asset Finance, Mortgages, Credit Cards predictable tomorrow. equips children with financial capabilities that will of the millennials. The energetic look, tone, style among others that are well adapted to the peculiarities of our various customer segments. The Bank explored new capabilities by leveraging digital Products and Segments technology to bridge funding gaps for salary earners (both Bringing the customer to the heart of what we do is what account holders and non-account holders) nationwide. the Products and Segments Group seeks to achieve This enabled instant disbursement of loans via our through a segment-focused approach. The segmentUSSD platform *901# with minimal documentation to-serve approach underpins our model for banking requirements. individuals and fostering financial inclusion. The lending activity on our Personal Loans portfolio The core of our differentiation lies in our deep industry continued to grow steadily as employees in the private and knowledge, passion for customers and desire to see them public sectors rely on us to meet their financial and lifestyle achieve their goals and objectives unhindered, while needs. These activities fit well among other laudable value delivering superior and sustainable business results. propositions to our customers, further positioning the Bank as a dominant player in the retail banking space in We have a strong focus on women, children, youths as well Nigeria and across Africa. as seniors, employees and affluent professionals. With the goal of financially including the everyday Nigerian, the Our strong pedigree in Vehicle Financing and partnerships Group brought to light a refined approach to banking for with leading automobile dealerships in the passenger families in 2017. This was evident in the “Family Savings and commercial vehicle segments enabled us support Scheme”. The scheme was developed to encourage 26 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 27 and ambience of the campus branches, which have the nation through capacity building programmes that affect their personal and family lives, careers and • Airtel Partnership for Financial Inclusion now been renamed ‘Campus Hubs’, align with the such as career fairs and entrepreneurial workshops. businesses. Several women have had reasons for repeat • PayDay Loan Collaboration with ePayment providers aspirations and passions of youths. visits to the website and extended invitations to their The upgrade translated to increased activities, positive word of mouth and the overall acceptance of Women Banking friends. The year 2018 will see us sustain our relevance in the women’s market with initiatives that will set us apart Our Agency Banking business enabled us to increase our service footprints and take banking services to the the brand as the choice financial brand for Nigerian We have also stimulated economic expansion through and deliver substantial business results for the Bank. customers in their own communities. We also made students. a 58% growth in access to finance for women-owned significant progress in promoting financial inclusion by enterprises. We provided up to N7.3 billion – or a 308% helping to reduce the challenges that have kept over 40 growth – in lending to female individuals. These loans Employees and Affluent million Nigerians out of the formal banking space. Business Restructuring helped to bridge financial needs of up to N5.1 billion. Professionals The initiatives we deployed across women clusters and In the first eight months, individuals who were previously In recognition of the business viability of the youth women ecosystems contributed to a 46% growth in the We offer bespoke financial and advisory services to financially excluded were able to bank with us through and campus ecosystem, we realigned internally and Bank’s women portfolio. Referred to by experts as the employees and affluent professionals through our 2,000 agents across Nigeria. These touch points are set to implemented a more efficient business strategy to enable banking product that delivers babies, the our Maternal Everyday Banking Product. We are intent on helping grow to more than 7,000 agent outlets by the end of 2018. us to meet the dynamic needs of young people and deepen Health Service Support (MHSS) – first of its kind – has affluent professionals and the employees of corporates our relevance in campuses and the youth ecosystem. Our and SMEs optimize their active and productive days. We To further advance the financial inclusion agenda, we helped scores of women complete their families and have also streamlined our business model to better serve leveraged mobile technology to give unbanked individuals this class of customers. In 2017, we were able to provide and under-banked customers access to financial services. employees and affluent professionals with swift and This led to the creation of digital accounts for two million hassle-free financial solutions such as the Automated Nigerians who now have access to formal financial PayDay Loan. services. In furtherance of our goal to serve employees, rigorous The year 2017 provided us an opportunity to set up research and efforts were undertaken to ensure enabling processes and to test key concepts for the next bottlenecks encountered in accessing finance were growth phase of our retail business. In 2018, our focus will eliminated. Because of this effort, loans can now be be to fully actualise and optimise the benefits of our digital accessed at the convenience of employees in a matter initiatives to serve our customers. of minutes via the USSD (*901*11#) – or by visiting the PayDay Loan website (www.mypayday.ng). Employees are eligible for loans of up N500,000 irrespective of the employee’s salary band. In its first 4 months of commencement, up to N2.5 billion in CORPORATE AND finance capital was provided to meet the personal needs of INVESTMENT BANKING 190,000 employees. This game changer provided comfort and convenience to employees in a recovering economy. Our range of financial services cover project finance, corporate lending, cash management, capital markets and Hundreds of thousands of employees were supported advisory services. These services are offered along distinct objective is to create ambassadors in the youth segment access quality healthcare by financing medical and fertility with information on financial and lifestyle products and industry lines, and manned by financial specialists in Oil through an endearing brand with the expectation that treatments for women, amongst other benefits. Driven by services, as well as career enhancement information, and Gas, Large Conglomerates, Infrastructure, Treasury youth clients who will advocate for the brand will also the passion for improved maternal health, we developed via our monthly publication, “LOOP”. We have achieved and Financial Institutions Groups. remain loyal and bring their friends. This ensures we partnerships with Fertility Clinics and health institutions greater awareness in the employee’s target market as generate long-term value for them and their ecosystem. across the country. well as an improved business performance by revamping In 2017, we participated in 60 women-focused events and our product offering. An additional 800 corporates and Oil and Gas Group Innovative Value Propositions hosted 11 capacity building sessions that reached 102,500 more than 150,000 employees in Nigeria have trusted us to provide a secure financial future for them by making the The Oil and Gas Group operates an integrated one-stop women. These were achieved through the W Academy Energy Desk that provides customized financial products The value propositions and features of the Bank’s youth switch to the Everyday Banking Product. capacity building sessions, networking programmes and and services to the oil and gas industry. Access Bank has products were enhanced by: IVF fora, amongst others. carved a niche for itself in the industry and has become a • Increasing the digital channels for seamless banking Our certified programme, the ‘Womenpreneur Business Development Group market leader in the financing of energy projects through provision of innovative funding solutions to players in transactions. Business Workshop,’ in conjunction with the Enterprise The Business Development Group supported the the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors. This • Integrating rewards and consistent engagement as a Development Centre of the Lagos Business School, has attainment of the Bank’s retail banking aspirations is predicated on the Bank’s resolve to lead sustainable core part of our engagement model bridged business and managerial skills gap amongst through collaborations with third party institutions development and support Nigeria’s fast-growing energy • Promoting co-creation platforms that enable us to thousands of female entrepreneurs. The activities of the and by leveraging digital technologies. In line with our sector, particularly the upstream sector because of its create suitable offerings that are not transient. One W community were spread through Sub-Saharan Africa commitment to innovate for a sustainable future, we attendant impact on economic development. of such offerings is the student lending scheme that and across social media platforms. We have provided more provided three innovative solutions for the retail market ensures students focus on their education whilst than two million female customers and women around As part of our commitment to lead development in – and and communities: their financial needs are being catered for. the world with access to educational and informative support for – the energy sector in Nigeria, we partnered articles on capacity building and networking events. We • Agency Banking with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) • Partnering with youth-focused organisations across also provide them with timely updates on developments on the Incorporated Joint Venture Financing Scheme 28 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 29 to finance ongoing field development optimization and deployment of sustainable products and services as the bank of reference in this sector. Access Bank will this, we implemented a cheque truncation option projects being carried out by the various International have led to a significant growth in their businesses and continue to deploy resources to these sectors, as it is our embedded into our PrimusLite platform. Oil Companies (‘IOCs’) that the NNPC has strategic enhanced market visibility. We have, through our drive for firm belief that these will remain key drivers of economic partnership with in Nigeria. The focus of our Upstream arm is to foster a formidable partnership with the sustainability, held several capacity building programmes for key distributors of our clients. This has also helped in transformation in Africa in the foreseeable future. Project and Structured Finance multinationals and their various local content contractors de-risking their value chain. Our Project and Structured Finance (PSF) Group is a through innovative financing schemes. We leverage our Financial Institutions Group leading and evolving financial advisory, debt arranging, stellar knowledge of the industry operating environment and agency services provider. The Group supports the to partner with IOCs in the areas of renewable energy and Infrastructure Group The Financial Institutions Group is your “One-Stop Bank’s clients by providing a full range of tailored financial investment in profitable energy solutions to produce safe Financial Services Shop.” We manage business solutions by leveraging the expertise of its experienced and reliable energy. The Infrastructure Group is charged with the task of relationships with financial institutions, including leading staff and strong relationships with local and international implementing the Bank’s vision to lead the drive for development and investment banks as well as insurance financial institutions and professional services firms. Our Downstream arm is at the forefront of providing development of the country’s infrastructure and bridging companies, pension funds, stockbrokers, registrars bespoke trade finance solutions and advisory services to the significant gaps that exist in the three major sectors of and trustees, among others. Our team provides Global We have developed strategic partnerships with several clients involved in the Downstream Sector. Our products power, transport and telecommunications. Relationship Management Service offerings, including Development Finance Institutions for providing mediumcover the entire value chain. Some of these solutions Settlement and Correspondent Banking Services, Cash to long-term innovative and sustainable funding solutions include creation of foreign exchange forwards to help our In 2017, we offered a wide-range of financial advisory Management, Trade and Project Finance. at very competitive pricing to eligible clients. These customers hedge their foreign exchange risk as it relates solutions to players in the power and infrastructure include notable relationships such as the Netherlands to the importation of petroleum products and establishing sectors. We continued to work with State Governments We also offer structured hedging solutions such as FX Development Company (FMO), European Investment Bank master letters of credit for large scale imports. We have as well as players in the private sector to find sustainable Futures, Forwards and Swaps. Some of the key strategies (EIB), African Development Bank (AfDB), International also played a major role in the development of strategic solutions to the pervasive lack of adequate electricity deployed by the Group in 2017 FY included: Finance Corporation (IFC), Deutsche Investitionsund industry infrastructure in the mid-stream sector, with our across Nigeria. The Bank actively participated as the only bank on the Technical Committee of the Lagos • Hosting a first-of-its-kind Broker-Dealer Forum for Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG), amongst others. continued support for pipeline and gas infrastructure in State Embedded Power Programme, a three-year plan to prime brokerage customers. The forum was designed line with the revised Gas Master Plan blueprint. achieve regular power supply for the State. This initiative to create awareness for this market segment and Overall, the Oil and Gas Group ensures that its operations will deliver additional 3,000 megawatts of power through ensure closer engagement with market regulators Treasury Group are in line with international environmental sustainability accelerated deployment of various embedded power in a bid to standardize market practices and create principles, and global best practice. This has seen Access plants in strategic locations and is expected to boost room for new entrants, thus achieving further The Treasury team provides innovative solutions, which Bank emerge as a recipient of several accolades, one of economic activities of the State. expansion of this segment. are not only necessary for the sustainability of our which was the “Best Bank on Sustainability” for Oil and • Launching Bank One Correspondent banking business, but those of our customers as well. This goal Gas-related Transactions in the Banking Industry for 2017, The findings of the committee were utilized in developing application software designed to replace the guided our transactions and interactions with customers which was awarded by the Central Bank of Nigeria. the Lagos State Electric Power Reform Bill, which laborious manual process in our correspondent during the year. We proactively offered hedging solutions will be signed into law in the first quarter of 2018. We banking service. The software comes with an to our teeming clients. Some of the solutions included intend to continue to play a lead role in the successful innovative automated end-to-end process. Forwards, OTC Futures and Swaps, which provided the Large Conglomerates Group implementation of this project as it will bridge the huge gap between energy demand and supply in Lagos State. • Offering cheque truncation services. This process much-needed foreign currency (FX) liquidity for our clients, whilst mitigating risks in a volatile FX environment. enabled the reduction of paper usage. In addition to The Large Conglomerates Group focuses on top-tier manufacturing companies that are engaged in the Our experienced and dedicated Relationship Managers in food, beverages, personal care, cement and building the Transport Sector provide support to international and materials segment of the economy. Our clients include local airlines as well as marine and automobile companies. multinationals and indigenous companies whose We designed a tailor-fit FX Solution that addressed the operations span across various segments of the Nigerian pertinent requirements of international airlines for FX economy and also transcend international boundaries. remittance, cash management and trade services. The We build enduring partnerships with our customers, by solution in itself helped to restore the confidence of developing financial solutions that meet their long-term international airlines, thereby leading to the re-opening of needs. This is achieved through the deployment of unique flight frequency that was previously cut back. This enabled and innovative products and services that support sales us to sign on new international airlines in 2017. We will growth while enhancing operational efficiencies. continue to consolidate and grow our market share in this sector in 2018. Over the years, we have carved a niche in the industry as market leaders in the deployment of bespoke trade We continued to leverage our strong understanding products to meet the requirements of our clients. During of the ecosystem in the telecommunications sector the 2017 financial year, we worked with several clients to through sustainable innovations that saw us maintain develop unique digital banking platforms and alternative our dominance of this sector. We have built strategic channels that eased collections and payment processes, partnerships with key Mobile Network Operators, their and enhanced customer experience and profitability. trade partners and dealers, key vendors and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and their entire value We also deployed multi-payment platforms that provided chain over the years. With our bouquet of products convenience and efficiency in port collections, thereby and services tailor-made to suit the peculiar banking addressing the perennial challenges of port congestion. needs of players in the sector, and our robust value chain Our deep understanding of our clients’ ecosystems strategy, we ensured we consolidated on our reputation 30 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 31 During the year, we organized an FX seminar to assist collaborations by utilising our recently-launched Africa market storms. The Bank’s reach and value propositions with the Bank to increase customer value and reduce the market participants’ – customers and regulators – and Fintech Foundry initiative as an onboarding vehicle. were extended and impacted a wider range of customers, Bank’s cost-to-serve. come up with ideas on how to move the FX market forward. who opened 45,000 accounts in the first phase of the retail Our Fixed Income team rolled out best-in-class services campaign. Consequently, a new e-mail account opening via prime brokerage, sale and repurchase agreements and Digital Risk Management platform (the first of its kind) was delivered. This enabled Ondigo other yield-enhancing products for both local and foreign currency assets. We were at the forefront of market Framework the on-boarding of new customers via internally generated emails. Prospective customers were able to receive their Finally, the recent soft launch of the Bank’s all-inclusive development, offering possibilities that redefined the new Access Bank account numbers within 30 seconds, Mobile Banking application, Ondigo, allows users to create In the context of the Bank’s digital ambitions, it’s fitting whole spectrum of transaction negotiation, initiation and once their details were sent to the specified e-mail virtual cards. Adult users can gift these virtual cards to that governance and control of all digital initiatives are execution. This ensured that Access Bank consistently address. In the month of October, the Personal Banking their children and dependents, increase their savings and strengthened to minimise the impact of risk on our digital topped the Financial Market Dealers Quotations league team used our various digital tools to sign on 2.8 million perform a wide range of other banking transactions. The product portfolio while supporting the rapid evaluation and table. mitigation of risk for newly-introduced digital products new customers. product, developed using agile methodology, delivers now and in the future. incremental features such as account opening, inter-bank We developed a web-enabled Treasury Bills Platform that allows retail customers invest in Treasury Bills from the comfort of their homes via their mobile device on the A new comprehensive Digital Risk Management Policy Digital Factory, Basement and transfers and airtime purchase, etc., to an audience of millennials and digital citizens who prefer modern modes Bank’s website. This innovation was engendered by the provides us the framework to identify and mitigate the inherent and potential risks in our digital portfolio. It serves Africa Fintech Foundry of interaction for their banking services. The ongoing increased awareness and consequent demand for such digital transformation of the Bank touches on all facets as a starting point for dealing with fraud-related issues on In addition to the PayDay Loan and USSD/e-mail account Fixed Income securities over the past couple of years. of banking operations and is underpinned by the current digital platforms. opening solutions above, the Bank has expanded on We also leveraged social media to disseminate real time development of a continent-wide payments platform to the Finnotech concept, previously encapsulated in the facilitate intra-Africa trade for customers and prospects financial market updates to our customers. We believe the Basement ideation platform. By transforming ideas into future will be shaped through innovation and we are poised towards achieving this. Digitising PayDay Loans and digital solutions, the Bank’s digital factory now delivers on the continent and beyond. Account Opening trending innovation, building solutions in response to challenges and opportunities facing the Bank. One of Over the last year, the Bank has optimised and digitised such solutions identified by the Basement programme the loan process for salary-earning customers. The is “Tamara”, an artificial intelligence-driven chat-bot Bank’s USSD (*901#) channel now serves as a platform designed to connect with and converse with millennial DIGITAL BANKING to enable salary earners to receive instant loans secured customers and prospects, giving them access to banking against their pay day. With the value of loans disbursed to products and services using natural language processing Having firmly established innovation and digital customers on this platform standing at over N2.5 billion, and machine learning to mimic the tone and mannerisms transformation at the core of the Bank’s strategic plan, the initiative has since been extended by way of strategic of a human operator. we have continued to set the pace in three missionpartnerships with SystemSpec’s Remita product, to critical areas. They are: digitising the key customerinclude non-Access Bank customers. This brings over two Tamara’s ability to hold millions of simultaneous facing processes of the Bank; identifying, surfacing million salary earners into the scheme. conversations, each one uniquely tuned to the and operationalizing game-changing ideas generated requirements of the individual at the other end of the chat from within the Bank through the Basement and Digital In the first half of the year, the account opening process line, gives the Bank a unique combination of scale and Factory initiatives; and finally, sourcing, harnessing and was digitally enhanced with the implementation of a customisation; an essential quality when moving from the commercialising externally located disruption from the simplified instant account opening process using our intimate to the mass market in a push to recruit and retain larger technology ecosystem through partnerships and USSD solution (on the *901# code) to support our retail millions of customers over the next five years. To date, over N100 million worth of transactions have been carried out by users chatting with Tamara. An extension of the Basement concept, the Africa Fintech Foundry (AFF) initiative offers a way to capture and direct externally generated innovation to the Bank’s bottom line. Through organised developer-community events, such as the March 2017 edition of the Recode Nigeria hackathon, broad-based industry conferences such as the AFF Disrupt conference in December 2017; and growthfocused collaborations such as the current cohort of the AFF Accelerator programme taking place in the new stateof-the art “Foundry” building between February and June 2018, the AFF identifies and selectively focuses the efforts of emerging fintech disruptors who work collaboratively 32 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 33 OUR GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION China Lebanon (1 representative office) (I representative office) UK (1 representative office) Sierra Leone (4 branches) Gambia UAE (6 branches) (1 representative Nigeria office) (315 branches) Rwanda India (7 branches) (I representative office) Ghana (46 Branches) Zambia DR Congo (5 (6 branches) branches) Table 1: Access Bank's Financial Performance and Socio-Economic Benefits Categories of Economic Value 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (‘000) Naira (‘000) Naira (‘000) Naira (‘000) Naira (‘000) Naira (‘000) Naira Direct Revenues 208,308,873 206,891,219 245,217,569 337,404,230 381,320,783 459,075,779 economic Values generated Economic Operating Cost 121,008,955 122,802,371 152,824,294 234,049,111 203,149,459 188,056,557 value Employees’ 33,683,156 31,081,954 31,293,540 42,346,952 51,795,538 54,806,795 Distributed wages and benefits Payments to 16,683,567 28,270,022 22,483,662 29,109,307 39,427,422 18,803,180 providers of capital Payments to 1,695,343 7,498,759 8,958,810 9,169,344 18,900,109 18,081,628 government Charitable 173,229,020 391,000,000 388,832,257 346,628,505 285,339 567,027.158 Donations Economic Value Retained 35,064,623 16,847,113 29,268,431 50,627,759 67,762,915 117,701,679 34 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 35 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS, PROFITABLE BUSINESS Corporate Governance regulatory compliance. The subsidiaries comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements of their host We recognize that long-term competitiveness and countries and align their governance frameworks to that of performance are influenced not just by economic factors, the Bank. but by social and environmental considerations, and that shall be entitled to compensation and/or reinstatement Where the concerns are received by a member of staff The Board is responsible for embedding high standards good corporate governance fosters adequate decisionprovided that in the case of compensation, the employee’s other than the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive of corporate governance across the Group. The Board making and risk management processes. Therefore, our entitlement shall be computed as if he had attained Officer, Chief Conduct and Compliance Officer or Chief recognises that effective corporate governance is a key corporate governance structure is designed to align with the maximum age of retirement or had completed the Audit Executive, the recipient of such report shall be imperative to achieving the sustainable growth of the the interest of our stakeholders while ensuring long-term maximum period of service, in accordance required to: enterprise. Our core values of excellence, innovation, shared value is created. That is why Access Bank continues leadership, passion for customers, professionalism and with his/her conditions of service. For other stakeholders, • Immediately pass the concern to the Chief Audit to have an outstanding track record of excellence when it empowered employees continue to define our corporate the whistleblower shall be adequately compensated. Executive and Head, Internal Audit Investigation comes to corporate governance. behaviour. Access Bank Plc for prompt investigation The Board of Directors of Access Bank is the Group’s Channels and Procedures of • If the concerns affect the Head, Internal Audit highest decision-making body except for matters reserved for the general stakeholder’s meeting. Within Ethics, Integrity, and Whistleblowing Investigation or Chief Conduct and Compliance Officer, the Group Managing Director is notified. the framework of general supervisory function, the Board Whistleblowing The Bank had provided both internal and external When a director or Board member is involved, such has the final word on decisions concerning the Group’s whistleblowing channels. concerns shall be directed to the Chairman of the strategy and policies, corporate culture, and the Group’s At Access Bank, we are committed to the principles of Board Audit or Board Risk Management Committee. openness and integrity. Ethics also forms an integral part Internal Whistleblowing Procedure: organizational structure. The Board also approves and The concern(s) shall be presented in the following format: monitors the risk framework and appetite of the Group. of Access Bank’s corporate culture and values. Our Code The internal whistleblowing channels are as follows: of Conduct factors in the ethical principles and rules of • Background of the concerns (with relevant dates). Accordingly, the Group’s governance framework is conduct governing the actions of all the Bank’s employees. • Formal letter to the Group Managing Director, designed to ensure on-going compliance with the Central • Reason(s) the whistleblower is particularly concerned These principles and rules include equal opportunities and • Access Bank Plc or the Head, Internal Audit, Access Bank of Nigeria’s Code of Corporate Governance for about the situation. non-discrimination, respect for people, work-life balance, Bank Plc. Banks and Discount Houses in Nigeria (the CBN Code); occupational risk-prevention, environmental protection Where there is no merit in a complaint by a whistleblower, • Call or text messaging to dedicated phone numbers; the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Code of and compliance with sustainability policies. but the person making such claim acted in good faith, 01-2712065 or IP 4160 Corporate Governance for Public Companies (the SEC the Chief Audit Executive shall ensure that the person Code); and the Post Listing Rules of the Nigerian Stock In the drive to entrench the culture of whistleblowing • Dedicated email address – whistleblower@ suffers no reprisal. However, when a person makes a Exchange. These, in addition to the Board charter and among members of staff, quarterly trainings are held on accessbankplc.com report in bad faith, particularly if it is based knowingly on the Bank’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, the benefits of whistleblowing and the channels through • Via Access Bank’s website – https://www. false or misleading information, a report of the finding collectively provide the foundation for our sound corporate which whistleblowers can report their concerns are also accessbankplc.com/Pages/Customer-Support/ should be kept without any disciplinary actions against the governance. published on the Bank’s website. Any person who reports Whistle-Blower.aspx whistleblower. This is without prejudice to the fundamental any irregularity, provided it is done in good faith and in The Internal Whistleblowing Hotline shall be available right of the internal whistleblower to seek redress in a The Bank and its subsidiaries (the Group) are governed compliance with the provisions of the Policy, shall be court of law. during working hours on work days only. However, the under a framework that enables the Board to discharge protected against any act of retaliation or intimidation. email channel will always be available, and the information its oversight functions while providing strategic direction An employee who has suffered any detriment by reason provided by the whistleblower shall be kept confidential. to the Bank in balance with its responsibility to ensure of disclosure made pursuant to the provision of the policy 36 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 37 External Whistleblowing Procedure Performance Monitoring, Audit, financial and reputational risk posed by environmental and capacity designed to protect their people and the natural social issues that could arise from our client’s activities. environment. The external reporting channel makes use of the KPMG Ethics Lines and facilities. The KPMG Ethics line facilities and Evaluation Category A are telephone lines, fax lines and email address. The telephone lines are open between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 The Board, in the discharge of its oversight function, Sustainable Banking continuously engages management in the planning, Projects with potential environmental and social risks p.m. on work days only. While the fax number and e-mail definition and execution of strategy. Management’s Access Bank has adopted an integrated and risk-based and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible, and address are always available except during periods of report on the execution of defined strategic objectives approach to managing environmental and social risk within unprecedented. maintenance. is a regular feature of the Board’s agenda, thus providing its various products based on the Equator Principles (Eps), the Board with the opportunity to evaluate and critique which is the leading global financial industry benchmark for Category B Whether the whistleblower discloses his/her identity, management’s execution of strategy. The Bank’s assessing, determining and managing environmental and KPMG will not provide any indication of the whistleblower’s performance on Corporate Governance is continuously social risks in major bank-financed projects. Access Bank Projects with potentially limited adverse environmental identity to Access Bank except KPMG has a written being monitored and reported. We carry out quarterly Plc became a signatory to the Equator Principles on 4th and social risks and/or impacts that are few, generally siteconsent from the whistleblower to provide his/her identity and annual reviews of our compliance with the CBN Code June, 2009. specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through to Access Bank. Telephone calls generally are recorded, and the SEC Code and render reports to the regulators. mitigation measures. and information is transcribed into a call sheet memo by The Board has also established a system of independent KPMG for transmission to designated representatives of Table 2: Project Financed with consideration annual evaluation of its performance, and that of its to the Equator Principles Category C the Bank. Access Bank, its officers, staff, representatives committees and individual directors. In addition to or agents shall not be entitled to have access to such tape financial performance, the implementation of the Bank’s Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and recordings, fax messages or email messages received from environmental and social risk management framework and Categories social risks and/or impacts. whistle blowers. performance, as conducted by the Bank’s Environmental By Sector A B C and Social Risk Management and Sustainability teams, These measures are necessary to maintain confidentiality Mining is also periodically being assessed and audited. These and anonymity of the whistleblowers. Access Bank will only Infrastructure audit functions are conducted quarterly and annually have access to the call sheet memos: by the Bank’s Internal Audit Unit, across all the Bank’s Oil & Gas 2 17 31 • Through the KPMG Ethics Line strategic business units concerned with, and affected by, environmental and social risk policies. Power 1 • E-mail: kpmgethicsline@ng.kpmg.com Others 2 6 • Toll free numbers for calls from MTN numbers only: Also, the Bank is committed to external assurance of 0703-000-0026; 0703-000-0027 its environmental and social performance initiatives as Agriculture 2 6 • Toll free number for calls from Airtel numbers only: contained in our Sustainability Report, internal statements Total 2 23 45 0708 060 1222; 0808-822-8888 and policy frameworks. Such external assurance involves By Region an audit and evaluation of our Sustainability-related • Toll free number for calls from 9MOBILE numbers Americas processes and is usually conducted by an independent only: 0809 993 6366 consultant. Europe, Middle East & Africa 2 23 45 Anti-Corruption Asia Pacific This policy includes the rules of conduct that must be Risk Management Country Designation Designated Country 2 23 45 followed by employees. The Bank Engaged Ernst and Assessing social and environmental risk in our lending Young to develop an Anti-corruption template for the practices is an important component of Access Bank’s risk Non-Designated Country Bank. Some buzzwords were also created that staff management process. It helps us to make a more informed Independent Review can use to communicate and report any form of bribery decision and enables us to provide guidance and insight to and corruption noticed internally. Training sessions on our clients when they are seeking access to capital. Yes 2 23 45 anticorruption and bribery were conducted for all the No employees last year. Targeted trainings on anticorruption Our risk management approach is informed by industry and bribery were also conducted for partners, including best practices, which are: capital market operators, insurance companies and • The Equator Principles (EPs) microfinance banks. As of today, 92 financial institutions in 37 countries have • The International Finance Corporation (IFC) adopted the EPs. As a responsible financial institution, performance standard Assess Bank reviews potential project finance transactions Money Laundering and • The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) for environmental and social compliance with the EPs., This Terrorism Prevention • The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals helps to protect our credit position and prevent us from unwarranted risks. It also reinforces our commitment to (SDG’s) Access Bank constantly reviews its Anti-Money laundering Access Bank has developed a risk management the communities where we operate and the planet. process to ensure it is at par with international regulations framework, which is approved by the governing body and to counter the latest gimmick used by criminals. Designated countries are those countries deemed of the Bank. The framework is a comprehensive set by the EPs framework to have robust environmental Because of this, our employees are constantly trained on of programmes, which outline the Bank’s approach to the processes. and social governance, legislation, and institutional 38 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 39 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT This year marks the 10th anniversary of Access Bank’s Our People Sustainability Journey. Now is a good time to step back and look from a distance, not only at how our processes have Having the highest possible quality of human resources changed for the better, but also at how much our economy management standards across the Group is a priority has evolved and how much impact we have made on the for Access Bank. Managing human resources in such a society and the environment. Alongside building a strong diverse environment is a major challenge. The foundation presence of Access Bank in the global financial markets, of corporate culture building at Access Bank is our values. one of the most important achievements over these last It is from these values that we derive best practices and 10 years is that we are now more aware of the importance market solutions. As an international organisation, we also of corporate social responsibility and the principles behind abide by local laws and respect local cultures. sustainable development. Our Sustainability initiatives are best characterised as being diverse. We always look for Our Customers unconventional approach in our choice of sustainability Quality services at our locations are not taken for granted initiatives. and we strive to offer our customers something more. As a testament to Access Bank’s consistent – Tamara, an artificial intelligence-driven chatbot was implementation of its Sustainability strategy, we have launched in 2017 to connect and converse with customers, been part of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), giving them access to our Bank’s products and services the world’s largest sustainability initiative and we are using natural language processing and learning to mimic committed to the ten principles of the UNGC and the the tone and mannerism of human operators. Politeness 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SGDs). We are also and willingness to help in addition to professionalism a signatory to the Equator Principles. Over the years, are qualities that we consider when hiring staff for our we have made conscious efforts to develop strong different locations. relationship with organizations and institutions with Our approach is customer-oriented. We respond similar interests like the United Nations Environmental to customers’ wishes, comments and grievances Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), International appropriately. The wide range of amenities that we provide Finance Corporation (IFC), among others, with the sole aim at our locations are designed to meet the needs of various of strengthening our sustainability impact and delivering customer groups. We have ATM with braille to help our benefits to communities, people and the planet. In visually impaired customers make withdrawals; most of maintaining these multilateral partnerships, we continue our locations are also built on flat surfaces without ramps to support the wider Nigerian financial sector to embed to enable easy movement of our physically challenged environmental and social risk management. customers. Environment Conclusion We recognise that a better and prosperous future is I am convinced that our report will, as always, serve as Setting Standards Community linked to the well-being and health of our planet, thus a comprehensive source of information on all material As a leader in the financial services industry in Africa, the protection of the environment is germane to us. topics, and inspire further efforts in the promotion At Access Bank, we are committed to supporting the We strive to promote the efficient use of resources and of sustainable growth. We want to keep on inspiring and Access Bank has been setting the highest standards growth and prosperity of our communities because we address sustainability issues when managing risks. We proving that sustainability is indispensable not only when both through its market activities and its approach see ourselves as integral to those communities. Hence also develop products and services that incorporate things are going well. But, most importantly, it also gives to sustainability. We believe that sustainability is more than we make conscious effort to support various projects, environmental aspects for our customers while investing us a significant advantage in a continuously evolving world. just a cost item – it is, first and foremost, an investment organizations, and events focused on making a positive in a wide range of projects. Our infrastructure investments that builds relationships with our environment and all our difference in the communities in which we live and work. (green buildings, solar panel ATMs) as well as our recycling stakeholders. It also provides a solid foundation with which Our priority areas include: Health, Education, Environment, Herbert Wigwe we can progressively improve our value. initiative and shutdown policy are all designed in a bid Group Managing Director Sports, and Arts. to limit our environmental impact. 40 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 41 ACCESS BANK’S APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY At Access bank, doing our business sustainably is relevant targets of the United Nations 17 Sustainability fundamental to realizing our vision to be the World’s Development Goals (SDGs) into our operations as a major Most Respected African Bank. Therefore, our approach player in the financial services industry. to sustainability is to integrate innovative economic, social, and environmental business practices to create shared value for our shareholders, customers, partners, Access Bank’s 2017 Milestones communities, employees, and the environment, which undergirds our sustainability principles. These principles • We launched Employee Volunteering Awareness Day. commit us to operating with transparency and integrity, • We launched the “Save Today, Take Tomorrow” thereby building a resilient business, operating responsibly Campaign focused on driving financial inclusion. and creating shared value through relationships with • We expanded the waste recycling initiative to other our stakeholders. And by constantly engaging our branches in Lagos, and we donated two waste stakeholders, we actively seek to understand what is recycling trucks to waste off-takers (Recycle Points important to them and where best to direct our efforts. and Parallel Points). We are committed to the ten principles of the United • We achieved energy consumption reduction and Nations Global Compact (UNGC). These principles align improvement of employee work-life balance through with our mission of setting and upholding a standard the 7pm bank-wide shut down policy. for business practices. We have also embedded the 42 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 43 ACCESS BANK’S 2017 Why our employees engage us • To provide us with feedback and input that can help us Our responses • We provided diverse platforms to build the capacity of STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT improve their working environment and our business process. our employees, including trainings, talent mentoring conversations, ongoing performance reviews and an environment that is conducive for growth; Frequency of engagement • We reviewed our early shutdown policy to ensure that • Ongoing; employees leave the office early enough so that they • As required by employees; can spend quality time with their friends and family. • Shareholder’s association meeting. Customers Specific engagements in 2017 • Trainings and capacity building; Why we engage our customers • Retreats; • For complaint resolution; • Town hall meetings; • To understand their experience with our products and • Employee volunteering; services; • Employee satisfaction survey; • To appreciate our customers; • Inside Access monthly newsletter; • Customer data update; • Awards and recognitions; • To provide appropriate advice, proactive financial • Emails; solutions, and value-adding services; • Intranet; • To ensure that we maintain a high service level as expected of us by our customers. • Happy hours; • Executive director’s face-to-face with employees; Why our customers engage us • Human Resources face-to-face interaction with • To assess our world-class services; employees. • To provide us with input that can be used to enhance Material issues raised our services; • To grow and protect their investment and wealth; • More training opportunities; • To get value banking that is transparent and • Review of the performance management process; competitive in pricing; • Improved work-life balance. • To assess the products and services they need; • To receive sound financial advice and financial We recognize the benefits of a strong long-term Our Employees, education. relationship with our stakeholders. Hence, dialogue, Our Shareholders and Investors, collaborations and meetings with our various stakeholders Frequency of engagement Our Customers, are essential to understand their interests and • Ongoing; expectations of Access Bank. Stakeholders’ expectations Our Communities, along with Access Bank’s strategic management serve as • Dependent on the need of the customers and Regulatory bodies, a basis for the priorities chosen for Access Bank’s work. identifiable sales, service or guidance opportunities. Media, The issues are evaluated from a stakeholder and business Mode of engagements Suppliers. perspective and how they affect Access Bank’s ability to create value. • SMS; We engage with our stakeholders through both formal and Employees • Email; informal interactions as appropriate to the stakeholder. • Focus group session; We make use of specific surveys and continuously monitor Why we engage our employees • Breakfast sessions/Business Forums; the opinions of our stakeholders at several levels, including • To drive continual improvement towards world-class • Guest frontline initiatives; through direct dialog, multi-stakeholder initiatives, and performance; • Contact center/Phone calls; on dialog platforms on sustainability topics. Proactive, • To enhance employees’ capabilities; bilateral cooperation with NGOs and opinion leaders gives • Social Media. • As a motivation tool to help them achieve their goals; us insight into the precise goals with regard to optimising our engagements with them. • To provide employees with strategic direction and keep them informed on the group’s activities. Our stakeholders are individuals or groups that have a material interest or are affected by our products and services. They include the following: 44 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 45 Material issues raised • Press and analyst conferences, presentations on governmental organisations; Why they engage us special subjects; • Community investments and development efforts. • Long wait time to speak to an agent; • To ensure regulatory compliance; • Participation in indices and investor surveys; • Lack of adequate follow up; • Annual Reports and Accounts (www.accessbank.com/ Material issues raised • To promote the soundness and stability of the • Delayed resolution. domestic banking and financial system, thereby all-financial-report/annual-reports) • Increased rate of sexual violence; contributing to its financial stability. Our response • Access Bank website (www.accessbankplc.com); • Increased rate of depression among young people; • Emails, conference calls with shareholders and annual • Trust in the financial sector. Frequency of Engagement • Set up of the Ombudsman process to increase firstresults; • As required. time resolution (FTR) ; Our responses • Shareholder association meetings. • Recruitment of staff to reduce resolution waiting • We launched the Salvus project – A sexual violence Mode of engagement time; response intervention platform aimed at increasing • Regulatory consultations; • Engagement of customers to determine specific Material issues raised access to support for survivors of sexual violence; • Various industry and regulatory forums; issues; • Challenging Economic climate. • We organized a symposium in partnership with Hacey • Escalation to relevant units/persons for resolution; • Meetings between regulators and our Board Health initiative to address the issue of depression members. • Investigation of complaints where required; Our response among young people; • Material issues raised • Follow-up and resolution of identified issues; • Access Bank became more aggressive in the market; • We continue to build a steady relationship with our communities, which is evident in the increase in the • Fraud, corruption, and money-Laundering • Communication with customers regarding resolution; • We improved on our existing products and services number of our customers and investors in 2017. • Financial sustainability • Compensation (where required); and we created alternative products with zero risk but • Redesign of process to prevent future failures/ equivalent value; Our responses development of sustainable resolution; • Access Bank balance sheet remains well captured Regulatory bodies • We invested in improving our digital infrastructure • The funds involved in transaction failure were with diversified funding profile and strong coverage to ensure that our processes and administrative reversed. ratios. Why we engage them activities are properly monitored; • To maintain open, honest and transparent • We also invested in developing the skills of our Shareholders and Investors Our Communities relationships and to ensure compliance with all legal employees and partner organizations through training and regulatory requirements. on Anti-Corruption, bribery, and money-laundering; Why we engage our shareholders Why we engage our Communities • To retain our various operating licences and minimise • Access Bank ensures compliance with regulatory our operational risk. requirements of the Central Bank of Nigeria and the • To provide our shareholders with timely and relevant • To create partnerships that serve to facilitate our integrated sustainability activities; • Security and Exchange Commission. information; • To manage shareholder expectations and reputational • To obtain input from environmental experts, risk; communities and nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) regarding key focus areas; • To maintain strong relationships, keep abreast of market developments and inform our shareholder • To create awareness of our integrated sustainability targeting strategy; commitment and initiatives. • To ensure good governance and deepen the trust Why our communities engage us placed in us and our brand; • To get advice and guidance on how to achieve desired • To get feedback that informs our strategy, business outcomes for themselves, their families, their operations and how we govern. businesses and their communities; Why our shareholders engage us • To partner on common social and environmental issues. • To receive relevant and timely information on our financial and non-financial performance; • To collaborate in a way that furthers social, environmental and other common agendas for the • To understand our financial performance; greater good. • To gain insight into our strategy and management. Frequency of engagement Frequency of engagement • Ongoing; • Ongoing; • As required by the stakeholder. • As required by the shareholders; Mode of engagement Mode of engagement • Charitable donations and sponsorship; • Roadshows; • Community outreaches through our employee • Annual General Meetings; volunteering activities; • Stock exchange statements and quarterly reports; • Partnerships with community facing non46 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 47 Media • conduct and environmental considerations; To include critical suppliers in cross-functional ACCESS BANK’S PROGRESS ON teams to contribute expertise and advice before Why we engage the media • To leverage the reach and influence of media channels specifications are developed for products or services. COLLABORATIVE PARTNERSHIP/ Why our suppliers engage us to share our business and citizenship stories with stakeholders; • To provide products and services; MEMBERSHIP • To communicate with relevant stakeholders and the • To negotiate pricing and contracts; public with a view to having a positive influence on • To promote new product and service offerings; behaviour that will lead to desired business results; • To respond to tenders. • To protect and manage our reputation. Mode of engagement Why the media engages us • Ongoing interaction with suppliers and contractors • To educate and inform their audiences on for procurement purposes; developments in the financial services sector and Access Bank Group specifically; • Supplier education workshops, indabas, workshops, roadshows, etc; • To be informed about our contribution to the economy and our products and services; • One-on-one negotiations and meetings; • To empower their audiences with appropriate • Changes to trading arrangements in terms of our information to make informed financial decisions. procurement systems. Frequency of engagement Frequency of engagement • Regular interactions in relation to business-related • Ongoing. media enquiries; Material issues raised • Premeditated engagements in relation to our business and sustainability initiatives. • Pricing, payment terms, and service delivery. Mode of engagement Our response • Media parley events (through which Access Bank • Due diligence was completed before customers are makes proactive efforts to specifically engage the engaged. media); • Other public-focused channels organized by the Bank during the year at which media representatives were also present. Material issues raised • Financial stability of the banking sector Our responses At Access Bank, we do not just want to be members • Our continuous engagement with various of coalitions, we want to be actual bearers of noble stakeholders through the media helps earn their identities of our coalition. Hence, our continued confidence and confirm our stability. commitment to global and local partnerships driving sustainable development across different indices. Our different partnerships for sustainable development, and Suppliers additionally our leadership roles and contributions to these partnerships, are illustrated as follows: Why we engage with our Suppliers • To maintain an ideal and timely supply of goods and services for our operations; • To obtain products or services required for conducting our business; • To encourage responsible practices across our supply chain, bearing in mind, local procurement, supplier 48 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 49 Table 3: Updates on Partnerships and Coalitions Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement United Nations The UNEP FI is a collaborative initiative Access Bank was well represented on the regional United Nations Global The UNGC is a global platform and In 2017, Access Bank continued as the Co-Chair of Environmental between UNEP and the global financial representatives’ platform of the UNEP FI in Africa. As an Compact (UNGC) an initiative of the UN established United Nations Global Compact Local Network. In Programme Finance sector. UNEP FI works with its full range active member of the UNEP FI, we participate in AGM’s to encourage businesses to adopt line with this, Access Bank, as the Co-Chair of the Initiative (UNEP FI) of partners to promote sustainable and contribute to innovative ideas for accelerating fundamental principles in the areas UNGC Local Network, supported the process for the development through the financial Sustainable Finance in Emerging Markets. of human rights, labour practices, successful implementation of the UNGC Ethics and industry players. As member and Co-Chair of UNEP-FI, Access Bank environment and anticorruption. Compliance workshop. Through this workshop session participated in the launch of the first series of UNEP on Ethics and Compliance, the Local Network convened FI ARRT, which held from November 27-29, 2017 in executives and managers from the corporate, MSME, Johannesburg, South Africa. At the ARRT, Omobolanle social business, investor, and NGO communities to Victor-Laniyan, Head Sustainability Access Bank, equip them with skills to evaluate their compliance presented and shared the Bank’s Sustainability programmes as well as address general questions about transformative stories on Sustainable Waste the “right” and the “good” in their corporate operations. Management to an audience of over 500 leaders in The Bank also supported the process for the successful Sustainable finance across the Africa region. implementation of the UNGC Collective Action Training The Bank also participated in the UNEP 25th and Workshop for SME’s. The Collaboration Lab Anniversary celebration. The Head of Sustainability Workshop convened executives and managers from at Access Bank, also presented and shared top-notch the corporate, SME, social business, investor, and NGO key developments in sustainable insurance, banking communities to catalyze Collective Action against and investment in Africa & Middle East over the past 25 corruption in Nigeria. years, and the inspiration to increase momentum, scale Access Bank, as the Co-Chair of the UNGC Local up action and potential development in the industry Network, supported the process for the successful over the next 25 years. At this event, the Bank was given implementation of the UNGC Anti-Corruption an award for her outstanding role and contribution to Collective Action Training and Workshop for MSME’s the UNEP FI Global Steering Committee. on July 4, 2017. The workshop convened executives United Nations Principles In partnership with the UNGC and At the core of Access Bank’s subscription to the UNPRI and managers from multinationals, corporates entities, for Responsible the UNEP FI, the UNPRI is a United is the desire to incorporate environmental, social and MSME’s in manufacturing, agriculture, education, Investment (UNPRI) Nations-backed initiative, led by the good governance considerations in all our investment fashion and entertainment, social business, investors, investment community, to encourage decisions. In 2017, we demonstrated this commitment and NGO communities to catalyze Collective Action responsible environmental, social and through the ESG criteria included in our investment and against corruption in Nigeria. governance (ESG) considerations while financing activities. Nigerian Business The NBCSD is a council of CEOs of With our GMD/CEO on the Board, Access Bank making investment decisions. Although the overall responsibilities for making Council on Sustainable pioneering companies committed to continues to promote sustainable development investment decisions rests with the Board of Directors, Development (NBCSD) making a difference in the sustainable alongside other member-organizations (local after obtaining executive management’s approval, development of Nigeria. NBCSD brings and multinational) committed to the sustainable our equity investments are initiated by SBUs with the collective force and voice of the development of Nigeria. input from the Risk Management Division, which private sector to promote sustainable screens and appraises the consistency of each one development practices in Nigeria. of our investments with our responsible investment Nigerian Sustainable The NSBPs were created to enhance Our role as the Chair and Interim Secretariat of the framework and risk management policy. Critical to this Banking Principles (NSBP) economically viable, socially equitable Sustainability Champions Committee also continued screening and appraisal processes are environmental, Steering Committee and environmentally sustainable throughout the year 2017. We continued to show our social, governance, labour and human rights practices practices in the Nigerian Banking support for new and existing Sustainability champions of the investee. sector. The NSBP Steering Committee across the banking industry, organizing educative coordinates industry collaboration seminars and trainings that addressed major challenges toward the successful implementation of the discipline, further driving Sustainability across of the NSBPs in Nigeria. financial institutions in Nigeria. 50 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 51 Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement Nigerian Conservation NCF is dedicated to nature Access bank remained a member of the Nigerian London The LBG is a global network of Based on the LBG, in 2017, we continued to monitor Foundation (NCF) conservation and sustainable Conservation Foundation in 2017. We continued organisations that are committed all our CSR investments along the LBG model. This Benchmarking development in Nigeria. NCF leads in to support biodiversity preservation through our to community investment as a tool enabled us track progress on our investments in promoting sustainable development contribution towards the foundation. We were also Group (LBG) for sustainable development. These community development, providing insight on areas of through environmental conservation present at the Annual General Meeting 2016, providing organisations use the LBG Model as a improvement in our CSR activities for the coming years. and natural resource management in valuable leadership advice and guidance. framework for measuring, managing Nigeria. and reporting the value, and the achievements, of the contributions Nigeria Business Coalition A network of companies working Because of our commitment towards preventing the they make to communities and the Against AIDS (NiBUCAA) together to help member-companies occurrence of HIV/AIDS in the workplace, Dr. Herbert society. and others to develop workplace Wigwe, the GMD/CEO, Access Bank Plc, was appointed programmes for preventing and Co-Chair of the Nigerian Business Coalition Against GBCHealth A coalition of more than 230 In 2017, Access Bank supported the efforts of combating HIV/AIDS. AIDS alongside the MD/CEO Total E&P Nigeria Plc, companies working to improve GBCHealth in addressing global health issues actively Nicolas Terraz, who took over from Dr. Pascal Dozie, the health of their workforces and participating in providing platforms to build knowledge who had been Co-Chair from 2003. This appointment communities around the world. Focus and multi-stakeholder collaboration and creating was in recognition of the Bank’s efforts towards areas include reducing maternal, newtools to support companies’ ability to improve health ensuring a HIV and AIDS-free generation. born and child mortality, and advancing and wellness in the workplace, in communities and efforts for combatting HIV, TB and collectively at a national, regional or global level. Following the appointment of Herbert Wigwe to malaria. serve as the Co-Chair NiBUCAA alongside Mr Nicolas Access Bank also continued in its partnership with Terraz, there have been various strategic meetings GBCHealth on the Malaria-To-Zero initiative, a project organized by the new Co-Chairs of the Board, to drive that is aimed at averting one million malaria cases in the new agenda of the transformational journey of the Nigeria by the year 2020 administration. To this end, Access Bank, working with Corporate Alliance on CAMA is a group of private sector In 2017, we remained consistent to our resolve in NiBUCAA, drove the process for the implementation Malaria in Africa (CAMA) organisations with business interests eradicating malaria within our sphere of influence and of an Informal Board Dinner and the Inaugural Board of in Africa. These organisations pool our communities of operations. Trustees meeting with the new Board of the coalition to efforts to combat malaria in substrategize towards the successful achievement of the Access Bank, as a leading member of the alliance, Saharan Africa. new goals of the coalition. hosted the strategic End of Year (EOY) meeting of CAMA. It was organized to review the activities of the Convention on Business CBi works to empower individuals and In our continuous partnership with CBi, we have been alliance in 2017 and strategize toward the plan for 2018. Integrity (CBi) institutions against corrupt practices. successful in keeping our commitment to zeroAt this EOY meeting, the Bank contributed toward Its mission is to promote ethical tolerance for corruption. In 2017, the actual execution shaping the 2018 CAMA objectives. business practices, transparency and of this commitment across our SBUs truly enabled the healthy competition in the private and Bank to avoid corrupt business practices. In recognition of the astute commitment made by the public sectors. Bank towards addressing malaria in Nigeria and Africa Global Reporting Initiative The GRI is a global non-profit In 2017, Access Bank continued as a member of the as well as its continued support and dedication to the (GRI) organisation that promotes corporate GRI GOLD community, reaffirming our commitment Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa, Omobolanle Sustainability practices through to shaping the future of sustainability and reporting, Victor-Laniyan, Head, Sustainability, Access Bank Plc, Sustainability reporting. GRI does this whilst empowering decision-making towards a more was announced as the new African Co-Chair of CAMA. by releasing standards and principles sustainable economy and future. We participated in the WeConnect International WeConnect is a global non-profit Through our strategic partnership with WeConnect, on Sustainability reporting. 2017 workshop on the new GRI reporting standards, organisation committed to sustainable Access Bank is set to continuously leverage its alliances, which focused on introducing the new GRI standard for development through women partnerships and collaborations with reputable reporting launched in 2016. economic empowerment. WeConnect international organizations to promote women is a coalition of corporate members entrepreneurship across Africa. We continue to uphold the GRI mandate by publishing from over seventy (70) countries. our comprehensive Sustainability Report based on WeConnect makes impacts by the GRI standards. Our status as an organizational encouraging, increasing and promoting stakeholder to GRI was maintained in 2017. opportunities for women-owned Equator Principles (EP) The Equator Principles are a framework Access Bank reviews all potential project finance businesses. for managing environmental and social transactions for environmental and social risks in World Economic Forum The World Economic Forum (WEF) Access Bank, as a member of the World Economic risks in the financial sector. Over 80 line with the equator principles as well as the IFC’s (WEF) is the international organization Forum, contributed to the goals of the forum, thereby financial institutions in over hundred performance standard and legislation. Our application for public-private cooperation. The facilitating the provision of a platform for the world’s countries have signed up to the of the equator principles has ensured greater forum engages the foremost political, leading companies to shape a better future. As a Principles. consistency in our application of environmental and business and other leaders of society member of the forum, Access Bank contributed to the social risk management within our project finance. We to shape global, regional and industry projects and initiatives – online and offline – to address also submitted a report to the Equator Principles in agendas. industry, regional and systemic issues. 2016 in furtherance of our commitment to sustainable project finance. 52 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 53 PROGRESS Goals Target Examples Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiative The commemoration also reflected the willingness of people living in poverty to use ON SDGs their expertise to contribute to the eradication of poverty. JAKIN-Fresh Foundation Project: Through our partnership with ACT Foundation, this highly subsidized training on basic business management principles, re-orientation, computer application, vocational skills and office automation machine programme was successful at reforming and empowering indigent and out-of-school youths in the lower class of Lagos State. Over 200 Aspiring Entrepreneurs were trained in: vocational skills such as liquid soap production, disinfectant production. Financial literacy, office management and computer skills were also taught. Goal 2 End hunger, achieve ANCHOR BORROWERS’ PROGRAMME: In 2017, Access Bank continued to work food security and with the CBN, to collaborate with anchor companies (Rice/Wheat millers) involved in improved nutrition, rice production and processing to help poor local farmers increase local production, and promote increase feedstock for processors as well as reduce importation in order to conserve sustainable Nigeria’s external reserves. Access Bank also partnered with Lagos and Kebbi state agriculture. governments to build a rice mill with a capacity to mill 20 tonmes of rice per hour. AFLASAFE INITIATIVE: In 2017, Access Bank partnered with Gracefm Seda Services for the successful implementation of the Aflasafe Project, aimed at training 3,000 smallholder farmers in the South-South region of the country on sustainable agricultural practices to improve productivity and reduce unsustainable production. The Aflasafe Project is an initiative of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and World Bank. The overall aim of the project is to promote food security through the adoption of ‘Aflasafe’ farming practices, whilst improving the livelihood of smallholder farmers across Nigeria. Goal 3 Ensure healthy Malaria-to-Zero: The Private Sector Health Alliance of Nigeria and Access Bank, under lives and promote the leadership of the CEO of Access Bank – Dr. Herbert Wigwe – launched the Malariawell-being for all at to-Zero initiative in 2016 as an innovative financing platform to galvanize private sector all ages. resources and capabilities for sustained support towards averting at least one million malaria deaths by 2020. Through this initiative, 273,000 new people were reached with malaria information in rural communities across six states in the South-West region of Nigeria; 30,000 nets were distributed, with 4,537 given to pregnant women. 357 At Access Bank, we believe that the 17 goals are We also realized that we cannot succeed in achieving community groups were engaged under the initiative. important to achieve sustainable development, and we these global goals on our own. Therefore, we partnered Commemoration of International Days on Health: Access Bank partners with several understand that we have a crucial role to play in helping with various organizations both local and international as community-focused institutions on initiatives that improve the quality of life of the the governments of the countries where we operate specified by SDG 17 to help us in achieving these global people in different communities across Nigeria and Africa. We commemorated the to achieve these global goals. Because of continuous goals. World Sickle Cell Day at Okokomaiko community in partnership with Nirvana Initiative, dialogue with our stakeholders, Access Bank, in 2017, providing free genotype test, counselling people and sensitizing them on how to avoid took steps to ensure that it supported all the global goals. The table below shows the progress we made in 2017 sickle cell. Over 300 members of the community benefitted from the initiative. towards the SDGs: On World Diabetes Day, we partnered with Hacey Health Initiative to conduct free Table 4: Access Bank’s Progress on SDG diabetes screening, awareness campaign, and counselling to over 1,000 beneficiaries. As the world commemorated the 2017 World AIDS Day, Access Bank partnered with Goals Target Examples Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiative HACEY Health Initiative and NiBUCAA to develop an initiative aimed at reinvigorating prevention efforts to stay on the fast-track to ending the AIDS epidemic by 2030. Goal 1: No End poverty in all International Day for Poverty Alleviation: To commemorate this important day in Poverty forms everywhere. 2017, Access Bank partnered with CARE Trust to acknowledge the struggles of people Partnership with ACT Foundation: Through our partnership with ACT Foundation, we living in poverty and help address their needs. To this end, we implemented strategic have been able to address key health issues with initiatives such as: community engagement activities, which focused on: Cancer Aware Nigeria – The Breast Cancer Early Detection Program: The project aims Business management education for parents living in underserved communities – This to reduce the rising cancer incidence in Nigeria, especially among women, through programme focused on empowering indigent families with business management education, advocacy and patient support knowledge and skills that will enable them run successful businesses -which will Special Olympics Nigeria – No More Malaria: The project aims to prevent and reduce provide them income and means of sustainable financial independence. malaria morbidity and mortality incidence in Nigeria, especially among children living Financial advisory services for families – This programme involved sensitizing families with disabilities, through health education, screening and provision of basic lifesaving on the different financial products and services that exists and can be utilized to tools. The programme impacted at least 600 children living with disabilities. manage and grow income effectively and consistently – further driving economic Women at Risk International Foundation – Creating awareness about gender-based development and financial security. violence: This project seeks to reduce the rate of gender-based violence of expectant Career counselling for children – This involved activating the potential of the children mothers in selected communities by provide training to traditional birth attendants on and youth, by helping them to identify their strengths, passions and the opportunities recognizing the signs of abuse and providing adequate management. The programme that exist around them – guiding them to make the right decisions that will build bright impacted at least 500 Traditional Birth Attendants. futures for all. 54 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 55 Goals Target Examples Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiative Goals Target Examples Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiative Sebeccly Cancer Care and Support Centre #Prevent Cancer Pay: This is an initiative Goal 7 Ensure access to INTERNAL INVESTMENTS: In alignment with the goal of ensuring access to focused on reducing the burden of cervical cancer in Nigeria through increasing the affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy, Access Bank remains committed to efficient energy number of cervical cancer survivors and reducing the number of deaths by screening sustainable and usage. The Bank has always invested in environmentally-friendly technologies. young women and providing support to affected individuals. Impact: 300 women. modern energy. Currently, the Bank has: Goal 4 Ensure inclusive Take Tomorrow Initiative: Implemented by employees of the Bank, this initiative • 4 branches (2%) that are solar-powered and equitable allowed employees of the Corporate Communications Unit to partner with the Junior • 311 branches (98%) that are hybrid (inverter + PHN + generator) quality education Achievers of Nigeria to train students in selected schools on business education and • The Ogunlana Drive branch is fully powered by solar energy with no connection to and promote entrepreneurship skills. Over 200 students were reached. the national grid. lifelong learning • 257 solar-powered ATMs accounting for 14% of total ATMs of the Bank Adopt a School Initiative: Our Conduct and Compliance Group, through our Employee • Motion-sensitive LED lightings at its Head Office opportunities for Volunteering Scheme, renovated Obele Community High school in Surulere – A school • LED Lightings in all its facilities nation-wide all. where students used to hold classes under the trees, or in dilapidated classrooms. • The Bank’s early shutdown policy was introduced in 2015 and has since been Lavatories, staff rooms and classrooms were upgraded into a fit-for-purpose facility reviewed, from shutdown at 8pm at the Head Office and 6pm at the branches to for the school. About 856 students benefitted from the initiative. 7pm at the Head Office and 6pm at the branches. • This resulted in a 12.68% reduction in diesel consumption bank-wide from 2015 The Education Savings Plan: This product was recently launched to assist parents to 2016. save towards the educational needs of their children in a convenient manner over a specified period as defined by them. This service is available in both foreign and local EXTERNAL INVESTMENTS: currencies. It provides access to free education advisory, allows discount with selected educational partners as well as preferential FX purchases for Personal Travel Allowance Step-Up Green Initiative and overseas school fees payment. Access Bank supported the Green Impact International – a global eco-advocacy Advance for Schools Fees: Knowing how stressful it can be in terms of preparing the organization focused on creating a movement of environmentally-conscious kids to go back to school, we help take the pressure off the shoulders of parents by individuals across nations. The support enabled Green Impact International to carry providing short-term financial support to enable them pay school fees. It is also a out a programme targeted at training 100 volunteers on eco-smart orientations and seamless service for the remittance of school fees for their children/ward. a subsequent follow-up project on the engagement of the trainees in reaching out to students in 50 secondary schools with the same objective. The training was in tandem Goal 5 Achieve gender ACCESS WOMEN NETWORK: We established the Access Women Network, which with the establishment of Green Clubs and Green Spaces within 10 of the selected equality and provides a platform for female employees to accelerate their professional and personal schools. empower all women development. Some of our key initiatives under this platform in 2017 included: and girls. The Love A Child Initiative, the International Women’s Day programme, the EMAC Goal 8 Promote sustained, The Ready.Set.Work initiative: Access Bank partnered with the Lagos State Smearathon, amongst others. inclusive, and government on the Ready.Set.Work initiative to train 500 undergraduates from tertiary sustainable institutions in Nigeria. This ongoing programme will adequately equip them with the THE ‘W’ INITIATIVE: The award-winning W initiative has truly remained the home economic growth, right skillsets to excel in the corporate and entrepreneurial world, financially. Selected of everything Access Bank has to offer Women. It has also helped to solidify Access full and productive participants of the programme have also been placed on a 6-months internship Bank’s position as the Bank of choice for women in the markets and communities employment and programme in Access Bank to give them a hands-on work experience that will give we serve. In 2017, we continued to implement our flagship programmes such as: decent work for all. them the competitive advantage in securing their future. Demystifying Bank Loans; Empowering Women with Technology; and the Enterprise Development Center (EDC)-certified programme, ‘Womenpreneur Business Through our partnership with ACT Foundation, we have been able to promote Workshop,’ which has bridged business and managerial skills gap amongst thousands sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth through initiatives such as: of female entrepreneurs. FATE Foundation-Aspiring Entrepreneurs programme (AEP): The objective of the Maternal Health Service Support (MHSS): Referred to by experts as the banking AEP is to create enterprises, businesses and eventually markets, which will inevitably product that delivers babies, our first-of-its-kind Maternal Health Service Support grow economies. Over 60 Aspiring Entrepreneurs were trained to provide them with (MHSS) continues to aid scores of women complete their families and access quality knowledge of the Nigerian business environment, and how to build and run successful healthcare by financing medical and fertility treatments for women, amongst other businesses. They were provided with mentoring and other forms of business support. benefits. Through successful IVF procedures and Natal Support, 40+ babies have been JAKIN-Fresh Foundation Project: This is a highly subsidized training on basic business birthed to families nationwide. Women have been able to access bone surgeries for management principles, re-orientation, computer application, vocational skills their infants and fibroid treatments. and office automation machine programme. The project is intended to reform and Goal 6 Ensure availability Community Safe Water Initiative: In partnership with HACEY Health initiative, Access empower indigent and out-of-school youth in the lower class of Lagos State. Over and sustainable Bank embarked on an initiative with the goal of increasing access to safe drinking water 200 Aspiring Entrepreneurs were trained in the following areas: vocational skills such management for women and children in 15 underserved local communities in South-West Nigeria. as liquid soap production and disinfectant production. They were also taught financial of water and Through this initiative, at least 2,000 beneficiaries have gained access to potable literacy, office management and computer skills. sanitation for all. water. Under the Project Safe Water Initiative, there were: Junior Achievement Nigeria Tomorrow’s Leaders. Today: The project consists • Community engagement involving relevant stakeholders within the communities; of supplementary educational programmes in the areas of financial literacy and • Community education on water and hygiene, i.e. keeping water clean; entrepreneurship for senior secondary school students. Over 2,070 secondary school • Drilling of boreholes. students in two states were inspired and engage through entrepreneurship, financial literacy, mentoring and leadership programmes. Water to Communities: Furthermore, through the Employee Volunteering Scheme, and in partnership with Hallifield School, Access Bank built boreholes for the Mende FREEDOM Foundation – Empowerment zones: This project is for young women community in Lagos State. We also constructed public toilets for inhabitants of and men aged 15-35 who reside in Lagos and are committed to acquiring skills and Dustbin Village in Ajegunle community in Lagos State. vocational training. They are then provided with jobs. Over 100 aspiring entrepreneurs were trained in soap-making, computer skills, barbing, baking, make-up and hairdressing 56 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 57 Goals Target Examples Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiative Goals Target Examples Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiative WIMBIZ: The WIMBIZ capacity building programme aims to develop the capacity Goal 10: Reduce inequality Access Bank continues to provide new/innovative products or service offerings of female entrepreneurs to lead and build sustainable businesses that will attract within and among designed to reduce inequalities in society. Some of our innovative product and service investments and contribute to economic development. Over 60 entrepreneurs were countries. offerings are: supported to: Skill Acquisition Project Focused on Women Empowerment: To end lasting problems • Identify business gaps like poverty partly requires realizing individual potentials of the people on earth. To • Enhance leadership skills achieve this, we must begin by empowering women and providing opportunities for • Provide strategies everyone. Like many African women, Nigerian women have a subordinate role to their • Set up sustainable business structure male counterparts. The United Nations has proposed women empowerment as a tool to eradicate gender inequality as depicted in the Sustainable Development Goals. OVIE BRUME Foundation – The Future Projects: The goal of the project is “to reduce the rate of unemployment among rural and urban youth in Nigeria through Considering this, Access Bank’s Retail Operations Group launched a capacity building vocational skills development integrated with financial literacy focusing on global best programme with the aim to train and empower disadvantaged women across Nigeria, practices.” Over 60 Entrepreneurs were engaged in different vocational skills such as such as the rehabilitated street girls, Chibok women in IDP camps, widows and rape fashion designing, baking, and hairdressing. They also learnt business and financial victims. management skills. The Group partnered with Field of Skills and Dreams (FSD) Academy whose aim is Goal 9: Build resilient African Fintech Foundry: Fintech plays a critical role as both a disruptor of the status to train individuals in vocational, technical and entrepreneurial activities for selfinfrastructure, quo and a potential solver of the traditional problems of African financial institutions. employment. Participants were trained for a maximum period of three months to promote inclusive Such problems include low level financial inclusion, scarce credit history and cashenable them to acquire vocational skills in catering, fashion designing or hairdressing. and sustainable driven transaction culture. Through our African Fintech Foundry, Access Bank is in The women attended seminars and upon graduation, they were given equipment such industrialization close collaboration with the fintech community. The AFF’s mission is to build the most as ovens/stoves, dryers, sewing machines, etc., to enable them start off a small-scale and foster sought-after, most selective, and most successful technology business incubator/ businesses. The graduates were thereafter monitored regularly via visits to their innovation. accelerator by valuation in Nigeria. As such, the initiative seeks to embrace external locations as well as follow-up seminars at the training center by Small and Medium participants in a series of events such as coding contests, pitch days, and conferences Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) and FSD. as well as an application process designed to attract the most talented and ambitious technology entrepreneurs. Participants accepted into the accelerator programme are Training locations were Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan and Calabar, and the feedback received exposed to opportunities to receive funding, mentorship, networking opportunities, from FSD Academy showed that the training was impactful. Some of the 225 access to markets and work space, amongst others, to aid development of their graduates have gone ahead to set up verifiable small-scale businesses or they have solutions. themselves become trainers and mentors to other entrepreneurs. SME Toolkit: In line with the Bank’s objective to build the capacity of its SMEs, the SME Family Banking Scheme: In 2017, Access Bank Plc unveiled a new savings scheme, Toolkit was designed to offer a platform for small businesses to learn and implement tagged the ‘Family Savings Scheme.’ The scheme was initiated to give customers sustainable business management practices to increase their productivity and a boost in their savings. This is in line with the Bank’s commitment to promote a efficiency. The toolkit portal offers information on business news, as well as industry savings culture among the populace. The ‘Family Savings Scheme’ is a savings scheme trends and events. Our SME Toolkit also provides access to new partnerships and designed to encourage families to save together and enjoy exclusive privileges, such as markets. high interest rates and family rewards, while they continue to enjoy the confidentiality of their banking relation and manage their accounts as unique individuals. Women Banking: In promoting inclusive industrialization, our dedicated women banking team continues to provide customized services for women in our community. The scheme also provides access to people who are currently excluded from financial We constantly deploy initiatives that have helped us maintain our position as the bank services, whilst promoting capital accumulation and investment boom. Currently, over of choice for women in the markets and communities we serve. By 2017, the bank 26,522 families are banked under the Save Today, Take Tomorrow initiative. provided women with banking solutions that achieved 58% growth in access to finance Instant Savings Account: To address the challenges of providing bank accounts in for women-owned enterprises and there was a 308% increase in personal loans to Nigeria, Access Bank developed the ‘Instant Savings Account’ to provide a strategic women. financial product that will plug the gap in financial inclusion. Many of the unbanked and underbanked populations are excluded from financial services due to inadequate funds or lack of valid means of identification. The ‘Instant Savings Account’ is a hassle-free account opened with just a passport photograph. With this special product of Access Bank, every individual can now open an account without an initial deposit. The account also requires no minimum deposit, and no monthly maintenance fee. The account holders can also have access to their accounts on the go through mobile banking platforms, in addition to having access to verve debit cards and lots more. Goal 11: Make cities and Financing Sustainable Cities: Access Bank makes efforts to make cities and human human settlements settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable. In this regard, we are one of the inclusive, safe, lead financiers of the Eko Atlantic City project, a sustainable and smart city in Lagos resilient, and State. The Lagos State Government struck a partnership with the Bank to be the lead sustainable. financier for two major projects that have direct relevance to the socio-economic development of the people of the state. One of these projects is the Eko Atlantic City project, designed to be Nigeria’s version of Manhattan, New York. There is also the Fourth Mainland Bridge, the N844 billion, N38 kilometer road/bridge project that will link Ikorodu with Eti-Osa Local Government Area. 58 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 59 Goals Target Examples Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiative Goals Target Examples Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiative Goal 12 Ensure sustainable Energy Consumption in Our Facilities: Efficiency improvements are being made in Goal 15 Protect, restore, World Environment Day Participation: Access Bank, in partnership with Global consumption Access Bank’s facilities to reduce total energy consumption. In 2017, through the and promote Initiative for Economic Empowerment (GIEE), arranged a high-level session, awareness and production review of the Bank’s early shutdown policy in June 2017 from 8pm to 7pm, the Bank sustainable use programme and training that engaged young influencers on the theme of the 2016 patterns. achieved a further 24.9% reduction in diesel consumption. Furthermore, the Bank of terrestrial World Environment Day: “Fight Against the Illegal Trade in Wildlife.” Over 20,000 has also constructed four new solar-powered branches to improve reduce our carbon ecosystems, people were reached with wildlife protection information on social media; and over footprints. These branches are separate from the pilot branch at the Ogunlana Drive, sustainably manage 100 participants signed a joint declaration pledge to show zero-tolerance for the our fully solar-powered branch, which is not connected to the national grid. forests, combat illegal trade of wildlife products. The declaration aims to take appropriate actions to desertification, halt protect endangered species. Also, in partnership with the Human and Environmental Currently, a total of 257 of the Bank’s ATMs are fully powered by solar energy. This has and reverse land Development Agenda (HEDA), the Bank executed the Project Safe Water Initiative, a facilitated the Bank in achieving a 63.4% reduction in CO2 emissions from electricity, degradation and project aimed at drilling boreholes for the provision of potable water in 15 communities a 28.8% reduction in CO2 emissions from diesel and a 16.7% reduction in CO2 biodiversity loss. in the south-west region of Nigeria where they had little or no access to clean water. emissions from petrol. Sustainable Waste Management: In 2017, Access Bank expanded its waste recycling Paper Consumption: Across the Bank, we have automated almost all our processes, initiative beyond its Head Office/Annexes to facilitate improved disposal and thereby, reducing the need to print. In 2017, the Bank continued to adopt eco-printing management of paper, plastic, glass and aluminum can waste across its locations in practices. These entail the use of recycled paper, printing on both sides of paper, the country. The Bank now recycles waste from 37 locations. In line with strategic plans re-use of scrap paper and the automation of processes. The Bank is also making to improve the capacity of waste recycling businesses locally, the Bank also donated significant reduction in the volume of printing by adopting the Diligent BoardBook, an recycle waste pick-up trucks to Parallel Points and Recycle Points – empowering automated and secured system for Board meetings, and paperless meetings. them to ensure sustainable waste management is embedded locally. Furthermore, a In 2017 also, the Bank introduced the ‘No Paper Initiative,’ which aims to help reduce comprehensive training on sustainable waste management practices was organized to our paper usage by getting us to think more about the implications of our actions educate Access Bank employees on environmentally responsible waste management on our environment. Through innovative paper saving tips, the automation of the practices. This led to a paradigm shift in the employee’s perspective of waste as a Memo Approval System and Paper Saving Team Challenges, “Paper Champions” are resource. Today, the Bank has achieved a 92.64% reduction in waste-to-landfill at 37 being selected and rewarded with mouth-watering prizes, monthly/quarterly benefit locations where the bank is located. With plans to expand this innovative initiative updates, and more. This has enabled us to achieve a 39.79% reduction in our paper bank-wide, the positive impact will be both significant and ground-breaking. usage. Goal 16 Promote peaceful Partnership on SALVUS Project: Sexual violence is a common phenomenon that occurs Goal 13 Take urgent action Sustainable Environmental Management forms part of Access Bank’s strategy and and inclusive worldwide. In Nigeria, sexual violence largely goes unreported because of the burden to combat climate business model. Hence, we are committed to a clean environment and the fight societies for of proof necessary for conviction as well as the social stigma it attracts. To address this change and its against climate change. This commitment is reflected in certain aspects of our sustainable societal challenge, Access Bank partnered with HACEY Health initiative, Empower, the impacts. business process, such as in the analysis of the social and environmental risks of our development; United States of America mission to Nigeria, the Kessington Adebutu Foundation and financing activities and measurement of our environmental footprint. provide access to the Stars Foundation Girl Award to launch the SALVUS project. justice for all and E&S in Project Finance: The Bank ensures that all transactions are screened for the The SALVUS project is a web-based platform developed to facilitate safe and build effective, possible environmental and social risks inherent in projects to ensure that they are confidential reporting of sexual violence incidents whilst providing access to available accountable, addressed effectively. Access Bank has an established Environment and Social Risk comprehensive support service and relevant information. The SALVUS Platform hosts and inclusive Management (ESRM) Unit reporting to the ED, Risk Management and to relevant a database of sexual violence support service providers that victims can connect to institutions at all committees (e.g. ERMC, MCC) for further review/implementation of ESRM policy. and receive the support they need. levels. We purchased a customized sustainable finance toolkit for transaction screening/ Project Enable – International Day of Persons Living with Disabilities 2017: In assessment/reporting, in line with the Bank’s policies, Equator Principles, and IFC commemoration of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the Project Performance Standards. This has helped us to ensure that all projects financed are Enable launched and officially opened her Disability-friendly Digital Hub for the use responsible, thereby reducing the environmental impacts and fighting climate change. of the community of persons with disabilities in Lagos State. The hub was set up with Alternative Energy: Access Bank understands the negative environmental impacts the support of Access Bank Plc and the United States Consulate, in partnership with of inefficient energy consumption. Therefore, we have embraced the utilization of the Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities (JONAPWD) to improve new environmentally-friendly technologies to power our business for sustainable the access of persons with disabilities in Lagos to Information and Communicative productivity. Technology (ICT) skills and opportunities. This has greatly impacted our carbon emission reduction and in turn minimized our Goal 17 Strengthen We have forged partnerships with the public and private sectors, and international impact on the environment. In doing so, we are contributing to on-going global efforts the means of organizations united by a shared commitment to lead efforts in sustainable on environmentally-friendly practices. implementation development across multi-sector or industry platforms. These organizations include: and revitalize the Energy Consumption – Improving the Shutdown Policy – Efficiency improvement • United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative – Co-Chair Africa and global partnership policies and practices are adopted in Access Bank to facilitate reduction in our total Middle East; member, Global Steering Committee for sustainable energy consumption. In 2017, this was achieved through further expansion of the • Co-Chair, United Nations Global Compact Nigerian Local Network development. Bank’s early closure policy. • Leadership Group Member, United Nations Women Empowerment Principles • Chair, Steering Committee, Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles Goal 14 Conserve and Water Efficiency at Access Bank: We take very seriously our responsibility to carefully • Board Advisory Committee, Private Sector Health Alliance of Nigeria sustainably use the manage our water resources. Over the course of the year, we installed water-efficient • Board Member, Nigerian Business Council on Sustainable Development oceans, seas and cisterns in our new rest rooms; thus, conserving water consumption and reducing • Co-Chair, Nigeria Business Coalition Against AIDS marine resources waste waters. Throughout the Bank, we aim to halve our water usage in the coming • Member, Private Sector Delegation to the Global Fund Board for sustainable years; as such, we are looking to install more of these water-efficient cisterns in more • Member, WeConnect National Advisory Board, Nigeria. development. of our branch offices nationwide. 60 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 61 Table 5: Access Bank’s Update on United Nations Global Compact PROGRESS UNGC Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiatives in 2017 Access Bank is cognisant of our stance on human right protection. ON UNGC support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Through improved awareness to our stakeholders, we ensure that our lending activities do not go into projects with a potentially adverse human rights impact. Access Bank’s human rights policy also upholds the protection of the rights of our employees against discrimination, segregation, and oppression. Principle 2: Make sure that We uphold fairness in our dealings with our staff, striving in all ways they are not complicit in human possible to provide and maintain a safe and healthy work environment, rights abuses. which provides access to ancillary amenities and recreational facilities to improve the quality of life of our workforce. (An example of such amenities is our Access Recreation center). Through our Human Resources Group, the Bank continues to monitor and raise internal human rights awareness through formal and informal training amongst employees and management. We also maintain a Bank-wide grievance process through which staff and even outsiders can report, amongst other issues, human rights abuses. During the reporting year, our Bank received no internal or external grievance relating to human rights abuse. Labour Principle 3: Businesses Access Bank is a responsible employer of labour. Our clearly should uphold the freedom of documented human resources policies have been built upon the association and the effective foundations of the Nigerian Labour Laws and, where applicable, recognition of the right to international best practices such as the International Labour collective bargaining. Organization (ILO) conventions. The Bank communicates and makes these policies available to all staff. Thus, we keep our people aware of their rights, privileges and Principle 4: The elimination responsibilities within the provisions of these local and international of all forms of forced and labour best practices. In addition, our whistle-blower lines provide our compulsory labour. employees with confidence to report all cases of labour and employee relations abuses experienced. Access Bank did not receive any such complaints during the year. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Our human resources policies are well furnished with conditions of service that truly recognize and allow for, continuous dialogue between the management and employees whenever key decisions, Principle 6: The elimination which concern employees are to be made. These commitments are The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) was several initiatives of the Bank curtail our greenhouse indeed acknowledged by line managers, team-leads and supervisors of discrimination in respect of developed by the United Nations to encourage businesses gas emissions. One of such is our reduction of diesel employment and occupation. Bank-wide. This enables a system of mutual respect thrive amongst to align their strategies and operations with the ten consumption at our business locations. We strongly uphold employees. universal principles that build on UN conventions in the the precautionary principle, which motivates us to want Access Bank strongly upholds a positive corporate culture, which fields of human rights, labour standards, environment to get involved in mitigating climate change, even as the respects all employees and as such forced and compulsory labour is and anticorruption. Access Bank became a signatory to scientific evidence gathers momentum. eliminated. In addition, Access Bank frowns strongly on child labour, the UNGC in 2012 and we have conducted our business neither does the Bank approve business with vendors or borrowers who in accordance with the UNGC. Since we made our Access Bank has made efforts to reduce consumption engage in the use of underage workers or any form of coerced labour. commitment to the principles, our sustainability team has of water and material resources such as paper. Where possible, the Bank has also reduced business travels. The Bank is also making significant progress in its diversity agenda. We been working tirelessly with various representatives from have continued to demonstrate our superior commitment to policies other SBU’s to monitor our performance. Several other initiatives are also ongoing in the Bank to and practices related to supporting the empowerment of women and ensure that the businesses we lend to and finance do not advancing gender equality in our workplaces. The Bank subscribes to Not only are these principles integrated into our business, have adverse environmental impacts, or at least impacts the Women’s Empowerment Principles and has gradually begun to our vendor-facing SBUs are also conscious of the value of that can be mitigated. eliminate traditional banking stereotypes in which women for example, the UNGC’s 10 principles. By implication, our commitment were excluded from certain roles and opportunities. This progress can to the sustainability principles inevitably permeates Amongst other key instruments we use to reduce our be seen, for example, in the status of female employment, whereby through our supply chain. This has ultimately spawned carbon footprint, we have included environmental impact there is an uptrend for women in senior management, as well as women a system by which our continued relationships with our assessments and due diligence audits of prospective on the Bank’s Board. supply chain entities depend largely on their adherence to projects, clients and suppliers. In furtherance of our In addition, the Bank makes equal remuneration to both men and the tenets of these principles. continued commitment to environmental stewardship and women who work at the same level, and promotes continued support, responsibility, we continued to be pioneer members of the employment and non-discrimination of women during cases of Furthermore, in line with the principles of the UNGC and environment work stream of the UNGC local network in pregnancy and after childbirth. as part of the global efforts to combat climate change, Nigeria in early 2017. 62 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 63 UNGC Principles Access Bank’s Corresponding Initiatives in 2017 For example, the Bank makes provision for maternity leaves, and more PROGRESS flexible work options during periods after child birth, such that retention rates after such parental leaves stand at about 100%. Through the Access Women’s Network and the “W” initiative, the Bank continues to ON NSBP create and maintain workplace awareness of, and respect for, gender equality, gender-based non-discrimination for all workers. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should The rapidly-increasing urgency and need for action to alleviate global support a precautionary environmental challenges continue to increase the Bank’s climate approach to environmental change awareness. challenges. As Co-Chair of the UNGC Local Network, Access Bank serves as Principle 8: Undertake the lead of the UNGC Environment workstream and the Finance initiatives to promote greater Committee. As a testament to the Bank’s efforts, the Bank has led environmental responsibility. and facilitated workshops and seminars as it relates to environmental sustainability. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion Several other initiatives are also ongoing in the Bank to ensure that the of environmentally-friendly businesses we lend to and finance do not have adverse environmental technologies. impacts, or at least have impacts that can be mitigated. Amongst others, key instruments we use to do this, have primarily included environmental impact assessments and due diligence audits of prospective projects, clients and suppliers. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should Access Bank has a corporate framework in place for this purpose, work against corruption in all its establishing the basic guiding principles and policies concerning this forms, including extortion and matter and the minimum standards that must be adhered to by all units bribery. responsible for managing and coordinating the systems and procedures for the prevention of all forms of extortion, bribery, and money laundering. Our framework also entails investigating and dealing with any reports of suspicious activities and any requests for information from our antibribery compliance officers. These officers help to instill the highest ethical and legal standards As Co-Chair to the Steering Committee, Access Bank Sustainability officers across the Nigerian banking amongst the Banks employees, and track compliance by screening provided leadership, guidance and assistance to other industry for all the champions’ meetings/workshops our operations practices against relevant and applicable local and Nigerian banks in the implementation of the NSBP. In organized. Understanding the importance of continuous international laws relating to corruption, bribery and anti-competitive addition, the Bank doubled as the Interim Secretariat for learning, re-learning, knowledge-sharing and trainings, behaviour. the Committee, thus coordinating successful meetings, Access Bank, for the first time, successfully mobilized Over 97% of our staff have been trained in Anti-Money Laundering and executing Committee’s activities, and promoting the Sustainability consultants from highly reputable local and Combating the Financing of Terrorism. In addition, the Bank has imbibed adoption of the NSBP in the Nigerian Banking industry. international firms, including Ernst and Young, KPMG, a strict culture towards corruption and bribery defaulters in which the PriceWaterhouseCoopers, amongst others at zero-cost to Bank adopts disciplinary/punitive approaches which may, for instance, We continued to show our support for new and existing the beneficiaries, and all-costs to Access Bank. lead to dismissal of staff and perhaps blacklisting, in case of nonSustainability champions across the Banking industry, complying suppliers. organizing educative seminars and trainings that These highly engaging, analytical and informative addressed major challenges of the discipline, further workshops covered diverse topics, ranging from the No legal action was taken against Access Bank in 2017 with respect to corruption, bribery, anti-competitive behaviour or violations of any driving Sustainability across financial institutions in Nigeria. measurement and management of the environmental related local and/or international laws. impacts of banking practices; to protecting, conserving b) NSBP Steering Committee Meeting and utilizing natural capital for financing the Nigerian economy; strategic approaches to building a sustainable The Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP) supply chain, amongst others. These systemic and Steering Committee held monthly meetings at different programmatic trainings on Sustainability provided members’ offices with different issues raised and solutions deeper insight on industry gaps and challenges, whilst proffered to drive Sustainability across the industry exposing champions to international best practices and and strategize for the future. Access Bank served as proffering innovative solutions to address the constraints the secretariat driving the process of these meetings in embedding Sustainability and improve Sustainability throughout 2017. operations across the Nigerian Banking industry. c) Sustainability Champions Meeting The value of these knowledge-sharing workshops championed and implemented by Access Bank in 2017 is Whilst the Sustainability champions meetings/ far-reaching and the impact is sure to continue far beyond workshops are not new initiatives, the impact of the 2017. The feedback from participants at these workshops Bank’s efforts towards the success and value-added show high levels of satisfaction and knowledge gained. from these meetings/workshops in 2017 are farThis assures us of the value of these workshops and we are reaching. In 2016, Access Bank played host to all the encouraged to drive the initiative in the coming years. 64 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 65 qualification, experience level, special skills, if available, a woman in leadership places her in a unique position to ACCESS BANK’S and performance. influence an organization, and provide stability for the community. Also, when they are equipped with knowledge EMPLOYEES Non-discrimination and Disability Access Bank prohibits discrimination and harassment of and information, they possess the capacity to come up with innovative ideas. employees, or applicants based on disability. We ensure 1. 2017 Orange Lecture: The Bank’s Access Women that our Human Resources Group supports this effort and Network, in partnership with Genesis House, a responds appropriately to any concerns that come to our Freedom Foundation initiative, organized a public attention with regards to discrimination. event on November 24, 2017, titled: Orange Lecture: ‘Violence Against Women: Why It Matters and Why Access Bank operates a policy to ensure fair working You Should Care’. The event provided a robust conditions for employees with disabilities. The policy platform for vigorous public discourse on the issue of defines the standards of practice about this group. We violence against women and possible solutions. work hard to remove workplace barriers so people with disabilities can be fully active in both professional and 2. Smearathon: The event was held on Saturday, social life. We believe that people with disability can be September 16, 2017 at the Muri Okunola Park in catalysts for innovation. Victoria Island, Lagos in conjunction with Exquisite Magazine. It started with a work-out session led by a Therefore, we provide a level playing field for all employees leading Nigerian actress, Kate Henshaw, and included in all aspects of our personnel management, including a walkathon. It also provided an avenue for public recruitment, placement, evaluation, and compensation. enlightenment on cervical cancer and screening Even when an employee becomes disabled, we continue and counselling of the event participants. A total of to support such employee. Special consideration is also 91 women from Lagos and environs were screened given to disable applicants in our recruitment process. during the Smearathon. As at December 31st, 2017, Access Bank has nine disabled employees in its workforce who have not been 3. Love a Child Initiative: On February 12, 2017, the discriminated against. In the same vein, no complaint or Access Women Network across the Group reached lawsuit has been filed against the bank in the reporting out to orphanages as part of its ‘Love a Child’ Initiative Our Empowered Employees Diversity and Equal Opportunities year. during the valentine season. Employees were At Access Bank, our objective is to be one of the best At Access Bank, we believe in the art of thinking engaged to donate cash and gifts to orphans within banks to work for, and that is capable of attracting and independently together; hence, there is strength in our Women Empowerment their community. Several branches of the Bank also retaining the best talents globally. Our objective is to be diversity. Our business practices and commitment to visited orphanages within their vicinity to felicitate Empowering women and having more women in leadership with residents and provide them with gift items. A a bank that is committed to enhancing the sustainability diversity of all kinds – including gender, age, race, religion, positions is an area that Access Bank has paid attention total of 158 orphanages were visited across Nigeria. of our business with a winning culture that emphasizes country of origin, sexual orientation – is a strategic to over the years. Access Bank believes that the role of collaboration, integrity, and innovation, while treating action area for us and it is reflected in every aspect of our customers and stakeholders with dignity and respect. To business. Our diversity drives innovation and it is integral achieve this, we offer our employees attractive jobs with to the success of our business. Therefore, it is vital that all Table 7: Gender distribution of Board of sound work-life balance, comprehensive development employees understand the importance of diversity in the Directors since 2008 and training opportunities and a good long-term career workplace and appreciate each other’s contribution to the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 prospect. We strategically manage and motivate our bank. employees because we believe that the more satisfied, % of women on 13 33 31 33.3 35.7 36 motivated, and engaged they are, the more passionate and Access Bank considers enhancement of intercultural Board productive they would be in delivering unique, high quality understanding as a strategic issue for success. We know % of men on 87 67 69 66.7 64.3 64 services to our customers and stakeholders. that our ability to build an inclusive environment with Board diverse skills and expertise is critical to meeting our customers’ needs, and attracting, developing and retaining Total no on the 15 15 16 15 15 14 Board talent. We strive to create a workplace in which our employees are empowered and engaged, providing them with opportunities and platforms to grow. Compensation level is also based on merit and is determined by Table 6: Composition of Employees by Gender 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 % of Female 39 40 42 43 45 46 Employees % of Male 61 60 58 57 55 54 Employees Total no of 2977 2463 2797 2843 2965 3189 Employees 66 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 67 3 Ensure the health, safety, and well-being of all Our Bank has a strong commitment to health and safety. We women and men workers. remain committed to promoting the wellbeing of all our staff, including female and male employees. Our internal health and safety programmes and health maintenance schemes help to ensure that our employees are in good physical and mental conditions always. Since 2013, and throughout 2017, the Access Recreation Centre (ARC), unrivalled in the industry, provided our workers with an avenue for boosting their worklife balance. The ARC, which comprises a gymnasium, meal rooms and various relaxation spots, helps to boost wellness and healthy living among Access Bank’s employees. 4 Promote education, training, and professional Access Bank has an undying commitment to the development, development for women. training and capacity building of our workers. Indeed, all these professional development packages are at the disposal of our male and female workers without discrimination. Women Empowerment Principles Access Bank as a Family-Friendly Employer In addition, having recognized the potential role of women in the future of financing a stronger and bigger Africa, Access Access Bank views women empowerment as a vital aspect Access Bank follows a pro-employee policy, reflecting Bank launched several initiatives to further catalyze the of global sustainability and we do not underestimate its its core values and standards of conduct. The Company professional development, mentoring and grooming of our power to build an inclusive economy. With a significant operates several programmes to help ensure a proper women employees. These initiatives include the Access investment in empowering women over the years, we work-life balance for its employees. The benefits offered Women Network, which was launched in 2013 and the ‘W’ have been able to help create a prosperous economy, include a daycare center, located at the Group’s Head initiative introduced in 2014. attract and retain top female talents while enhancing our Office of the Bank. Our daycare center provides care for 5 Implement enterprise development, supply chain, Owing to our zero-tolerance for discrimination in terms of competitiveness and our ability to serve our mission over the children of employees while they are at work. The Bank and marketing practices that empower women. professional development, the proportion of the Bank’s female time. also grants male employees paternity leave to help them workers, of women in top management and on the Bank’s support their wives after childbirth. This initiative has Board have been on the rise in past years. About 36% of our helped employees in maintaining work-life balance and in Board members are females, having risen from 12% in 2012; improving employee productivity. and about 46% of our employees are females, having risen from 39% in 2012. Table 8: Women Empowerment Principles Besides this, Access Bank also promotes initiatives to empower women through our supply chain activities and S/No Principles Initiatives by Access Bank marketing practices. For example, in 2014, and as part of the 1 Establish high-level corporate leadership for Access Bank maintains a high-level corporate leadership on “W” initiative, we began a deliberate support of the growth of gender equality. gender equality matters. Leading by example, our Group Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) owned by women. We Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (GMD/CEO), will continue to remain committed to encouraging the financial Herbert Wigwe, still serves as the Bank’s lead champion inclusion of female entrepreneurs, through the provision of on women empowerment initiatives. Meanwhile, Bolaji value-adding and empowering benefits as well as financial Agbaje, Head, Group Human Resources, and Omobolanle products targeted at women in business. Victor-Laniyan, Head, Sustainability, continue to actively 6 Promote equality through community initiatives Access Bank’s commitment to women empowerment is also represent the Bank on the international Leadership Group and advocacy. evident in our community investment initiatives. In 2014, we of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. As a Bank, we partnered with WeConnect International, a global non-profit also take to heart leadership in collaborative partnerships with other financial sector players who are committed working towards worldwide empowerment of women, to to women empowerment. In addition, we serve on the organize a Global Certification Capacity Development Bankers’ Committee’s Sub-committee on Women Economic Workshop for upcoming women entrepreneurs in communities Empowerment in Nigeria. around us. In addition, Access Bank makes every effort to prevent the discrimination and exclusion of girls and women in 2 Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect Our programmes and benefit packages are equally made communities where we donate our time and resources through and support human rights and foster nonavailable to both men and women. The Bank makes equal charitable causes and employee volunteering. Read more discrimination. remuneration to both men and women who work at the same about our community initiatives. level. We also promote continued support, employment and nondiscrimination of women during cases of pregnancy and 7 Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve Access Bank regularly reports to our stakeholders and after childbirth. This includes, amongst others, the provisions gender equality. members of the public on all our sustainable development we make for maternity leaves, and more flexible post-child initiatives. This includes our communication of progress birth work options, thus putting our Bank’s post-parental leave towards achieving gender equality and women economic retention rates at about 100%. empowerment through our periodic reports. We do this primarily through our annual Sustainability Reports such as this At Access Bank, we do not discriminate against either men one. Ongoing launch of new initiatives are also usually reported or women; and as a bank, we are totally opposed to genderthrough other channels such as our Bank’s quarterly Customer based harassment of any kind. Our whistle-blowing lines Digests. remain open to complaints and grievances around genderbased discriminations (whether against men or women). This whistleblowing mechanism also significantly helps to deter gender-based abuses in our workplaces. 68 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 69 The periodic employee evaluation process (Annual Middle Management Programme Appraisals) is an important element of our HR policy. ANNUAL 99% of the workforce is involved in the appraisal process, The Bank, in 2017, continued its partnership with Wharton with women representing 46% and men 54% of those Business School of the University of Pennsylvania, evaluated. leading to the training of 85 more employees under the APPRAISALS Every employee’s work is subject to regular assessment Bank’s Middle Management Programme. Over time, the programme participants have successfully championed based on a set of criteria, which are defined separately for various innovations across the Bank, leading to significant each employee category. The assessments, constructed process improvement and customer satisfaction. from a mix of quantitative and qualitative criteria, are tailored to an employee’s responsibilities and the extent Senior Management Programme of their autonomy. Various bonus schemes have been One of the Bank’s strategies is to provide employees put in place that use assessment results to motivate with opportunities to develop themselves and ensure employees, with bonuses provided to staff of all ranks from compliance with the competence requirement as unskilled workers to managers at all levels. prescribed by the Central Bank of Nigeria under its Competence Framework for the Banking Industry in Leadership Nigeria. Accordingly, we As our complex business environment is ever-changing. have adopted a top down approach and enrolled 40 We equip our workforce to meet this challenge through management staff in the Chartered Banker MBA professional development opportunities at every level Programme with the prestigious Bangor University, UK. of the organization. Recognizing the important role that Upon successful completion of the programme, our leaders play in engaging talent, we place a strong emphasis employees will gain the triple award of an MBA in Banking on leadership development, from junior managers to and Finance and dual Chartered Banker status from senior executives. Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria and Chartered Institute of Bankers of Ireland. The Chartered Banker Talent Management and Capacity Building MBA programme emphasizes professional and vocational development and provides the participants with the At Access Bank, we offer continuous education and understanding and skills requiredin 21st century banking. training to develop our employee’s skills and talents. Access Bank provides a wide variety of training opportunities in the form of e-learning, classical training courses, general trainings and job-specific trainings. We also offer special career development programmes for our senior management and key talents to prepare them for future challenges. In 2017, we implemented several employee engagement and capacity building initiatives that were geared towards preparing our employees for the anticipated challenges in the global and competitive market. We believe that investing in our employees will equip them for success in the future. Training for Sustainable Start Access Bank trains all entry level employees on principles and practices of Sustainable Banking, this training helps them understand the Sustainability vision of the bank and prepares them for the challenges ahead. Training for a Sustainable Start, therefore, helps the Bank to further integrate sustainable practices into its entire business units. Through this programe, we have also been able to substantially alleviate the traditional behavioural problems that inhibit sustainable change in many business environments. By channeling resources into these training programmes, we are confident that we will continue to lead in financing for a sustainable future. 70 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 71 COMMUNICATION WITH EMPLOYEES • Employees confusing the Employee Satisfaction Survey with the Organizational Health Index (OHI) survey, which was concurrently administered to the Bank’s employees by McKinsey as part of the Bank’s 2018-2012 strategic planning exercise. • Line Supervisors and Group Heads could not fully support the process due to other competing commitments such as the One Bank 250 campaign even though the survey was extended by an additional two weeks. We encourage open, two-way dialogue with our employees the same for too long a time in today’s fast-paced world of Figure 2: and seek their input through various channels. We also work. To keep employees engaged and on the right track, Employee work with a third-party professional consulting firm every we ask for regular feedback from our employees. Satisfaction Index year to conduct our Employee Satisfaction Survey, which measures the degree to which employees are invested in Access Bank and motivated to contribute their best. Employee Satisfaction Survey 2017 Access Bank Basement Portal One of Access Bank’s employee engagement practices is to conduct an annual employee satisfaction survey The basement portal was created to encourage The Employee Satisfaction Index for 2017 remained across the Group. In 2017, the survey was administered innovation throughout Access Bank and prevent us constant at 3.5 as against a plan of 4.0. The key reasons for by Engaged Metrics Inc., USA. The company has over ten from re-inventing the wheel. The platform encourages the shortfall, despite the very successful Access Games, years’ experience in collecting employee engagement employees to interact, to develop new ideas and convert was the revision of the promotion criteria to include data. the ideas into innovative plans, product or services that having a professional certificate. This was introduced to can be incorporated into our business. One of such The objectives of the 2017 employee satisfaction survey enhance employees’ capabilities and comply with CBN’s innovative ideas is ‘Tamara’ – an artificially-intelligent were as follows: competency framework. Another reason for not achieving chatbot designed to connect and converse with millennial the plan was the introduction of the One Bank 250 customers and prospects. The chatbot gives millennials • To measure the level of employee satisfaction and initiative – employees were opposed to the idea but found access to banking products and services using natural engagement in 2017 and review the trend in the last regular market storming strenuous. language processing and machine learning to mimic the 4 years; tone and mannerism of a human operator. • To obtain insight on how well the Group is doing on its people management practices from employees’ perspective; Employee Engagement • To obtain insight into factors affecting employee Figure 3: Engaged employees are not only happier, they are more motivation and attrition level across the Group. Employees productive and likely to remain in an organization for a The significant reduction in participation rate of only 58% Satisfaction long time. Access Bank understands that nothing stays of employees was attributable to: level by grade Figure 1: Participation Rate of Employees 72 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 73 The employee satisfaction level for top management Core Competencies increased due to the initiatives introduced during the year and a deep understanding of the promotion criteria. Most of the competencies remain constant in 2017 Figure 7: Competencies with Satisfaction Figure 4: index of 4.0 and Satisfaction above Index by Level by Service The newly recruited employees were unhappy with the promotion criteria that requires them to have a professional certification as well as a poor understanding of the Access Way. Figure 5: Figure 8: Satisfaction Competencies Index by Gender with Satisfaction Indexes of 3.5 Figure 6: Satisfaction The drop in Senior / Top Management competencies Index by Top was due to employees who felt the change in promotion Performer criteria was a top management decision and they were not adequately engaged in the decision. Figure 9: Competencies with Satisfaction Indexes of 3.0 and below 74 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 75 The drop in work-life competency was largely attributable to the weekend storming activities of the One Bank 250 initiative. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Celebrating Our Employees The 7th Annual CEO Awards was held on June 2, 2018. AND SAFETY The event themed “AFRIGLAM” had in attendance over 700 employees of the bank and over 500 customers. The event was held to appreciate our employees for their dedication, hard work and to celebrate employees for their valuable contributions to the overall success of the bank in 2017. The awards ceremony was also held to motivate employees for better performance in 2018. Award categories and Awardees are listed in the table below: At Access Bank, we understand that the safety of our Training and Awareness Customer service Employee of the working environment enhances employee productivity, staff of the year Year overall performance and wellbeing. In order to ensure Access Bank undergoes three phases of training for its (Officers) a safe working environment for our employees and employees. They are: Face on training, Train the trainer, Omobolanle and e-training, which is compulsory for all employees. Ezinne Victor-Laniyan stakeholders, our compliance with the Employees compensation Act of 2010 is absolute. Our Health, Safety, Our HSSE awareness include posters, leaflets, awareness Chukwudibia Security and Environment Unit guides the Group on all events, presentations by the HSSE team at the School of matters relating to health, safety, security, environment, Banking excellence for new employees. compliance, legislation, and regulatory updates. The Group Brand unit also works with relevant government agencies and Emergency Medical Facilities Customer private sector organizations like the Safety Commission, Ambassador of Our site clinic is equipped with state-of-the-art service Staff the year Department of State Security, LASEPA, Ministry of Health, emergency equipment. Our sustainability champions are of the year Road Safety, among others to ensure the wellbeing of our (Clerical & NonMojibade fully trained on first aid procedures, administering CPR stakeholders. Clerical staff) Sosanya when required to assist during medical emergencies. Our Head Office building is also equipped with a stretcher, Narthincole Award HSSE Policy wheel chair, and emergency vehicle. A total of 70 Dasilvera Our HSSE policy, which is endorsed by our Chief Executive sustainability champions were trained in 2017 by St John’s Categories Officer, is reviewed and updated annually. Same applies Ambulance services on first aid procedures and CPR. Employee & Winners to all health and safety procedural documentation and emergency procedures. Incident Management Volunteer of the year All work-related incidents – from minor injuries to severe Emergency Preparedness medical conditions – are to be handled by our trained first Philip Okunaiya aiders and properly recorded. In 2017, Access Bank was actively committed to Star protecting employees and customers by taking actions Manager of to protect its stakeholders in case of emergency Hygiene the year situations. This was achieved through detailed action Continuous training and awareness are done for our Adenike plans, working procedures, periodic drills, enhancement Teller of the Year employees on health and hygiene-related issues by our Jegede of safety technologies, and consolidation of its security health and wellness expert. Quality check, and advanced Onyekwere Lynda services. The bank continues to improve its emergency due diligence are also done for our food vendors to ensure Ekwutosi preparedness system to address deficiencies. that the cooking environment, sources of food items and food processing are hygienic. 76 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 77 ACCESS BANK’S • Business Forums/Meetings: Meetings organized for certain categories of clients for relationship building purposes whenever it is required. • • Skills Training Middle and Senior Management Training (Foreign & Local) CUSTOMERS • Publications/Customer digest: Providing information on happenings about Access Bank or other relevant information. The customer digest is produced monthly. 6. Surveys: Collecting quantitative/ • Social Media: Contacting customers/prospects qualitative feedback from our customers daily via Twitter, Facebook and the Bank’s website to • Customer Satisfaction Surveys resolve issues or provide information on enquiries • External – Satisfaction survey across all made by customers. customer segments (CBD, BBD, CIBD & PBD) • Focus Group: Qualitative research groups are formed • Internal Service quality assessments of whenever required by the Bank to obtain perceptions, branches and Head Office support units. expressions and opinions on products/services. • ISO 9001: 2008 QMS Audits. • Written communication: Letters written for • Product Satisfaction Surveys information, resolutions, appreciation, marketing purposes or when required. • User Experience Surveys (Electronic Channels, IT Platforms, Processes) • Circulars: Notices to inform customers about policies, regulations or process changes when required. • Marketing calls: These are daily visits or calls to follow 2017 Customers Satisfaction up on prospects and customers. Survey • Business events: They are occasional dinners or award nights, etc., celebrated by the Bank with Getting a handle on how our customers view our products, customers invited. support, and organization is invaluable to us. At Access Bank, feedback from our customers is important to • Yearly events and celebration: us because it guides and informs our decision-making • Customer Service Week, New Year Our customers matter to us because they are at the center of everything we do. Our business model is designed in Measuring our customers • Valentine’s Day, Children’s day, Workers Day, process and influences our product roadmap. In 2017, we carried out an extensive customers satisfaction survey and a way to create value for our customers. We do this with experience • Easter, Christmas, Salah, etc. the results shows an increasing level of satisfaction across excellence, diligence and enthusiasm. This defines how all our service areas. we relate with our customers responsibly. We are also At Access Bank, we have a global understanding of what • Advertising: Enlightening customers/prospects on committed to strengthening our efforts in addressing customer satisfaction is across the Bank’s hierarchy; from new products/services via Print media (Bill boards, The feedback from the Voice of Customer (VOC) Platform potential risks such as financial crime, financial exclusion, the Board to the shop floor. This understanding is being newspapers, magazines, flyers) or Electronic (Radio, was used to gather information on: and provision of services that are not in the best interest reinforced through trainings, practices and collaboration TV etc.) of our customers. with international reputable consulting firms on customer • Other customer engagement initiatives employed by • Customer in-branch service satisfaction satisfaction programmes. the Bank are: • Customer satisfaction with mobile banking • Guest Frontline Exercise. Our Approach Access Bank aims to be the best financial institution in Nigeria in delivering exceptional customer experience. • Complaint resolution by the Contact Center. In-Branch Service Satisfaction Hence, we measure our progress in delivering great The surveys were administered through online and paper• Development of products and services focused on • Issue resolution by the Customer Experience customer experience by engaging our customers through based channels. The summary of the results is presented economic and environmental sustainability for our Unit. different platforms and a combination of metrics. below: customers and the economy. 2. Visitation • Being more proactive with our customers by We have adopted a Service Mantra and Pledge, which maintaining a multichannel communication network consists of our commitment to delivering exceptional • Branch Visitation. with easy accessibility. services to our customers. Some of the practices Access • Customer Site Visitation. • Responsive to all customers’ needs by providing Bank engages in to drive customer satisfaction include; optimal resolution to issues and learning from 3. Business Process Re-engineering customers’ communication to ensure customer 1. Customer Engagement • Creation of new processes. satisfaction always. • SMS/E-mail Alerts: These range from alerts for daily • Correction of defective processes. • Improving on and simplifying our processes. transactions, celebration days (birthdays, festive 4. Innovations • Providing tailor-made solutions to our unique seasons) to information of new products/services, customer groups. etc. • Process innovations. • Telemarketing: Selling products and services to • Technology innovations. customers/prospects via the telephone. This is carried out daily as part of the Contact Center’s 5. Trainings activities. • Customer Service Training (Leading Empowered Teams, Speed, Service Excellence, etc.) Figure 10: Branch Performance 78 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 79 Customer loyalty was 61.5% which is below our 2017 target of 65% but it marks a significant improvement over Customers’ Grievance FINANCIAL 2016. Overall satisfaction was 85.90%. Redressal Mechanism We are conscientiously working on ensuring that customers get more value for their money in 2018 and Resolving customer complaint effectively and quickly is fundamental to our excellent customer service delivery INCLUSION beyond. and a key aspect of our growth. We take ownership of every complaint and approach it in the following way: Staff Performance • All customers must be treated fairly. Customer satisfaction with staff was 90.28%, which is • Complaints raised by our customers are to be slightly above our 2017 target of 90%. addressed with courtesy and on time. We would increase on our training of customer-facing staff • Our Customers must be fully informed of avenues to improve on their ability to be able to offer personalized to escalate their complaints/grievances within the service to customers. organization and their rights to alternative remedy, if they are not fully satisfied with the response of the bank to their complaints. • Access Bank will treat all complaints efficiently and fairly because we see it as an opportunity to review our processes for improvement. Our timely response to customers’ needs earned us commendation from some of our customers. Below is a few of them: “I really appreciate how access bank tries to meet their customers’ demands. Access Bank has some of the best staff in the banking industry in Nigeria. Just keep it up.” “Access Bank is one of the best banks I have opened an account with and they have an extremely satisfactory service Figure 11: Staff Performance to customers.” “The services provided are swift and accurate! Good staffCustomer Satisfaction with Mobile customer relationship!” Banking Access Bank continues to grow its footprint across skills, we refined our “Early Savers” product in 2014. Now, The result shows that customers were most satisfied with Africa through the introduction of innovative banking “Early Savers” offers kids fun and interactive approaches to the ease of use of the mobile banking platform but still products and services to the ‘Unbanked’ in Nigeria while gaining and boosting their financial aptitude via the Early believed that they were not getting enough value for their also opening traditional branches and ATM points in Savers microsite. We also pioneered a virtual banking app money. underserved communities across Africa. We believe that for children on the Early Savers microsite. when individuals and small businesses in underserved communities have the opportunity to use financial The first-of-its-kind in Nigeria, this app helps to familiarize products and services, the quality of their lives will improve children with simulated banking transactions. In addition, and they will be able to save for the future. Access Bank has been promoting several initiatives to promote greater financial inclusion amongst children. In 2017, Our Inclusive Banking Group worked tirelessly to These includes: come up with innovative banking opportunities targeted at the historically undeserved communities in line with the • The Early Savers Club: This is a financial literacy club CBN’s goal to reduce the number of Nigerian citizens that designed to help children become better money have no access to financial services from 46.3% to 20% by managers by teaching them the values of saving, the year 2020. spending, and giving; • Early Savers radio show: This is a fun-filled edutainment programme for children aged 8-15. The Access Bank Early Savers programme has reached over 1.6 million children; Account • Children Holiday Banking: This provides for a financial inclusion tour that gives children practical hands on Targeted at children under the age of 18, this banking banking experience; solution encourages and enables young people to save and • Brand Affinity: This facility is a strategic collaboration Figure 12: Satisfaction with Mobile Banking grow their financial fitness from an early age. To encourage with children-focused organizations to help children children to build stronger and better financial management build their financial capabilities. 80 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 81 Access Bank Solo Account for who are 60 years or older and is designed to help these Young Professional facilities; older individuals continue their journey to create and • Access to seminars on finance management, family Youth preserve their wealth for a better future. The solution The W Young Professional is in her 20s and 30s. She works in a corporate environment and has a strong building and parenting; offers several compelling features and benefits aimed at We have taken a strategic focus on the youth segment sense of purpose. She is concerned about her personal • Access to MHSS; giving senior citizens peace-of-mind banking through a with the aim of impacting financial literacy through various solution that truly understands their unique needs. The development and becoming a force to be reckoned with • Early savers club for her children; product offerings and business collaborations that will solution is cost effective and free. in her company and industry. We understand her need • Access to the W Community with helpful advice on enable the youth make sound financial decisions. In 2017, for balance, growth, and personal fulfilment and have family finance matters, home and family articles and we continued to deploy various activities and initiatives to tailored products and services to suit the WYP’s life as a details of special offers. ensure the youth are secured financially. Women Banking – W growing professional in the fast-lane. From helping with her everyday money matters to providing loans that W in Business Strategic Partnerships to promote community help her meet her pressing financial needs; by educating The ‘W’ in Business is driven by a desire to build an Financial Literacy her on how to manage her finance, the W Initiative is In 2006, Access Bank began a journey into the world of empire while providing value for her community and the designed to ensure the total wellbeing of the young female NYSC: We continued our partnership with the National women and Banking on Women. After working through general economy. She has taken up the title and immense professional. The ‘W’ Young Professional is also provided Youth Service Corps Scheme on an initiative that will the Gender Empowerment Movement to invest in women responsibilities of an entrepreneur. Her determination with access to: not just drive financial inclusion for over 500,000 youths for eight years, the programme evolved into a robust plan keeps her through the hassles of running a business. The but will also empower thousands of Nigerian youth to provide women with banking solutions that meet their • Discounts and offers on a range of exclusive ‘W’ initiative provides her with products and services to with vocational skills, help alleviate poverty and drive diverse career and lifestyle requirements. It was named shopping; strengthen her resolve, skills, and network as she grows sustainable economic growth. the ‘W’ Initiative. her business. The ‘W’ in Business has access to products • Career development and financial education for her everyday business needs, from managing inflows The “W” is not a product; rather it is a blend of existing workshops and seminars; Bloom Initiative: In collaboration with the Bloom initiative, and outflows to handling staff salary accounts. Our 40 highly intellectual teenagers were placed in a one-week banking products and services bundled to effectively meet • Networking opportunities; networking events, online community, and seminars leadership and financial workshop that has empowered the present-day financial and lifestyle needs of women • Mentor-Mentee programmes; give her access to key industry news, knowledge and an them to take up leadership roles in their educational • An online community for sharing stories, expanding opportunity to reach new customers. She also has access systems and the community at large. in identified sub-segments, as well as provide them with to business facilities, including: professional networks and becoming a thought complete and rewarding knowledge of banking, finance, leader. Digital and Financial Skills: In conjunction with Intel, and economic growth. The W, based on peculiarities and • Overdrafts; Airtel, Yudala and Livity Africa, we were able to drive digital lifestyle classification, is segmented into the following; W & Family • Trade credit to help her buy needed products or and financial literacy for about 1,500 youths, consisting of services, whilst paying the bank later; students, young entrepreneurs and graduates, by helping • Young Professional The W & Family explores the needs of a modern-day family woman, and attempts to adopt products and services • Commercial mortgage to acquire, refinance, or them to leverage technology for education and business • W and Family to meet those needs. She holds her family as a primary redevelop commercial property. growth. • W in business concern and actively desires the comfort of her family. The The ‘W’ Initiative is not only equipped with the strategy We believe that women are a powerful and key catalyst ‘W’ provides her and her family with exclusive access to a and tools to empower women in business and finance; Elderly and Senior citizens – for change. We know and embrace the truth about empowering women. The W initiative does not only benefit wide range of lifestyle-oriented value-added benefits and privileges. Some of the benefits the W and Family provides we also have a team of gender trained business banking officers to attend to the specific financial education of Evergreen Account women. It also benefits the men in their lives. for women include: these women. We are committed to making good financial outcomes The “W” is the home for everything Access Bank offers • Great discounts, exclusive offers and freebies on Furthermore, over the years, Access Bank has been happen for our customers at all stages of their lives. The women and is open to all women, irrespective of who they health, beauty, and more; an active participant in the celebration of the Global Access Bank evergreen account is targeted at customers bank with. Money Week (an annual international money awareness • Access to a comprehensive loan products and credit 82 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 83 celebration, which holds on the second week of March banking relations as they can manage their accounts as every year, to engage children worldwide in learning unique individuals. The scheme provides access to people how money works, including through savings, creating who are presently excluded from financial services whilst livelihoods, gaining employment, and entrepreneurship). promoting capital accumulation and investment boom. By organizing a series of events during this period in 2017, the Bank successfully commemorated the Global Money Week and created awareness through several Under the scheme, a minimum of four family members are encouraged to bank with Access Bank and enjoy our exclusive value proposition. Eligible family members The nearest bank is a programmes. At Access Bank, we understand that financial include partners, parents, children, aunts, uncles, cousins education is not just for investors; it is just as important, and grandparents. if not more so, for the average family trying to balance its budget and save for their children‘s education and the parents ‘retirement. This is why we take issues on financial Agent Banking literacy with utmost importance., Agent Banking is a cost effective and user-friendly way We will continue to fight to increase consumer awareness of providing banking services such as cash deposits, as a necessity. With the diffusion of financial literacy and withdrawal, cash transfer, airtime recharge, etc., to a group increased financial education, the society will be better for of people in underserved communities through trusted it. retail agents within the communities. In 2017, Access Bank introduced 1,000 agents in different communities across Nigeria. The aim of this financial inclusion strategy is to Family Banking Scheme reduce the number of Nigerians without access to financial services to less than 20% by the year 2020. The scheme was designed to encourage families to save together. The product comes with exclusive privileges such as high interest rates and family rewards. It affords individual members of the family the confidentiality of their Dial *901# now for easy banking. 84 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 85 REWARDING ENVIRONMENTAL OUR CUSTOMERS STEWARDSHIP At Access Bank, we are consciously working towards branch runs on 100% renewable energy. mitigating our environmental impacts because we 43.6% reduction in Energy Consumption (total electricity understand that a healthy environment is fundamental consumption is 16.8 million KWH) to a strong and sustainable economy on which our business thrives. We focus on investing responsibly 41.6% reduction in non-renewable fuel consumption (total R.E.A.L and more. Each category has a bundle of multiple options while managing environmental risks. We have built fuel consumption is 89.3 million liters of diesel) to be redeemed via 900 airlines, 450,000 hotel stays, environmental sustainability into our operations and have Table 9: Energy Consumption in 2017 In a bid to create a rewarding experience for our 150,000 car rentals and numerous leading partner brands been relentlessly driving efficiency through resource customers, Access Bank introduced a loyalty solution, to shop from. optimization in the form of waste reduction, energy and FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2017 tagged R.E.A.L (Rewarding Every Act of Loyalty). This water conservation, reducing paper use, and curtailing our VS 2016 innovative solution was introduced to reward existing Bank overall greenhouse gas emissions, thereby reducing our customers for their unwavering support over the years. Family Fortune Promo Energy 16.9MKWH 29.9MKWH environmental footprint. Consumption (KWH) R.E.A.L is a pan-banking programme offering multiple The Bank introduced the family fortune promo, tagged ways to earn points through the usage of the Bank’s “Save Today, Take Tomorrow,” to stimulate a savings Energy from Nontransactional platforms such as ATMs; POS terminals; credit/debit cards; mobile and online platforms. The culture amongst families without leaving out the children. Energy Consumption Renewable Sources (Generator) The promo was designed to reward the collective savings redemption suite of R.E.A.L incorporates many categories habit of families with grand prizes and competitive interest In 2017, we achieved a 43.6% reduction in energy Energy from within its scope, including travel, gift vouchers, shopping rates while they enjoy the confidentiality of their banking consumption and 41.6% reduction in non-renewable Renewable Sources transactions as individuals. fuel consumption across our combined investment and corporate portfolio. We were able to achieve continued Access Bank Genie energy saving across our global operations through Emissions (Tonmes) various initiatives such as: This product is for customers in Lagos, Oyo, Abuja, Minna, At Access Bank, we recognize the effect of a changing Ilorin, Port-Harcourt, Benin, Kano, Kaduna, Adamawa, Imo • Installation of new energy management system, climate on the ecosystem and the burden placed by and Enugu. Representatives of the Bank, referred to as which includes the use of LED lighting to reduce air pollution on life forms; as a result, we were able to ‘ATM Genies,’ give customers at different ATM points in energy use; achieve a significant reduction in GHG emissions from our these locations a cash prize of #5,000 provided they are • Early power shutdown policy; 7pm at the Head Office operations through policies like early power shutdown Access Bank customers with an Access Bank ATM card as and 6pm at our branches nationwide. (7pm at the Head Office and 6pm at the branches). proof and are able to answer a question correctly. • We introduced the use of renewable energy in four of our branches in Lagos, Nigeria making them run on 70% renewable energy while our Ogunlana Drive 86 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 87 Table 10: Emissions in 2017 efficient WC’s at the head office and our new generation branches. The benefit of this is that the quantity of water GHG Emission FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 16 vs used at each flush reduced from 0.0048 cubic meters Emissions source 17 to a minimum of 0.006 cubic meters. This amounts to a Scope 1 Diesel 28,459.95 45.159.90 22.7% 20% reduction per flush compared to the traditional WC system. A total of 3.9% reduction in water usage was Scope 2 Electricity 6,470.66 11,480.86 36.1% achieved compared to 2016 despite several new branches Scope 3 Business 714.05 470.49 -39.7% that were opened in 2017. We will continue to identify Travel water saving measures within our facilities and undergo retrofits where possible. Business travel (Miles) Table 13: Water Consumption in 2017 In 2017, mileage and emissions from corporate travels FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 17 increased marginally because of the Middle Management vs programme of the bank at Wharton Business School, FY 16 University of Pennsylvania, USA for employees in Consumption 104,883,162.55 113,136,053.04 3.9% the middle management cadre. At Access Bank, our (Gallons) investment in technologies such as video conferencing continues to increase. This is to ensure a reduction in our short, medium and long-haul travels. Solid Waste Management Table 11: Business Travel in 2017 (Miles) One of the most meaningful ways to protect the FY 2017 FY 2016 FY17 vs FY16 environment and the communities from where we operate Air Travel 3,716,622 2,314,901 -38.4% is by reducing the amount of waste we send to the landfills. Therefore, increasing our recycling rate has become a priority for us as a Bank. We want to increase the rate of recycling not only our solid waste but also our electronic Resource Efficiency waste. In 2017, we improved our recycling initiative by supporting our recycling partners – Recycle Point and Paper Parallel Point – each with a truck. We also extended our recycling initiative to our branches across Lagos. Increase Paper consumption still plays a key role in how we get in staff awareness and education campaigns continue to our work done, serve our customers, and promote our drive our achievement of the recycling initiative through products and services. As a bank that is committed to which we were able to reduce the waste that goes to the responsible forestry, we reduced our paper consumption landfill by 61.3%. by 12.4% by maximizing the potential for automation of some of our paper-consuming processes and increasing Our target is to send zero waste to the landfills. Therefore, recycling of our shredded papers. This important feat we are working on extending the recycling initiative to was achieved by reducing the size of our bank deposit all our branch offices nationwide. We are also working on slip, delivering most of our internal and external recycling our organic waste. communications electronically, and increasing the awareness among employees on the need to print less Table 14: Solid Waste Management except it is needful. We also advanced the environmental sustainability of our paper procurement by insisting that FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 17 vs 16 our suppliers provide us with paper that was recycled. Solid Waste 999,000.62 2,580,920.91 Generated (KG) Table 12: Paper Usage in 2017 Amount 0.35 0.96 of waste FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 16 vs 17 generated per Paper use (KG) 28,300.00 32,308.50 12.4% employee (Kg/ Capita/Day) Recycled Waste to Landfill Water Diversion Rate Access Bank has implemented several measures to conserve water within our facilities. Key investment was made on water management in the renovation of our corporate head office and installation of water 88 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 89 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainable procurement is paramount to Access Bank, to cooperate with, we make sure they comply media and our regulators also do not expect to see us vi. Referrals from other institutions the priority being timely delivery of the required materials with applicable laws and regulations, and with associate ourselves with vendors that trample on human vii. Problem resolution and appropriate service quality. This goes together with the principles of the free market (attractive pricing rights or whose businesses promote environmental viii. Timeliness of service delivery our consistent efforts to optimise costs. Our relationships terms, quality of goods and services, degree to which harm and/or social injustice. Access Bank appreciates with suppliers are governed by our procurement policy, they meet our needs and expectations, reliability and the concern of these stakeholders. And to live up to ix. Service/product quality which requires them to adhere to the principles of UNGC. professionalism of the company), while ensuring full their expectations, we maintain a standard procurement x. Character and composure of company representative. The principles span human rights protection, labour transparency in the process; framework, which helps us to conduct thorough due standards, environment, and anti-corruption. • We evaluate our suppliers solely on the basis of their actual merits and business considerations; diligence and assessment of our vendors in line with the Bank’s policy. This is our management approach to Local Sourcing • We strive to ensure that our relationships with our sustaining strong, positive relationship with our supply • We make sure that our suppliers are familiar with our Sourcing of materials is a complex issue; one that is suppliers are founded on integrity, transparency, chain. standards and code of conduct. intricately linked to biodiversity, water resources, human mutual respect and professionalism: rights, local community involvement and engagement, • We deliver on our promises and commitments; Depending on whether they are new/prospective or old/ to name a few. Access Bank uses the services of local • We make payments and discharge other obligations Vendor Selection Process approved suppliers, Access Bank’s vendor assessment process consists of the following criteria: suppliers (based in the locations where we operate), in a timely manner and in accordance with contractual thus supporting the local market and businesses. Local We maintain inclusive and robust procurement policies, terms; i. Track record suppliers are very important to Access Bank due to good which enhance our corporate responsibility, while also • Where a difficult situation or conflict arises, knowledge of the local market, proximity, and flexibility. helping our suppliers to improve their Sustainability and ii. Geographical coverage we attempt to solve the issue through dialogue with Crucial to our procurement operation are the Core Values, corporate responsibility performance. Our investors, iii. Quality of goods/service the parties involved; Standards, and Code of Conduct of Access Bank, amongst shareholders and employees are ethics-minded. The iv. Status of dealership/distributorship other good practices. • When selecting suppliers and other partners surrounding communities, non-profit organizations, the v. Price competitiveness 90 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 91 COMMUNITY 6% 2% Health 2% Sports Education 25% 35% Environment Social Welfare Arts Thought Leadership 6% 1% 4% Women 19% Community Development Partnership Figure 13: Chart showing the value of Access Bank’s investment in community development Access Bank’s Community least one million malaria cases and deaths by 2020. This is a first step towards complementing government’s effort investment initiatives in achieving its malaria pre-elimination goals by 2020. The five focus areas of this intervention include increasing the • Malaria-to-Zero Initiative coverage of: • Access Bank Lagos City Marathon • Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS); • UNICEF Fifth Chukker Polo Tournament • Seasonal Malaria Chemoprophylaxis (SMC) – which • Partnership for Impactful Community Development is a preventive medication taken during the season when malaria is predominant; Malaria-to-Zero Initiative • Management of severe malaria; Malaria is a major public health problem in Nigeria, where • Demand creation; and it accounts for more cases and deaths than any other • In-country research and capacity building. country in the world. The statistics around malaria are not Today, through this initiative, about 273,000 people For us to achieve our vision of being the World’s Most • Invested in a range of infrastructure that support only shocking, but they are also disheartening. According have been reached in rural communities with malaria Respected African Bank, we believe that we must actively projects and initiatives that foster a healthy to WHO (2016), malaria is a health risk for 76% of the information. 357 community groups have been engaged; support the communities where we live and work. We community. Nigerian population. There are an estimated 100 million about 4,537 number of pregnant women have received embrace opportunities to use our resources to build a Through all these projects, we have been able to improve malaria cases with over 300,000 deaths per year in Nigeria. Long Lasting Insecticide Nets (LLIN); and 15,000 people thriving community and equip families, individuals and the lives of people in our communities by creating jobs, have been reached through seminars on Malaria-to-Zero. small businesses through our Sustainability pillars – Health, investing in projects that directly benefit them, train and A total of 1,032,000 people have been reached across Sports, Arts, Social Welfare, Education and Environment. equip them with skills that will position them for economic Nigeria with information, education and communication In this regard, we have been able to build a strong and advantage and promote enterprise development. materials on malaria. That number include 15 hard-tohealthier society for our customers, employees, and reach and underserved communities, which received stakeholders. This implies that in 2017, we: In 2017, the total value of Access Bank’s investment in malaria information and commodities. Also, as a result of community development was N1.68 billion. The support the Malaria-to-Zero campaign, there have been a 40% • Supported our employees in their volunteer works, was deployed in the following areas: increase in demand for malaria commodities. So far, the • Invested in a range of community-based dialogues, net usage (90%) of people that received the net used it and collaboration with organizations in different Figure 13: Chart showing the value of Access Bank’s appropriately, thanks to the 106 number of focus group sectors of the economy in line with our Sustainability investment in community development discussions on malaria that have been held. pillars, • Donated and sponsored causes that promote a sustainable and healthy society, Access Bank Lagos City Marathon The Malaria-to-Zero Initiative is an innovative financing In 2017, the Bank strengthened its partnership with the platform established to galvanize private sector resources Lagos State Government to successfully host the 2nd and capabilities for sustained support towards averting at edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon. This partnership promotes healthy and active living through 92 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 93 fitness and exercise. The event, which was approved by of financial services to women, we preeminently see it as Over the years, we have participated in 276 womenout to orphans across the country during the Valentine the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) and endorsed our responsibility to truly empower women and promote focused events and hosted 31 capacity building and season. by the International Association of Athletics (IAAF), drew gender equality. networking sessions that reached 70,222+ women. More athletes from across the globe. The 2017 Access Bank than 55,000 women have benefited from programmes The initiative was set up by AWN to impact the lives of Lagos City Marathon was ranked 2nd in Africa behind Furthermore, it is our belief that investing in women deployed through the W Academy capacity building orphans in communities where the Bank operates on the Cape Town Marathon by the All-Athletics.com. The sessions, networking programmes, IVF fora, etc. The Valentine’s Day. All employees donated gifts/cash for the marathon also emerged 71st amongst the ranking of over flagship programmes, Demystifying Bank Loans’ and orphans within their communities. Branches selected 1000 international marathons globally. ‘Empowering Women with Technology,’ have, respectively, orphanage homes within their communities to visit and addressed gaps in gender financing and technological donate gifts/cash. Female employees were nominated in skills amongst women. The Enterprise Development all the branches to champion the initiative in the branch. UNICEF Fifth Chukker Polo Center (EDC) -certified programme, ‘Womenpreneur Tournament Business Workshop,’ has bridged business and managerial International Women’s Day skills gap amongst thousands of female entrepreneurs. Access Women Network celebrated the International The UNICEF Charity Shield Polo Tournament is one of More than 700+ families benefited from the educational Women’s Day on March 8th, 2017. To mark the day in the prominent initiatives, sponsored by Access Bank to advisory sessions/fairs, facilitated by world renowned a special way, a number of events were put in place to drive development in the communities it serves. The 2017 Peggy Hanefors of Ascent Education. These opportunities “empower a woman” and “appreciate a woman.” The edition of the Access Bank-UNICEF Charity Shield Polo have helped them make the right choices and prepare activities for the day were centered on pairing up all tournament was organized to raise more awareness on their wards for admissions into Ivy League and top schools members of staff to send out appreciation notes to each the plight of vulnerable children and orphans, especially across the world. other. the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) scattered across To encourage women’s savings habit, we implemented northern Nigeria. The tournament, which was held in two phases, started in Kaduna State and climaxed in the first-of-its-kind gender-focused savings promotion, EMAC Smearathon ‘Women! Let’s Save’ Season 1 and 2 in 2015 and 2016, Europe with the Access Bank Charity Shield Polo Day at The event, tagged “Smearathon,” held on Saturday, 16th respectively. More than 216,000 women, including 21,000 the prestigious Guards Polo Club in London. The range September, 2017 at the Muri Okunola Park in Victoria new female customers, participated in the promo with an of events featured celebrities from different parts of the Island, Lagos. The event provided an avenue for the can yield great gender dividends. We continue to drive accumulated net inflow, totaling N5.8 billion. The primary globe, proving to be yet another platform to galvanize underprivileged women to get screened and partake strategic initiatives to showcase our commitment to the objective of the promotion was to reward a culture of funds from different individuals to support less privileged in cervical cancer enlightenment sessions. Ninety-one social and economic empowerment of women in Nigeria, saving, by recognizing women who demonstrated the children in northern Nigeria. Access Bank, in line with this women from Ajah and Obalende were screened. We had in Africa and the world at large. discipline to save over a defined period consistently. year’s goal, donated N10,000,000 to UNICEF for the cause. attendance, both male and female staff of Access Bank Plc, Access Bank has continued to play a role as one of the Referred to by experts as the banking product that delivers the Bank’s partners and sponsors, celebrities, families and leading sponsors of the internationally-proclaimed babies, our first-of-its-kind Maternal Health Service friends, and our very own Access Bank Plc Chairman, Aunty Women’s Empowerment Principles promoted by the Support (MHSS) has helped scores of women complete Mo, who turned 60 on the same day. United Nations Women and the United Nations Global their families and access quality healthcare by financing Compact (UNGC). We continue to subscribe to the medical and fertility treatments. The MHSS has delivered World Sight Day Women’s Empowerment Principles, and have gradually many other benefits for women and their families. Through begun to eliminate traditional banking, finance and successful IVF procedures and natal support, 40+ babies In commemoration of the World Sight Day on the 12th of societal stereotypes by which women were excluded from have been birthed to families nationwide. Women have October, 2017, ACT Foundation, in partnership with the certain roles, opportunities and privileges. In recognition been able to access bone surgeries for their infant and Access Women Network, provided free eye screening of our commitment to women’s economic empowerment, receive fibroid treatments. and recommended corrective lenses (free eye glasses). our Chairperson, Mrs. Mosun Belo-Olusoga, was This exercise helped to bridge the gap in eye health, appointed as the first African on the Board of the Global thus improving the quality of life for Access Bank staff. Banking Alliance for Women (GBA). Access Women Network The screening process identified individuals with eye defects, while treatment was provided for those with The Access Women Network supports gender diversity/ primary refractive errors such as near-sightedness, The “W” initiative inclusion in the bank. It is the support network for female staff. Its aim is to ensure gender equality policies are farsightedness, hyperopia and astigmatism. Those who required eye surgeries were referred to a nearby eye The award-winning W initiative has truly remained the entrenched within the bank. This helps to continually specialist hospital or St. Mary’s Catholic Eye Hospital home of everything Access Bank has to offer Women. It attract/retain female employees across all cadres. The for further investigation and treatment. At least 396 Women Empowerment and has helped to strengthen Access Bank’s enviable position as the bank of choice for women in the markets and network champions its causes through gender policies, mentoring, capacity building and networking programmes. participants registered for screening at the event. However, 298 participants were screened as 98 individuals Gender Inclusiveness communities we serve. Over the last three years, the All female employees are eligible. Some of the key were not available for screening due to work schedule. The initiative has enabled us to acquire 870,000 new female initiatives of AWN in the past year include: brreakdown of the screened participants is as follows: The Bank mainstreams the essential characteristics customers with 70% of them using our debit cards and of a women-friendly institution in line with global best contributing to the Bank’s profitability. We achieved a 58% practices. This requires, among other things, provision Love A Child Initiative growth in access to finance by stimulating the growth of of a vision and strong leadership to galvanize women’s women-owned enterprises. We provided up to N7.3 billion On the 12th of February, 2017, the Access Women economic empowerment. It also requires a thorough and in loans – or the equivalent of 308% growth in our loan Network (AWN) carried out the second edition of Love a comprehensive approach to gender equality and inclusion. portfolio for female individuals. Consequently, we helped Child Initiative. The objective of the initiative is to reach At Access Bank, we do not only believe in the extension to bridge their financial needs of up to N5.1 billion. 94 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 95 120 Access Bank Subsidiaries Through this partnership, ACT Foundation has supported multiple organizations through its 2017 grant cycle, which participants to make lifestyle changes. It also promoted screened participants with knowledge on how to be good to one’s heart. There was 71 specific eye conditions Rwanda involved a rigorous application process for organizations free tests and counseling sessions, through which over participants were required to collect seeking grants. Over 290 applicants applied for the grants 25,000 people were reached across 10 communities. screened and their glasses within two Breast Cancer Awareness from across the country. It is worthy of note that the 22 received glasses weeks of the screening organizations selected showcased project ideas with high e. World AIDS Day Access Bank Rwanda, in Partnership with Society for Family potentials to impact communities. Health (SFH), organized a one-day event that was initiated Access Bank, in partnership with the Nigeria Business by Rwanda Biometric Centre. Several activities, including Summary of 2017 Grants: Coalition Against Aids (NiBUCCA) and Hacey Health a press conference, sport, and general awareness about Initiative, commemorated the World Aids Day with an HIV/ • 22 grantee organizations funded Aids education, counseling and testing programme, which breast cancer, were held on that day. Informative materials on breast cancer were printed and distributed during the • 54,941 direct beneficiaries was targeted at young people in urban and peri-urban event. The event had in attendance more than 500 women. • 23 states in six geo-political zones in Nigeria communities in Surulere, and Ajegunle in Lagos State. The programme was also organised at the University of Ilorin Support for Women Survivors of the 1994 Genocide in Kwara State. The aim of the programme was to scale up b. World Health Day 2017 In commemoration of the 1994 genocide, an event was organsed with the theme “Remember the genocide Table 15: Breakdown of grants by Act Foundation in 2017 against the Tutsi – Fight Genocide Ideology, build on our progress’, 11 of the women survivors of the genocidal AREAS OF SOCIAL INVESTMENT DESCRIPTION mass slaughter of the Tutsi clan who were resident in Health Investment Initiatives Kinyinya district were empowered. Sewing machines and 76 31 tailoring materials were given to them to work with and Entrepreneurship participants participants screened but support their dependents. Environment screened but had no would not require new glasses. Leadership sight defect These individuals already used glasses and the current Partnership for Impactful prescriptions were suitable for the eye defects identified Community Development Access Bank, in collaboration with Hacey Health initiative, organized a seminar, tagged: “Depression – Let’s Talk.” The At Access Bank, we are not afraid to get our hands dirty aim of the seminar was to create awareness on depression Participants feedback showed that over 65% of in community engagements and social partnerships to to the public and provide information on the causes, participants were very excited to have the opportunity for support the needs of the communities we serve. Our goal possible consequences – including suicide -and what an eye check; 15% requested that screening be conducted is to strengthen and equip them with skills to position help is could be available for prevention and treatment. monthly while 20% commended the initiative and the them for economic advantage. Our partnerships in 2017 The seminar also taught the participants where and how organization of the screening initiative. were as follows: to seek help and provide support to friends and family members who are living with depression. a. Act Foundation The event was attended by 253 young persons between In our drive for sustainable development, Access Bank the ages of 18-25 and who were mostly from higher Orange Lecture institutions within Nigeria. A video on depression was strongly believes that health and productivity are Access Women Network, in collaboration with Genesis interlinked themes that strongly determine our ability to produced to sensitize individuals on depression, its House, engaged in a campaign, which focused on Activism achieve a sustainable society. For over 10 years, we have symptoms, how to prevent it as well as ways of getting Against Gender-based Violence. The campaign started invested in community development programmes and help to overcome depression. This video was shared on on the 24th of November with an annual lecture, themed partnered with government, private sector and nonprofits social media. The video currently has over 60,000 views on Orange Lecture 2017: “Violence against Women; Why It to accelerate the impact of development initiatives across social media. Matters, Why Should You Care,” to mark the International all geo-political zones in Nigeria. Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. c. World Tuberculosis Day As a leading financial institution that is championing high The lecture was held at the Access Bank Head Office. impact initiatives aimed at achieving the Sustainable In commemoration of the World Tuberculosis Day, Access The keynote speaker was Dr Joe Okei Odumakin, a Development Goals, Access Bank Plc., in 2017, partnered Bank partnered with Nirvana initiative to organize an HIV/Aids awareness and strengthen the capacity of health Women’s Rights Activist. She educated the audience on with ACT Foundation –A non–profit, grant-making awareness campaign for students in targeted communities workers to accelerate the impact of their interventions. the importance of speaking up against domestic violence organization working to address challenges and associated to educate them on the prevention and management of and raising continuous awareness on issues relating to vulnerabilities across the African continent. The fund tuberculosis. A total of 3,773 people were reached with life-saving HIV domestic violence. Other Women Rights Activists were in has facilitated the activities of non-profits to help them prevention and management messages. They were also attendance, including Joke Silva and Onyeka Onwenu. achieve their goals to improve health outcomes, build d. World Heart Day tested for HIV/AIDS; nine of the people tested positive for leadership capacity and support income generating HIV (three male and six female) and they were referred to activities. This partnership with ACT Foundation was Access Bank partnered with Nirvana initiative on the day to the health centers nearest to them for counseling. established to facilitate the implementation of initiatives in provide life-saving information to people living with heart focus areas of Health, Entrepreneurship, Environment, and conditions and sickle cell anemia. The initiative also aimed Leadership. to improve the health condition of people by encouraging 96 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 97 f. Launch of the Project Enable h. In-Short film festival is also poised to affect developing countries much more the practice of hygiene. There were also interactive/ than their developed counterparts. While Nigeria has the bonding session between Access Bank staff and the pupils. In commemoration of the International Day of Persons Access Bank partnered with the international films highest burden of diabetes in sub-Saharan Africa with over with Disability, Access Bank partnered with Hacey and broadcast academy and the Goethe institution to five million cases diagnosed, it is believed that its incidence As a result, over 1000 primary school pupils benefited from Health Initiative to launch the Project Enable initiative – a organize a 3-day in-short film festival in 2017. The festival can be reduced if Nigerians adopt healthy lifestyles. The the newly-renovated sanitary facilities. disability-friendly digital hub for the use of the community was organized as a platform where emerging talents/ Internal Audit group embarked on a health screening and of persons with disabilities. The hub, which is in Oko-Oba filmmakers share knowledge and proffer innovative health prevention exercise in the Aro Community in Eti Osa c. Let’s Talk Depression Lagos State, was set up with the support of Access Bank solutions to the key challenges in the industry. A free 3D Local Government in Lagos State. Plc and the United States Consulate in partnership with training session was held during the festival, leaving the The Let’s talk depression initiative was implemented by the Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities audience with a great impression of 3D animation. The activities of the initiative included: screening the General Resource Management in partnership with (JONAPWD) to improve access of persons with disability in individuals for elevated blood sugar level and diabetes, the School of Art Lagos, the World Health Organization Lagos to information and communication technology skills biometric measurements and interpretations (Body Mass and Healthy Minds Foundation. Through this initiative, and opportunities. Employee Volunteering Index-BMI), and educating them on environmental and the secondary school students in 25 local governments The initiative was aimed at empowerment and social Activities lifestyle modifications. The initiative successfully reached 238 individuals from health screening and prevention in Lagos and over 2000 youth corps members at the Lagos camp were impacted. The activities of the initiative inclusion of persons with disability, promoting their rights exercise, 199 adults and 39 children (<18). A total of 45 include: Employee volunteering is an innovative way for businesses and sensitizing their communities on the need to reduce individuals had elevated blood pressure, which could have to invest in their people and local communities. Employees • An online platform/community where students with discrimination and stigmatization. The initiative helped to resulted to hypertension if it was not promptly discovered are guided and advised on how to impact communities symptoms of depression can engage with mental create a disability-friendly entrepreneurship hub, equipped during the screening exercise. These individuals were in selected focus areas, donating their time, skills and health professionals was created by the General with accessible technology to directly empower young promptly counselled and referred to hospitals to prevent resources during work hours to tackle social issues. 2017 Resource Mgt Group http://letstalkdepression.ng/ persons with disabilities with technology-based skills. further complications. A total of 21 individuals had showed the passion and commitment of our employees to community investment. This was reflected in the caliber deranged sugar and were promptly counselled and referred • A short film was created, starring star actors, Wale g. Launch of The Salvus Project of projects various groups embarked on. Employees other medical professionals for proper management. Ojo and Sola Kosoko. The film highlighted the causes have volunteered a total of 1,761,156 hours, in 142 and effects of depression with reference to the case The SALVUS project is an 18-months sexual violence The screenings helped to reduce the risks of the individuals of a school student. response intervention aimed at increasing access to strategic community initiatives across 6 geo-political diagnosed with elevated blood pressure and blood sugar • Free mental health evaluation and report were carried support for survivors of sexual violence. As part of the zones. We have achieved a 100% employee participation levels of being incapacitated because of these diseases if it out for over 100 participants. project, the SALVUS platform is designed to connect in the Access Bank’s Employee Volunteering initiative, was not discovered on time. organizations, agents and advocates that provide support empowering employees to contribute to the sustainable • Personal counselling for identified students with services to victims of sexual violence. It incorporates web development of communities. The 11,000-strong depression tendencies technology in the recording and reporting of incidents of employees, through this Employee Volunteering Scheme, b. Adopt-A-School • Support in the provision of WHO approved short skits sexual violence and connects service providers with each contribute ideas, skills and resources to address social In 2017, the Service and Innovation Group embarked on on depression. other to provide the most effective and needed support to issues whilst gaining hands-on experience and fulfillment an initiative at the Olomu Primary School, Ajah, Lagos. as positive role models in the society. Through this This initiative provided over 300 students and 1500 youth the survivor. The platform has two Sexual Assault Referral The initiative involved the renovation of 10 toilets for corps members a better understanding of how mental centers (SARCs), three legal counsel providers, three scheme, over 15,000 students in schools; 1,000 vulnerable the primary school block and overhauling the plumbing children; 4,000 patients in hospitals; and 3,500 persons illness can affect a person’s life. It also helped reduce the independent sexual violence advocates, five counseling system. It also provided clean water by installing a new stigma, thereby enabling the students with depression to and psychological support providers, and six survivor in retirement homes, prisons and orphanages have been borehole and repairing the water system. positively impacted. One of the most notable initiatives speak up. It empowered the students to recognize early assistance providers. The platform also has response signs of depression in themselves and other students. agents from the Lagos State Ministry of Youth and Sports, from the Employee Volunteering Scheme is discussed The initiative also involved literacy development through Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Lagos below: the Read A Book A Day campaign. Engagement and The social footprints of our employee volunteers over the State Office of the Public Defender, Lagos State Domestic teaching sessions were also conducted to teach the year can be appreciated in table 15. and Sexual Violence Response Team, and the Nigerian a. Kick-Back Diabetes pupils healthy living. During this initiative, topics covered Police Force Family Support Unit and Gender Desk. during the sessions included: Menstrual Hygiene, Personal Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic disorder that is not Hygiene, Dental hygiene and Good Manners (courtesy and only assuming pandemic proportions worldwide but it respect). Toiletries (sanitary towels, soaps, tooth brushes, tooth pastes) were shared to the students to encourage 98 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 99 Table 16: Details of Employee Volunteering Activities for 2017 S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering Area Group S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering Area Group 3 The L.E.A.D Education Attitudinal Contribution: -Although the project Personal (Leadership, is set to run over three Banking • Academic and moral excellence 1. Renovation of Education Infrastructural Contribution: • With the provision of Corporate Enterprise, • Financial literacy years, the first phase is Division Keke Primary fans and light fittings Operations Academic expected to impact at School • The renovation of 2nd Block of 4 for all the classrooms to • Reading culture and Development) least 10,000 students classrooms each, administrative building ensure proper ventilation projects • Personal leadership in different states that and toilets to replace the dilapidated and brightening of the • Time management & personal organizational would cover the 6 geobuilding and create a better conducive classrooms, this has skills political zones of Nigeria. learning environment for the pupils. made reading more stress-free for the pupils Also, the project targets • Provision of modern furniture for the to raise 3, 000 leaders (1, • Keke Primary School classrooms inclusive of neatly designed 000 leaders per phase), took part in the Quiz chairs, tables for both pupils and Competition conducted who would become young teachers. by Lagos State and the leaders and contribute • Provision of fans and light fittings for School came 1st position their quota to impact among the primary their peers and contribute all the classrooms to ensure proper Schools in Lagos State. to nation-building. ventilation and brightening of the The name of the winner is classrooms. Aaron Ndubuisi • Provision of white board for all classrooms to replace the dusty and unhealthy black chalkboard formerly in use Attitudinal Contribution: • Mentoring sessions with the pupils to mentor them on financial inclusion amongst other things. 2 Adoption Education Recipient: -Access to the use of Information of Gbara a computer will help Technology Gbara Community High School Community influence the student’s Group High School Infrastructural Contribution: learning capabilities. • The group remodeled the Computer The use of computers during classes have Laboratory motivated some of Installed brand new furniture. in the the students to use laboratory, did a complete overhaul and computers outside of painted the laboratory. school hours. • Over 35 high-end full desktop computers, 27 UPS machines and a central printer were bought and installed by the group. • The group proceeded by installing a fresh prepaid meter requested and paid for on behalf of the school from the electricity distribution company. • The Bank, in addition, laid full network of the computer laboratory and installed a network switch to aid the central connection and sharing of documents with and within the laboratory Attitudinal Contribution: • The group, using its staff, delivered weekly lectures to the students using the robust syllabus currently employed at the Access School of Banking Excellence 100 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 101 S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering Area Group Area Group 4 Skills Social Recipient: 327 Women were trained Retail 5 The School’s Education The Schools Invention Platform Engaging The event involved Financial Acquisition Welfare on different skills and Operations Invention youths (secondary school students) in all public secondary Control and Disadvantaged Women Group Platform productive activities through creative schools in Lagos state, Strategy Training subsequently given Infrastructural Contribution: equipment (Industrial expressions (drama, poetry, dance, scientific as well as a few private Group ovens, standing dryers, inventions and essays) secondary schools. This Proving support and set up training centers led to a total of 1,500 complete baking set, across Nigeria (Ibadan, Abuja, Calabar, sewing machines and Recipients: students participating Enugu, Kaduna) to train women in catering, Children across Lagos State on the invention tools, hair-making hairdressing and fashion. A total of 327 women platform, including tools) to enable were trained across Nigeria, notably was the them start off their Attitudinal Contribution: other stakeholders like vocational training held for 60 Chibok women Change in the mindset of the secondary parents, teachers, Lagos business immediately in the IDP camp at Kuje in Abuja. school students on building their skills and State officials and strong after graduation. The Attitudinal Contribution: broadening their knowledge base to activate a supporters of innovation. interactive session • Business mentoring workshops by showcased women who mindset that education is not restricted to the had set up small business class room SMEDAN, and already making Helped build the entrepreneurial and social • Customer service mentorship trainings, money with their children skills of the children. The students built a • Personal etiquette training session back in school. platform to express themselves and also compete with students across the state • Family planning sessions. A few former Held two informative events across the six • Interactive/bonding session at the Head sex workers were districts drawing resource persons from the Office where some of the women were rehabilitated and went Lagos State Ministry of Education and Access back to re-unite with their Bank present (60 women were transported families after the skills -Awarded prizes (funded Early Savers along with the male camp leaders from acquisition. IDP, Kuje, Abuja to Lagos for 3 days) Accounts) to the the best prize winners who The family planning had outstanding innovative ideas. sessions were introduced and they were highly impactful. Various Communities around Nigeria have been impacted as evidenced by the attendance of community heads to the graduation ceremonies held at the training centers outside Lagos in appreciation. Staff also benefited by also acquiring skills in fashion and catering. 102 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 103 S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering Area Group Area Group 6 Health Health Recipient: -238 individuals Internal Audit 7 Partnership Social Recipient: SO-SAID Charity Homes for the The Charity Home caters Centralized Screening benefitted from Group for Vulnerable Welfare Vulnerable Persons to over 150 people mostly Operations Aro Community, Eti Osa Local Government, and Health health screening and Persons Infrastructural Contribution: women and children while Group Lagos State. Prevention prevention exercise at the community around it • Screening for elevated blood sugar level and -Construction of a borehole and the provision Exercise Aro Community in Eti Osa can be estimated to have diabetes. of a generator to support the powering and Local Government Area. over a 1500 people. • Biometric measurements and pumping of the Borehole to SO-SAID Charity -199 adults and 39 interpretations (Body Mass Index-BMI). Homes for the Vulnerable Persons and the children (<18). • Provision of mosquito nets Hosanna Estate Community. The purpose 45 individuals had of the project is to provide the SO-SAID Attitudinal Contribution: elevated blood pressure, Charity Homes for the Vulnerable Persons and which could have resulted • Educated the target audience on how to Hosanna Estate residents with accessibility to to hypertension if it was conduct breast screening. clean and portable water. not promptly discovered • Educated the target audience on common By this project we intended to provide during the screening illnesses. solution to a dire need in the homes and the exercise. These were • Educated them on environmental and community around it. promptly counseled lifestyle modifications. So-Said Charity Organization is a communityand referred to prevent • Educated them on symptoms and signs of based public Healthcare (NGO) caring for the further complications. childhood diseases and how to administer first vulnerable persons on the streets, with the -21 individuals had aid care at home. aims of rescue, reformation/rehabilitation and deranged sugar and were reconciliation of the vulnerable ones, whilst, promptly counseled making them relevant to the society again and and referred to enhance the nation at large. proper management. • Attitudinal Contribution: Interactive/Bonding The screenings reduced session between Access Bank staff and the risk of the individuals members of the Charity Home and community diagnosed with elevated blood pressure and blood 8 Adopt-AEducation Recipient: Over 1000 primary Service and sugar levels of being School Olomu Primary School, Ajah, Lagos school pupils are Innovation incapacitated because of Infrastructural Contribution: benefiting from Group. these diseases. • Renovation of 10 toilets for the primary renovated sanitary 17 women were school block and overhauling the plumbing facilities 10 toilets pregnant and not system. -The newly provided receiving antenatal care. • Provision of clean water by the installation borehole will adequately They were referred and of a new borehole and repairing the water serve the pupils in the introduced to the medical system. primary school, the team that came from Attitudinal Contribution: attached junior secondary the local government. • Literacy Development through the Read A school and indirectly Majority of the women Book A Day campaign the immediate Ajah were elivering at home • Engagement and teaching sessions community bordering or with traditional birth conducted to teach the pupils healthy living. the school, which was attendants Topics covered during the sessions include without portable water. 90 attendees had Menstrual Hygiene, Personal Hygiene, Dental The teaching and medical complaints; hygiene and Good Manners (courtesy and learning from the various they were seen, and respect). engagement sessions treatments were • Toiletries (sanitary towels, soaps, tooth will empower the pupils recommended and, in brushes, tooth pastes) were shared to to make better decisions some cases, referred for the students to encourage the practice of relating to hygiene, higher care. hygiene. human interaction and • Interactive/Bonding session between Access improve their knowledge. Bank staff and the pupils. 104 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 105 S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering Area Group Area Group 9 Provision Social Recipient: Inhabitants of Dustbin Village, • Provision of quality Global 11 HealthPal Health Recipient: The application will Digital of Social Welfare Apapa water, which is one of the Financial Access Bank, Nigerian Populace, achieve the following: Banking Unit Amenities Infrastructural Contribution: basic human needs. Market Ministry of Health • Improved access to • Free Eye and General Health screening, • The initiative will Infrastructural Contribution: accredited health care • Water projects (construct 2 boreholes within improve quality of life and The development of a mobile phone facilities in Nigeria. the community. change some habits of application (accessed on Google play store • Reduced prevalence • Provision of 2 generators to power the the dwellers. or Apple store) that will help Nigerians access of deaths as a result installed bore-holes, • The health screening better health facilities. of taking expired •Provision of food items. is expected to increase medication. • Provision of other basic needs (clothes, awareness within the • Provide adequate toiletries and household equipment). community and educate health information for all Attitudinal Contribution: the people on the Nigerians. • Serving of snacks and drinks. importance of medical 12 Prevention, Health Recipient: Women and Children across Nigeria The sensitization Commercial examinations. Treatment Attitudinal Contribution: program reached out Banking • The Provision of free eye and -Held informative fora on the causes, harmful to over 300 patients, Division glasses to the inhabitants Management effects and management of malaria in spanning pregnant will help improve their of Malaria and women and children. They were also made to women, men, children sight High Blood understand the harmful effects of high blood and teenagers. • Contribution to the Sugar levels sugar levels in the body. -Blood sugar tests were general wellbeing of in Women and -Provided Malaria self-test kits conducted alongside inhabitants. Children. and blood sugar test kits for malaria tests with the use • Will create pride and tests conducted on the patients of the self-test kits and values for the families and -Provided Branded Mosquito the patients were given the dwellers within the treated nets for about 200 patients. immediate results. community. Free consultation 10 Let’s Talk Social Let’s Talk Depression (In partnership with • This has provided over General services were also given Depression welfare the School Of Art Lagos, the World Health 300 students and 1500 Resource to patients with Negative Organization and healthy minds foundation) youth corps members a Management results. Recipient: Secondary school students in 25 better understanding of -Branded Mosquito local government areas in Lagos and over how mental illness can nets were given to each 2000 youth corps members at the Lagos affect a person’s life. It patient as a preventive camp. also helped reduce the measure for Malaria. Infrastructural Contribution: stigma thereby enabling • An online platform/community where the students with students with symptoms of depression can depression to speak up. It engage with mental health professionals was empowered the students created by the General Resource Mgt Group to recognize early signs of http://letstalkdepression.ng/ depression in themselves and other students. In all, • A short film was created, starring Wale Ojo over 500 school students and Sola Kosoko, and highlighting the causes and 1500 youth corps and effects of depression with particular members were reached reference to the case of a school student. in every local government Attitudinal Contribution: in Lagos. • Free mental health evaluation and report carried out for over 100 participants. • Personal counselling for identified students with depression tendencies. • Support in the provision of WHO-approved short skits on depression. 106 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 107 S/No Initiative Focus Description Impact Volunteering Area Group 13 Children of Social Providing academic, legal, material and -Legal assistance – free Corporate the Boys welfare vocational assistance to children of the Boy’s legal services for children Counsel Special Special Centre, Oregun for a period of five with pending cases in Group Center years. juvenile courts; and Recipient: Special Centre for Boys in Oregun, vocational assistance Ikeja, Lagos – delivery of IT, shoeInfrastructural Contribution: making, cane weaving, • Providing academic, legal, material and photography equipment; vocational assistance material support – food Attitudinal Contribution: stuffs and beverages. • Academic assistance – free lectures on various subjects taught. 14 Girls Education Girls Empowered Initiative -About 100 students Channels Empowered Recipient: Ajigbede Girls’ Junior School, benefitted from the Group Initiative Surulere, Lagos. graduation ceremony Infrastructural Contribution: sponsoring Presentation of two gas cookers -Equipping the Home to the Home Economics Laboratory Economics Laboratory Awarded prizes (N10000 worth of shopping with the gas cookers will vouchers) to the best students in the Junior be of great benefit to all school (JSS1, 2 and 3) the students in practical Attitudinal Contribution: class sessions and aid Party and bonding sessions with the their education. students on their graduation day -Sponsoring of the graduation ceremony. 15 Equipping the Social Recipient: -The Burns Centre Conduct and Burns Center welfare National Orthopedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos and the Anesthesia Compliance and the • Donation of medical equipment items to Department have been Unit Anesthesia strengthen the health care services in the fully equipped; thus, Department Burns Centre and the Anesthesia Department health care services in of the National Orthopedic Hospital, Igbobi, the hospital have been Lagos. enhanced. Attitudinal Contribution: -National Orthopedic •Not applicable Hospital is a Federal Government health institution and it can accommodate up to 450 patients. It is also a WHO Collaborating Center for Research and Training. Therefore, more than 450 patients, students and medical researchers would benefit from the facility daily. 108 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 109 GRI Indicators Description of Disclosure Report Reference Page Number SUPPLEMENTARY Strategy GRI 102-14 Sustainability statement from a senior decision Chairman’s Statement maker (CEO or Head of Sustainability at Access INFORMATION Bank) about the relevance of sustainability to Access Bank Plc and its strategy for addressing Group Managing director/ CEO’s Statement sustainability GRI 102-15 A description of key impacts, risks & opportunities of Access Bank Plc Ethics and Integrity GRI 102-16 A description of the values, principles & norms of behavior of Access Bank Plc GRI 102-17 A description of internal and external mechanisms for: seeking advice about ethical and lawful behaviour, and organizational integrity; reporting concerns about ethical or unlawful behaviour in Access Bank Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure of Access Bank, including committees of the highest governance body. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics. GRI 102-19 Process for delegating authority for economic, GRI content Index/Data Table environmental, and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. GRI Indicators Description of Disclosure Report Reference Page Number GRI 102-20 Positions with responsibility for economic, Organizational Profile environmental and social topics in Access Bank GRI 102-1 Name of Organization Access Bank Cover Page Plc. Whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. GRI 102-2 Activities, Brands, Products and Services of Products and Programmes Access Bank Plc. GRI 102-21 Process for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Our Geographical Location environmental and social topics. GRI 102-22 Details of the composition of the highest governance body of Access Bank and its GRI 102-4 & 102-6 Location of Operations & Markets served Our Geographical Location committees. GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Nature of Ownership and GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body. Legal form GRI 102-7 Scale of Organization Nature of Ownership and Legal form GRI 102-24 Nomination and selection process for the highest governance and the committee of GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Access Bank Plc. GRI 102-25 Process taken by Access Bank Plc highest governance body to avoid and manage conflict GRI 102-9 A brief description of the nature and relationship of interest. Disclosure of conflict of interest to maintained by Access Bank Plc with suppliers stakeholders GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing Economic, GRI 102-11 Access Bank’s approach to risk management in Environmental & Social impacts. operational planning or when developing and introducing new products GRI 102-30 The role of the highest governance body of Access Bank Plc in reviewing the risk GRI 102-12 A list of externally-developed economic, management processes for economic, environmental and social charters, principles environmental & Social topics. or other initiatives to which Access Bank Plc subscribes or endorses. GRI 102-33 Process of communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. GRI 102-13 A list of membership of associations that Access Bank Plc. belongs to. 110 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 111 GRI Indicators Description of Disclosure Report Reference Page Number GRI Indicators Description of Disclosure Report Reference Page Number GRI 102-34 Mechanisms used to address the total number of Economic Performance Indicator critical concerns that was communicated in the GRI 201-1 Direct Economic Value Generated and reporting year. distributed GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies and how performance GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and criteria relate to the highest governance body opportunities due to climate change. and senior executives of Access Bank Plc. GRI 201-3 Levels of participation in retirement plans, Stakeholder’s Engagement such as participation in mandatory or voluntary GR1 102-40 List of stakeholder group Stakeholder’s engagement schemes GRI 201-4 Total monetary value of financial assistance received by Access Bank Plc. from any GR1 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by the government in 2017 collective bargaining agreement. Market Presence GRI 102-42 Access Bank’s basis for selecting and identifying GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender stakeholders for whom to engage. compared to local minimum wage GRI 102-43 Access Bank’s approach to stakeholder’s GRI 202-2 Procedures for local hiring and proportion engagement, including frequency of engagement of senior management hired from the local by type and by stakeholder group. community at locations of significant operation. GRI 102-44 The stakeholder group that raised each key Indirect Economic Impact topics and concerns and how Access Bank Plc has GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services responded to each key topics and concerns. supported GRI 102-46 Defining the report content and topic GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts boundaries; How Access Bank Plc has implemented the reporting principle for defining Procurement Practices report content GRI 204-1 Percentage of procurement budget spent on GRI 102-47 Material topics identified in the process of local suppliers defining report content Anti-Corruption GRI 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption GRI 205-2 Communication and training about antiGRI 102-52 Information of Access Bank’s Sustainability corruption policies for the governance body and reporting cycle employees of Access Bank Plc in 2017 GRI 205-3 Incidences of corruption and action taken GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the sustainability report and its content Environmental Performance Indicators Energy GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting according to the GRI standards GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within Access Bank Plc GR1 302-4 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency GRI 102-55 GRI Content index improvements, and the various initiatives to reduce energy. The baseline for concluding reduction and calculation methods GRI 102-56 External Assurance Water GRI 303-1 The total volume of water abstracted or Management Approach withdrawn from various sources GRI 103-1 Explanation of why the materiality issues are GRI 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water recycled material to Access Bank Plc and the boundaries and reused. Percentage should be a function of each material issues. of the total volume of water abstracted and GRI 103-2 Explanation of how Access Bank Plc manages the withdrawn by the Bank. material issues and management approach to GR1 305Emissions the issues 1,2,3,4,5,7 GRI 103-3 Mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach, the result of the evaluation. Effluents and waste GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 112 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 113 GRI Indicators Description of Disclosure Report Reference Page Number GRI Indicators Description of Disclosure Report Reference Page Number GRI 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total GRI 409-1 Operations and Suppliers at significant risk for number of non-monetary sanctions for nonincidents of forced or compulsory labor compliance with environmental laws and regulations. GRI 410-1 Security Personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 308-1 Percentage of New Suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Human Rights Assessment GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subjected to human rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GR1 412-2 Employees training on human rights policies or procedures Social Performance Indicator Employment GRI 412-3 Significant investment agreements and GRI 401-1 New Employees hire and turnover contracts that includes human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees of Access Bank Plc that are not provided to GRI 413-1, 2 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any temporary or part-time employees programs and practices that support Access Bank’s operations in communities. Highlights of GRI 401-3 Parental leave local community engagement and development GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational programs changes Occupational Health and Safety Customer’s health and Safety GRI 403-1 Workers Representation in formal joint GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of management-worker health and safety product and service categories committee GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational health and safety impacts of products and diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of services work-related fatalities Marketing Communication GRI 403-3 Health and safety topics covered informal agreements with trade unions GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information Training and Education GRI 417-2 Incidents of Non-compliance concerning product GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee and service information GRI 404-2 Program for upgrading employee skills and GRI 418-1 Customer Privacy transition assistance program GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular GRI 419-1 Socioeconomic Compliance performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunities Information of Access Bank’s Primary contact GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance body and employees of person for feedback and additional information Access Bank Plc according to gender, age group on the report and other diversity indicators GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. GRI 407-1 Operations and Suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 114 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 115 high material relevance to the Bank and its stakeholders. management. CSR-in-Action Consulting was not in any Furthermore, we investigated the systems, structures and way involved in preparing any portion of the Report and we processes through information contained in the Report, confirm our impartiality to Access Bank Plc in delivering our interviews and a review of supporting documents, to arrive assurance. at our conclusions. Our engagement included: CSR-in-Action Consulting is a foremost sustainability INDEPENDENT LIMITED • Review of Access Bank’s stated approach to stakeholder engagement and recent outputs, consultancy in West Africa, with the authority to assure sustainability processes using AccountAbility’s AA1000AS although we had no direct engagement with certification. For the third year, we have provided ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO • stakeholders; Review of information provided to us by Access Bank assurance services to Access Bank, and have assured reports for other leading organizations across diverse ACCESS BANK PLC on its reporting and management processes relating to the Principles; industries including fast moving consumer goods and the extractives. • Interviews with key managerial staff, including heads CSR-in-Action is certified by the Global Reporting of Sustainability and Health Safety and Security and Initiative as a training partner, in addition to being a Introduction Summary of Work Done representatives of heads of Environmental and Risk Management and Compliance and Internal Audits. Gold Community Member. The CSR-in-Action Group is independently recognised as having high levels of CSR-in-Action Consulting was commissioned by Access Other departments like Customer Experience, proficiency in sustainability consulting, reporting and Bank Plc to undertake an independent assurance of its Standards and criteria used Corporate Communications, Human Resources, stakeholder engagement; skills resident amongst the 2017 Sustainability Report, its 10th Year Anniversary Marketing Communications, General Resource members of the assurance team. CSR-in-Action Consulting planned and conducted the Edition, in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008). The Management and Procurement were also interviewed assurance engagement in a participatory manner in order outcome of the assurance is for the management of albeit by representatives who stood in for them. to allow for receipt of sufficient and appropriate assurance Access Bank. Access Bank has prepared the sustainability evidence for its conclusion. Furthermore, we utilised the • Review of the following supporting documents: CSR-in-Action Consulting’s disclosures in the Report based on the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 following assessment criteria while undertaking the work: Impact assessment reports from community initiatives, sustainability strategy, stakeholder Assurance Conclusion (‘GRI Standards’), covering economic, environmental and • AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS) surveys, quarterly report to management, monitoring Findings from our assessments based on the moderate social performance for the activities undertaken by the 2008 portal, health and safety training material, analytics of level of assurance adopted are outlined below: Bank over the reporting period of 31 July, 2017 to 30 June, • GRI Standards Sustainability Reporting Guidelines digital media engagement, stakeholder publications, 2018. and minutes of stakeholder meetings; • There is no indication, to our knowledge, that the • Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP) • Review of the processes for gathering and materiality analysis, management approaches and • Organisational Content: Review of the content of the qualitative and quantitative information presented consolidating the specified performance data and, for Scope and Level of Assurance Report in relation to Access Bank’s organisational targets and ambitions, systems of quality control, a sample, verification of data consolidation; in Access Bank’s 2017 Sustainability Report is in anyway materially misstated or not presented fairly in Our scope of work entails conducting independent including documented policies and procedures with • An independent assessment of Access Bank’s accordance with the reporting criteria. Access Bank’s assurance for Access Bank’s 2017 Sustainability Report regard to compliance with ethical requirements, reporting against the GRI Standards. process for managing and reporting sustainability is restricted to a Type 1, moderate level assurance of the AA professional standards and applicable legal and During the assurance process, we did not come across robust. 1000 Assurance Standards. During our engagement, we regulatory requirements. limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance • Access Bank Plc has adhered to the AA1000 principles assessed relevant data and activities, as well as assertions engagement. No external stakeholders were interviewed made in the report in relation to actual performance Engagement limitations as part of this assurance engagement. Our work was of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard within the reporting time frame: 31 July, 2017 to 30 June, Our assurance of Access Bank’s 2017 Sustainability Report planned to obtain all the information and explanations (APS) (2008) 2018. And as agreed between Access Bank and CSR-inis limited to reviewing the claims contained in the report that were needed to provide a basis for our assurance Action, the basis for the engagement was delimited to the conclusions. • Access Bank’s Report has been prepared in using evidence made available by the Bank as required following: accordance with GRI Standards comprehensive by the moderate level of assurance adopted for the level reporting requirements. Based on verification assurance process. Thus, our assessment is delimited to a. AA1000 Accountability Principles Adherence reviewing only plausibility of the internal records, as well Responsibilities of Parties and undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the The extent of Access Bank Plc’s adherence to the AA1000 as interviews with relevant referenced management, such CSR-in-Action Consulting’s requirements of the GRI Standards. that the risk of our conclusion being in error is reduced, but AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and not zero. Independence Responsiveness. The preparation, collection and presentation of the Our Key Observations Also, because of the selective nature (sampling) and other b. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards information in this Report is the responsibility of Access inherent limitations of procedures, an unavoidable risk, Based on our work set out above, and without affecting our Application Bank Plc. CSR-in-Action Consulting’s responsibility is including errors or irregularities, possibly insignificant, may assurance conclusions above, our key observations based not be detected. to provide Type 1, moderate level assurance over the on the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles are: This is based on Access Bank’s assertion, in page 5 of the accuracy, reliability and objectivity of the information report, that the report content is scripted in alignment contained in Access Bank’s 2017 Sustainability Report, with the GRI Standards reporting framework. Our work form an independent conclusion based on the assurance Inclusivity In conducting the assurance engagement, a multiprocedures and evidence obtained, and report our detailed Access Bank has continued to actively engage its disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance conclusion and recommendations to Access Bank’s stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable specialists performed work at the corporate level. We concentrated our verification efforts on the issues of 116 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 117 and strategic response to sustainability. For the reporting groups. year, the Bank through engagement processes that aligns to each stakeholder group, has identified and The Bank has aligned its reporting framework to the CONTACT US responded to significant sustainability concerns of its GRI standards as earlier recommended. Besides, the employees, shareholders and investors, customers and Bank’s commitment to annually publish its corporate host communities, regulatory bodies, media and suppliers. responsibility and sustainability report is a demonstration The various engagements with stakeholders have afforded of its commitment to accountability and transparency to As a way of adding value to our CSR Report and the reporting process, while disclosing and being accountable to our the bank valuable stakeholder insight on the development stakeholders of its social, economic and environmental internal and external stakeholders on an on-going basis, Access Bank Plc welcomes feedback from all our stakeholders in of its strategy and on the implementation of its activities. footprints. respect of the content of this report and additional information of interest to the stakeholders assumed to be material. Stakeholders’ expectations along with Access Bank’s The information received would be functional in mapping out other areas for disclosure hence providing a balanced and strategic management has continued to serve as a basis reasonable representation of the sustainability performance of Access Bank Plc. for the priorities chosen for the bank’s work. Our Recommendation We are interested in hearing what our stakeholders think about our sustainability performance and reporting efforts – and We recommend that the suggestion below be how we can improve both. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to: Materiality implemented to improve the sustainability drive of Access Bank: Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan Through a materiality process that Access Bank conducts Head, Sustainability annually, the bank focuses their sustainability approach In future reports, the Bank should elaborate on the and their reporting on areas of greatest concern to their Access Bank Plc magnitude of its impact, especially with regard to stakeholders. In the 2017 report, the bank assessed the Plot 999c, Danmole Street, specific phenomenon that would improve the readers’ non-financial drivers that emerge from the materiality Off Adeola Odeku/Idejo Street, understanding of the Bank’s performance in the broader management process within a context of global Victoria Island, context of sustainability. This is because, due to the change, which, in turn, informed its approach to risk and Lagos, Nigeria. robustness of the report, Access Bank Plc has modestly opportunity. The topics of greatest concern for internal toned down the extent and impact of some of its and external stakeholders that were identified and sustainability activities and initiatives. prioritized in 2017 are represented in a matrix indicated in E: Omobolanle.Victor-Laniyan@accessbankplc.com the report. The material issues are also determined within Whilst the Bank has made immense efforts regarding E: Sustainability@accessbankplc.com the framework of local and global charters which the bank environmental sustainability, in relations to waste-to-land W: www.accessbankPlc.com subscribes to such as the SDGs, UNGC etc. fills, the number of locations where this was experimented and yielded results should be stated as well as other Responsiveness locations where the initiative would be replicated in. In the Report, Access Bank has demonstrated that it is responsive to stakeholder needs and concerns by factoring in the outcome of their engagement with the various stakeholders in their sustainability strategies and management approach while considering the overall Bekeme Masade sustainability context of the banking sector. The report Chief Executive indicates existing modalities and approved communication CSR-in-Action Consulting processes with each stakeholder group. Issues raised during these interactions are addressed by the different functions assigned to managing the different stakeholder 118 Access Bank Plc 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E PO R T 119
