CSR REPORT 2018/2019 ABOUT THE REPORT Welcome to the ege Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report for the financial year from 1 May 2018 to 30 April 2019. The report includes our statutory corporate social responsibility report, cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act1, and firm of auditors EY has ensured that the report is in compliance with the Act. The report also serves as our Communication on Progress report for the UN Global Compact. For the second time, the CSR Report includes the entire ege Group, comprising four brands, which together have six production sites: egetæpper with production at egetæpper Herning, egetæpper Gram and UAB Litspin, and the three brands Hammer Carpets, Bentzon Carpets and Carpet Concept, each with their own production. As a consequence, in this year’s report we can now review the development in the figures for the entire Group. A lot has already happened during this first year with a new Group structure and we are very pleased to present this year's CSR Report. The Report is based on the seven focus areas set out in the CSR standard, DS 49001, under which egetæpper in Herning and in Gram both hold certification. While egetæpper has taken a dedicated approach to CSR work for several decades, the other brands in the Group only began to take a systematic approach during the past year. This means that there are considerable differences between input and results. Nonetheless, after the first year we can already see that all brands are moving in the right direction, giving higher priority to their important sustainability and social responsibility activities. After more than 20 years of EMAS registration of egetæpper in Herning and Gram, we have decided to terminate the agreement with EMAS. As a consequence, this year there is no published EMAS statement with verified figures for these two production sites. The agreement has been terminated because the current legislation and the other management systems according to which we are certified ensure that we are adequately covered for the same parameters as are covered by EMAS. The figures in the CSR Report have not been verified by a third party. In the long term, we would like all figures to be externally verified. Until then, we emphasise that we devote a lot of internal work to verifying the figures for the individual brands. In last year's CSR Report, we launched the #sustainablestories hashtag. Under this hashtag we focus on good stories and current issues. We continue to hope that other companies will seize the opportunity to share their stories under this hashtag. This year, we are also introducing greater visibility of the UN Sustainable Development Goals in the Report by inserting the icons representing the various different goals in the Report when we present our work on the goal in question. Questions concerning the CSR report can be addressed to: Group CSR Director Henrik Schmidt Hansen: hsh@egegroup.dk CSR Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup: dak@egegroup.dk 1 See Annex 1 for further details of Section 99a. TABLE OF CONTENTS 5 Year 1 with a new group structure 6 Profile 7 The ege Group's business model 8 Risk analysis 10 UN sustainable development goals on the agenda 11 #sustainablestories: Large and small aspects of the circular economy, 2018/2019 12 Management excellence 16 Human rights 18 Fair operating practices 20 #sustainablestories: ege Go2Work 22 Labour practices 24 Environmental conditions and climate impact 28 #sustainablestories: Where is the political support? 30 Consumer issues 32 #sustainablestories: 53% lower CO2 emissions 34 Local community development and involvement 36 Stories from the Group Data 40 Responsibility in figures Annexes 46 Annex 1: What is section 99a? 46 Annex 2: Calculation basis for data sources and CO2 calculations 4 Svend Aage Færch Nielsen & John Vestergaard YEAR 1 WITH A NEW GROUP STRUCTURE On 1 May 2018, the ege Group was transferred to a new Group structure, whereby all four brands rank equally in the Group, under a number of Group functions within the ege Group. The Executive Board of the ege Group has not changed, but the members have new titles. John Vestergaard holds the position of CEO, while Svend Aage Færch Nielsen has been appointed as new Sales and Marketing Director. This puts focus on two key areas: finances and market growth. The CSR Department, which was previously placed in egetæpsound platform for the challenges ahead. The major tasks we per, has been moved to ege Group, and now serves all brands in now face include disseminating Cradle to Cradle across the the Group on an equal footing, to ensure that the Group is movGroup, and implementing ISO standards for quality and environing in the right direction. As a consequence of the new Group ment in several brands. Important decisions have been taken focus of the CSR Department, several initiatives within sustainconcerning these tasks, which will be our focus during the comability and social responsibility are being launched within the ing year. Group, while the individual brands themselves drive the initiatives in practice. We can see an ever-increasing demand for the good CSR stories. Both internally and externally, we are asked to share our exIt has been a busy year in which everyone has had to find perience with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the circutheir feet in the new structure. Some good synergy effects are lar economy and CSR in practice. Communication is therefore emerging, but from time to time there are also uncertainties given high priority in our sustainability activities. By listening to and issues that we have not previously encountered. This is all and learning from each other, we can achieve our goals more completely in line with expectations. Learning to navigate a new quickly. We hope that our openness, honesty and dedication to organisational structure takes time, and we have promised each this cause can serve as inspiration to others to include sustainother that there must be opportunities to learn from and develop ability in their business strategy. the organisation during the implementation phase. Going forward, we will continue to pursue our ambitious goal Turning to CSR, during the current financial year the focus has to be the best carpet manufacturer in the world when it comes been on developing and implementing a common CSR policy to CSR. This CSR Report shows how we are dedicated in workfor the entire Group, preparing and implementing a new shared ing hard to achieve this goal. Even though our different brands supplier management system, and equipping all brands to run are miles apart in terms of their CSR levels, they have a great CSR initiatives under their own auspices. The UN Sustainable Dewillingness to achieve their goals. As the founder of the Group, velopment Goals have also been on the agenda and we will have Mads Eg Damgaard, once said: “If you roll up your sleeves and increasing focus on this going forward. get down to work, the sky is the limit.” This is just as true today. And it doesn’t really need to be that difficult. Our achievements during the course of the year constitute a Herning, 5 July 2019 CEO John Vestergaard CCO Svend Aage Færch Nielsen 5 PROFILE The ege Group is a leading European carpet manufacturer. With four renowned brands and six different production sites, the Group is a strong player in the world market. The Group was founded in 1938 by Mads Eg Damgaard, and his spirit is still reflected in the Group's visions. The Group has the most modern technology in the carpet industry and has been a pioneer in many ways over the years. CEO John Vestergaard CCO Svend Aage Færch Nielsen Marketing CSR HR R&D Finance Purchasing IT egetæpper Herning, Denmark Hammer Carpets, Denmark Founded in 1938 by Mads Eg Damgaard. The company unFounded in 1948 by Sigfred Møller Jørgensen. In 2014, egetæpdertakes the development, production and sale of tufted and per acquired 51% of the shares in Hammer Carpets, as part of woven carpets. Using modern technology, it can produce any a succession process. Hammer Carpets undertakes the develdesign, and with the shortest delivery time in the industry. The opment, production and sale of Colortec and Graphic carpets, carpets are primarily sold to five commercial segments: hotels, which are primarily supplied to fourand five-star hotels, as well offices, the healthcare sector, institutions and the transport secas the marine and cruise liner industry. The ownership of Hamtor. egetæpper Herning is wholly-owned by the Group and the mer Carpets remains 51%. A full takeover must take place by no brand’s executive general management comprises Morten Skiblater than 1 October 2021. The brand is headed by CEO Tom sted, Mads Lindegaard and Jørgen Kring Jensen. In 2018/2019, Møller Jørgensen and director René Dupont, and produced the production facilities in Herning had an output of 4,436,256 914,440 m2 of carpets in 2018/2019. m2 of carpets. Carpet Concept, Germany egetæpper Gram, Denmark Founded in 1994 by Thomas Trenkamp. In 2016, egetæpper acFounded as Gram Tæpper in 1905 by Christian Andersen. In quired 75% of the shares in Carpet Concept, in order to gain a 1983, egetæpper acquired the majority shareholding in the stronger position in the German market, where Carpet Concept company. As from 2000, on the completion of the merger, the is a market leader within the development, production and sale company’s name became egetæpper Gram. egetæpper Gram of flat-woven carpets for the office segment. The ownership of produces tufted and woven carpets for the same segments Carpet Concept remains 75%. A full takeover must take place as the factory in Herning, as well as for the residential market. by no later than 1 December 2021. The brand is headed by CEO egetæpper Gram is wholly-owned by the Group. The brand’s exThomas Trenkamp and director Matthias Quinkert, and proecutive general management comprises Morten Skibsted, Mads duced 306,443 m2 of carpets in 2018/2019. Lindegaard and Jørgen Kring Jensen. In 2018/2019, the production facilities in Gram had an output of 2,078,240 m2 of carpets. UAB Litspin, Lithuania Founded in 2000 by Jesper Olsen. In 2012, egetæpper acBentzon Carpets, Denmark quired Litspin in order to move the Group’s wool spinning mill Founded in 1976 by Erik La Cour Bentzon. In 2010, egetæpper from Vejle in Denmark to Lithuania. Since then, the factory has acquired 51% of the shares in Bentzon Carpets as part of a sucbeen modernised and adapted to the Group's needs. Litspin cession process. Bentzon Carpets develops, manufactures and produces woollen yarns for egetæpper. Litspin is wholly owned sells flat-woven carpets for the residential and contract markets, by the Group. Litspin is headed by CEO Kestutis Zilinskas, and primarily in Europe. The ownership of Bentzon Carpets remains produced 882,258 kg of yarns in 2018/2019. 51%. A full takeover must take place by no later than 1 May 2020. The brand is headed by CEO Tage Bajlum, and produced 1,705,971 m2 of carpets in 2018/2019. 6 THE EGE GROUP’S BUSINESS MODEL During 2018/2019, a new business model has been developed for the entire ege Group. With the vision to be a global leader for innovative and sustainable flooring solutions, the foundation has been laid for inspiring future activities. Our mission, vision and values constitute our business foundafurther seven focus areas, which together contribute to supporttion. This is implemented as five strategic action areas, into one ing the business strategy and ensuring good financial results. The of which CSR is integrated. The CSR action area is divided into a CSR report is based on these seven focus areas. Business foundation in Strategic focus CSR-focus in selected CSR efforts support Financial results ege Group brands and markets the strategy 2018/2019 Human rights Responsibility to people in the value chain Vision Environmental conditions Global leadership in Responsibility to the innovative environment Sustainable products, and sustainable flooring processes and solutions Labour practices Growth from core business strengthen ege Group by Mission Responsibilty to employees opening new business Net revenue We provide innovative Increase in carpet tiles opportunities in the 1,235,000 t.DKK Consumer conditions and sustainable flooring individual brands and Group synergies Responsibility to users to a world demanding Profit before financial create value at the high quality and lasting items and tax (EBIT) Insourcing Local social development individual markets and design 95,000 t.DKK Responsibility for the segments Efficiency improvement societies in which we Values Ensure compliance and operate Design risk management Quality Management excellence Respect Transparency Fair operating practices Responsible business conduct The implementation of the business model in practice creates we know from where they originate, we can deploy initiatives in our value chain. The value chain is the series of activities that the right areas. Our value chain is presented below. In the longer are performed with the aim of giving our products the greatest term, our vision is to close the gap between the start and the end possible value for the customer and society. The value chain is of the value chain, so that we have a complete circular economy. important, since various risks arise within the value chain. When Value chain Waste Recycling Recycled raw materials Virgin raw materials Transport Supplier User Transport Installation Design/development Transport Sale/customer Production 7 RISK ANALYSIS An important element of CSR is to identify the risks associated sponsibility and risk, we are pleased to note that we can already with the company’s business activities. This not only concerns see positive development throughout the Group. Many of the risks for the company itself, but also risks for society at large. On risks identified last year have disappeared or diminished. This the basis of Section 99a, for the second time we have conductreflects, among other things, how all of the brands have a great ed dialogue-based risk analyses of all brands within the Group willingness and ambition to develop in the right direction. Some in order to identify potential risks in individual areas. We have of the risks that were presented in last year's CSR Report are thus then drawn up specific recommendations to prevent these risks no longer relevant. within the individual brands and production sites. This year, we have identified the following risks that will be folEven though there are still differences in the levels of social relowed up with Group measures to prevent and reduce the risk. Value chain Identified risk Current action Raw materials Environmental impacts: Despite the strong focus on choosing A new Code of Conduct has been implemented with more Supplier raw materials that do not adversely affect the environment, stringent supplier requirements. Efforts are also being made several brands are challenged by how suppliers cannot always to persuade suppliers to replace less suitable substances with deliver the required qualities that can fulfil our more stringent more appropriate alternatives. environmental requirements. The market is also under pressure due to the small number of suppliers of some of the important materials. Transport CO2 emissions: While our CO2 emissions from production have Investigation of opportunities to reduce transport-related CO2 been reduced by 53% since 2007, the emissions related to emissions is underway. A dialogue on these issues has been consignment of our carpets around the world are increasing initiated with the haulage contractors, more information about sharply. emissions is being gathered, and stricter requirements for haulage contractors have been introduced. Transport Human rights: Despite our strong focus on supply chain Implementation of targeted measures to increase transport management, we have seen an example of how human suppliers’ awareness of our requirements to observe human trafficking in the transport industry can already occur in the rights. Expulsion of haulage contractor from our site. Specific second link of our value chain. prohibition on using the haulage contractor in question issued to suppliers. Production Safety: Even though all brands generally have a strong focus on After a number of hazardous incidents, various measures have safety, with only few occupational accidents occurring, there is been launched at several production sites in order to improve still room for improvement in the safety culture. Internal traffic traffic safety. These measures include additional ceiling mirrors, in areas where trucks are operated presents a particular risk at better marking of pedestrian paths, and blue reversing lights all production sites, since the rules for safe traffic are frequently on trucks. At one production site, new automotive trucks have broken. been purchased, for use in the warehouse. Production Environmental impacts: One production site still does not work All of the Group’s production sites have now been screened systematically with environmental targets and environmental for potential environmental optimisation measures and on improvements, while two other production sites are getting this basis large or small initiatives are being launched, going started with this. The other production sites work with this area forward. This supports the goal for all brands to work with on a systematic basis. environmental targets and environmental improvements towards 2022. Production Pressure of work: The high activity level in all brands, with All brands have been encouraged to provide better information Sales the implementation of new systems, is challenging the entire about their expectations when new systems are implemented. Group in different ways. The low unemployment level and a They have also been encouraged to focus on employees’ wellmarket that is under pressure can make it difficult to recruit and being. At some sites, this work has already been systematised, retain employees. while at others it is still being developed. Production CSR legislation: In overall terms, the Group is subject to Relevant CSR legislation is presented to all brands on an Sales different countries’ legislation and regulations, including the UK ongoing basis, and the ege Group's work on CSR legislation Modern Slavery Act, GDPR, etc. Several brands are still not quite involves the entire Group. up to speed with documentation of this area. Waste Recycling: It is still not yet possible to recycle all of our waste. For a number of years, we have been working on various Used carpets, in particular, constitute an environmental problem different solution models, and have made some progress. We that has not yet been successfully resolved by any company. In are active players in a number of international organisations many countries, used carpets are incinerated, which is better that are working to resolve this issue. There is nonetheless still a than landfill, but the long-term goal is full recycling. long way to go before we can achieve a good solution. 8 Due diligence and risk management We are still working on a joint management system for the ege It has been decided that all production sites within the Group Group that is based on recognised standards. The system has must achieve ISO 9001 certification. The other standards will be now been presented to all brands and the implementation work implemented according to an individual assessment. This overis ongoing at different levels. This provides us with a common view shows which management standards have been adopted, base that is continuously being developed and evaluated, with or are planned to be adopted, by the various production sites. new targets being set each year. ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 DS 49001 Quality Environment Working CSR environment egetæpper Herning √ √ √ √ egetæpper Gram √ √ √ √ Hammer Carpets 2020 √ Pending assessment Pending assessment Bentzon Carpets 2020 Pending assessment Pending assessment Pending assessment Carpet Concept 2019 2019 Pending assessment Pending assessment UAB Litspin √ √ Pending assessment Pending assessment The management system is based on the Plan – Do – Check – action plans, follow-up and adjustments. This is a permanent Act model. In practice, this means a constant focus on due diliaspect of the everyday activities at the production sites working gence processes internally within the Group, e.g. as objectives, with the system. Due diligence model Due diligence tools Social and Environmental and Human rights Anti-corruption employee climate conditions and bribery conditions Management DS/OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 DS 49001 DS 49001 system Overall Internal audit due diligence External audit Plan processes Management evaluation Objectives Act Do Action plans Check Practical Occupational Environmental Supply chain Anti-corruption examples accidents accidents management Whistleblower Labour practices Emergency scheme Welfare measures Supply chain management Supply chain management and due diligence ing that they also work with due diligence in their processes and Some individual due diligence processes are particularly imporvalue chain. We also ask them to complete a detailed self-assesstant for our social responsibility, since they concern areas which ment that is linked to the requirements in the Code of Conduct. are subject to greater risk than the rest. Supply chain manageThis gives us a better basis than before for risk assessment of the ment is one of these areas. In 2018/2019, we implemented a new individual supplier. We have also expanded the supplier managesupplier management system for the entire Group, to ensure that ment system to include more types of suppliers than before. the risk is reduced. The system is still being implemented. So far, we have been in The system entails closer dialogue with suppliers concerning dialogue with 88 out of 113 suppliers, of which 76 suppliers have their social responsibility. We have created a new Code of Consigned the new Code of Conduct so far, while 69 have performed duct which makes additional requirements to suppliers, includthe self-assessment. 9 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ON THE AGENDA Our planet is under pressure. Climate change is wreaking havoc and Gram, the pile of a large proportion of the carpets consists all over the world. We will soon run out of certain natural reof recycled fishing nets and other industrial nylon waste. The sources, and a growing middle-class population is increasing same applies for several of the products from Carpet Concept. mass consumption rates on a global scale. We need to act now Furthermore, all of the Group's carpet tiles are delivered with felt if we are to have a chance of breaking the negative trend. In backing that consists of 100% recycled PET plastic bottles. This 2015, the UN drew up a roadmap for how this can be achieved. year, we used a total of 2,944 tonnes of plastic waste directly in This became the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). our products. We are thereby helping to alleviate the problem of plastic in the world's oceans. During the last couple of years, the UN Sustainable Development Goals have become guiding principles for many leading SDG no. 7: Affordable and clean energy Danish companies. In the ege Group we have also decided to In contrast to the two other sustainable development goals contribute as much as possible to achieving the SDG’s. Even on which we focus, this goal cannot be linked directly to our though we work with several of the 17 goals in different ways, core activity. We have nonetheless chosen this goal because our primary focus is on three SDG’s that can be linked directly to our contribution to it is so significant that we make a real difour core activity: production and sale of carpets. ference. Many years ago, we entered into a Climate Partnership with Ørsted and decided to invest in renewable energy to cover SDG no. 12: Responsible consumption and production our electricity consumption. Every year, we have invested an We work with the circular economy concept on a dedicated ever-increasing ratio in energy from offshore wind turbines. Durbasis through our Cradle to Cradle strategy at egetæpper’s proing 2019, the electricity consumption at all of the ege Group's duction in Herning and in Gram, and now Carpet Concept has Danish production sites will be covered by 100% renewable enalso commenced this work. In brief, Cradle to Cradle is the viergy. In 2019, we have also begun to invest in bio-natural gas sion of a world in which people do not have a negative impact at egetæpper in Herning and Gram, as a replacement for fossil on the environment. This is achieved by promoting responsible fuels. In the longer term, 50% of the fossil fuel consumption at consumption, creating less waste, using fewer inappropriate these production sites will be replaced by bio-natural gas. substances, and increasing recycling, etc. Cradle to Cradle is therefore part of the Group's procurement strategy and our We give priority to working with the UN Sustainable Developproduct development, and is thus part of our core activity. With ment Goals. Even though we have not invented new products the objective of Cradle to Cradle certification of all of egetæpor a new business model to support the work, we are nonetheper’s contract carpets before the end of 2019, we are making a less helping to achieve the goals. By linking the goals to our significant contribution to achieving this sustainable developcore activity, we are contributing to them solely by selling more ment goal. products. We have also decided that whenever we face an active choice, we will choose the solution that best supports the SDG no. 14. Life below water SDG’s, provided that this is economically viable. Plastic waste is one of the world's major challenges. Plastic is degraded very slowly and poses a major threat to the environment, We hope that more companies will realise that working with and not least to marine life. Many of the ege Group’s carpets are the sustainable development goals is important, so that we can produced with a high element of recycled plastic waste, which handle this task together. It does not have to be difficult to make might otherwise end up in the sea. At egetæpper in Herning a real effort. 10 #SUSTAINABLESTORIES: LARGE AND SMALL ASPECTS OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY, 2018/2019 41 tonnes 100% renewable of residual energy yarn recycled All of our Danish brands are now egetæpper collects and returns investing in renewable energy residual yarn from all of the of to cover their electricity 90% recycled Group's Danish production sites 761 tonnes consumption material in carpet and sends it back to the of backing supplier for recycling. base made from used plastic bottles When carpets are produced, the yarn is tufted into a carpet Ecotrust is our own patented felt base. Two of egetæpper’s carpet base backing for carpet tiles. It consists types contain 90% recycled mateof 100% regenerated plastic rial from e.g. industrial waste. bottles. All carpet tiles 89% of sales are Overall, we have used are supplied with the 1,256 MWh of Cradle to Cradle 344,636 kg of recycled Ecotrust backing. heat is recirculated egetæpper has 50 Cradle to carpet base this year. At egetæpper in Herning and Cradle certified products. OverGram we can collect the surplus all, these products account for 89% heat from certain production of egetæpper’s sales to the contract market. Carpet Concept 1,442 facilities and sell it as district heating to homes in the has six Cradle to Cradle tonnes of local area. 2.1 million litres of certified products. recycled thickener residual dye recycled When we clean the water from the washing process at the At egetæpper in Herning, we have egetæpper Herning dyeing plant, we reused 1.6 tonnes of pure dye. can also draw thickener out of the We have also recirculated 7.3 water and reuse it. The volume tonnes of chemicals. 1,588 tonnes of of 1,442 tonnes is equivayarn created from lent to 6 tonnes of pure 16 tonnes of thickener powder. broken-down yarn used fishing nets A large proportion of our products waste recycled is made from Econyl yarn that Every year, Litspin sends its yarn consists of regenerated fishing waste to Belgium, where it is nets and other industrial 80% recycled 100% recycled. nylon waste. cardboard in 251 tonnes of used polyester in carpet tubes white felt backing Carpet Concept uses cardboard carpet tubes. 80% of the cardboard Hammer Carpets’ white felt is recycled cardboard. Carpet backing consists of 80% regenerated polyester fibre. Concept annually uses 100% recycled 15,157 m3 around 30 km of carpet plastic in carpet recirculated water tubes. tubes At egetæpper in Herning and The Danish brands use plastic Gram, we clean and reuse the tubes made from 100% recycled water from selected production plastic. This year we bought processes. This year, 7,440 m3 of 468,602 kg of carpet tubes. water was reused in Herning This is equivalent to 468 km and 7,717 m3 in Gram. 25% bio-natural gas of carpet tubes in total. 81% recycled cardin production board in tile boxes As from 1 January 2019, egetæpper in Herning and Gram This year, we have used 202,318 kg has replaced 25% of the natural of cardboard as packaging for gas with bio-natural gas. Up to carpet tiles. 30 April this amounted to 62.5 tonnes 251,000 m3. of cardboard 3,246 pallets recycled cones recycled Hammer Carpet sells used egetæpper collects cardboard disposable pallets to a company cones with residual yarn from all of which ensures that they are the Group's Danish factories and recycled 100%. sends the cones back for reuse. Hammer Carpets send their empty cardboard cones back to the supplier. 11 MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE With a vision and mission to take global leadership within innovative and sustainable flooring solutions, the path to a more sustainable future has been marked up. The new Group structure ensures a level playing field and we are already well underway with CSR initiatives across the Group. We have set the goal to be the best carpet manufacturer in the world when it comes to CSR, and this requires focus and dedication. CSR policy sets the direction for the entire Group Excerpt from the ege Group’s CSR In 2018/2019, we developed and implemented a common ege Group CSR policy for policy the entire Group. All employees worldwide have been introduced to the policy and reThe basic premise of the ege ceived a copy. It makes good sense to have a level playing field throughout the Group’s Group’s CSR policy is that we activities. comply with all legislation, and the international conventions to From business model to practice which all countries and compaThe ege Group’s Executive Board holds the overall responsibility for the CSR policy and nies are subject, including the strategy. An ege Group CSR steering group, comprising the CEO and CCO, as well as International Bill of Human Rights representatives of HR, Procurement, Product Development, Marketing and CSR in the and the Rio Declaration on Enviege Group, follows up on the work and clarifies complex CSR goals and activities. ronment and Development. […] We comply with all regulations The strategic CSR work is conducted in practice by ege Group CSR, while the individual and standards to which we are brands themselves are responsible for ensuring the local progress of the initiatives. This subject, in addition to voluntary constellation ensures the broad support of all relevant players in the organisation. initiatives we have joined, including the principles of the UN Global Great acclaim from the surrounding world Compact […] In June 2018, egetæpper received the EU’s Management Award for Sustainable Development. This environmental award, under the auspices of the European Commission, is An open dialogue with the comgiven each year to companies that are working to create a sustainable future. egetæppany’s stakeholders is one of the per received the award because we have made sustainability part of our core business cornerstones of the ege Group’s – both at the strategic level and at the very specific product level. management philosophy. We will engage in active dialogue with At the start of 2019, egetæpper received an additional award for its sustainability work. employees, trade unions, cusThis time, the award was from one of our major customers, Scandic. The Scandic sustomers, architects and designers, tainability award is given to the supplier in their value chain that is most ambitious about authorities, suppliers and ownsustainability. At the award ceremony, Scandic stated that everyone should take responers on subjects and activities of sibility for the environment in the same way as egetæpper. significance to CSR. We will also ensure that our CSR work is made We are grateful for the fine accolades, both from the political side and from our customavailable to the general public ers. This emphasises that sustainability is a key factor at all levels of society. and to everyone working for or on behalf of the ege Group. Women in managerial positions Since 2015, the ege Group has aimed to promote the number of women in manage12 ment2. After a couple of years with two men and two women in Board positions, in 2018 we had to bid farewell to one of the female Board members. The Board now comprises WALK THE TALK three men and one woman. On the employee side, in the longer term we want the num• By 2022, the ratio of female ber of female managers to reflect the general employee breakdown, whereby women managers must reflect the account for 40% of the Group's workforce. Currently, the proportion of female managgeneral gender breakdown for ers is 28%. Attracting female managers is a great challenge for the industry in general. the employees in the Group. Furthermore there is a very low turnover rate for management positions in the Group. We therefore have to accept that it takes patience to achieve this goal. Tax policy in a business-driven perspective It is important for the ege Group to have a transparent tax policy. To achieve our longterm financial objective of growth in revenue and earnings before income tax (EBIT), we have a strategic objective to selectively increase our market coverage, with focus on value-creating sub-segments. We primarily consider business opportunities in the individual market, and give less weight to the amount of tax paid. We adhere to the applicable transfer pricing rules, which entail that tax is paid in the country in which the revenue is generated.3 Tax evasion is not permitted. We wish to ensure that the Group's tax planning is based on responsible commercial transactions and activities. This includes that: • We will handle all matters concerning taxation in accordance with current legislation. • We will pay tax on a correct basis in the countries in which we operate. The ege Group’s Executive Board and Board of Directors approve overall strategies and policies, and monitor compliance. Procedures are amended as required, on the basis of any changed statutory requirements. 2 We define a manager as a person who either has employee responsibility or who holds a position in the company in which he or she is authorised to take decisions on behalf of the company. 3 The ege Group is represented in a number of European countries, as well as Singapore and the USA, with subsidiaries. We trade with subsidiaries on the basis of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. The set-up for trading with subsidiaries has been prepared in collaboration with the KPMG and EY firms of auditors. This ensures that we operate in accordance with both Danish and foreign legislation. 13 Political contributions and lobbying The ege Group is an apolitical company. We do not make political contributions and do not have any lobbying costs. We are, however, represented on the boards of two industry organisations, Dansk Mode & Textil and the European Carpet and Rug Association, ECRA, which conduct lobbying activities on behalf of the industry. We are also active participants in a number of other industry organisations, including: CEN TC134, GUT, Gulvbranchen (the Flooring Industry Association), Dansk Standard for gulvbranchen (Danish Standard for the Floor Industry), Carpet Recycling UK, CARE in the USA, Global Compact Denmark, etc. Through our work in these organisations, we seek to improve conditions in the industry. Ownership and transparency After more than 30 years as a publicly listed company, as of 8 March 2019 egetæpper was delisted from the stock Exchange. The delisting was due to the fact that the public listing was no longer assessed to be of sufficient value to the shareholders and the Group, and that the shares were placed in so few hands that it was not appropriate to continue as a listed company. The delisting has led to an easing of a number of the requirements concerning the publication of information from egetæpper, including the entire ege Group. Nonetheless, we still give great weight to the transparency of our business. We will therefore continue to publish an Annual Report each year, with a wide range of information about ownership and the decision-making structure within the Group. In the Annual Report, interested readers can among other things find information about our finances and future plans. The Annual Report is available on egetæpper’s website: www.egecarpets.com under Investor. Here, it is also possible to find information about the Board of Directors’ composition and independence, as well as the remuneration of both the Board of Directors and the Executive Board. 14 Bentzon Carpets 15 HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights are a key aspect of our focus on social responsibility. As a company, we influence whether human rights are respected. This not only concerns our employees, but also all the people in our value chain. We can play a decisive role, and this is a role that we are willing to play. The UN is setting the direction Excerpt from the ege Group’s CSR The UN Guiding Principles are the UN’s guidelines for companies’ focus on human rights policy throughout the value chain. Extensive work is required to achieve compliance with the We will respect and support interguidelines, which include the requirement that the initiative extends right out to the final national human rights, whether link of the supply chain. they be civil, political, economic, social or cultural rights. In counIt is our goal to implement the UN Guiding Principles before 2020. Last year, we comtries where there is a risk of lack menced the work at Group level by conducting risk analyses of human rights in all of respect for human rights, we brands. In cooperation with the individual brands’ managements, we reviewed practice will take steps to avoid any huin each brand, including at all production sites, according to the articles of the UN’s Uniman rights infringements that versal Declaration of Human Rights from 1948. The analysis showed that in the majority affect the people with whom we of cases we have procedures in place to ensure that we do not infringe human rights. cooperate and work in a business We have not conducted an equivalent analysis this year. Nonetheless, a great deal has relationship. happened in the human rights area. We are opposed to differential All brands in the Group have now endorsed the UN Global Compact. The UN Global treatment and discrimination, Compact is a voluntary UN initiative which sets out ten general principles for compaand will ensure that our employnies’ CSR activities. The principles concern, inter alia, respect for human rights, the right ees and partners have equal opto freedom of association and collective bargaining, the abolition of child labour and portunities […] the elimination of discrimination. When a company endorses the UN Global Compact, it commits itself to supporting the principles in practice and to publishing an annual reAny form of corporal punishment, port presenting the company's progress in this field. In our case, this is the CSR Report. mental and physical coercion or harassment is forbitten within the We have also developed and implemented a new ege Group supplier Code of Conduct, ege Group [...] Child labour is proin which we require suppliers to comply with the UN Guiding Principles by working with hibited […] due diligence processes in their value chains. On the basis of a comprehensive selfassessment scheme, which we require suppliers to complete, we also seek to open their eyes to the issues which they should consider. The self-assessment also improves the basis for assessment of where the value chain presents the greatest risks. 16 MIX Organic – Carpet Concept Working with due diligence in the value chain is a challenging process. Even though a large proportion of the suppliers have a strong focus on human rights, environmental WALK THE TALK issues, anti-corruption, etc., there are still suppliers who believe that complying with • Implementation of the UN Guidnational legislation is sufficient, and they are not particularly concerned about what ing Principles before 2020. Durhappens outside their own four walls. We therefore acknowledge that this is a process ing 2018, the work began to that takes time and we continue to urge them to take a more socially responsible apurge strategic suppliers, in the proach. first instance, to undertake an internal risk analysis and due The system works ... diligence process. After this, the In November 2018, the Danish media spotlighted a named Danish transport company aim is for the suppliers themthat was suspected of human trafficking and slave-like conditions for its foreign drivers selves to pass on the process to in Denmark. When the case began to unfold, we sent a letter of concern to our transport their subsuppliers. suppliers, asking whether they used the firm in question as a subcontractor, and also to emphasise our requirement that human rights be respected. All of the transport suppliers had already signed our Code of Conduct, but the letter was intended to send a signal that we were keeping an eye on them. A few transport suppliers informed us that they had previously used the firm as a subcontractor, but had now terminated the contract. But shortly after this, a lorry from the firm in question was parked at one of our production sites. This set a chain reaction in motion. The lorry was required to be removed from the premises, for reloading elsewhere. The company that had booked the haulage contractor for a single run was a foreign supplier that had not heard of the case in Denmark. A few hours later, the supplier received a written demand not to use the transport supplier in the future for deliveries to and from our sites. We also notified several suppliers about this demand. In all instances, our communication in this matter was accepted. Even though this was a serious case, it is pleasing to note that our contingency measures are effective when a problem arises. 17 FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES In the ege Group, we have a great wish to act responsibly at all times. We make high demands of ourselves and expect our business partners to take the same measures as we do, or to go even further. We make a deliberate choice to engage in close strategic collaboration with selected suppliers that give priority to sustainability in their business activities. In this way we can create shared values and contribute to each other's favourable development. Excerpt from the ege Group’s CSR policy We will run every aspect of our Cooperation with strategically important suppliers business in an honest and ethical Close strategic cooperation with selected suppliers is both a challenging and rewarding manner. We have zero tolerance objective. Some projects are successful, while others are not. for corruption and bribery in the ege Group […] In every situation, Ørsted amended their strategy during the year, so that they have stopped working with we will prevent and combat corthe Energy as a Service concept, in which we had looked forward to participating. A ruption and bribery […] second project collaboration with Ørsted concerning investment in waste streams at egetæpper’s production in Herning and Gram proved difficult to sustain financially, so We will prevent illegal conduct that we are now looking at sub-elements of the project to see whether some of these and irregularities within and in could be achieved profitably. After working with energy improvement measures for so relation to our activities, including many years, as is the case for egetæpper in Herning and Gram, it becomes more difnon-compliance with this CSR ficult to find new focus areas. On the other hand, it is pleasing to note that during the policy. We therefore give emyear Bentzon Carpets, Hammer Carpets and Carpet Concept were energy screened by ployees and other stakeholders Ørsted, which made a number of recommendations for energy-saving projects. the opportunity to submit anonymous reports via our whistleblower scheme. We will promote social responsiThe cooperation with Aquafil on the recycling of egetæpper’s production off-cuts in bility among our business parttheir yarns also presented challenges. The return is lower than was hoped for, and the ners, including through extensive project has therefore been deferred. On the other hand, at egetæpper we have taken a supply chain management and strategic decision to switch to Aquafil’s Econyl yarn for a number of new products, both use of the ege Group’s Code of in future collections, but also in some of the products that we sell most in global terms. Conduct, which stipulates reThis means that 32% of all of egetæpper’s contract products are now made with yarns quirements concerning human comprising regenerated fishing nets and other industrial nylon waste. This is an increase rights, working conditions, the of 6% from last year. In 2018/2019, we used 1,588 tonnes of Econyl yarn in the Group. environment and anti-corruption, This is 300 tonnes more than last year. etc. Sustainability and shared values are the basis for cooperation with the New Zealand 18 Merino Company (NZM), which now delivers 20% of the wool for egetæpper’s 80/20 products.4 Together, we hope to be able to highlight the importance of sustainability WALK THE TALK initiatives right from the sheep to the finished product. A key advantage of cooperating • Engage in closer cooperation with NZM is that their farmers hold certification in accordance with a standard which with strategically important supensures that the sheep are free from stress, thirst, disease and discomfort, and have pliers in order to strengthen suthe freedom to live a natural life. The farmers are audited by external parties every three stainable development. years, to ensure that they are in compliance with the standard. There is also complete traceability for the wool, right down to the individual farm. The cooperation with NZM has also contributed to establishing direct contact with the founder of the Cradle to Cradle concept and other key players in the circular economy. We are convinced that sharing values in this way will play a greater role in the future; for egetæpper, for the ege Group, and for the world in general. Anti-corruption and whistleblower schemes are standard Anti-corruption has been high on the ege Group’s agenda for many years. Every employee is aware that we have a zero-tolerance policy and do not accept bribery, corruption, facilitation payments or nepotism in any form. Key people and employees with external contact also take an e-learning programme that trains their ability to distinguish between right and wrong in the many grey areas that exist. We also go further than this, since we also take the time to communicate the importance of this focus to our other stakeholders and customers. We make an active effort to tell them where they can find our whistleblower system, should they experience irregularities related to our business collaboration. It is important for us to act proactively, so as to ensure that we comply with all legislation and international standards in every part of the Group. There is access to the whistleblower scheme via e.g. egetæpper's website: www.egecarpets.com. Since 2012, when we introduced the whistleblower scheme, there has only been one single case. We consider this to be a good sign that our business is generally sound. 4 An 80/20 product contains 80% wool and 20% nylon. These products account for around 9.5% of egetæpper’s total sales. Even though the company is called New Zealand Merino Company, the wool we buy and use does not come from merino sheep. We have never used merino wool in our products, since the wool is not strong enough to be used in carpets. 19 #SUSTAINABLESTORIES: EGE GO2WORK Unique collaboration between egetæpper in Gram, Haderslev tion where they can manually remove the residual yarn from the Municipality and Beskyttet Beskæftigelse Diagergård (a shelcardboard cones, while others can handle cooperation around a tered employment scheme) has led to the creation of a new machine that unwinds the yarn. production line at egetæpper with a social and environmental focus. The production line is called ege Go2Work. Even though the new production line has only been in operation for half a year, we can already see significant positive effects. The new production line ensures that residual yarns and cardThere is a good working atmosphere among the employees on board cones are recycled, rather than being discarded. The work the line, which runs at full capacity for five days a week. ege comprises unwinding the residual yarn from cardboard cones Go2Work helps members of the local community to gain a new and sorting this yarn. The yarn is packaged and sent back to the footing in the labour market. For example, one of the employsupplier, for recycling as new yarn. The cardboard is sent directly ees has achieved permanent employment on normal terms at for recycling. egetæpper in Gram. By being challenged on terms that match their special needs, other employees have the opportunity to The employees are people with special needs. Some of them are develop their life skills and social abilities. Diagergård residents with mental health challenges, impaired functional abilities or social issues. Others are participants in a The environmental aspect of the story is significant, since skills clarification programme via the Job Centre in Haderslev egetæpper collects the cardboard cones with residual yarn Municipality. They include people who have a stress-related affrom all of the ege Group's Danish production sites. This runs into fliction or have suffered an occupational injury. many tonnes of waste that is recycled instead of being incinerated. The new production line is expected to ensure that 85-110 The production line has a simple set-up with only a few machines tonnes of yarn and 110-130 tonnes of cardboard are recycled and with manual workstations. This facilitates a varied working annually. The biggest gain, however, is to see how happy the emday and enables employees to choose the type of work they ployees are to come to work. would like to perform. Some of them prefer a shielded worksta20 Colortec Stucco – Hammer Carpets 21 LABOUR PRACTICES Good working conditions are the basis for employees’ welfare, and happy employees are more productive and less prone to fall ill. It therefore makes good sense to focus on creating good working conditions. At egetæpper in Herning and Gram we have worked with occupational health and safety management since 2006, when we achieved certification under DS/OHSAS 18001. The other brands have only just begun to focus strategically on working conditions. Nominated as Workplace of the Year by 3F Excerpt from the ege Group’s CSR In 2018, the longstanding work on health and safety management led to egetæpper’s policy very fine nomination as Workplace of the Year. The award is made by Denmark's largest We will ensure good employment trade union, 3F (United Federation of Danish Workers) and the reasons for the nominaconditions for our employees, tion included that egetæpper includes employees at every stage of their lives. Age is an and in countries where collective extra benefit, and there are many employees with 30 and 40 years’ length of service. agreements are customary, we The nomination also concerned how egetæpper’s employees feel that they are valued will ensure compliance with that and respected, with many voluntary programmes such as private health insurance, denagreement as a minimum. tal insurance, physiotherapy and podiatry. At the award ceremony we achieved second place, but we still feel like winners – even though first place went to another company. We will promote diversity in the workplace and work to increase Job satisfaction survey at Litspin the number of women in manaEven though the Litspin factory is located in Lithuania, the company's performance still gerial positions. We will ensure in many ways surpasses that of many Danish companies. Employee welfare, however, is that our employees can use their one of the areas with which Litspin has not previously worked strategically. In 2018, the skills in the best possible manner management of Litspin conducted a job satisfaction survey with focus on the working regardless of gender, ethnicity, environment, welfare, working conditions and health. The results were very positive. Emreligion, political views, age, disployees expressed a high level of job satisfaction and loyalty to the company. A few areas ability, sexual orientation, etc. were identified as problematic and these are now being followed up with appropriate measures. One new initiative is that Litspin offers employees a healthcare scheme which We will ensure a healthy and posicovers healthcare costs for dental care, medicine, physiotherapy and spectacles, etc. of tive working environment for our up to � 200 annually, plus 80% of the cost of medical treatment at private clinics. employees and constantly seek to improve working conditions. Room for improvement in the physical working environment We will recognise each other’s There is nonetheless room for improvement in the physical working conditions at severdifferences and qualifications, al of our production sites. At Litspin, the problem of great temperature variations in proand will speak to and about each duction facilities, according to the weather conditions, has not yet been fully resolved. other with respect. Bullying will In the summer, the temperature can be very high, affecting employees’ physical wellnot be tolerated. We will work for being. The building’s layout makes it complicated to create better ventilation, but techniinclusion and health-promoting cal studies have shown that it is possible to lower the temperature by adding moisture. activities. However, this requires better operation and maintenance of the production equipment. A Danish technician has visited Litspin and given assistance and guidance on how to optimise maintenance of the equipment. 22 Rawline Scala – egetæpper Staff attrition can also be a challenge for the industry. So far, we have seen how many production employees do not require internal job rotation at the workplace, even though WALK THE TALK this can help to reduce the adverse physical effects that may arise from repetitive and • Towards 2022, all brands in the monotonous work. At Hammer Carpets, compulsory job rotation was introduced in Group must launch initiatives 2018/2019, in a department with a lot of repetitive and monotonous work. egetæpper for a better physical and psyis developing a 2 x 5-minute training programme, using elastic resistance bands, for chosocial working environment. employees with repetitive and monotonous work, and sedentary tasks, so that they can • Towards 2022, all brands in the still use some of the body’s large muscle groups in the course of the day. This is a very Group must work to reduce the positive achievement that we hope will win ground at all of the Group’s production sites. number of accidents and injuries by adopting better safety Greater focus on safety measures. Since 2015, egetæpper in Herning and in Gram have been working to create a new safety culture, with the goal of zero accidents leading to absence, by no later than 2020. A lot of progress has been made, but we have not achieved the goal yet. Unfortunately, accidents do still occur, even though more safety equipment has been purchased, more first-responders have been trained, and a corps of talented safety ambassadors has been created. In most cases, the accident concerns an “error 40” situation. This is a popular expression for cases where the error takes place 40 cm away from the equipment, i.e. is caused by the user. We have to admit that the toughest aspect of this mission is to change employees’ mindset, so that they always put safety first. In order to boost these efforts, this year egetæpper joined Vision Zero, which is a global community of companies working to improve safety, health and well-being. We can generally see good progress in the safety area throughout the Group. At most production sites, safety-improvement initiatives were introduced during the year, particularly in relation to truck driving, where a number of hazardous situations have occurred. Reversing lights and reversing audio signals on trucks, ceiling mirrors and marking-out safe traffic routes have been introduced at several of our production sites. It is positive to see that several sites now have an organisation in place that can take effective action in response to any safety risks that are identified. This is also in harmony with our objective that, up to 2022, all brands must endeavour to reduce the number of injuries and accidents. 23 ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS AND CLIMATE IMPACTS Environmental conditions and climate impacts are an important focus area for the ege Group. As a carpet manufacturer, we have significant consumption of materials and create both waste and emissions. We wish to handle this as sustainably as possible. This makes environmental management work a key factor, and good environmental initiatives are underway throughout the Group. Excerpt from the ege Group’s CSR policy Through focused activities and by Environmental certification is the new standard for the ege Group setting environmental goals, we We are proud that four out of six production sites already hold ISO 14001 environmental will work to prevent and reduce certification, and the fifth certification is now on its way. Carpet Concept, which has prethe environmental impact of our viously held environmental certification, has decided to resume its ISO 14001 work, to production activities and the use bring it up to the same level as most other production sites in the Group. It takes a lot of and disposal of our products, and effort to achieve environmental certification. The company must develop policies and continue to improve our efforts procedures to ensure that environmental conditions are managed in the best possible from an environmental perspecway, and targets must be set for the improvement and development of these efforts. At tive. the same time, the entire company is under scrutiny concerning everything from chemical and wastewater management to energy consumption and emergency management We will work to increase reuse in the event of accidental discharges. and recycling, as well as to reduce waste. This applies at the process ISO 14001 certifications within the ege Group: level, in the products and in the egetæpper Herning: 1996 company in general. […] egetæpper Gram: 1996 Litspin: 2014 We will do targeted work to imHammer Carpets: 2017 prove our energy performance Carpet Concept: Expected in 2019 by focusing on optimised energy use, reduced energy consumption and renewable energy options. We will reduce the company's 100% renewable energy CO2 emissions and thus reduce We have a longstanding decision to invest massively in renewable energy. At egetæpour impact on the climate. […] per in Herning and in Gram, our goal since 2013 has been that, by 2020, 100% of our electricity consumption must be covered by renewable energy from offshore wind turbines. We already achieved that goal last year and we have now committed ourselves to continue the investments towards 2024. As a new aspect, the other Danish brands have chosen to follow suit. At Hammer Carpets, 100% of electricity consumption has been covered by renewable energy as from 1 January 2019, while Bentzon Carpets commenced on 1 April 2019. At Litspin, we have also invested in this area. Since June 2018, we have purchased green energy originating from rivers, wind turbines and solar power systems. This proves the Group’s overall willingness to actively support UN Sustainable Development Goal no. 7. Carpet Concept’s ordinary energy supply is based partly on renewable energy, but as yet no further investment has been made in this area. The Group’s investments in renewable energy in 2018/2019: egetæpper Herning and Gram: 9,689 MWh Hammer Carpets: 200 MWh Bentzon Carpets: 19 MWh Litspin: 1,717 MWh Carpet Concept: 413 MWh (part of the ordinary energy supply) 24 MIX Geometric – Carpet Concept 25 Bio-natural gas is replacing natural gas Bio-natural gas is another form of renewable energy in which we are interested. The decision was already taken last year for egetæpper in Herning and in Gram to switch to bio-natural gas, but unfortunately only limited quantities are available in Denmark. As from 2019, we have therefore begun to invest in the area by replacing 25% of our natural gas consumption with bio-natural gas. As for renewable energy from offshore wind turbines, the investments are taking place via Ørsted, with which we have a climate partnership. Our investment in the area means that there are now enough funds available to establish one more bio-natural gas plant in Denmark. In this way, our investment is helping to ensure access to additional renewable energy sources around the world. According to the plan, in 2022 we will have replaced 50% of egetæpper in Herning and in Gram’s natural gas consumption with bio-natural gas. 53% reduction of CO2 emissions Since 2013, we have been dedicated to reduce our CO2 emissions from natural gas, oil, LPG, passenger transport, electricity and district heating by 50% compared to 2007. We are very pleased to note that this year we surpassed this target. This is due in particular to our large-scale investments in renewable energy, but also in a large number of energy-saving projects undertaken by the Group during the past five years. There is a lot of work and significant investment behind this success story, and this work will be continued in the years to come. We have also tackled the issue of CO2 emissions in connection with the transport of our carpets around the world. In recent years, we have seen an explosive increase in emissions, primarily because we send carpets out into more markets than before. Freightrelated CO2 emissions currently account for 45% of our total emissions in the Group. In the first instance, we are investigating opportunities to reduce emissions by engaging in dialogue with haulage contractors, obtaining information on current emissions and imposing stricter requirements on transport companies. Then we will need to consider where measures can be implemented. Transport of carpets is part of our core business and it will not be possible to change this. But hopefully we can find ways to reduce emissions without undermining our own business. Biodiversity on the agenda It is part of the ege Group's strategy to grow in the carpet tile market, and this is going 26 so well that in 2018/2019 we built a brand new 10,000 m2 carpet tile factory at egetæpper’s production facility in Herning. In conjunction with the new factory’s establishment, WALK THE TALK a large area of vegetation was cleared. Now that the construction work has been com• By 2020 at the latest, we must pleted, in cooperation with Sagro we are establishing a recreational area behind the have investigated opportunities new factory, for which the main focus is to strengthen the area’s biodiversity. The proto reduce CO2 emissions from ject, which is supported by green organisations, agriculture and municipalities, is called freight transport. Fauna Strips (wildlife habitat strips), and will ensure that 4,000 m2 of land is sown with ten • Towards 2022, all brands in the different flower species that can attract bees, insects and game to the area. In addition, Group must work to increase re2,500 m2 of land will be planted with berry and flower bushes that are part of the area’s use and recycling. indigenous flora. • Towards 2022, all brands in the Group must investigate opporThe ege Group already owns extensive green areas and forests adjacent to several of tunities within renewable enthe Group's production sites and properties, but this is the first major project that inergy, in order to achieve investcludes biodiversity enhancement as a significant factor. There is no doubt that more of ment in relevant projects. such initiatives will be needed in the future. • Towards 2022, all brands in the Group must work to minimise the waste of surplus materials. • Towards 2022, all brands in the Group must work to phase out The carpet waste dilemma chemicals and hazardous mateIn last year's CSR Report we discussed the lack of solutions to the problem of carpet rials, wherever possible. waste. Despite the longstanding wish to establish a well-functioning take-back scheme for used carpets, and the good initiatives launched by the ege Group in this area, not enough progress is being made. We can now see that more operators are beginning to address this issue. The EU has focus on ensuring that by 2025 at the latest, carpets are collected separately from other waste, so that they can be included in circular business models. More and more customers are beginning to require solutions in this area, and in several countries companies are appearing that are keen to work with various types of textile waste. We are thus beginning to see a willingness to solve the problem, but have not yet seen any real solutions that can work in the carpet industry. Within the ege Group, in 2018/2019 we therefore set up a sustainability group, which includes the Group’s top-level management, to ensure greater focus on and momentum regarding the issue of what we should do with carpet waste. The overall objective is a circular economy. How can we ensure that our carpets do not end up as waste after use, but instead can be used as valuable materials in new products? It will be exciting to see whether the Group's work can lead to better solutions than those we have seen so far. There is no doubt, however, that we cannot shoulder this task alone in the ege Group. The entire sector must be involved, and political initiatives to support this work are necessary. 27 #SUSTAINABLESTORIES: WHERE IS THE POLITICAL SUPPORT? In the ege Group, we take climate issues seriously. Every year It is unfortunate that companies’ sustainability and climate inisince 2010, we have compiled our CO2 emissions and published tiatives are not always adequately supported by policy makers. them in green accounts. The aim has been to reduce our CO2 We have also described this problem on previous occasions. emissions from natural gas, oil, LPG, passenger transport, elecOne example is how we, like many other companies, wished tricity and district heating by 50% compared to our emissions in to recirculate our surplus heat instead of discharging it via the 2007. This year, we achieved our goal – and a little more! smokestack. Even though we have had the opportunity and the resolve to recirculate the surplus heat from production at Some of our CO2 emissions originate from transporting carpets egetæpper in Herning and in Gram for more than 30 years, we around the world by ship, lorry or plane. We have always used did not achieve a financially viable agreement until 2017. This is Klimakompasset.dk (Climate Compass) to calculate emissions not a question of making a profit from this, but rather that we from freight transport. This is an IT tool under the auspices of should not be out of pocket as a consequence. We could have the Confederation of Danish Industry and the Danish Business reduced CO2 emissions significantly if we had been able to start Authority. Unfortunately, this year it has been confirmed that the recirculating surplus heat as district heating in our local areas at Climate Compass has not been updated for a number of years. an earlier stage. This means that the factors underlying the calculations of CO2 emissions are not correct. The factors change each year, as It is disappointing that sometimes it is hard to put theory into transport solutions become greener. practice when it comes to political initiatives that can increase the incentives for companies to focus on sustainability and cliIt is problematic that a tool launched as a political measure mate impacts. Even though we as a company would like to take and that is still used by many companies, is not kept up-toon our share of the responsibility, we cannot achieve this alone. date. It is also critical that no information on this is provided Political initiatives and incentives need to be put on the table if at Klimakompasset.dk. How can we, as a company, report on we in Denmark are to succeed in achieving the UN Sustainable a credible basis when the tools that policy makers provide are Development Goals. not updated? 28 Essentials – Highline Express Collection – egetæpper 29 CONSUMER ISSUES Sustainability has long been on the agenda of the ege Group. Now it has also become part of the ordinary consumer's agenda. This makes it important that we as a company are ambitious in this area, so that we can guide consumers to make sustainable choices. We do this, among other things, by ensuring full transparency about our products. High quality with ISO 9001 Excerpt from the ege Group’s CSR Quality is a core value of the ege Group. We consider high quality to be a prerequisite for policy our success. High quality also contributes to longer durability and thereby greater susBy focusing on sound materitainability. This makes it important for us that all of our production sites hold ISO 9001 als and ingredients, we will proquality certification. Achieving quality certification requires a lot of effort. The company mote a safe and healthy indoor has to develop policies and procedures to ensure the best quality at all times, and targets climate in the buildings in which must be set for the improvement and development of these measures. Every process our products are used, thereby in the company is scrutinised carefully. Risk analyses and stakeholder analyses must be ensuring the health and safety of performed, and everything must be described and documented in a shared manageour end-users. ment system with which employees are familiar and understand. We are pleased that three out of six production sites have held ISO 9001 certification for a number of years We will promote sustainable conand that the remaining three are now working on achieving this. sumption by means of supplier management, labelling schemes ISO 9001 certification of the ege Group: and certification, and via product egetæpper Herning: 1992 information and product declaegetæpper Gram: 1992 rations describing our products’ Litspin: 2016 impact on the environment in Carpet Concept: Expected in 2019 connection with the fitting, use Hammer Carpets: Expected in 2020 and disposal of these products. Bentzon Carpets: Expected in 2020 We will also promote sustainable consumption through the development of Cradle to Cradle products in parts of the ege Group. All-in for Cradle to Cradle In cooperation with Vugge til Vugge Denmark, for a number of years we have been working to achieve Cradle to Cradle certification of a large number of egetæpper’s products for the contract market. Cradle to Cradle is one of the most difficult product certifications to achieve. The aim of Cradle to Cradle is to manufacture products that fulfil stringent requirements in five different categories. Material Health: Products which exclusively comprise materials that can be part of a healthy life cycle, without being to the detriment of people and the environment. Material Reutilisation: The products are designed to be part of a cycle, so that they never become waste. Renewable Energy: The company must strive for CO2 neutrality and 100% renewable energy. Water Stewardship: Process wastewater must be so clean that in principle it could be drinking water. Social Fairness: The company is assessed for compliance with internationally recognised social responsibility standards. 30 Colortec Accent – Hammer Carpets Last year, we adopted an ambitious Cradle to Cradle strategy at egetæpper that will help us to achieve 100% compliance with the certification requirements. This year, we WALK THE TALK have upgraded that decision by setting a new and highly ambitious target: by the end • Implement the Cradle to Cradle of 2019, all of egetæpper’s contract products must be Cradle to Cradle certified. We principles throughout the comalready have 50 Cradle to Cradle certified products, but our ambitious new target is for pany, including the opportunity an additional around 50 products to be certified by the end of the year. This decision to recirculate all materials in a will create full transparency for our customers. At egetæpper, Cradle to Cradle is not an closed cycle, reuse of carpet option: it is the standard. waste in new ways, and ownership of the concept among Carpet Concept has now also adopted the Cradle to Cradle programme, and this year relevant employees. The target achieved Cradle to Cradle certification for the first six products. It is wonderful to see is 100% compliance with all of how the Cradle to Cradle approach is being adopted by more of the Group’s brands. the Cradle to Cradle requireThis is fully in line with our vision of global leadership within sustainable flooring soluments. tions, and emphasises our commitment to Sustainable Development Goal no. 12 concerning responsible production and consumption. Full transparency with Indoor Air Comfort Gold For a carpet manufacturer, the indoor climate is a natural and important area with which to engage. We are therefore proud that all of the ege Group’s contract carpets carry the Eurofins Indoor Air Comfort Gold certificate. A product with the Indoor Air Comfort Gold certificate fulfils all of the European indoor climate requirements, besides most of the voluntary labelling schemes concerning VOC emissions. This is the most ambitious label for emissions in Europe. The fact that all of our contract products carry this label ensures full transparency for customers. A good indoor climate is not an option when the carpet comes from the ege Group: it is the standard. 31 #SUSTAINABLESTORIES: 53% LOWER CO2 EMISSIONS Just six years ago, we decided that we would halve our CO2 is channelled into the district heating system or used as space emissions by 2020. Our starting point was the level of emissions heating in our own buildings. At Gram, we have established the in 2007, which was set as the base year with which we always collection and reuse of the overflow of hot water at 40°C applied compare the current level of emissions. Every year since then, to the carpets before they are led into the furnace. This reduces we have implemented energy-saving projects at egetæpper’s the water heating requirement. production sites in Herning and Gram. We have also invested in renewable energy in order to reduce emissions. We have also installed dampers on ventilation hoods, so that they are closed when not in operation, and installed energy-efficient This strong focus has yielded results. This year – one year ahead window panes. At egetæpper Herning, we have established air of our goal – we surpassed the target to reduce emissions by blankets in front of a gate in order to conserve heat and we have 50% compared to emissions in 2007. Thanks to our Climate changed all lighting to LED sources. Partnership with Ørsted, we have continuously identified and mapped opportunities to save energy and thereby reduce our Most of the energy-saving projects have a short repayment time CO2 emissions. of three to five years, so that hopefully concrete economic savings will soon be apparent. We have also significantly reduced We have conducted a major heat recovery project whereby the our climate footprint. This is a win-win story of which we are insurplus heat from egetæpper’s production in Herning and Gram credibly pleased and proud. 32 egetæpper Herning 33 LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INVOLVEMENT It is important to engage with the local community. We attach great importance to this in the ege Group, where different forms of local cooperation, initiatives and charitable activities take place every year. This contributes to strengthening our position in the local community and attracting new employees. Yet there is still scope for development in this area in several parts of the Group. The Theatre “Svalegangen” and the UN Sustainable Development Goals Excerpt from the ege Group’s CSR At egetæpper, in the course of the year we engaged in exciting collaboration and partpolicy nership with the Theatre “Svalegangen” in Aarhus (Denmark) concerning the SustainWe will become involved in the able Development Goals. Towards 2023, we will take various opportunities to contribute local communities where our to disseminating knowledge of the SDG’s through artistic events, theatrical performancproducts are manufactured and es, knowledge and presentations directed at the general public. This is a whole new where we have subsidiaries. We world to step into, and the task of spreading the word using artistic media, rather than will seek to work with relevant orcertificates and brochures, is an exciting challenge. We hope that this cooperation can ganisations and public authorities lead more Danes to take an active stance on how they can work with the SDG’s themon local business development, selves, since there is no doubt that if we are to achieve the goals by 2030, everyone has sustainable initiatives, job creation a contribution to make. and skills development, as well as the development of modern techTrainees in short supply nologies. Since 2015, we have been working to increase the number of trainees and apprentices at egetæpper. We wish to help local young people to achieve higher education, also because this will help to ensure that a skilled workforce is also available to the company in the future. The aim is to increase the number of traineeships and apprenticeships by 70%, which is equivalent to 17 trainees and apprentices. Unfortunately, we are still a long way from achieving this goal. Over the years, it has proved difficult to attract enough qualified applicants for the positions advertised, and it has also been difficult to create enough trainee positions with actual qualifying content. In 2018/2019, four new trainee positions were created, while three trainee positions have not been reallocated. We currently have 11 trainees and apprentices in egetæpper and the ege Group, as well as one in Carpet Concept and one in egetæpper’s German subsidiary, ege GmbH. We are continuing our search for young talent. A new initiative is the production of information videos on the training opportunities available. The information videos are published on a separate new trainee site on egetæpper’s website. Partnership with Herning Vand? egetæpper in Herning and Herning Vand (municipal waterworks) are investigating op34 Epoca Classic – egetæpper portunities to partner with each other and Ørsted. We are considering whether we can help each other to improve in some areas, or to develop initiatives that can benefit the local community. Good progress is being made, and in all three companies there is a great wish to make a positive difference. The Group’s charitable initiatives Even though we do not regard charitable donations as part of our core objective, there are many good, independent initiatives in different areas of the Group. In 2018, for the fourth time, egetæpper invited over 200 sick children to an intimate concert in Herning featuring major Danish and international names. The children had the opportunity to meet their idols, take a selfie with them, and hear live music together with their friends and family. In the UK, we continue to hold diving events whereby we invite customers and business partners with a diving certificate to dive and collect waste from the seabed. In this way, we tell the story of how many of our products contain plastic waste such as used fishing nets and plastic bottles. As a new initiative, egetæpper’s UK subsidiary has engaged in CRISIS Appeal, which is an organisation that helps the homeless to find a way out of their homelessness. The donations from the office in the UK were used to offer 17 homeless people a Christmas dinner, a gift, a health check-up and the opportunity to escape from homelessness for a year. In Sweden, we donated money to underprivileged families during the Christmas season. We also support a number of charitable purposes through the Ege Foundation, which was founded by Mads Eg Damgaard. In 2018/2019, the Ege Foundation among other things supported an event programme at the HEART art museum, to support community activities centred on art. The Foundation has also supported Den Jyske Sangskole, Ikast Swimming Club and the Theatre “Svalegangen”, among others. 35 STORIES FROM THE GROUP egetæpper Herning At egetæpper in Herning we have unfortunately had to give up some of the exciting projects we described last year. Nordic Ecolabelling of carpets, for example, has proved not to be the way forward for us. On the other hand, we are strongly focused on Cradle to Cradle. During 2018/2019, we added eight new products to the group of Cradle to Cradle certified products, bringing the total number to 50. Before the end of 2019, all of our contract products must be Cradle to Cradle certified. We are incredibly proud of our nomination as Workplace of the Year in 3F’s nationwide campaign, even though we ended up with second place in the final awards. On the Herning – 58,000 m2 employee side, we continue to focus strongly on safety. During the year we marked out safe traffic routes in the warehouse, where many trucks are operated. We also installed blue reversing lights on the trucks, so that it is easier to see in which direction they are moving. In 2018/2019, we built a new, 10,000-m2 tile factory behind our existing buildings. The tile factory is built from materials that support a good working environment, with soundabsorbing ceilings, natural daylight, and the automation of a number of processes so as to avoid unnatural twisting and heavy lifting. A large outdoor area was cleared in preparation for the construction work. To support the area’s biodiversity, it has now been sown with wildlife habitat strips and flower and berry bushes. egetæpper’s own Uzin floor adhesive is now Blaue Engel-certified and is delivered in adhesive cans made from 100% recycled materials. We have entered into a new partnership with a company that can take our production off-cuts from carpets for reuse as filling in riding arenas. The carpet off-cuts are mixed into the riding arenas’ sandy surface, thereby improving its structure. The off-cuts are thereby recycled, instead of being incinerated. In the longer term, the intention is to reuse the off-cuts in new products, but this solution is not ready yet. As a new measure, we have invested in the first electric van. It will arrive in the late summer of 2019, when several recharging points will also be installed at egetæpper in Herning. egetæpper Gram At egetæpper in Gram, the year’s big news was the inauguration of the new ege Go2Work production line, where physically or mentally challenged employees who are outside the labour market can work under special conditions to ensure the recycling and reuse of residual yarns and cardboard cones. At the dyeing works, we have reorganised the dyeing process, so that the carpets are dyed in one process, whereas previously they ran though the machine twice. This reduces consumption of dyes, wastewater and energy, while streamlining the workflow and increasing production capacity. In every way, this is a success that we expect to be Gram – 27,000 m2 reflected in next year’s figures. 36 In connection with the relocation of looms between egetæpper Herning and egetæpper Gram, and their erection and commissioning, we saw exceptionally good collaboration between employees across the organisation. As a consequence, we were able to meet the deadlines for all of our orders in connection with commissioning, without compromising on the resting-time rule and the working conditions in general. It is very encouraging to experience employees’ goodwill in such a situation. Safety remains an important focus area, and we still carry out safety walks on a daily basis. This means that employees are starting to think about safety first, which is exactly what we want. Hammer Carpets At Hammer Carpets, we have begun to prepare the implementation of the ISO 9001 quality management system. We have commenced registration to create a data basis for certification, and hope to achieve this certification by 2020. We already hold ISO 14001 certification of our environmental management system and have started to look at various environmental improvement measures. One of the important goals has been to join the Group's Climate Partnership with Ørsted, and we achieved that goal this year. We have entered into a partnership with Ørsted to purchase renewable energy from offshore wind turbines to cover our electricity consumption. Hammer Carpets – 17,900 m2 We have also drawn up targets to recycle more of our waste at Hammer Carpets. We have found a partner ready to buy our used disposable pallets, which in the future will be recycled instead of being incinerated. We are also working to reduce the volumes of surplus materials in production. Thanks to a dedicated effort, we managed to reduce the weight of waste yarn from 50% to 30%. Safety has become a bigger focus area than before, among things based on our work with workplace assessments (APV). We have set up mirrors in production, require visitors to wear yellow vests, and introduced a rule that truck drivers may not use their phones while driving the truck. We also have greater focus on creating good working conditions. During the year, we recruited more staff and introduced compulsory job rotation in the department with the greatest amount of monotonous and repetitive work. Elsewhere in the company, a new structure has been introduced, which has eased the day-to-day workload. We are an inclusive workplace with many employees engaged on special terms. 10% of our production employees are engaged under Section 56 terms. This is a section of the Danish Act on Benefits in the Event of Illness that is aimed to ensure that employees with a chronic illness can maintain their employment. 37 Bentzon Carpets At Bentzon Carpets, we are implementing the ISO 9001 quality management system. We have commenced registration to create a data basis for certification, and processes and documents are being prepared. We have also embarked on environmental improvement measures. Ørsted has undertaken energy screening of our production in order to identify potential areas for improvement. Based on this screening, we have decided to switch to LED lighting throughout the building. This work will commence during 2019. Bentzon Carpets – 7,200 m2 We have also engaged in a partnership with Ørsted to purchase renewable energy to cover our electricity consumption. We are thus following in the steps of the other brands in the Group, with increased focus on this important area. We have moved the production and cutting-out of our residential products to egetæpper’s production facility in Gram, where the backing is placed on the carpets. This eliminates transport between the sites, which is good for the environment. This year, all production employees attended a three-hour fire prevention course, to ensure optimisation of our emergency management plan. We have also tightened our safety measures for truck operation by installing ceiling mirrors and making sure that trucks’ horns are honked as they drive round corners. Employees have been introduced to the new common CSR policy, which covers the entire Group, so that we now all work according to the same guidelines. Carpet Concept At Carpet Concept, we are in the process of implementing both the ISO 9001 quality management system and the ISO 14001 environmental management system. We have previously held both of these certifications, so that now this is primarily a matter of updating procedures and documents. Ørsted has undertaken energy screening of our production in order to identify potential areas for improvement. Based on this screening, proposals have been made for some energy-saving projects that we are now investigating in greater detail. Carpet Concept – 13,800 m2 During the year, we completed the planned switch to LED lighting in two warehouse buildings, and in cooperation with Ørsted we are planning to continue with further replacement. By switching completely to LED, we expect to achieve an overall reduction of our electricity consumption by around 13% per annum. We have embarked on Cradle to Cradle activities and are very proud to have achieved Cradle to Cradle certification of the first six products. We expect more to be added in the future. 38 Fire prevention training sessions have taken place in both production and administration, and a new emergency management plan has been developed and implemented. Going forward, it will include three to four annual fire drills. We have also designated a number of employees to play an active role in fire prevention measures. Every six months we undertake health screening of all of our production employees. This helps to ensure that any problems are discovered in time and that employees are sound and healthy. We also conduct annual workplace risk analyses, in order to prevent hazardous situations from arising. In 2018, on a trial basis, we introduced flexible working hours for office staff. This has been a great success and will be continued in the future. UAB Litspin At Litpsin we are continuing the environmental and quality management activities that have been ongoing for several years. Renewable energy is one of the areas we are investigating. We use power that originates from rivers, wind turbines and solar power systems and are investigating the possibility of investing in solar cells for our own facilities. It is necessary to investigate this type of renewable energy, since it is not possible to invest in natural gas or bio-natural gas in our area. Every five years, our factory is tested for emissions to the surrounding environment. In 2018, the test was performed with fine results. We do not emit more emissions than we Litspin – 17,900 m2 are permitted to, which is positive because, like the rest of the Group, we are focused on how we affect the surrounding world. We would also like to work with waste recycling. Every year, we send 16 tonnes of broken down yarn waste to Belgium, where it is 100% recycled. Metal waste from raw material bales is reused, plastic and cardboard are also recirculated, while carding waste is sent for incineration at CHP stations. On the employee side, this year we completed the first job satisfaction survey. 52 employees were asked about everything from the psychosocial working environment and well-being to work pressure, overtime, health, etc. The results were very positive. Employees expressed great satisfaction with Litspin as a workplace and with the working environment in general. A few problematic areas were identified, and initiatives have been taken. They include a new healthcare insurance scheme that covers healthcare expenses of up to � 200 annually, plus 80% of the cost of medical treatment at private clinics. 39 RESPONSIBILITY IN FIGURES We would like to quantify our CSR work. For this we use a numdevelopment is reliable, even though the figures’ accuracy is unber of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) concerning environcertain. Going forward, we will seek to find a more reliable tool. mental and employee-related conditions. The KPIs are inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative (G4), an international standard The total CO2 reduction for Scope 1 and 2 is 53%. We have therefor reporting reliable data. by achieved the 2020 target of a 50% reduction one year ahead of schedule. The major investments in renewable energy in the Greenhouse gas accounts form of energy from offshore wind turbines and bio-natural gas, We have prepared greenhouse gas accounts for the entire as well as the ongoing energy-saving projects within the Group, Group since 2010. This year, it has unfortunately emerged that are the background for the major reduction. the IT tool used for the calculations in Scope 3 has not been updated for a number of years. This means that we cannot be abOn the other hand, we still see a large increase in CO2 emissions solutely certain that the figures in Scope 3 are correct. Nonethein Scope 3. This is primarily due to the freight transport of our less, we have used the tool once again this year, since we do not carpets around the world. Going forward, we will focus on mapcurrently have an alternative. We also expect that the calculated ping how the Scope 3 emissions can be reduced. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Flights, trains, bus and ferry Ton CO2 Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG Electricity Goods transportation Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) District heating Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) 12.000 10,194 10.000 32% 8.000 6,720 71% 6.000 5,879 5,743 90% 4.000 3,468 2.000 611 287 381 260 418 331 27 6 75 0 Baseyear 2018/2019 Baseyear 2018/2019 Baseyear 2018/2019 Energy savings saving projects are planned for the coming years, such as sevAfter a number of years with many large and small energy-saving eral projects to switch to LED lighting, the replacement of an oil projects in the Group, we have had a quiet year in this area. At pump with an air source heat pump at egetæpper Herning, and Carpet Concept and Litspin, we are switching to LED lighting, the replacement of a compressor at egetæpper Herning’s dyewhich is expected to result in energy savings of 4,200 KWh at ing system, so that in the future more surplus heat can be used Litspin and 3,000 KWh at Carpet Concept. A number of energyas district heating in the local area. 5 See Annex 2 for further details of the greenhouse gas accounts 40 A long way to the target for recirculated water egetæpper Gram’s water consumption also increased, but in At egetæpper in Herning and in Gram, we have ambitious wathis case the reason is related to increased production and also ter recirculation targets. At both sites, the volume of recirculated to how last year’s consumption was unusually low, while this water declined, but in Gram, the total ratio of recirculated water year's consumption is closer to the average level. nonetheless increased from 42% last year to 44% this year. Good progress is thus still being made towards the target of 50% reProduction inputs and outputs circulated water in Gram. One of the reasons for the declining Each year, we compile our total consumption figures per provolume of recirculated water in Gram is that we produced more duction site within the Group. In our view, this has been the most purified water than we could use. valid compilation method. For egetæpper Herning, the ratio of recirculated water fell from As the Group has grown, however, we have begun to undertake 63% last year to 48% this year, because the purification plant processes for each other. Previously, some of the Group’s brands was out of service for a period due to faults. This means that assigned such tasks as backing application or dyeing to external we are a long way from the target of 70%. We also had fewer partners, whereas now we assist each other, across the brands. colour changes and scaled down the pre-treatment of carpets at In this way, we can use of our own resources within the Group, egetæpper Herning. This has reduced the total water consumpinstead of using external parties. tion for the process from which the water can be purified. This is positive for the environment, even though it means that we are The table below illustrates which processes are undertaken in purifying less water. the different parts of the Group. Increasing water consumption is due to regrettable Based on our increased internal use of each other’s processes, circumstances this year we can see that the consumption figures for egetæpper At egetæpper Herning, a number of regrettable circumstances Herning and egetæpper Gram in particular have increased by led to an extraordinary increase in water consumption. These more than can be explained by the number of m2 produced. This circumstances are an overflow valve that was not closed, an is apparent, for example, from the figures for the consumption of extended testing process for a new filter that proved to have a materials for carpet production, which for Gram shows a dispropoor utilisation rate, and a large increase in water consumption portionate increase. Going forward, we are working on developfor sanitary installations. Going forward, all of these factors will ing a compilation method that takes these factors into account. be followed up. This year, we also had to undertake repeated in-depth cleaning of the dyeing system, in order to ensure the We can also note that in a few cases incorrect figures were rehigh quality of the carpet dyeing process. Overall, this led to an ported last year, due to the lack of detailed information concernincrease in water consumption equivalent to 3 litres more per m2 ing the data basis. As a consequence, some of the figures are of carpet than in previous years. Next year, water consumption is very different this year, when these misunderstandings were expected to be back at a normal level. corrected. egetæpper egetæpper Hammer Bentzon Carpet Herning Gram Carpets Carpets Concept Tufting/weaving √ √ √ √ √ Dyeing √ √ Backing application √ √ √ Cutting into tiles √ (√) 41 INPUTS AND OUTPUTS See the end-notes for an explanation of the figures that differ significantly in the tables on the next pages. Inputs and outputs egetæpper Herning egetæpper Gram Bentzon Carpets 2017/2018 2018/2019 2017/2018 2018/2019 2017/2018 2018/2019 Size of the company m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 Size of the company’s site 360,000 360,000 72,000 72,000 10,000 10,000 ... of which built-up area 45,500 58,062 24,000 27,000 7,234 7,234 Production m2 carpets m2 carpets m2 carpets m2 carpets m2 carpets m2 carpets 4,273,974 4,436,256 1,875,616 2,078,240 1,722,569 1,705,971 Energy consumption KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh Electricity consumption 6,518,021 7,112,969 2,498,758 2,570,305 405,512i 386,747 ... of which renewable energy 6,518,021 7,112,969 2,498,758 2,570,305 0 19,000 Natural gas 20,987,494 21,281,579 8,643,283 8,752,183 351,641 280,875ii ... of which bio-natural gas 0 5,320,395 0 70,259 0 0 District heating 0 0 0 0 0 0 Water consumption m3 m3 m3 m3 m3 m3 67,600 79,625iii 21,003 24,109 146 150 Water recovery m3 m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ 10,414 7,440 9,277 7,717 0 0 Recycled raw material Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg In the product 2,359,890 2,539,275 233,290 261,020 3,825 5,415 Consumption of materials Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg For carpet production 13,684,647 14,388,847 4,810,970 6,043,672 1,094,003 1,313,598iv …of which renewable raw materials 563,150 654,910 7,110 14,037v 162,580 125,365 Packaging in total 679,846 751,549 198,754 208,061 48,044 26,060vi … of which renewable packaging 412,227 491,193 1,244 264vii 0 18,078 Operation and maintenance in total 99,742 109,394 29,801 30,144 365 638 Waste Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Recycling 114,925 99,713viii 154,014 134,583 88,860 45,500ix Thermal recovery 1,496,815 1,478,180 392,560 528,381 22,284 60,038x Land fill 35,680 4,360xi 0 0 0 10,200xii Destruction, hazardous waste 25,213 18,070 1,795 400 0 638xiii Discharge m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ Wastewater 56,027 64,152 14,861 17,428 146 150 42 Inputs and outputs Hammer Carpets Carpet Concept UAB Litspin 2017/2018 2018/2019 2017/2018 2018/2019 2017/2018 2018/2019 Size of the company m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 Size of the company’s site 48,029 48,029 49,632 49,632 44,687 44,687 ... of which built-up area 17,891 17,891 13,840 13,840 17,971 17,971 Production m2 carpets m2 carpets m2 carpets m2 carpets Kg/yarn Kg/yarn 973,744 914,440 306,000 306,443 841,538 882,258 Energy consumption KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh Electricity consumption 598,224 604,583 659,952 714,633 1,832,346 1,889,087 ... of which renewable energy 0 200,000 0 413,058 0 1,717,035 Natural gas 0 0 3,079,582 2,602,091 0 0 ... of which bio-natural gas 0 0 0 0 0 0 District heating 696,000 597,000 0 0 0 0 Water consumption m3 m3 m3 m3 m3 m3 442 473 650 681 845 1,248xiv Water recovery m3 m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recycled raw material Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg In the product 132,819 250,628xv 94,696 87,825 4,000 27,513xvi Consumption of materials Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg For carpet production 2,124,748 1,987,568 772,727 811,283 910,869 971,175 …of which renewable raw materials 882,617 864,535 15,510xvii 220 888,098xviii 784,162 Packaging in total 84,415 105,704xix 24,175 23,331 18,671 16,202 … of which renewable packaging 0 0 17,336 14,733 7,282 4,799 Operation and maintenance in total 99,580 93,980 1,200 800xx 240 504xxi Waste Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Recycling 18,120 22,129 30,710 7,114xxii 4,000 16,334xxiii Thermal recovery 266,650 242,125 100,010 125,000 17,720 33,880xxiv Land fill 14,886 6,840xxv 0 11,200xxvi 0 0 Destruction, hazardous waste 773 0xxvii 660 0 169 1,478xxviii Discharge m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ Wastewater 442 473 650 681 296 609xxix 43 Workforce The workforce is compiled as the number of full-time employees in egetæpper’s international sales companies in the workforce (FTE). This means that part-time positions are combined into fulloverviews. Employees of ege Group are included under egetæptime positions. This is why there is a decimal place in the figures. per Herning. This year, for the first time, we have specified the employees Men Women New employees Leaving employees egetæpper Herning 192.2 96.5 34 37 egetæpper Gram 53 15.1 19 10 egetæpper’s international sales 56 47.1 12 24 companies Bentzon Carpets 14 18 3 2 Hammer Carpets 41 41.6 11 13 Carpet Concept 60 37 7 6 UAB Litspin 22 28 5 7 Total 438.2 283.3 91 99 Employee breakdown Managers* Salaried employees Hourly-paid employees Men Women Men Women Men Women egetæpper Herning 28 10 60.7 73.6 131.5 22.9 egetæpper Gram 9 4 9 7.3 44 7.8 egetæpper’s international sales 12 7 56 47.1 0 0 companies Bentzon Carpets 6 1 6 6 8 12 Hammer Carpets 5 1 9 15.6 32 26 Carpet Concept 13 3.8 34 23.5 26 13.5 UAB Litspin 3 3 3 3 19 25 Total 76 29.8 177.7 176.1 260.5 107.2 *Managers are included in the statistics twice, since they are also included in the salaried-employee or hourly-paid employee groups. Absence due to illness as a percentage of the labour force* Absence due to illness is relatively high in the Group, apart from the high absence rate is primarily due to non-work-related condiegetæpper Herning, egetæpper Gram and Litspin. It should be tions. This among other things concerns life-threatening illness, noted, however, that for Bentzon Carpets and Hammer Carpets operations and organ donation. Men Women Salaried employees Hourly-paid employees egetæpper Herning 2.6% 3.4% 2.6% 3.1% egetæpper Gram 2.0% 2.0% 1.0% 2.0% Bentzon Carpets 12.0% 9.0% 1.0% 15.2% Hammer Carpets 4.3% 6.8% 1.6% 7.6% Carpet Concept 4.6% 5.4% 2.6% 9.0% UAB Litspin 1.0% 3.0% 0.0% 4.0% *The figures for absence due to illness do not include long-term illness for periods longer than 30 days. Employees from international sales companies are not included in the figures as we do not currently have an internationally comprehensive system to register absence due to illness in subsidiaries. 44 Occupational injuries and accidents* Overall, the number of notified occupational injuries and acciGoing forward, it is therefore important to focus even more on dents leading to absence has almost doubled since last year. this area throughout the Group. Notified occupational injuries and accidents leading to absence Lost hours Deaths egetæpper Herning 6 479 0 egetæpper Gram 4 122 0 Bentzon Carpets 1 239 0 Hammer Carpets 4 534 0 Carpet Concept 3 592 0 UAB Litspin 3 656 0 Total 21 2,622 0 *Employees from international sales companies are not included in the figures as we do not currently have an internationally comprehensive system to register occupational injuries in subsidiaries. Compliance with legislation Results Non-compliance with legislation 0 Non-compliance with environmental legislation 0 Non-compliance with product health and safety legislation 0 Non-compliance with labelling scheme legislation 0 Non-compliance with marketing legislation 0 Grievances due to failure to respect human rights 0 Grievances due to non-compliance with environmental legislation 0 Documented incidents of corruption and bribery 0 Documented incidents of discrimination 0 Documented incidents of child labour 0 Documented incidents of forced labour 0 Documented incidents of lack of respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 0 45 ANNEX 1: WHAT IS SECTION 99A? On 1 January 2016, Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statetranslated into action, and any systems and procedures that ments Act entered into force for the ege Group. According to the support it. Details must also be given of the due diligence Act, large companies must supplement the management report processes applied. with a CSR report. As a minimum, the report must include the • Details must be given of the most significant risks relating to following: the company's business activities and of how the company • A brief description of the company's business model and handles the risks in question. The information must be given the connection between the business model and CSR. for each policy area. • Information must be provided on the company's CSR poli• Information must be given on the company's results as a cies. As a minimum, information must be given on policies consequence of working with CSR, as well as any expectafor the environment and climate, social conditions and emtions of the work in the future in each policy area. ployee relations, respect for human rights, and anti-corrup• Reporting in accordance with Section 99a must be retion and bribery. For each area, it must be stated whether viewed by the auditor, to ensure that the company fulfils the the company has a policy and what it comprises. requirements. • For each policy area, it must be stated how the policy is ANNEX 2: CALCULATION BASIS FOR DATA SOURCES AND CO2 CALCULATION Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions This means that the greenhouse gas accounts still give a true Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or conpicture in relation to the base year. ege Group’s base year is an trolled by ege Group. These calculations also include fuel extracaverage of the 2006/2007 and 2007/2008 financial years. tion. The greenhouse gas accounts are based on a number of data Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions sources that make it possible to convert our energy consumpIndirect emissions are defined as the emissions originating from tion to CO2 emissions. The CEMAsys calculation programme is purchased electricity, heat and steam. These calculations also generally applied. CEMAsys complies with international standinclude fuel extraction. ards and meets the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For electricity, the Energinet.dk declaration and the 125% Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions method are used to calculate Danish emissions. The district Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions comprise a wide range heating plants’ own emissions are used to calculate egetæpof activities that can be included. In ege Group, we include transper's district heating emissions. Where possible, factors for the port in leased vehicles, travel and freight transport. individual countries are applied. Transport by air and rail is divided into national and international transport. With regard to The result for the year in the greenhouse gas accounts is always CO2 emissions for the air travel ordered via egetæpper Herning compared with a base year, to show the development over time. and by Hammer Carpets, environmental accounts are received If there is extraordinary activity during the financial year, e.g. due from Via Egencia. To calculate goods transport for Herning and to the expansion of production, the emissions related to the exGram, we have applied the Climate Compass, which is an Intertraordinary activities are accounted for separately and added net-based calculation model developed by the Confederation of to or deducted from the base year's greenhouse gas accounts. Danish Industry, the Danish Business Authority and FORCE. 46 ENDNOTES TO THE TABLE ON PAGE 42-43: i Last year, an incorrect figure, that was significantly lower, was stated here. The figure has now been corrected. ii The hot summer in 2018 gave a major natural gas saving for Bentzon Carpets. iii At egetæpper Herning, a number of regrettable circumstances led to increased water consumption. See page 41 for details. iv At Bentzon Carpets, more products have been produced with heavier materials than last year. Therefore, more kg of materials were used this year, even though overall production was reduced by a few m2. v At egetæpper Gram, the volume of renewable raw materials doubled from 7,110 kg to 14,037 kg, due to an increased order intake for wool products. Wool is considered to be a renewable raw material. vi Some of the products from Bentzon Carpets are backed elsewhere in the Group, so that the products are also packaged elsewhere. The packaging consumption of Bentzon Carpets has therefore almost been halved. vii The purchase of renewable packaging by egetæpper Gram has been moved to egetæpper Herning’s procurement department. A large decline is therefore seen under egetæpper Gram. viii At egetæpper Herning, our production has become more efficient, so that less waste is produced. ix The figure for recycling at Bentzon Carpets has been halved compared to last year. This is because some of the waste registered under recycling last year has now been moved to thermal recovery. x The figure for thermal recovery at Bentzon Carpets has increased significantly because, for the first time this year, it includes pallets that have been turned into woodchips for incineration, as well as scrapped carpet rolls. xi The amount of waste sent to landfills is significantly lower for egetæpper Herning compared to last year. This is because backing waste was previously sent to landfills because the incineration plants could not handle the backing rolls. Now we cut up the backing rolls, so that the waste can be sent for thermal recovery instead. xii At Bentzon Carpets we have replaced some roofing tiles that contained asbestos. These have been sent to landfills. xiii At Bentzon Carpets, waste oil is collected over time and emptied as needed. The waste oil container was emptied this year. xiv At Litspin, water is used to cool down the buildings in the summer. Since 2018 was a very hot year, water consumption increased. Furthermore, Litspin produced more woollen yarn from the UK, which requires slightly more water in the production process. xv At Hammer Carpets we recycled almost twice as much raw material as last year. This is because production increased by almost 100,000 m2, and also because regenerated fibres now account for 80% of the material, compared to 50% last year. xvi Some of the yarn residues that were previously sent for external recycling can now be used internally in our own production at Litspin. xvii Last year, Carpet Concepts included Econyl yarn here, as it is a regenerated material. However, this is not the same as a renewable material. This misunderstanding has now been corrected. xviii Last year, Litspin included nylon here. This error has now been corrected. xix The increase in packaging is because Hammer Carpets has seen a significant increase within the pre-cut service concept, whereby we cut out carpets in special dimensions for cabins in the marine segment. As one carpet tube per cut-out is used, this has increased packaging consumption. xx Last year, we made adjustments to the weaving mill at Carpet Concept, which led to increased oil consumption. The figure is therefore significantly lower this year. xxi The replacement of oil in an entire process at Litspin means that in future approximately 200 extra litres of oil will be used annually. xxii Due to a switch to other carpet types, we have not been able to recover as much in Carpet Concept as in previous years. xxiii This year, a larger proportion of our yarn waste at Litspin has been sent for recirculation in Belgium because we could not recycle it ourselves. xxiv In the hope of finding a buyer for yarn residues, over time we have accumulated a stock of this at Litspin. Since it has not been possible to find a buyer, the yarn residues have now been sent for thermal recovery instead. xxv In 2017/2018, we undertook cleaning up, so that the figure for landfill and hazardous waste was significantly higher than normal in this year. In 2018/2019, the volume is therefore considerably lower. xxvi Due to new restrictions, we may no longer supply wastewater from the coating line at Carpet Concept to a wastewater treatment plant, and therefore it is sent to a landfill instead. xxvii Hazardous waste is collected in a relatively large container, which we have not managed to fill this year. No hazardous waste has therefore been delivered from Hammer Carpets. The hazardous waste container was last emptied in 2017/2018. xxviii We store chemical residues in a one-tonne tank at Litspin and only empty it when it is full. The tank was emptied in 2018/2019, which has led to a great increase in hazardous waste. xxix This year, Litspin produced more woollen yarn from the UK, which requires slightly more water in the production process. This also results in more wastewater. ege inhouse 0719 – 8054026 – 1st edition EG E TÆPPER A /S · I N D U STRIVE J N O R D 25 · D K-740 0 H ERN I N G · TEL : +4 5 97 11 88 11 · E-MAI L : EG E@ EG E. D K · W W W. EG ECAR PE TS .C O M
