Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Non-Financial Reporting Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 P.5  Chairperson’s Letter P.6  Introduction 1 P.7  Company Description 1.1 Business model P.7 1.2 Organisation and structure P.10 1.3 Sectors in which the company operates P.13 1.4 Business trends P.18 1.5 Value creation P.19 2 P.20 Responsible Governance 2.1 Governance bodies P.22 2.2 Measures taken to prevent corruption and briber P.26 Model 2.3 Measures to combat money laundering P.31 2.4 Risk management P.32 3 P.35  Responsible Taxpayer 3.1 Profits/(loss) by country P.36 3.2 Taxes on profits paid P.37 3.3 Public grants received P.38 4 P.39 People 4.1 Employment P.39 4.2 Organisation of work P.44 4.3 Work-life balance measures P.46 4.4 Equality P.50 4.5 Prevention of harassment P.53 4.6 Talent management P.54 4.7 Health and Safety P.57 4.8 Social dialogue P.61 4.9 Accessibility and disability P.64 4.10 Compensation and social benefits P.67 5  P.68 Impact on Society 5.1 Initiatives in education P.70 5.2 Social commitment P.73 5.3 Activities, partnerships, sponsorships, awards and social actions  P.75 5.4 Customers P.81 5.5 Suppliers P.84 5.6 Awards P.87  6 P.88  Enviroment 6.1 Environmental Policy P.88 6.2 Environmental Management System P.90 6.3 Good environmental practices P.93 6.4 Climate Change Strategy P.94 6.5 Sustainable resource consumption P.101 6.6 Atmospheric pollution, including noise and light P.107 6.7 Biodiversity P.108 7 P.109 Human Rights 7.1 Application of due diligence procedures related to human rights  P.109 7.2 Prevention of risks to human rights breaches P.110 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Annexes108 Annex 1. Materiality analysis P.111 Annex 2. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) P.117 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-financial indicators P.120 Annex 4. Content of Non-financial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators  P.212 Annex 5. Independent verification report P.219  Tables Table 1. Governance bodies 21 Table 2. Profits obtained by country 35 Table 3. Taxes on profits paid 36 Table 4. Public grants received 37 Table 5. Headcount by country 38 Table 6. Percentages of types of contract 39 Table 7. Average remuneration of board members 41 Table 8. Average remuneration of top-tier management 41 Table 9. Average remuneration of corporate management 41 Table 10. Parental leave 47 Table 11. Measures to promote equality 50 Table 12. Percentage of women in the workforce 51 Table 13.Measures for the prevention of harassment 52 Table 14. Occupational accidents and illnesses 57 Table 15. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 61 Table 16. Employees with disability in other countries 65 Table 17. Channels of dialogue. University 71 Table 18. Other partnerships in the countries in which everis does business 79 Table 19. Channels of dialogue. Customers 81 Table 20. Channels of dialogue. Suppliers 84 Table 21. Awards received 86 Table 22. Certifications implemented in everis 90 Table 23. Result of the Carbon Footprint for tax year 2018. 94 Table 24. Result of the Carbon Footprint indicator for tax year 2018. 94 Table 25. Result of everis’ emissions per employee in previous years and target year of 2021. 96 Table 26. Relevant issue Table 27. Sustainable Development Goals Table 28. Location of content in Act 11/2018 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018  Charts Chart 1. Distribution of workforce by country 8 Chart 2. Internal control system 33 Chart 3. Number of dismissals by country and gender 40 Chart 4. Average hours of training by professional category at the global level 55 Chart 5. Number of hires 68  Figures Figure 1. everis’s operations around the world 8 Figure 2. Company’s organisational structure 10-11 Figure 3. everis’s values 20 Figure 4. Distribution of the workforce by continent 39 Figure 5. Average remuneration by professional category 42 Figure 6. Example of type of work schedule and hours worked per week 44 Figure 7. Executive School. 53 Figure 8. Initiatives for dialogue in the University 70 Figure 9. Certificate that accredits that everis calculates its carbon footprint under Scopes 1, 2 and 3. 95  Indicators Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country 121 Indicator 2. Type of contract by gender, age and professional category 138 Indicator 3. Number of hires 156 Indicator 4. Number of dismissals by gender, age, country and professional category 173-184 Indicator 5. Wage distribution by gender, age and professional category 187 Indicator 6. Training hours by professional category 204 Indicator 7. Occupational accidents and occupational illnesses 206 Indicator 8. Waste generated by the organisation by type 208 Indicator 9. GHG emissions 209 Indicator 10. Consumption of raw materials 210 Indicator 11. Non-renewable energy consumption and intensity 211 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Chairperson’s Letter As it does each year, it gives me great pleasure to present the everis Group’s corporate report for 2018 (1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019), prepared in accordance with the GRI Guidelines, demonstrating everis’ commitment to sustainability. This report presents the results of our economic, social and environmental activity in keeping with our commitment to transparency and dialogue undertaken with all our stakeholders. The group’s financial performance has been extremely satisfactory this year, with double-digit growth in earnings compared to the last tax year and 3,500 new employees joining our workforce. I would like to underline the Board of Directors’ dedication to non-financial matters and highlight the work we have done this year on different measures to fulfil the Sustainable Development Goals, especially concerning those issues that our stakeholders deem to be material (relevant): education, decent work, diversity and inclusion, the environment and governance. Notable on the environment front, in 2018, everis calculated its corporate carbon footprint in Spain, as per the ISO 14064/1 Standard. This was verified by an independent certification agency and entered in the Spanish Ministry of Ecological Transition’s Register of Carbon Footprints and CO2 Absorption Projects, thereby contributing to fulfilling Spain’s objectives in the Paris Accord. Our pledge to society is still as strong as in previous years. We continue to foster a spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation all over the world through our annual entrepreneur awards and education initiatives to encourage young people and women into STEAM careers and eradicate gender stereotypes associated with technology. Lastly, I would like to point out that the trust placed in us by our customers, partners and especially our staff, have enabled us to tackle major transformation and innovation projects using disruptive technologies such as blockchain, artificial intelligence and robotics, from an ethical stance, which will shape the society of the future. Many thanks, Eduardo Serra Rexach Chairperson of everis´s Board of Directors CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Introduction This report sets out the everis Group’s Statement of Non-financial Information for the 2018/2019 tax year (hereinafter, “FY18”) covering the period from 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019. It has been drawn up in compliance with the requirements established in Act 11/2018, of 28 December 2018, on non-financial information and diversity, which amends the Commercial Code, the revised text of the Spanish Limited Liability Companies Act, approved by Royal Decree-Law 1/2010 of 2 July 2010, and Audit Act 22/2015, of 20 July 2015, on matters of non-financial information and diversity (resulting from Royal Decree-Law 18/2017, of 24 November 2017). This report and the Management Report have been drawn up by the Board of Directors, reflecting the commitment of the company’s highest body to the management and supervision of the relevant non-financial aspects of the Group’s activities. In drafting the report, the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI Standards) or preparing sustainability reports have been followed. Through this report, everis reports on the following issues which are of great importance for the company in its operations: • Contribution to society. • People. • Human rights. • The environment. • Ethics and tackling corruption and bribery. In this report, everis indicates the degree of relevance the company assigns to each matter proposed by law, together with the policies and risks associated with each of them, and the reference indicator used for their monitoring and assessment. The report also renders account of the company’s compliance with its Corporate Social Responsibility Policy – the reference framework to ensure its responsible behaviour – and outlines its commitments to all its stakeholders As a company, everis aims to respond to changes in the market and the environment in which it operates and therefore, this report presents the results of our financial, social and environmental performance in keeping with our commitment to transparency and dialogue undertaken with all our stakeholders. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 1 Company Description 1.1 Business model everis Spain, S.L.U., with registered address at avenida de Manoteras 52, Madrid (Spain), is a multinational consulting firm providing business, strategy, digital transformation, technological application development and maintenance solutions and outsourcing solutions. 1,430 millions of euros 25,119 professionals 18 countries It is active in all sectors of the The company employs a Specifically, it operates in 18 economy, posting a turnover in total of 25,119 people across countries: Andorra, Argentina, the last financial year of around Europe, the United States, Latin Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, EUR 1.430 billion. AMERICA and AFRICA. the USA, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy, Luxembourg, Morocco, Mexico, Peru, Portugal, the UK, France and Switzerland. In 2014, everis joined the NTT DATA Group – the eighth-largest IT services company in the world with over 123,000 professionals and operating in 53 countries across Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe, Latin AMERICA and North AMERICA, and boasting a turnover of JPY 2.164 billion. In turn, NTT DATA belongs to the NTT Group – one of the leading companies in the telecoms sector globally. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 NTT Group Companies: Corporate information everis around the world – Geography everis countries NTT DATA countries Countries with everis projects. The following graph shows the distribution of everis’s workforce in the various countries in which it has work centres: Argentina + 500 everis Countries NTT DATA Countries Countries with everis projects Brazil + 2,000 Chile + 1,500 Colombia + 1,000 USA + 100 Mexico + 600 Peru + 2,500 Figure 1. everis’ operations around the world Chart 1. Distribution of workforce by country *Benelux includes Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and France CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The following graph shows the distribution of everis’ workforce in the various countries in which it has work centres: everis Countries NTT DATA Countries Countries with everis projects Andorra 100 Benelux + 200 Spain + 13,000 Italy + 700 Morocco + 100 Portugal + 800 UK + 300 Figure 1. everis’ operations around the world Chart 1. Distribution of workforce by country *Benelux includes Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and France CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 1.2 Organisation and structure A diagram of everis’ organisation and structure at the FY18 close is shown below. It is worth noting that this report includes 100% of the non-financial information of all the companies consolidated in everis Spain S.L.U, irrespective of the company’s ownership interests in them (affiliates shown in orange in the following figure). On the other hand, since everis Spain However, it is important to mention S.L.U channels much of its welfare that the Foundation’s accounts are activity through the everis foundation, not consolidated with those of everis it was decided to include information Spain S.L.U, and therefore its nonon some of the Foundation’s most financial information on employees, significant projects in chapter 5 of this the environment, society and report. governance is not included in this report. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Figure 2. Company’s organisational structure CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Figure 2. Company’s organisational structure CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 1.3 Sectors in which the company operates  As mentioned beforehand, everis is a multinational consulting firm providing business, strategy, digital transformation, technological application development and maintenance solutions and outsourcing solutions, and therefore operates in the following sectors: Banking:  Our aim is to cut costs, increase efficiency and improve risk management. We want to boost innovation in the operating model to offer increased customer focus. Insurance:  We play a role in the digital transformation of insurance companies by personalising services that are based on segmentation of target audiences, by improving business processes and models and by developing value propositions.. Telecom & Media:  We focus on operator efficiency so we can bring these operators to new digital customers, with a model based on agility, simplicity and transparency. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Public Sector:  We work with public administrations to make strides in the move towards digital, open, transparent, citizen-focused government. We do so through the use of innovative technology such as the IoT, big data, analytics and mobility solutions. Utilities & Energy: everis offers specialised services in technology, consulting, engineering and operational infrastructure services for the energy, water, transport and environment sectors, with a strong focus on innovation, ICT and sustainability. Infrastructure & Real State: We design corporate business strategies and implement the most complex tools and processes, meaning we can give a more technical touch to our customers’ value offers. Consumer Goods: At everis, we help redefine the vital value proposition needed in order to stay competitive in the long term. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Logistics & Transport: Business analytics, the Internet of Things, big data, control towers, e-commerce, globalisation and specialisation all enable us to offer specific solutions for this sector. Life Sciences:  Our strategy is centred on patients, their needs and how to bring them value. We make this a reality through the three main axes of the digital era: processes, technology and culture. Health: The company plays a part in the evolution of the health system, pushing for technological advances, scientific innovation and cultural changes for patients. Aerospace & Defense:  The everis Group’s Aerospace & Defence department offers global solutions for the implementation of critical systems in the aerospace, defence, safety and simulation sectors. Automotive:  The company is working on priorities in the sector, including: increasing investment in IT, developing new products and reducing downtimes. The company supports innovation, research and development. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Tourism & Leisure: The company is changing the way customers make decisions on leisure and tourism consumption, and the way they take out and use these services. Distribution & Retail: Its aim is to help increase sales and improve company image, thanks to innovative initiatives centred on getting to know customers.. Manufacturing:  everis helps to improve both product design and relationships with providers. It supports innovation, research and development so the transformation can be a complete one. Services: The company helps push companies in the sector to set up and implement new digital business lines and to reduce the cost of commercial product-based infrastructures.. Environment & Sustainability:  We cover the entire business value chain, positioning ourselves as an innovator in the sector and making quality, disruptive products available to companies. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The company draws on the support of an ecosystem of partners comprising more than 30 technology partners, strategic alliances and associations to tackle the challenges it faces in all of the above sectors. Some of these partnerships are described below: everis is a Microsoft Gold Cloud Partner, which means we can position ourselves as a strategic partner in cloud solutions and complement everis’ offerings with all the cloud technology Microsoft has to offer. everis is a global Oracle Platinum Partner. This recognition demonstrates our expertise in this technology and is testament to the maximum quality we offer in project implementation. As part of the NTT DATA Group, everis is one of the world’s top 10 Salesforce Global Strategic Partners. This represents a powerful, wide range of capabilities, which enables us to support our clients from all sectors in their digital transformation, anywhere. everis is a SAP Global Partner and Gold Partner. This relationship demonstrates not only our level of expertise in this technology, but also our top-quality project and service delivery. Together, we are constantly striving to boost our clients’ revenue as much as possible. Our partnership is a strategic one, and represents the highest level of recognition and certification, which enables us to offer solutions in all fields for all company types, on an international scale. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 1.4 Business trends everis analyses third-party economic forecasts, new technology developments and exchange rates when assessing the company’s business outlook and to draw up plans and strategies. All these areas are regularly reviewed by everis’ Board of Directors and Management Committee when monitoring the company’s sales and financial results. It is worth mentioning that the technology sector is currently enjoying strong demand, fuelled by the digital transformation, which is, in turn, leading to disruptive and structural changes in all businesses. Huge opportunities to create value are therefore opening up. Technology providers, everis That said, the digital boom is also among them, are today leading this leading to increased competition digitalisation and are in an unrivalled around the globe to hire technology position to exploit this growth. talent, hindering the ability to attract and retain these individuals. Significant changes have been made to the organisation and its supply chain in FY18, and two new work centres were opened in the Netherlands and Switzerland. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 1.5 Value creation everis is firmly committed to nurturing talent, and the main goal is to achieve a top-notch professional performance by creating an environment of responsible freedom. It considers that talent, technology and innovation are key to a company’s success. According to the everis vision, being a lever for transformation and change requires putting people first. It is about putting technology at the service of people and not the other way around. This commitment to people-focused transformation and innovation drives the company to work on developing talent among staff, as well as all the people in everis business ecosystem (universities, public administrations, entrepreneurs, and companies, among others). From this synergy, an integrative innovation emerges, not only to make us grow as a company but to all those who place their trust in the company. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 2 Responsible Governance Model Good Governance, beyond the mechanisms for making and enforcing decisions, is about a company’s style everis’ mission is to be a global company, exceptional in ethical and emotional terms and led by values where any dream can be achieved. Together with NTT DATA, the everis’ strategic vision is projected company works every day to become towards contributing value to society number one in the market. Joining the and, above all, towards a strong NTT DATA Group has enabled us to commitment to each customer. expand the solutions and services we Although it does not stop there. can offer, helped us provide the most everis is also committed to working innovative of answers, and increased with companies that reinforce its our technological, geographical and endeavours, foster internal talent and financial resources and capabilities. generate collaborative alliances with different knowledge institutions, in a virtuous circle that reinforces the company’s mission and vision. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The following are the values upon which everis and the rest of the organisation are built: Exacting You grow by making your team grow. GENEROSITY We share information with clarity. We share to achiev We celebrate our joint successes. We are fully responsible Responsible Creative We are apassionate about being for our own decisions. FREEDOM ENERGY the best at what we do. We are fully committed We do what we We are We think and do things differently. to what we do. want to do passionate We don’t like to conform! We always respect about what We overcome impossible challenges the autonomy of others. we do by always having a positive attitude. COHERENCY TRANSPARENCY we do what we say we say what we do COHERENCIA TRANSPARENCIA We practise what we preach. We honor our commitments. We build trust and we are here to meet your needs. Figure 3. everis’ values CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 2.1 Governance bodies everis has the following governing bodies to fulfil the company’s goals and ensure its mission: Board of Directors The Board of Directors is everis’ highest decision-making body and its main mission is to steer the company, directing, managing and representing it in all matters related to the activities it undertakes to fulfil its corporate purpose. The Board’s policy is to delegate ordinary management to the executive bodies, the CEO and the company’s management team and to concentrate its activities on promoting, supervising and controlling management of the business. Position Board Of Directors Chairperson Eduardo Serra Rexach everis Group CEO Fritz Hoderlein Cabistany Independent board members Cristina Garmendia Mendizábal Pilar Zulueta de Oya Alejando Ferreiro Yazigi Pedro Luis Uriarte Santamarina Board members representing the NTT Koji Ito DATA Group Ken Tsuchihashi Benito Vázquez Blanco Manabu Tanaka Kei Anzai Secretary of the Board Antonio Gómez Jarillo Table 1. Governance bodies The function of the Board of Directors (as the most senior governance body) of the everis Group’s parent company, with regard to identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts, is to be the ultimate gatekeeper, supervising and controlling the global risk management duties performed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and the company’s other corporate governance bodies. This function is set out in the internal control, regulatory compliance and good corporate governance principles applied by the company, and the specific measures and plans established and overseen and monitored by delegation by the Audit and Compliance Committee. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In relation to this, the CRO heads up the global Risk & Insurance Management area to ensure the company’s risks are managed at group level. As part of this risk management function, the CRO has worked with Risk Management and the Compliance Committee to draw up a global Risk Matrix covering all those linked to the everis Group’s business. Risks are included in the matrix according to a specific methodology that uses three categories (external risks, business risks and compliance risks), and their impact and probability of occurrence to quantify each risk. Every FY, the CRO works with the company’s other areas involved to present the Annual Risk Assessment to the Audit and Compliance Committee. This report is prepared three times a year, at the start, midway through and at the end of each FY. In short, the reports include the following information: • Report at the start of the FY: The material or most critical risks in the organisation are identified in the Global Risk Matrix, setting out some of the measures deemed necessary to prevent and/or mitigate them in the current FY. • Report midway through the FY: Half way through the FY, the specific measures adopted by the Group to tackle each of the identified material risks are reported for their prevention and/or mitigation. Also reported are the number of incidents that have arisen, if any, the status of such measures (planned or not) and an assessment thereof, along with any assumed risks that the Internal Audit area may have detected. • Report at the end of the FY: A final assessment of the identified material risks is presented, including the total number of incidents, degree of completion of the measures taken to prevent and/or mitigate the risks, and any measures that are still on-going or will be taken, if necessary, in the following FY. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 At each meeting, the everis Group’s The function of the Board of Directors Internal Audit Department also of the everis Group’s parent informs the Audit and Compliance company with regard to assessing the Committee of all the work carried out effectiveness of the risk management since the committee’s last meeting, processes concerning economic, including details of its reviews and environmental and social matter in an update on the recommendations the organisation is also to act as the acted upon by the units or areas ultimate gatekeeper. The effectiveness audited. of the aforesaid processes is therefore evaluated by delegation by the In turn, the Audit and Compliance Audit and Compliance Committee Committee reports to the Board as explained before. This committee in its regular presentation at each supervises any incidents and the meeting, and specifically at the end measures required in relation to the of each FY, on its conclusions on the independent function performed Internal Audit area’s work and on the by the Internal Audit global aforementioned risk assessment. area concerning the control and effectiveness of internal processes. The aforementioned risk management procedures include analysing the In the same vein, the Internal Audit information collated through the Department also reports quarterly, channels that the company has through the pertinent reports, to this formally established, such as those committee. In turn, the latter reports deriving from its membership to the Board of Directors to enable it of business associations and its to evaluate the effectiveness of the involvement in opinion forums risk management processes in the connected with its activities. aforementioned areas. The Board of Directors carries out assessments of economic, environmental and social issues and the impacts, risks and opportunities thereof regularly, throughout each FY and at least every two months. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Delegate committees In exercising its organisational functions, the Board formally established two delegate committees: the audit and compliance committee and the appointments and remuneration committee, mentioned beforehand. APPOINTMENTS AND POSITION AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE REMUNERATION Chairperson Cristina Garmendia Mendizábal Alejandro Ferreiro Yazigi Pilar Zulueta Pilar Zulueta Koji Ito Ken Tsuchihashi Members Ken Tsuchihashi Manabu Tanaka Manabu Tanaka Kei Anzai Pedro Luis Uriarte Secretary Antonio Gómez Jarillo Antonio Gómez Jarillo In addition, and in order to guarantee the representation of independent directors, the Board may appoint a representative as a coordinating director or Lead Director. This person’s main role is to manage the coordination of external board members. everis has drawn up Board of Directors Regulations which lay down, as per good corporate governance and transparency principles, the rules for the organisation and functioning of everis SPAIN, S.L.U.’s Board of Directors. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 2.2 Measures taken to prevent corruption and briber During FY18, as part of the regular analysis forming part of the corporate governance procedure in relation to opportunities and/or activities performed by the everis Group, no materially contingent cases related with corruption were evaluated. In this respect, during the annual risk management performed by the Group’s CRO (which includes the reporting to the Group’s Audit and Compliance Committee) in coordination with the other areas involved, no corruption-related incidents were detected and therefore no evaluations were necessary. Furthermore, the Group received no reports of alleged acts of corruption through its global (internal and external) whistleblowing channels or systems. That said, a number of lawsuits were in progress during the year, which are still ongoing. None of these are, however, deemed to be significant for the organisation as, following internal analysis performed, it is considered that the company has not committed any bad practice. Without prejudice to the aforesaid, on 25 April 2016, everis Spain, S.L.U. was served notice as per Article 49.1 of Anti-Trust Act 15/2007, of 3 July 2007, by Spain’s National Competition and Markets Commission (CNMC) of the opening of disciplinary proceedings against 11 software and IT service companies, including this company. The proceedings were widened to include three more companies on 19 October 2017. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 As part of the case, the company At the date of preparing the nonlodged its pleadings against the financial information statement, affidavit of facts and proposed a ruling on this appeal has not resolution, setting out the arguments been issued and therefore, the and evidence showing the company aforementioned ruling is not outright had not committed an illegal act. or final at this date. On 26 July 2018, the Competition Moreover, to avoid any anti-trust Tribunal of the Council of Spain’s practices, everis Spain, S.L.U. National Competition and Markets has reinforced its already robust Commission (CNMC) issued a Compliance Programme, which provisional ruling whereby, as per includes the systematic and the regulator’s sole criteria, fines controlled implementation of were handed down to companies awareness-raising measures on antiin the technology sector including trust rules and risk management an individual fine to everis Spain, practices, to enhance prevention and S.L.U. (EUR 800,000) due to alleged avoid supposed anti-trust practices. mitigated and unintentional liability vis-à-vis anti-trust practices. This fine The everis Group has zero tolerance is the only one to be imposed on to corruption and has measures everis Spain, S.L.U. in this case. and procedures in place to prevent it. It has put steps in place to raise The ruling has been contested, with awareness of and provide training the Company lodging an appeal for on the internal anti-trust policies and judicial review with Spain’s National procedures, and offers global training High Court on 31 October 2018. across the organisation and reaching The grounds for defence have been all levels and categories of staff. reiterated and added to, arguing that no action was taken that contravened anti-trust rules. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In particular, training has been provided on the following: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct of the Group (including the NTT DATA Global Compliance Policy): Available on the corporate website (www.everis.com) and for staff via the global intranet, this prohibits corruption and bribery directly or directly in both the private and public sectors. Global Anti-corruption Policy: Applicable to all the everis Group’s workforce anVd all collaborators, advisors, agents, distributors, interns and other subcontractors, provided they are acting on behalf of or partnering with everis. The everis Group also requires all third parties with which it works to adopt this Policy and ensure compliance therewith within their own organisations, including their administrators, directors, staff and legal representatives and any third parties these parties have a relationship with. All the organisation’s areas, especially its business areas, must be very familiar with this policy and duly apply and comply with it in full. It establishes zero tolerance to any form of corruption and provides guidelines on the matter. It also specifies that in its operations, the Group will always strive to comply with all anticorruption rules (especially the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act (UKBA). It promotes the use of anti-bribery clauses prepared by the association, TRACE International (Anti-Bribery Compliance Solutions), in all the international contracts to which the company is party. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Global Gifts and Hospitality Policy: This applies to all the everis Group’s staff and includes specific guidelines to be followed in the public sector (it prohibits, except for a few justifiable exceptions, giving or offering directly or indirectly, gifts or hospitality expenses to public servants, irrespective of their amount or value or if there is a tendering process that could benefit everis), in the private sector and within the organisation. Global compliance course Obligatory for all the Group’s workforce, by the NTT DATA’s express request. This will be monitored annually and the course includes training on anti-corruption and anti-bribery. Specific awareness-raising, training  and communication campaigns At group level and targeting groups that are especially exposed or pose a risk, to prevent criminal acts, in particular those related with corruption, bribery or money laundering in the organisation. Global Compliance Risk Matrix Sets out potential breaches of regulations and/or crimes associated with corruption, bribery or money laundering, and the specific measures to prevent them. Anti-corruption Pledge  Included in all contracts to be entered into with external advisors and commercial intermediaries (commission agents, representatives and distributors). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Audit, monitoring, corrective and control procedures Intended to implement effective measures to detect, monitor and correct infringing conduct that involve crimes or compliance risks in the organisation and associated with corruption and associated behaviours. Whistleblowing channels or systems:  La compañía tiene implementados dos canales de denuncia o Sistemas de Alertas Profesionales, de carácter global: 1) Interno: confidencial (no anónimo), disponible en la Intranet global corporativa para todos los empleados del Grupo, y 2) Externo: confidencial y anónimo (sólo si así lo quiere el denunciante), habilitado en la web corporativa de everis (www.everis.com) para todos los empleados del Grupo y cualesquiera otros terceros (clientes, proveedores, etc.) que actúen en nombre de everis o que, de cualquier modo, interactúen o colaboren con ella. It is also worth noting the following communication campaigns in FY18: • Information on the Group’s internal anti-corruption procedures and policies has been shared with members of the Board of Directors. • The organisation’s workforce has been informed about the Group’s internal anti-corruption procedures and policies, which are prominently located on the global corporate intranet. • The anti-corruption procedures and policies are internal, although the lion’s share thereof is presented to all types of business partner with which the Group interacts. • Information on campaigns run to raise awareness of and provide training on anti-corruption has been reported to the members of the Board of Directors. • The Group’s employees have received anti-corruption training. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 2.3 Measures to combat money laundering Anti-money laundering measures and controls over contributions to non-profit foundations and entities in place in everis are summarised hereon. • Compliance: Global Anti-corruption Policy. • Compliance: Global Compliance Risk Matrix. • Financial: Financial controls. • Internal audit: Internal audit controls. • Internal control and corporate governance Group Authority Matrix (GAM) and everis Equivalent GAM (eEGAM). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 2.4 Risk management As per its internal control and good governance principles, the everis Group has a global Risk & Insurance Management area headed up and managed, at group level, by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO). As part of this risk management function, the CRO has worked with Risk Management and the Compliance Committee to draw up a Global Risk Matrix covering all those linked to the Group’s business. Risks are included in the matrix according to a specific methodology that uses three categories (risks related with external environment, business risks and compliance risks), and their impact and probability of occurrence to quantify each risk. The three categories are: • Risks that could affect the company’s model (primarily referring to protecting the Quality and Generosity Model) and its growth. • Business risks, such as exogenous or market risks, responsibility for which is assigned by the Audit Committee to everis’ executives and management. • Operational risks, which are analysed and assessed by the Internal Audit Department. The outcomes of this work are presented in various studies and reports and in each detailed and complete Risk Matrix of each audit unit, after being reviewed. Operational risks are environmental, social and economic risks and the impacts thereof. Each FY, the parent company also includes the different measures and action plans in the matrix, to ensure they are not overlooked and can be prevented. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Risk management methodology Each tax year, the CRO works with the company’s other areas involved to present the Annual Risk Assessment to the Audit and Compliance Committee in three stages: Stage 1. At the start of the year, the material and most critical risks are identified in the Global Risk Matrix, setting out some of the measures needed for the financial year ahead to prevent and/or mitigate these risks or cover their impact through pertinent insurance during the year in question. Stage 2. Half way through the year, the specific measures adopted by the Group to tackle each of the identified material risks are reported for their prevention and/or mitigation. Also reported are the number of incidents that have arisen, if any, the status of such measures (planned or not) and an assessment thereof, along with any issues that the Internal Audit area may have detected. Stage 3. At year-end, a final assessment of the identified material risks is presented, including the total number of incidents, degree of completion of the measures taken to prevent and/or mitigate the risks, and any measures that are still on-going or will be taken, if necessary, in the following FY. In the recent releases of the Compliance Programme that the Company is implementing and in order to ensure in the medium term that the programme is certified as per the Spanish standard UNE 19601Criminal Compliance Management Systems, a global in-house project (Compliance Gap Analysis) was carried out in FY18 to identify any possible areas for improvement in the programme and immediately adopt any pertinent measures. An outline of the company’s internal risk control system is provided in the following figure: CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Board of Directors 5 AUDIT COMMITTEE 4 INTERNAL AUDIT . Internal Audit Charter . Independence and Objectivity Principles . Methodology based in Standards from IAI 3RD DEFENSE LINE . Detailed Processes and Procedures . Risk Assessment (& Risk Matrices): 69 Audit Units . 3 years Audit Plan . Follow Up of recommendations 3 COMMITTEES: CONTROL UNITS . Compliance Com. . Inform. Security Com., etc . Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct. . Group Authorization Matrix . EVERIS CONTROL UNITS CISO/ CRO/ CIO/ CFO/ . Professional Alert System. COMPLIANCE/ . CRO Risk Assessment. RISK & INSURANCE MNGT./ PRODUCTION AREA/ ETC. . Anti Corruption Policy. . Gift Policy. . Etc. 2ND DEFENSE LINE 2 COMMITTEES: GLOBAL UNITS . Global BSA Com. . Business Economics Com., etc. . Accounting Policies (Rules for Segregation of duties, access privileges, etc.). . People Policies. ACCOUNTING, LEGAL, . IT Risk Assessment. PURCHASING, TREASURY, PEOPLE, . Global Procurement Policy. TAX, ETC. . Etc. 1 OFFICES, REGION, LOCAL UNITS . Defined and concrete objectives. 1ST DEFENSE LINE . Definition of roles and responsibilities. HEAD OF OFFICE. . Information System. HEAD OF UNIT HEAD OF REGION. . Procedures, rules, action plans and internal policies. LOCAL UNITS: . Operator controls performed daily. ACCOUNTING, LEGAL, . Key structured controls performed by supervisory personnel. PURCHASING, TREASURY, PEOPLE, TAX, ETC. . Controls carried out by Senior Management. (PROCESS & PROCEDURES) Gráfico 2. Sistema de control interno CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 3 Responsible Taxpayer everis has a tax policy and governance model that ensure its actions as a taxpayer are ethical, transparent and with integrity. everis is currently carrying out the Tax Governance project, the aim of which is to establish a process to control and manage tax matters that will ensure due compliance with its tax obligations and avoid potential contingencies. The project involves the following strategy and action points: • Design and formalisation of corporate tax strategy, which has been approved by the Board of Directors. This document sets out the principles and guidelines on everis’ tax strategy to define the approach to tax matters, all in accordance with the laws applicable in each of the regions and countries in which it operates. • Design and formalisation of the tax control framework regulations establishing the basic policies and guidelines at corporate level, responsibilities concerning tax control and management, and regulating the principles to which everis’ tax function must adhere. • Formalisation of roles and responsibilities of main tax-related processes at the corporate level. • Preparation of a map of areas where there is some uncertainty concerning tax matters at the corporate level. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 3.1 Profits/(loss) by country The following table shows the profits or losses posted by each country before and after tax. PROFIT/(LOSS) BY COUNTRY (€) PRE-TAX PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER-TAX PROFIT/(LOSS) COUNTRY BY COUNTRY BY COUNTRY SPAIN 24,939,547.80 20,484,334.06 EUROPE PORTUGAL 2,584,125.73 1,892,045.37 UK 1,491,339.12 -51,160.83 BENELUX* -1,351,160.65 -2,357,563.54 ITALY 2,963,383.67 1,901,909.51 ANDORRA -1,436,927.03 -1,436,927.03 SWITZERLAND 1,351,271.83 1,053,965.81 AMERICA BRAZIL -4,259,839.51 -4,266,516.15 COLOMBIA 169,092.65 764,430.84 MEXICO 1,459,210.65 1,075,854.11 PERU 12,467,254.82 7,186,520.47 CHILE 2,088,634.91 1,170,783.22 ARGENTINA -2,651,077.49 -1,916,019.70 USA -123,406.22 -179,210.94 AFRICA MOROCCO -644,885.32 -644,885.32 TOTAL 39,046,564.96 24,677,559.88 Table 2. Profits obtained by country. *Includes Belgium, the Netherlands, France and Luxembourg CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 3.2 Taxes on profits paid The following table shows taxes on profits paid and public grants received. TAXES ON PROFITS PAID (€) TAXES ON PROFITS PAID DURING THE YEAR APRIL 2018 COUNTRY TO MARCH 2019 SPAIN 5,780,130.15 EUROPE PORTUGAL 934,631.99 UK 0.00 BENELUX* 162,720.00 ITALY 1,285,968.00 ANDORRA 0.00 SWITZERLAND 0.00 AMERICA BRAZIL 347,177.09 COLOMBIA 0.00 MEXICO 376,481.25 PERU 1,979,766.53 CHILE 1,241,459.88 ARGENTINA 0.00 USA 0.00 AFRICA MOROCCO 0.00 TOTAL 12,108,334.89 Table 3. Taxes on profits paid CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 3.3 Public grants received The following table shows public grants received. PUBLIC GRANTS RECEIVED DURING THE 2018 TAX YEAR (€) COUNTRY SPAIN 2,029,351.60 EUROPE PORTUGAL 0.00 UK 0.00 BENELUX 444,555.86 ITALY 0.00 ANDORRA 0.00 SWITZERLAND 0.00 AMERICA BRAZIL 0.00 COLOMBIA 0.00 MEXICO 0.00 PERU 0.00 CHILE 0.00 ARGENTINA 0.00 USA 0.00 AFRICA MOROCCO 0.00 TOTAL 2,473,907.46 Table 4. Public grants received CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4 People 4.1 Employment Total headcount The total headcount in all the countries in which everis does business was 25,119 at the FY18 close, as can be seen from the following table. The centres in Spain accounted for 13,237 employees, 52.7% of the total. The following table shows the distribution of the workforce by country. DISTRIBUTION OF THE WORKFORCE BY COUNTRY TOTAL HEADCOUNT AND DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES FEMALE MALE TOTAL BY GENDER AND COUNTRY SPAIN 3,581 9,656 13,237 EUROPE PORTUGAL 290 553 843 UK 88 227 315 BENELUX 69 158 227 ITALY 186 561 747 ANDORRA 5 20 25 AMERICA BRAZIL 630 1,810 2,440 COLOMBIA 533 661 1,194 MEXICO 220 433 653 PERU 802 2,063 2,865 CHILE 261 1,478 1,739 ARGENTINA 180 400 580 USA 30 106 136 AFRICA MOROCCO 52 66 118 TOTAL 6,927 18,192 25,119 Table 5. Headcount by country CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Europe 61% America Africa 0.5% 38% Figure 4. Distribution of the workforce by continent Indicator 1 in annex 3 shows the total headcount broken down by gender, age, country and professional category. To promote employment, everis’ training policy ensures the continuous learning of knowledge, methods and technologies adapted to the new requirements and highly customised. This significantly enhances employees’ employability. Respect for the staffing process is the guarantee for knowing new sectors and clients, exploring other areas and continuing to develop through project rotation. Distribution by type of contract As regards the total number and distribution of the company’s different types of contract, the following table shows the annual average percentage for each type of contract, with over 90% being permanent. Permanent Temporary and part-time 99.92% 0.08% Table 6. Percentages of types of contract CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 This year there have been a total of 9,694 new contracts; full details of the types of contract can be found in indicator 2 of annex 3. Dismissals In this financial year a total of 1,011 dismissals have been recorded, with the total headcount at the FY18 close being 25,119. The figures broken down by gender, age, country and professional category can be found in indicator 4.1 of annex 3. As can be seen from the following chart, Spain has the largest number of dismissals and also has the largest headcount. Similarly, there is a larger number of dismissals among men as these represent a greater proportion of employees. Female Male SPAIN BELGIUM ITALY PORTUGAL UK ARGENTINA BRAZIL CHILE COLOMBIA MEXICO PERU USA MOROCCO 50 100 150 200 250 Chart 3. Number of dismissals by country and gender Employee turnover The total rate of employee turnover is 25.18%, with the percentage turnover being smaller among women (23.81%) than among men (25.18%). Total employee turnover in FY18 broken down by age group, gender and region can be found in indicator 4.2 of annex 3. Turnover data are obtained from voluntary redundancies, objective dismissals, fair dismissals, voluntary unpaid leave without job reservation, unfair dismissal without just cause, leave without expiry, mutual agreement, end of job reservation and failure to pass trial period (desired and voluntary). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage gap There is no wage gap in everis as, just like our professional categories, remuneration is the same for men and women alike. Average remuneration of board members, top-tier management and corporate management The following tables show the average remuneration of board members, top-tier management and corporate management, comprising fixed salaries, bonuses, allowances and indemnifications. AVERAGE AVERAGE BOARD REMUNERATION* REMUNERATION, REMUNERATION, FEMALES MALES Executive board members** 897,690.48€ Independent board members 103,500.00€ 101,000.00€ Average remuneration, 367,396.83€ board members Table 7. Average remuneration of board members * Board members representing the NTT DATA Group have not been included as they receive no pay from everis. ** Comprises the Board Chairperson and the CEO. REMUNERATION OF TOP-TIER MANAGEMENT* Average remuneration (€) 680,814€ AVERAGE REMUNERATION, MALES AVERAGE REMUNERATION, FEMALES 680,814€ Table 8. Average remuneration of top-tier management * Includes total remuneration (fixed salaries, bonuses and expatriation allowances) of top-tier management (European CEO, US CEO and country managers). REMUNERACIÓN DIRECCIÓN CORPORATIVA* Remuneración media (€) 320,360 € AVERAGE REMUNERATION, MALES AVERAGE REMUNERATION, FEMALES 323,329 € 311,452 € Table 9. Remuneración media Dirección Corporativa * Includes total remuneration (fixed salaries, bonuses and expatriation allowances) of top-tier management (Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Chief BSA Officer (CSO), Chief Legal Officer and Chief People Officer (CPO)). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Average remuneration of the workforce The following table shows the average wage in all countries in which the group does business, by professional category. The figures broken down by gender, age and country can be found in indicator 5 of annex 3. Figure 5. Average remuneration by professional category CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.2 Organisation of work Throughout the year the company has had available to it the tools needed to adapt work time management to the requirements of the business and employees’ demands, with the aim of improving both business competitiveness and the welfare of the workforce enabling the creation of a corporate culture focused on results. In addition, at everis, adopting flexibility and work-life balance measures is encouraged on the basis of each employee’s needs according to their life cycles. In all countries in which everis operates it always acts in accordance with prevailing local legislation. Most employees have a flexible work schedule of 40 hours a week, except for some countries like Luxembourg and France which have a fixed schedule, Colombia where they work 46 hours a week and the US with 38.5 hours a week. Countries that stand out include Spain where there are specific summer work schedules with 7-hour intensive working days to allow employees to better achieve a work-life balance. The following figure shows the type of schedule (flexitime or fixed hours) and working hours per week laid down in law in each country in which the company operates. At the close of this report, Luxembourg, Morocco, Andorra and France still have to report. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The following figure shows the type of schedule (flexitime or fixed hours) and working hours per week laid down in law in each country in which the company operates. At the close of this report, Luxembourg, Morocco, Andorra and France still have to report. Flexible Schedule Argentina 40 Hours Belgium & Netherlands 38 Hours Italy 40 Hours Spain 40 Hours UK 40 Hours Fixed Schedule Brazil 40 Hours Chile Colombia 46 Hours Mexico Peru Portugal 40 Hours USA 38,5 Hours Figure 6. Example of type of work schedule and hours worked per week As regards absenteeism, in FY18 the total number of absent hours was 636,597. As everis has 25,119 employees, absenteeism per employee and year was an average of 25 hours. For this calculation, absenteeism has been considered to be those hours entered by the employees themselves directly in everis’ work time management system under the “sickness” category (absence due to illness without justified sick leave), so it does not include voluntary leave, justified sick leave, maternity and paternity leave, among others, and holidays and freely disposable hours. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.3 Work-life balance measures In addition to the flexible work schedule measures outlined in the previous section, everis has the following programmes and measures: everislife programme everis has work-life balance policies which vary for each of the countries in which the company is present. At the global level it has a work-life balance programme in Spain called everislife. The everislife programme includes the Flexiblework initiative which aims to promote flexible working hours and access to teleworking, based on a model that responds to employees’ needs for personal, family and work balance. Some of the measures included in everislife are: • Special unpaid leave of longer than the month established in the collective bargaining agreement. Minimum social security payments, seniority, and medical, life and accident insurance are maintained. (it lasts for up to a year). • Flexibility as regards when employees start and finish work. • Teleworking policy. • A day’s leave to register in the civil partnership register. • 4 days’ leave in the event of the death of a direct family member (parent, spouse or child) everis adds a day more if the employee has to travel abroad. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In Spain, 24.5% of employees do some form of teleworking, being able to choose from 1-5 days a week, while in Italy 49% of the workforce have joined the flexibility plan, which any employee can join voluntarily. In Colombia, the percentage is smaller, with only 1% using it, with 7 employees doing teleworking (2 days a week) and 8 employees using the home office (1 day a week). The aim for FY19 is to report the percentage of teleworking in the other countries. The countries with teleworking measures are shown below: • Spain: 1-5 days/week. • Italy. • Colombia: 1-2 days/week. • UK. • Benelux (Belgium and the Netherlands). • Portugal. • Argentina: 2 days/week. • Brazil: 1 day/week. • USA: as agreed with the employee’s line manager in respect of time and form. Mexico and Peru do not yet have a teleworking policy Paternity and maternity Equally the company aims to improve the compatibility of work with paternity/ maternity, promoting co-responsibility and offering the same measures to men and to women such as for example leave for children’s medical appointments, always improving on legal requirements. As an example of this, at a global level, the following measures that improve on legal requirements are applied: • Complement of up to 100% of the wage during temporary disability, maternity and paternity leave. • Accumulation of nursing leave after maternity leave of 21 calendar days (6 more than legally established). • Annual educational aid. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In addition to globally applicable measures, various countries also improve on the measures envisaged in legislation with the following measures: • Spain: tax relief for nursery schools. • Chile: possibility of a gradual return to work so that the 12 weeks of working a full day are equivalent to 24 or more weeks working a half day and not just the 18 established by law. • Argentina: currently working on extending maternity and paternity leave and a gradual return to work. • US: under parental policy either the woman or the man has an additional 4 hours each week to look after newborn for the first six months of their lives. The following table shows information about employees who have taken parental leave, by gender: PARENTAL LEAVE* MEN WOMEN TOTAL Total number of employees who have had the right to parental leave 690 399 1089 Total number of employees who have taken parental leave 683 399 1082 Total number of employees who returned to work within the period 674 375 1049 covered by this report after finishing parental leave Total number of employees who returned to work after finishing 613 441 1054 parental leave and who were still employees 12 months later Rates of return to work of employees who took parental leave 99% 90% Table 10. Parental leave *Figures correspond to Spain, UK, Mexico, Colombia, Andorra, USA, Portugal, Peru, Chile, Brazil, Italy, Benelux. ** Data for FY17 and FY18 have been used in the calculation because permits have been given for very long stays. We are working on ways of reporting figures for rates of retention of employees who take parental leave as a target for FY19. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Encouraging mobility In order to achieve a work-life balance, the everislife programme includes, among others, the following measures to promote mobility and teleworking: • Laptop computers. • Mobile phones for staff and leaders (according to the needs of the project or position). • Management tools that can be accessed from outside the office: (Intranet, e-mail). • e-learning training platforms. • Access to mobile training. • Virtual meetings via tele-meetings and video-conferences. • International mobility through the publication of internal job vacancies and payroll management of tax relief for exempt income (7P). Digital disconnection The company is fully aware of the need to protect its workers’ health, guaranteeing their rest, leave and holiday time, and protecting their personal and family life. To ensure this protection, the company is studying, in accordance with legislative changes in Spain, the creation of a policy setting out the content and ways of exercising the right to digital disconnection to be applied in all its work centres. everis is carrying out internal actions to establish the technical means for ensuring the effectiveness of the right to digital disconnection in the workplace and put in place the appropriate training and awareness measures regarding a reasonable use of technological tools. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.4 Equality Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct The everis group currently has a Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct which, in addition to outlining the company’s basic principles and policies, also establishes a broad spectrum of regulatory compliances including the principles of non-discrimination and equality. everis promotes equal treatment of men and women in respect of access to employment, to training, to promotion and to working conditions. All everis employees have the equal right to a safe working environment, free of harassment in which people who do suffer from this are guaranteed help, with the appropriate disciplinary and corrective measures being put in place to prevent these situations from being repeated. In Spain, in the context of Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March, for effective equality between men and women, everis is committed to further improvement with initiatives that contribute to optimising welfare and quality in the workplace, and defining an Equality Plan applicable to each and every one of the areas in which it carries out its business in Spain. In the other countries in which everis operates, it always acts in accordance with prevailing local legislation, although many countries do not yet have a specific law for equality. However, regardless of the specific legislation, all the countries are governed by the principles and policies included in the aforementioned Code of Ethics. everis strives to be a benchmark in the areas of equality of opportunity, maintaining a balance in the distribution by gender of the workforce as a whole and guaranteeing non-discrimination by reason of gender. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 50 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In FY18 various initiatives and policies were developed in the everis group’s centres aimed at achieving effective equality between men and women such as: MEASURES ADOPTED TO PROMOTE EQUALITY OF COUNTRY TREATMENT AND OF OPPORTUNITIES BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN Co-operation in mentoring withhttps://www.allwomen.tech/ . Scholarships for girls through framework agreements with universities based on various criteria (scholarships, prizes for academic record, etc.) Celebration of Ada Lovelace day with a Coding Dojo, open to invited students. Dissemination of #girlsgonna through the “It’s cool at school” SPAIN association which promotes ICT careers. Participation in the “Liderazgo en femenino” round table, at the BGCW19 in co-operation with the FIB. Sponsorship in co-operation with the FIB of Womenencourage: https://womencourage.acm.org/2019/ Participation in the MAD_Programa Promociona, created by ESADE and the CEOE together with the ministry of equality to promote female executive talent. Awareness breakfasts, events and workshops to define the main obstacles facing women in their careers within the company. CHILE No discrimination statement that forms part of the Inclusion and Management of Diversity Policy. Policy of non-discrimination in recruitment and hiring as outlined by MEXICO the legal framework underpinning the application of this policy within Mexican legislation in respect of non-discrimination. The everis is Diversity plan which seeks to increase awareness of and unlock the value of diversity from the perspective of each person's uniqueness. Two basic aspects will be worked on: gender and culture. UK everis follows the “ACAS Code of Conduct”. USA Equality measures contained in the Employee Handbook Table 11. Measures to promote equality CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Global Senior Woman Leadership Program In addition, equality of treatment and opportunity for men and women is incorporated into talent management. To this end, in order to continue to improve the gender balance in the workforce and guarantee non-discrimination, everis is committed to backing the development of female leadership by taking part in NTT’s “Global Senior Woman Leadership Program”, a program for women executives, and forms part of the WIN (Women in NTT DATA) initiative, which seeks to establish a network of women to work together within the Group and promote equality. Ongoing assessments In order to identify possible inequalities, ongoing assessments are carried out which take into account the presence of men and women in the workforce as a whole and in the various professional categories, and also in the various stages of hiring and promotion. At the FY18 close, 28% of the workforce were women, with men accounting for 72%, without any case of discrimination being reported during this period. The distribution of women in the global workforce by professional category is as follows: Professional category % of women in the workforce Partner 9.59% Executive Director 34.65% Director 16.21% Manager 24.89% Leader 28.33% Staff 28.16% Table 12. Percentage of women in the workforce Some 17% of the members of the Board of Directors are women while 83% are men. All are over 50 years old except for one person in the 30-50 year age range. At present everis employees have an average age of 31 and in FY18 there were no retirements. In coming years the company aims to implement programs aimed at the transition to help employees who retire. Indicator 1 of annex 3 shows the distribution of each country’s workforce by professional category, gender and age range. Outstanding countries include Colombia where close to 40% of executive directors are women. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.5 Prevention of harassment Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct The everis group currently has a Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct which, in addition to outlining the company’s basic principles and policies, also establishes a broad spectrum of regulatory compliances including a safe work environment. The infringement of the rules contained in this Code by the persons subject to it shall be deemed a violation of this and may result, depending on the analysis of the events, in the imposition of the corresponding sanction and/or adoption of the corresponding legal actions. Internal protocol for the prevention, treatment and sanctioning of workplace harassment Specifically, and through the areas of People and Human Resources Management, there exists an internal protocol for the prevention, treatment and sanctioning of workplace harassment, both moral and gender-based, to resolve discriminatory situations and minimise their consequences, guaranteeing the rights of the people involved, with the corresponding management procedures and the co-operation of a mediator and a committee of control and prevention. everis provides its employees and third parties with channels of notification and denouncement via the Whistleblowing warning system for the confidential and/ or anonymous reporting of this kind of situation. This system and its internal procedures are available on the corporate global intranet and the corporate website: www.everis.com. While all countries are governed by the principles of the company’s ethics code, in addition some have specific protocols and policies for dealing with harassment. The following table shows some specific measures for the prevention of harassment. SPECIFIC MEASURES FOR THE COUNTRY PREVENTION OF HARASSMENT Protocol against sexual and moral SPAIN AND MEXICO harassment COLOMBIA Workplace Coexistence Committee Policies against discrimination in its internal PERU regulations Measures contained in the Employee USA Handbook Following of the ACAS (Advisory, UNITED KINGDOM Conciliation and Arbitration Service) code Table 13. Measures for the prevention of harassment CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.6 Talent management everis offers different career paths and opportunities for development, to enable employees to achieve their maximum potential. In this respect, it has various kinds of tools that it uses in a customised way: • Group and individual coaching. • Mentoring. • Monitoring and tutoring. • Annual review and continuous feedback. everis takes part in programs such as the Multi-company Talent Development Programme. This initiative makes use of intercompany co-operation to help manage, development and retain talent. These measures ensure employees are constantly acquiring new knowledge, methods and technologies, thereby enhancing their employability. Global Leadership Program This program focuses on developing global leaders who know the NTT DATA group’s strategy and the services portfolio. Moreover, training in and learning everis’ policy are key aspects for attracting talent, being a benchmark employer brand, and for the integral development of its employees and their ability to contribute value. everis University At a global level, everis provides the training necessary for each employee to be able to achieve their development goals through a broad program of continual training, technical training and skills-based training: everis University and the e-learning web platform ULearndx. everis University is the company’s training area and brand. It acts globally and locally, designing various general and specific training plans to satisfy the company’s needs with a strategic line of personalised training. Although each training plan is local, they are very similar and are even shared between many countries, as is the case for Colombia, which is governed by the plan for Spain. Figure 7. Executive School CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In general, the training plan includes: • Executive team: everis University includes the everis Executive School, which has specific training plans for executives divided into 5 areas of knowledge (Business Management, Evolving People, Communication, Creativity & Innovation and Strategic Vision). It also offers a first year plan for managers, in addition to programs which deal with strategy, vision and continuous feedback. In FY18, each of these received an average of 3 hours of training. • Leaders: raining plans to meet needs from the competence and management viewpoints (bases for excellence, Empowerment Leaders, benchmark leaders, Leadership Challenge). In FY18, each employee of this category received an average of 26 hours of training. • Staff: training plans to meet needs from the competence and productivity viewpoints (bases for excellence, young talent, continuous feedback and future leaders). In FY18, each employee of this category received an average of 22h of training. Some of the qualifications covered by everis University are PMP, CAPM, PSMI, ITIL FOUNDATION V.3, PRINCE 2 and PMO-CP. As regards languages, classroom classes in the F2F format, workshops and intensive courses are offered. Also licences are available for eLearning training. Various flexible initiatives are also available: Linguistic Advice: A service which advises and helps the student to improve their language skills in their proposals, presentations, emails, specific matters, etc. that can be done in the classroom or via Skype. Discussion Clubs: Informal chats in a relaxed atmosphere in the various offices. Podcasts: On various subjects to promote language learning in a different way. Betotw: A weekly e-mail that includes vocabulary, expressions and activities. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Investment in training In FY18, in Spain, 13 million euros were invested in the company’s internal talent training with a total of 390,380 hours. At the global level, all professional categories received some kind of training course, with a total of 563,652 hours of training being given. Staff and leaders have received the most training, exceeding 400,000 and 100,000 hours respectively, with countries such as Chile and Mexico having set a goal of 40h of training per year for people in these categories. Partner Executive Director Director Manager Leader Staff Chart 4. Average hours of training by professional category at the global level Indicator 6 of annex 3 shows the number of hours of training received by professional category, country and gender. The most popular training programmes are those related to the company’s values and culture. Demand for training related to self-knowledge is in great demand, as is training in personal and professional development where leadership, communication, innovation and creativity skills are developed. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.7 Health and Safety everis is committed to ensuring the highest possible level of safety, health and well-being for its employees, regardless of their business area, geographical location or activity. Accordingly, each everis group company meets the legal requirements of its country in respect of health and safety. everis promotes an environment of health and safety at work with training actions aimed at raising awareness and sensitivity, encouraging a culture of prevention in all the activities carried out by the company. Moreover, it has formal policies governing all these initiatives in the following countries: Spain, UK, Portugal, Benelux, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Italy, and the USA. The Group has health and safety delegates when the country’s regulation requires it, as health and safety systems are defined and overseen at the level of each company and 100% of the employees are covered by a system of prevention of workplace risks. In FY18 there were a total of 40 occupational accidents, most of which were small and occurred on the way to or from work. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF COUNTRY OCCUPATIONAL OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ILLNESSES SPAIN 17 0 PORTUGAL 4 0 UK 0 4 BENELUX 4 0 ITALY 3 0 ANDORRA BRAZIL 3 13 COLOMBIA 0 0 MEXICO 1 0 PERU 2 0 CHILE 2 0 ARGENTINA 4 0 USA 0 0 MOROCCO TOTAL 40 17 Table 14. Accidentes laborales y enfermedades profesionales Indicator 7 of annex 3 shows these figures broken down by country and gender. The formulas used to calculate the index of severity and frequency are those available at the Spanish ministry of Employment and Social Security: http://calculadores.insht.es/Accidentesdetrabajo/Introducci%C3%B3n.aspx. At the moment, tools are not available to obtain reliable data regarding the types of accident and number of hours lost by gender and professional category, or the number of serious accidents and the rate of days lost, as to date these figures have not had to be collected by the work centres. Work is ongoing to report these data as a target for FY19. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Psychological and physical well-being everis promotes the well-being of its employees with initiatives and projects aimed at looking after their psychological and physical health. There are specific well-being projects in Spain and Peru. In the Madrid office this year the Wellbeing program has been implemented, which consists of two services • Well-being services: everis employees are offered a number of services provided directly in our installations aimed at health and well-being in general. These services are: a physiotherapist, a nutritionist, a sports consultant, and mindfullness workshops • Cyclical campaign: Actions that seek to generate positive emotions and the engagement of employees with the company, promoting actions closely associated with the personal wellbeing of our employees and their productivity which lead to their emotional equilibrium and healthy work-life balance. These initiatives are encompassed in a cyclical plan throughout the year:: September December: Move on, initiatives associated with physical wellbeing, encouraging physical activity and sport. Examples: yoga, pilates, sport in the office and raising awareness in this respect. January May: Take care, initiatives associated with emotional wellbeing and linked to healthy eating. Examples: fruit month, workshops on the impact of the emotions on health, recommendations for a healthy diet, etc. June August: Summer time, initiatives associated with preparing our bodies for the hottest months of the year. Examples: workshops on skin care, hydration, etc. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In Barcelona, the Enjoy your life programme allows employees to enjoy actions and initiatives in 4 areas: world (charity runs), leisure (cinema), health (spa) and future (IoT world congress). 504 people took part in the programme in 2018 and 41 activities were distributed at random. In Peru, the programme includes the following initiatives: • Physiotherapy service. • Psychoprophylaxis and nutritional advice during pregnancy. • A programme to protect employees with disabilities in order to implement a safe and healthy workplace which meets the needs of disabled staff. Currently there are 12 collaborators. • Nutrition programme critical cases. Currently there are 24 critical cases under nutritional surveillance and 240 in the regular Nutrition programme. • Programme handling stress. • In-house workshops Including massage sessions and yoga classes. • Healthy basket. Consists of distributing a piece of fruit to collaborators every Monday. • Personal finance workshops. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.8 Social dialogue All everis Group companies believe in the importance of employee participation in the life of the company, both through the bodies of legal representation and through other ways and channels of participation implemented by the group. Therefore, in accordance with the value of transparency which characterises everis, group companies inform and consult with workers’ representatives and the workers themselves about questions affecting them, and about the state of the company and employment within this, on a regular basis, and exceptionally when circumstances so demand, and always under the terms and conditions set out in applicable legislation in each country where everis is present. everis has a tool called One Voice, which is an internal survey regarding employees’ perception of the company and their level of satisfaction and association. It is carried out every two years at the global level within all the companies comprising the NTA DATA group. It measures not only the degree of employee association and commitment but also a number of manageable factors essential to defining mid and long term strategies and plans of action within the company. The results of this survey are analysed both at the global level and by regions, offices, units and departments, with the aim of enabling those responsible to create a personalised plan of action depending on the results obtained. The aspect receiving the highest score from employees globally was “atmosphere and team work” (89%). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 This survey has been carried out since 2008 and has always had a high level of participation which reached 81% in the last edition of 2017. The aspect receiving the highest score from employees globally was “atmosphere and team work” (89%) while the lowest score was for “work schedule and work-life balance” (39%), a percentage that was unchanged from the same survey in 2015. It is important for everis to create plans for improvement so that negative percentages such as these are not repeated. To this end, various strategies have been designed such as those regarding work schedules and teleworking implemented in Spain in FY18 in an attempt to improve flexibility and the work schedule so there is a better work-life balance. Also, more and more countries are bringing in flexible working given the clear advantages it brings in terms of work-life balance. In coming years we will be able to report on the results of this. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements by country 100% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements in Spain and work is ongoing to adopt this measure in the other countries where it is not yet applied. The following table shows the percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements by country: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS BY COUNTRY (%) SPAIN 100% EUROPA PORTUGAL N/A UK 6% BENELUX N/A ITALY 100% ANDORRA 100% AMERICA BRAZIL 100% COLOMBIA N/A MEXICO 100% PERU N/A CHILE N/A ARGENTINA N/A USA N/A AFRICA MOROCCO N/A Table 15. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Balance of the collective bargaining agreements (particularly in the field of health and safety in the workplace) We would also point out that in most of the countries where everis does business, collective bargaining agreements do not deal specifically with health and safety at work as the activity is not unionised. However, Italy does have a national collective bargaining agreement, while the UK has 6% of professionals under a collective labour agreement and in Mexico labour reform is pending with collective bargaining agreements being one of the main points. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.9 Accessibility and disability everis meets the requirements expressed in RDL 1/2013 of 29 November and its method of compliance, as regards everis companies in Spain who have this obligation, is shown in the following table: ALTERNATIVE MEASURES (€) COMPANIES TOTAL DIFF. IN DIFFERENCE EMPLOYEES 2% % COMPLIANCE NUMBER OF ABSOLUTE OBLIGATORY REAL IN FAVOUR SPAIN WITH DISAB. QUOTA OF QUOTA EMPLOYEES TERMS SECS (**) everis 253 5 5 0 100 N/A Aragón everis 656 5 13 8 38.46 174,258 182,498 8,239 BPO everis 6,230 36 125 89 28.80 1,703,863 2,357,372 653,509 Spain everis 1,641 13 33 20 39.39 367,879 516,699 148,819 Centers everis inf. *Incorporated in 328 5 7 2 71.42 Engineering 2018 everis inf. *Incorporated in 530 4 11 7 36.39 Operations 2018 everis 65 1 1 0 100.00 N/A Engineering * in process due everis 70 0 1 1 0.00 to increase in Initiatives headcount everis 187 3 3 0 100.00 N/A Aerospace (*) Spanish companies subject to Royal Decree Law 1/2013, of 29 November, approving the Revised Text of the General Law governing the rights of persons with disability and their social inclusion. At least 2% of the workforce in companies with 50 or more employees must be workers with disability. As these companies were incorporated in 2018, a certificate of exceptionality has been requested and granted, so in 2019 the alternative measures will be applied. everis Initiatives has increased its headcount recently so is in the process of requesting a certificate of exceptionality. (**) This figure shows how everis’ commitment goes beyond the legal requirement, indicating the spending by everis that exceeds the established legal obligation. This year this spending has gone on purchases in Special Employment Centers. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 SPAIN FY18 TOTAL EQUAL TO EMPLOYEES FROM 33% FROM 33% TO COMPANIES NUMBER OF OR HIGHER WITH DISABILITY TO 65% 65% WITH AID EMPLOYEES THAN 65% everis Aragón 253 5 4 1 0 everis BPO 656 5 4 0 1 everis Spain 6230 36 26 1 9 everis Centers 1641 13 11 1 1 everis inf. 328 5 4 0 1 Engineering everis inf. 530 4 3 0 1 Operations everis 65 1 1 0 0 Engineering everis 70 0 0 0 0 Initiatives everis 187 3 3 0 0 Aerospace All everis employees with disability in Spain have permanent labour contracts. Other everis companies doing business in other countries apply their specific disability laws such as; the UK where everis complies with the 2010 Equality Law, which stipulates a category for employees with disability and Italy, where everis complies with Law 68/1999, according to which 7% of the workforce must be comprised of people with disability. In FY18 everis companies in the UK had no employees with disability while in Italy there were 25 out of a total headcount of 747. In the other countries in which everis has companies, no legal requirement for the obligatory inclusion of employees with disability has been identified. At the FY18 close, everis reported the following figures for employees with disability in these companies. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 65 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITY BY COUNTRY EUROPE PORTUGAL N/A BENELUX 0 ANDORRA AMERICA BRAZIL 27 COLOMBIA 1 MEXICO 0 PERU 11 CHILE 4 ARGENTINA 3 USA 0 AFRICA MOROCCO TOTAL 164 Table 16. Employees with disability in other countries Among the measures implemented by everis Spain for employees with disability is the offer of a parking space and teleworking when the employee requests this. In co-operation with the Prodis Foundation in Spain, the workplace integration of people with intellectual disability for business area support functions has been implemented, and as a result of this work everis now has 3 employees with intellectual disability. Also, in conjunction with Specialisterne, everis provides high added value training and employment opportunities in the Telecoms sector to people with autism and Asperger’s syndrome in Belgium, Italy and Spain. everis is working on universal accessibility to its work centres enabling the inclusion of a significant number of employees with disability as shown in the tables included in this section. In 2019 everis will transfer its Madrid head offices to a new building that will comply with all the requirements of universal accessibility allowing the incorporation of more employees with disability. Equally, other companies are adapting their workplaces to criteria of universal accessibility in order to increase the inclusion of people with disability as in Chile where the head offices are being modernised (adapted restrooms, access ramps, guide plates, work station adaptation) to meet universal accessibility regulations. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 4.10 Compensation and social benefits everis employees enjoy a wide range of social benefits and personal advantages. Although these vary by location, efforts are made to offer medical insurance, financial help for food, life and accident insurance, flexible remuneration, a corporate American Express card and a flexible work schedule, among others. At the corporate level general guidelines for implementing and managing social benefits for everis employees are provided which each office adapts to its own situation. An example of this is everis in Spain, where the compensation and benefits area is managed from Living everis through “Mi compensación”, an initiative aimed at optimising employees’ total remuneration. The three areas comprising “Mi compensación” are: Launched in 2010, this is a platform from which everis employees can acquire certain products and services with tax benefits, which vary by location. Specifically for employees in Spain, it offers various financial products (for example: payroll bank account, personal loans, among others) with significant benefits from the everis virtual office. This is an online shopping portal exclusively for company employees with a range of options and plans. Also, in each location everis contributes to its employees’ health through actions such as health fairs, arrangements with gyms, physiotherapy in the office, fruit for employees in communal areas, among others. In addition, everis employees can create or join everclubes, groups of employees who meet to practise a specific activity or hobby. The aim is to channel initiatives that generate interest among our employees, creating common spaces in which they can share hobbies and helping to integrates new hires. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 67 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 5 Impact on society The everis Group’s Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct promotes the active participation of the company in social initiatives such as volunteer work or other activities in the community in compliance with its corporate responsibility policy. It also has to respect the diversity of cultures and values and contribute to the development of the societies in which it does business, and refuse to take part in any commercial relationship with anti-social forces.. everis realises that much of its success as a company lies in its continual co-operation with all its stakeholders. everis works closely and with a shared vision, with its clients, suppliers, schools and colleges, entrepreneurs and society in general. This co-operation gives rise to innovative initiatives, encouragement of enterprise and projects with a large social impact; in addition to mutual learning, growth and enrichment. This enables everis to grow as a company and also, in a virtuous circle, offer its stakeholders a better service in all aspects: business, knowledge transfer and social value. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 68 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Impact of the company’s activity on employment and local development everis tries to promote the development and sustainability of all the communities in which it operates. It co-operates actively with the various agents that comprise society, supporting and promoting initiatives with a favourable impact on the population and the environment, especially through initiatives and projects of enterprise, innovation and social action. The company tries to enhance the everis and NTT DATA Company brand as an employer brand; it has a workforce of 25,119 employees with first job hires in the consultancy sector accounting for 55%, and with over 90% on permanent contracts. Moreover, the number of hires has increased by 17% vs the previous year, giving rise to 9,694 new hires, as shown in the following chart. 4,139 EUROPE 4,737 4,026 AMERICA 4,897 85 AFRICA 60 FY17 FY18 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 Chart 5. Number of hires By purchasing from local suppliers, everis contributes to the development and growth of the businesses in its communities. In 2018, 78% of purchases were made from local suppliers. A supplier is deemed local when the country of origin of the supplier (registered offices) is the same as the country making the purchase. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 69 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 5.1 Initiatives in education  everis promotes social development through the everis Educación initiative, dedicated to the Education sector, which works through two business lines. The K-12 line deals with solutions for regulated and obligatory education, including, among other developments: • Xtend, a social learning environment aimed at schools which encourages the active participation of students. The platform can recommend, in real time, the best content and materials while allowing the teacher to generate personalised schedules, contributing intelligence to decision-taking. • EducaGen, a learning analytics solution for schools that analyses motivation, social interaction and the semantic information generated by the students to predict and recommend the most appropriate teaching resources.. • e-Confidence, an EU funded project whose goal is to create a new behaviour transformation method for serious games. This project has developed two games aimed at children between the ages of 12 and 14: one to prevent bullying and the other on the safe use of the internet. everis is preparing the business model and plan, also taking part in the pilot activities and the integration of the games in the Xtend platform. • everis school, comprised of vocational training centres which teach the Development of Multi-platform Applications qualification. This is the first time in Spain that the employer has become the trainer. At the same time, everis Educación also takes part in corporate training projects, an area in which the team has over 18 years of experience of executing proposals related to the digitisation of teaching, virtual platforms, the design and development of e-learning content and collaborative learning through virtual environments. . CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 70 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Collaboration with universities Since its beginnings, everis has collaborated with the leading universities in each country where it does business with the purpose of helping and supporting the generation of talent. Accordingly, everis employees take an active role in a host of initiatives including: • Open days in the offices of everis. • Transversal workshops. • Sponsorship of the best students. • Collaboration with students’ associations. • Participation in job fairs. • Final year project in everis. Talks Smartcities-Smartgrids Big Data Cloud Computing SAP Digital Banking Robotics User Experience Workshops Android Cybersecurity SAP Job Search + discussions agreed with a teacher Figure 8. Initiatives for dialogue in the University 71 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 everis, offers various scholarship programmes for university talent as a way of incorporating young people into the world of work. These programmes are carried out by working hand in hand with the main universities in the localities in which the company operates. In this way, the value that the University contributes to society by developing talent is continued and the transition towards sustainable quality employment is made easier. In addition to signing scholarship agreements to incorporate graduates, everis employees take an active role in university life, carrying out training and dissemination activities in various faculties, maintaining the following channels of dialogue with the universities: CHANNELS OF DIALOGUE Sessions and actions aimed at capturing talent. Job fairs in universities. Hackathons everis Open Days Participation in forums with discussions and presentations Talent prizes and prize for academic merit. Table 17. Channels of dialogue. University CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 72 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 5.2 Social commitment Volunteer programmes The everis foundation aims to promote the spirit of enterprise, boost innovation and encourage people’s talent. These three pillars allow the company to give back to society what it has received from it, thanks to the voluntary commitment and transforming capabilities of the people who work for everis in the countries in which it operates. Over 1,000 everis employees throughout the world and nearly 500 external volunteers participate selflessly in the initiatives, making the implementation of the projects a reality in 22 offices in 11 countries: Argentina, Brazil, Belgium, Chile, Colombia, USA, Spain, Italy, Mexico, Peru and Portugal. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 73 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Programmes promoting innovation There are various initiatives in this area: This year everis has opened its first LivingLab, a laboratory of innovation and co-creation in Spain for interaction between employees, customers, technological partners and the entrepreneurial and academic ecosystem. This open space enables joint work on innovation to tackle the technological challenges which are transforming the business and social ecosystem. LivingLab is part of everis’ strategy to create its own network of centres of innovation which will unite with the hubs that NTT DATA has at the global level. A NTT DATA initiative that seeks to find innovative commercial ideas which can be adapted to NTT DATA’s existing services/solutions, and which are attractive to customers (large corporations). everis hosted the final stage of NTT DATA’s hackathon, at which employees of various companies developed and presented their ideas to a jury comprised of experts in innovation and enterprise, belonging to the group. KEEP CODING Collaboration agreement with the leading training centre for developers in Spain, with the goal of promoting the training of ICT professionals linked to the real needs of the current market. An innovation incubator: a platform for connecting the global innovation ecosystem, providing access to an ecosystem of millions of start-ups throughout the world.. Digital platforms Social initiatives like #girlsgonna are created with the aim of contributing as a company to the important work of reducing the gender gap in the digital sector. It is aimed at families and the teaching community as these are the groups that most influence the decisions taken by boys and girls when it comes to choosing their studies and careers. The girlsgonna.com website contains educational material, designed using the Made-with-CLOQQ method, so any parent or teacher can facilitate Maker and STEM learning experiences that eliminate gender stereotypes associated with technology CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 74 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 5.3 Activities, partnerships, sponsorships,  awards and social actions  The everis foundation launches activities, prizes and actions with a clear social component, that improve people’s quality of life and have a transforming effect on the environments in which they take place. Sponsorship in co-operation with the FIB of WomenENcourage WomenENcourage brings together women from the world of IT and related technical fields to exchange knowledge and experiences, and provides special support to women who want to obtain their academic qualifications and begin their IT careers. https://womencourage.acm.org/2019. Technology workshops for children With the backing of CLOQQ, initiatives are developed to prepare young talent and the new generations for the STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics) field. Practical workshops of digital creation are organised for children and their families that encourage their interest in scientific-technological careers. everis volunteers train in their spare time in order to run these workshops for the children and relatives of their co-workers and for children and young people from under-privileged backgrounds. This initiative take place in 21 everis offices in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, USA, Spain, Mexico, Peru and Portugal. These are the figures: • More than 700 trained volunteers (everis employees). • Over 1,600 child participants. • More than 300 f amilies trained (workshops for the parents of the children attending). During this period, partnerships have been created with institutions to offer these workshops to children and young people from under-privileged backgrounds: • Spain Hospital La Fe (Valencia); United Way; Aspanion. • Latin America: Lima para Peques, Museo Papalote del Niño, the Bogota Chamber of Commerce and Colegio Argentina. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 75 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Programa Tech4change The everis foundation together with United Way, has created a specific, technology-based programme, Tech4change, for secondary school students with learning difficulties and at risk of dropping out of school. This project is run by everis Madrid volunteers. Also, in order to upscale this project and facilitate its growth, the everis foundation is working on a free MOOC (Massive Online Open Course) for trainers, so that any person, institution, NGO, or school in any country can carry out these workshops with children in the vicinity. In addition, in order to continue to promote these careers among everis’ employees’ children, the foundation has held the third edition of its global “Christmas with Scratch competition” for Christmas cards made with Scratch by the smallest members of the household. The prize for the winner of the competition in each office is a Robot Mbot so they can continue programming from home. Inter-American Development Bank (LACCHAIN) The everis foundation together with the IDB has signed a letter of intent to work together in promoting blockchain technology through the LACCHAIN initiative, promoted by BID Lab together with some of the key players of this technology, of which everis and NTT DATA have the privilege to form part. As part of this partnership, both entities will launch an initiative to encourage enterprise based on blockchain technology for projects to prevent, mitigate and control violence against, harassment, and abuse of women, children and the elderly, in addition to projects that enable the control of public policy in these matters. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 76 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Teaming: Crowdfunding social platform The Teaming foundation, with the backing of everis, has created an online platform to raise funds for social causes through micro-donations of 1 euro a month. everis’ commitment to this platform has led the foundation to create a specific landing page to give visibility to and collaborate with employees’ causes. At the end of FY18, these are the groups created by everis employees: • Intheos foundation against cancer. • ALUDME fight against dystonia and MDS. • ¿Nos ayudas a saber qué le pasa a Marta? • El Pozo de los Deseos – Malawi. • NGO Jardín de Amor Guatemala. • Dando vida con la música. • Asociación Reacción Solidaria. • IdiPaz: Tumour – Immunology. • Cris foundation against cancer. • FSH Muscular dystrophy. • El mundo con Yessica. • We want to continue research into treatment for children with brain damage All the everis causes: https://www.teaming.net/landing/everis CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 77 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Púlsar Programme: mentoring of gifted girls by successful women This initiative is based on personalised mentoring and consists of six, one-hour sessions a month in which leading women in various fields act as professional role models for female adolescents. The aim is to help the girls to discover and make the most of their talent, empowering them to continue with higher education. It is present in 7 cities in Spain, Brazil and Peru. This year, the everis foundation has given motivational talks in schools to almost 2,000 adolescents (girls and boys) to teach them the importance of self-esteem in adolescence and make them aware of the gender gap in Society. The fourth edition of the PÚLSAR programme in Spain involves 100 mentors and 100 girls from schools in Madrid, Barcelona, Cartagena and Santiago de Compostela. The second edition of the programme is ongoing in Brazil and the first in Peru, and its internationalisation continues with the launch of the PÚLSAR Programme in Colombia and Mexico. In order to upscale this project and facilitate its growth, the everis foundation held a free MOOC (Massive Online Open Course) with all the methodology and best practices of the Programme, so that any person, institution, NGO, or school in any country can implement it with adolescents in the vicinity. The Púlsar Programme has won the following awards: • NTT DATA Contribution Award. • 100 best ideas of Actualidad Económica. • Best social mentoring practice by the Mentoring Network. • Premios Brasil, by the Brazil-Spain chamber of commerce. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 78 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Enterprise challenge The everis foundation has taken part again in Desafío Emprende, an initiative launched by Obra Social la Caixa which promotes enterprising values and attitude among youngsters, with the participation of close to 1,400 schools teams throughout Spain. The everis foundation, as a participating partner, has proposed a challenge to the students of the assigned school in Barcelona based on its Healthy Pets project: a collar for pets that sends health and well-being information to their owners via a mobile app. With the challenge proposed by the everis foundation to think of other intelligent devices apart from the telephone which could benefit from the data sent by the collar they have travelled to Silicon Valley to learn from the experience of professionals who work in some of the world’s leading companies. This is an experience that will strengthen their enterprise skills and personal growth. everis enterprise awards For 18 years, the everis foundation has held the everis enterprise awards to promote enterprising spirit and research at an international level. This contest rewards projects based on technological innovation with a high social impact with the aim of improving the quality of life of people and Society. The foundation’s panel awarded the 2018 everis Prize to NaviLens, a patented BIDI tag that, with the help of an application, makes public and private spaces accessible to visually impaired people. It allows them to move around on their own in places they have not yet memorised and especially in places where there is no GPS signal (for example, the underground, trains, airports). A runner-up award went to MJN Neuroserveis, a device that can predict an epilepsy attack in advance, improving the safety and quality of life of sufferers from this disease. Awards for social intrapreneurship These awards reward the enterprise of everis employees who head innovative projects, based on technologies with a strong social component and which impact people’s quality of life. The winner of this edition led a project to improve people’s quality of life via an alternative communications system (ACS) to give a voice to people who for various reasons cannot speak or use sign language, and need a tool in order to be able to communicate. Other partnerships and associations everis establishes partnerships with NGOs focused on the inclusion of people at risk of social exclusion, with particular focus on mitigating the consequences of the digital divide in the following countries CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 79 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 COUNTRY ORGANISATION/ASSOCIATION YouthStart NGO BELGIUM everis works with this NGO via workshops to give young people the necessary knowledge and skills to become entrepreneurs. She Can Be initiative UK everis backs this initiative promoted by the NGO The Lord Mayor’s Appeal, which aims to inspire future talent and guarantee equality of opportunity for girls and young women. Initiatives in partnership with the main social organisations and PORTUGAL players everis places its talent and capabilities at the disposal of institutions and organisations working for local development. MEXICO everis contributes to various social and environmental initiatives With volunteers in co-ordination with the various activities. Talent Fest CHILE The country’s largest hackathon, in conjunction with Laboratoria y Kodea, with the goal of boosting the education of girls and female adolescents in technological subjects. everis has a partnership with the Chaminade Foundation which COLOMBIA enables it to exchange experiences with members of the indigenous communities in which the organisation works. Table 18. Other partnerships in the countries in which everis does business CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 80 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 5.4 Customers everis has a very clear policy with customers, based on proximity and innovative, integral and high quality solutions. Each customer is assigned a manager responsible for all the activities affecting them, from the identification of needs to project execution. In order to know the degree of customer satisfaction with respect to the quality of the service provided by everis, various communications channels have been established with them: • Customer satisfaction report: this report is prepared annually based on the responses obtained in customer surveys. It is a survey aimed at measuring the degree of customer satisfaction with the quality of service in each of its phases based on detailed questions. At the time of writing, figures for FY18 are not yet available so the final marks (out of 10) for customer satisfaction in recent years are shown below (always above 7.7): Historical 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 8.0 8.0 8.1 8.1 7.9 7.9 7.9 7.7 • Customer Management: as previously mentioned, each client has a global management structure headed by a Client Manager whose tasks include directly addressing any concerns or worries that the client may have and leading the associated action plan to resolve potential contingencies. • Claims management: this process is the responsibility of everis’ legal department. In FY18 no legal claim was reported from our customers. • On a regular basis, the Brand and Communications department is asked for information about communications received through social media about Quality and the Environment CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 81 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In addition to the above, everis signs contracts with customers that are appropriate in form and content, supplying systems and services in accordance with what is offered and stipulated. As part of its commitment to confidentiality, everis manages customer information in accordance with the contracts and with the corresponding laws and regulations relating to the protection of personal data, establishing, in addition to the aforementioned surveys, the following channels of dialogue: CHANNELS OF DIALOGUE WITH CUSTOMERS Business proposals and their monitoring. Business development activities. Events: congresses and conferences. Satisfaction surveys. Annual sustainability report. Table 19. Channels of dialogue. Customers No security breach occurred in FY18 resulting in loss of/damage to personal data in the area of customers relations that could have caused an incident in respect of data protection policy (GDPR). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 82 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 everis has continued on the development of the internal project to bring the company into line with General Data Protection Regulations, whose main objective has been to accommodate the necessary processes, methodologies and tools for compliance with the requirements of the new regulations regarding the Company’s responsibility for data processing when applicable in the execution of its activities. In addition, and considering the paradigm shift that these regulations imply, awareness and training campaigns have been carried out aimed at company employees which have consisted mainly of the following actions: • In the ten weeks before the regulations fully came into force, internal messages were sent regarding key aspects of the Group’s accommodation to the new rules. • The first of these messages was to inform employees of an obligatory online course with a test requiring 100% correct answers. • Also, various classroom-based courses were given to those employees whose responsibilities require greater involvement with the processing of personal data and training talks were also given to managers and business units. • Together with the awareness campaign, a competition was launched to award knowledge of these regulations. • In addition, the creation of the Data Protection Office was formally announced, headed by the everis group’s data protection officer, appointed by the company’s senior management.. Although the internal accommodation project was concluded on the full coming into force of the General Data Protection Regulations (25 May 2018), the collegiate body created and our Data Protection Officer continue to improve internal processes and ensure correct compliance with the rules, in order to consolidate the organisation’s sensibility in respect of privacy. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 83 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 5.5 Suppliers Although these vary by location, everis has established the following over-riding criteria when choosing a supplier: • Equality of conditions among them. Three proposals from different companies are always assessed to compare criteria and quotes. • Transparency in respect of each proposal received. The internal customer has at their disposal all the information regarding each supplier proposed. • Internal assessment process to classify the service provided. • Analysis of project management criteria, as well as their design and development. Subcontractor incorporation policy Policies have been stipulated with suppliers so that subcontracted personnel work with the same tools. They state that everis has a Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct whose content also applies to the companies and professionals with whom the company collaborates, who will be required to respect the fundamental rights of each person; the creation of a suitable working environment for personal, social and business development; the effective application of the principles of equality, meritocracy and non-discrimination in the hiring of employees; the commitment to quality, innovation, training and transparent information; the elimination of occupational risks; the prohibition of soliciting or offering any type of gift to clients and/or suppliers, including Public Administrations, that exceeds mere courtesy to obtain a benefit, favour, subsidy or advantage in favour of everis or in its own favour; as well as the adequate management of resources and respect for the environment. There is also a certification form by which the subcontractor must accept everis’ environmental policy based on regulation ISO 14001 and the energy policy based on regulation ISO 50001:2011. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 84 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Finally, everis always acts with integrity and in compliance with the corresponding laws and regulations applicable to operations with suppliers and respects the contracts signed with these, establishing, in this respect, the following channels of dialogue: CHANNELS OF DIALOGUE WITH SUPPLIERS Mailbox for delivering bids Negotiation process Constant management of the relationship Certification process Regular service assessment Table 20. Channels of dialogue. Suppliers Purchasing policy everis’ purchasing policy includes the regulations, responsibilities and basic conditions for corporate acquisitions. It includes the company’s code of ethics, which should be followed by any everis employee who comes into contact with suppliers. In addition, there are internal policies that stipulate the processes for the awarding of services and supplies to suppliers, which are based on principles of impartiality, transparency and sustainability. everis’ purchasing function comprises all the teams that intervene directly or indirectly in purchasing processes and is headed by the procurement team, with a Global Co-ordination and Governance Structure (GCGS) headed by the Global Head of Procurement. The Procurement team comprises a group of professionals deployed geographically according to each country’s business requirements. In this way, these professionals can provide support for local, regional and global purchasing projects. everis is working on the purchasing policy for suppliers with the aim of including social, gender equality and environmental aspects as an objective for 2019. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 85 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Supplier oversight everis has an internal assessment process carried out by the Procurement teams following the guidelines established in the global coordination and governance structure. This ensures that the supplier meets expectations in respect of the agreed execution and delivery deadlines and ensures the quality of the products and services contracted. everis reserves the power to appoint at its own discretion and cost, an independent auditor to carry out supplier certification for purposes of verifying compliance by the supplier with the responsibilities undertaken within the scope of the contract entered into. In addition, everis’ policy states that the supplier must carry out independent quality control tests on a regular basis. If the category of services which are the object of the contract involve relations with everis customers, these tests shall consist, without prejudice to others, of surveys of customers on the quality, effectiveness, treatment and characteristics of the services provided by the supplier. In this supplier oversight exercise, everis is working on the inclusion of social, gender equality and environmental measures as an objective for 2019. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 86 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 5.6 Awards The awards obtained by everis both at the global level and by country in FY18 are shown below: PAÍS AWARDS GLOBAL Business Excellence Award – “Rising Star” category, Cloudera Global Partner Summit BRAZIL Top Employer Brazil certification for the best practices in human resources – Top Employers Institute. National Alares 2018 award. The Alares foundation granted the ex aequo award in the “Large Company” category to everis for its work in favour of the work-life balance and social responsibility. Top Employer Spain certification for the best practices in human resources – Top Employers Institute. SAP Quality Awards 2018 to Iberdrola’s New Treasury System project (Spain and Portugal) SAP Highest growth partner in the area of Human Capital Management (HCM) – Oracle. Talent Investment Partner – Salesforce. IV Linkedin Talent Awards – Finalist in the Best Culture of Learning category for the everis University – LinkedIn. SPAIN 2019 Sapiens awards – Inter-institutional Delegated Acts Register project category everis’ “Electronic Delegated Acts Register of the European Commission – Exporting value to Europe”. IX National Biotechnology Award Cristina Garmendia, everis independent director, for her work in favour of the Spanish economic and scientific sector ALITER business school. Award for job creation in the autonomous region of Aragon Actualidad Económica magazine. “Company that collaborates the most in practical training and employment” recognition Alicante university. 2018 Titanes de las Finanzas award – granted to Billib in the products and services category – ECOFIN. ITALY Best Spanish company in Italy Chamber of Commerce in Spain in Italy. everis foundation’s Púlsar Programme Brazil-Spain chamber of commerce (“Social Work” category) FUNDACIÓN EVERIS everis foundation’s Púlsar Programme Mentoring network of Spain (“Best practice in social mentoring in Spain”). Table 21. Awards received CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 87 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 6 Environment 6.1 Environmental Policy Detailed information about the current and foreseeable effects of the company’s activities on the environment and, if applicable, health and safety everis’ Environmental Policy The Group has health and safety establishes a commitment to improve officers, when required by a country’s its environmental performance, in line regulations, since health and safety with the philosophy that the company systems are defined and supervised has had since its creation of being at the individual company level. a responsible business. This is also In everis, 100% of employees are aligned with its ISO 14001 certification covered by an occupational health that provides a reference framework and safety system. to achieve balance between socioeconomic needs and protecting the The scope of the company’s activities environment. relating to the environment, health and safety is therefore exhaustively everis’ commitment to ensuring the controlled and continuously improved. highest possible level of safety, health and well-being of its professionals, Furthermore, the Environmental Policy regardless of their business area, is approved, promoted and supported geographical location or activity, is by the management, which takes included in its Occupational Health responsibility for it and demonstrates and Safety Policy, Corporate Social its commitment. Responsibility Policy and Professional Code of Ethics and Conduct. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 88 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Accordingly, the Environmental Policy defines the following objectives related to the effects of the company’s activities on the environment: 1. Work in a way that is respectful of the environment. 2. Encourage environmental responsibility among our professionals, clients, suppliers and other stakeholders. 3. Integrate environmental-related factors into our processes. 4. Comply with prevailing international, national, regional and local legislation related to the environment, and with the other requirements adopted by the organisation in relation to its environmental aspects, including adhering to stricter limits whenever possible. 5. Identify the environmental impacts caused by the company’s activities and establish plans to eliminate them. 6. Prevent pollution by minimising our consumption of natural resources, eliminating our waste in a responsible way and recycling the materials that we use. 7. Establish and review our environmental objectives to ensure they are appropriate and viable. 8. Continuously improve our environmental management system and the way it is implemented. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 89 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 6.2 Environmental Management System Environmental evaluation and certification procedures everis has implemented and maintains an Environmental Management System (EMS) based on the international ISO 14001 standard, as a tool to develop its environmental policy, to manage environmental issues, and to plan responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes and resources. The EMS has a team of people that implement environmental procedures and its management objectives are set every tax year. During FY 2018, the objectives of the environmental management system for the offices where it has been implemented included the following: • Internally integrate the Quality and Environment systems before the end of 2019. • Reduce paper consumption by reducing the volume of printed copies by 5%. • Increase the consumption of recycled materials compared to nonrecycled in the consumable items used in the cafeteria. • Reduce the amount of plastic packaging and paper/cardboard waste, reducing the consumption of these materials. • Optimise the separation of our waste. • Reduce our consumption of heating oil by 5% compared to FY17 in relation to average occupancy. • Reduce our acetone consumption by 60% compared to FY17 by replacing it as a cleaning material. • Analyse electricity consumption in offices where this is not already done. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 90 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Furthermore, the everis Group holds other environmental certifications for some of its work centres, as shown in the following table: INDICATORS FY2018 Certifications implemented in everis and management systems Management systems and certifications currently implemented in everis relating to the environment, quality, energy efficiency and sustainability. Offices where implemented. ISO 14001 Spain Madrid (Novus, Manoteras 52, Sevilla-Torre Pelli, Segovia) ISO 50001 Spain Avenida Manoteras nº 52 Sevilla (Cartuja y Torre Sevilla); Madrid: Boadilla del Monte, Manoteras 52; Bilbao; Valencia; Zaragoza; Las Palmas de Gran Canaria; ISO 9001:2015 Spain Barcelona (Diagonal 605); A Coruña; Murcia; Valladolid; Alicante; Hontoria-Segovia Certificación Spain Headquarters at Manoteras 52 (Madrid Spain) BREEAM Comercial Certificación Spain Edificio NOVUS, Fuente de la Mora, 1 (Madrid Spain) BREEAM EN USO EUROPE Portugal Lisbon UK London W1W 8HS, Glasgow G3 8JU ISO 9001:20151 Benelux Brussels Italy Milan, Rome ISO 14001 UK London ISO 14001 Portugal Lisbon AMERICA Brazil Sao Paulo, Uberlândia Chile Temuco, Santiago de Chile Colombia Bogotá, Medellín ISO 9001:2015 USA Arlington VA, Boston MA Mexico Mexico City Peru Lima, Trujillo Argentina Buenos Aires, Tucumán, AFRICA ISO 9001:2015* Morocco Tetuán The scope of ISO 9001:2015 certification includes the following activities: Strategy and business process consultancy, information technology and outsourcing IT and business services, project management; analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of IT systems, as well as technical support and maintenance work for these systems. Technical consultancy services. Solutions, projects and consultancy products, technical assistance, consultancy, design, development, integration, production configuration, installation, after-sales services and software maintenance, firmware and hardware for corporate and military activities. Table 22. Certifications implemented in everis CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 91 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Resources, provisions and guarantees used to prevent environmental risk At everis, both the senior management of the company and its employees are firmly committed to environmental issues. As part of the environmental management system, everis produces an inventory of risks related to factors that could generate variations in the processes of the Environmental Management System. Environmental risks are identified, analysed qualitatively, the strategy to mitigate or accept them is then planned, and they are monitored, ensuring that a precautionary approach is applied. The identification of these risks is exhaustive, and the main processes that are affected by these risks are divided into threats and opportunities, as well as identifying the priority for treating these risks. With regards to guarantees, everis does not have a policy to cover environmental risks due to the nature of the services offered by the company. Given everis’ activities, the risk of producing serious or irreversible damage to the environment is highly unlikely, however, as previously stated, the risk identification process is exhaustive and the necessary measures are implemented to prevent environmental damage. everis has a team of professionals that specialise in environmental management and the ISO 14001 standard. Global production is the area responsible for maintaining the EMS and adapting it to the company’s activities. everis Engineering specialises in the design, implementation and management of integral technology solutions in the field of energy efficiency, as well as protecting the environment and sustainability. Cleaning and maintenance works are carried out by a subcontracted company, which is also responsible for reporting the quantity of the waste it collects. The company has modern facilities, with the latest technologies and excellent public transport communications and services. Given that the company’s primary activity is consultancy, the products and services it offers tend to use few resources and produce little waste. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 92 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 6.3 Good environmental practices  Prevention, recycling and reuse measures To comply with company policy, the EMS carries out numerous awareness campaigns and training and communication actions to promote care for our surroundings and protection of the environment. As previously described, the EMS’ objectives include: • Reduce paper consumption. • Increase consumption of recycled materials. • Reduce plastic packaging and paper/cardboard use. • Improve the separation of all types of waste produced at our facilities. One of the best practices put in place this tax year is the separation of the wastes generated at everis’ facilities, which are placed into specific containers designed for each type of waste. Awareness raising campaigns have also been carried out regarding the judicious use of resources in our offices. Indicator 8 of Annex 3 shows the list of the wastes generated at everis offices in FY18. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 93 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 6.4 Climate Change Strategy Important elements of greenhouse gas emissions To demonstrate our environmental commitment though data and facts, every year our carbon footprint is calculated in an initiative that allows an organisation’s total Greenhouse Gas Emissions to be measured that it produces directly or indirectly. The company’s emissions are therefore reported to its stakeholders in a transparent way. The calculation of everis’ Carbon Footprint for the 2018 tax year comprises the period between 01/04/2018 and 31/03/2019. The scope of the Carbon Footprint calculation covers the work centres in Spain, for all of companies that are consolidated in everis Spain S.L.U. and operate in Spain. It is worth noting that the figures relating to the Carbon Footprint calculation for FY2018 mentioned below have been verified by an independent third-party, although as at the date of this report, the administrative process of recording the company’s carbon footprint in the Carbon Footprint Register of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition has still not been completed. The organisation learns about its emissions through this calculation and its subsequent verification, and the potential measures that it can take to reduce them are therefore proposed and defined in this document. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 94 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CARBON EMISSIONS t CO2 eq. t CO2 eq. FOOTPRINT SOURCE FY 2018 Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 82 82 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 2,203 2,203 Business travel, by land 1,377 Scope 3 Business travel, by air 6,357 8,241 Business travel, by rail 507 TOTAL (t CO2 eq.) 10,526 Table 23. Result of the Carbon Footprint for tax year 2018 everis has defined the following indicator to assess the company’s performance with regards to Carbon Footprint reduction targets in both absolute and relative terms: (Carbon Footprint FYx ) Carbon Footprint KPI FYx = ———————————————— (Average Nº Employees FYx) everis CARBON FOOTPRINT KPI FY2018 0.80 t CO2e / employee Table 24. Result of the Carbon Footprint indicator for tax year 2018. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 95 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Given the nature of the organisation’s activities, the bulk of the emissions fall within Scope 3, in other words related to business travel, and within this category, the majority of the emissions come from air travel. After air travel, the activities that generate the most emissions are journeys by land. Taking action to reduce the emissions in this scope is complicated as everis’ employees need to travel to the different locations where its projects are located in order to achieve excellence in these projects. Nevertheless, a series of corporate measures have been proposed and work is being carried out on potential reductions in this Scope. Work is also being done to reduce Scope 2 emissions, which are the second highest contributor to the carbon footprint. everis had its carbon footprint verified by an independent third-party for the first time in FY17, in accordance with the requirements of the ISO14064/1 standard, and was included in the Carbon Footprint Register of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, obtaining the “Calculation” seal. This fact has been reported internally and represents a major achievement in the process of setting reduction goals and commitments. Register of carbon footprint, CO2 offsetting and absorption projects of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition. The organisation: everis SPAIN, S.L. Has registered its Carbon Footprint in section a) Carbon Footprint and commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with the following information: Calculation year 2017. Scopes 1, 2 and 3. Scope 3 includes emissions from travel by land carried out with taxis or private vehicles, railway transport and air transport. Limits of the organisation included in the calculation. Consultancy activities carried out in national territory at its offices in A Coruña, Alicante, Barcelona, Bilbao, Ciudad Real, Gran Canaria, Madrid, Murcia, Salamanca, Santander, Seville, Valencia, Valladolid and Zaragoza. and is hereby granted the right to use the following symbol: Figure 9. Certificate that accredits that everis calculates its Carbon Footprint under Scopes 1, 2 and 3 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 96 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Measures to adapt to climate change consequences everis is putting in place measures to adapt to climate change in the field of energy efficiency. For more information, see the response to “Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy consumption and the use of renewable energy”. Established reduction goals In general, the company’s reduction strategy includes expanding the scope of the carbon footprint to all everis centres around the world and reduction measures will be adapted to changes in the Carbon Footprint calculation. The following table shows the evolution of the Carbon Footprint KPI defined by everis in 2017 and 2018, as well as comparisons with the target set for 2021. CARBON FOOTPRINT INDICATOR Expected reduction in emissions per employee (t. CO2 eq. / employee) The organisation’s greenhouse gas emissions, in tonnes of equivalent carbon dioxide per employee, that are proposed in the tax year 2017 and expected to be reduced by the tax year 2021. KPI FY2017 KPI FY2018 KPI FY2021 (t CO2e / employee) (t CO2e / employee) (t CO2e / employee) 0.80 0.80 0.70 Table 25. Result of everis’ emissions per employee in previous years and target year of 2021 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 97 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The KPI FY2017 was 0,80 tCO2 e/ employee, extremely similar to 2018, but it should be noted that there has been a considerable increase in the number of employees. To date, the reduction target to be implemented in the everis Carbon Footprint Reduction Plan is expected to be achieved by tax year 2021. Both absolute and relative targets will be assessed, but everis’ performance in terms of reducing its Carbon Footprint will be evaluated based on the performance of the previously defined KPI. Taking into account the implementation of the reduction measures and best practices described in section 6.5 and 6.6, total greenhouse gas emissions per employee (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) are expected to be reduced by 20% compared to FY2021, in other words to achieve a KPI of 0.70 tCO2e per employee, assuming that the number of employees remains unchanged. In order to attain the commitment and involvement of the organisation’s employees and achieve the reduction targets proposed in the plan, the information relating to the company’s Carbon Footprint for its activities of the corresponding tax year will be included in the annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Similarly, the Reduction Plan, the commitments adopted and the proposed measures will be published internally so that the whole company is aware of the need to reduce the impact of its activities. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 98 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Measures to prevent, reduce or identify carbon emissions In addition to the numerous energy-saving measures described in the energy efficiency section, everis has planned other reduction measures to achieve its targets, many of which have already been implemented, which affect the emission of refrigeration gases and travel. This latter aspect has become a focus for the organisation, as it accounts for the majority of the carbon emissions produced by the company due to the nature of its consultancy and engineering activities, which makes travel to work sites frequently necessary. Las medidas propuestas por everis para reducir sus emisiones relativas The measures proposed by everis to reduce its emissions relating to the direct scope, are as follows: • everis shall adopt a commitment to implement sustainability criteria when assessing the cooling systems of potential buildings that it intends to occupy in the future. These criteria will translate into a greater desire by the company to lease buildings with cooling systems that are based on less polluting technologies compared to those based on refrigeration gases. • Replacement of cooling equipment for the DPC: 2 STULTZ ALD 452 GE units. This measure has already been implemented. • Improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the procedures for managing and maintaining the cooling equipment of buildings (to be implemented in the short-term) The measures proposed by everis to reduce its emissions relating to the indirect scope, are as follows: • A series of corporate campaigns will be carried out, which will primarily seek to raise awareness among all company employees about the impact of air travel on the company’s total carbon footprint. • At the same time, everis will outline a series of strategic lines in which it will propose a range of viable options to employees (video conferences, digital and telephone communications) so that they travel by plane only when strictly necessary (short-term). • For taxi journeys taken by employees, contracts will be promoted with taxi firms that can offer low-carbon services (short-term). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 99 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In addition to the above, work has been carried out and continues to be carried out on other generic measures: • For tax year 2018, the everis Carbon Footprint will be verified again in accordance with the ISO 14.064/1 standard, by an accredited entity. This process underpins the entire credibility of the calculation and the reduction measures for everis’ clients who regularly ask for its emissions report. • Draft a calculation procedure for the Carbon Footprint so that this calculation occurs automatically in the future. We intend to implement this measure in the short-term. • Introduce low-carbon purchasing criteria into contracts with different suppliers, who will also be asked to calculate their own carbon footprint as far as possible. This measure is intended to be implemented in the medium-term. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 100 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 6.5 Sustainable resource consumption The everis Group encourages efficient resource use (water, paper, energy) and thanks to the operational control process for recycling the waste generated in our offices included in the scope of the EMS, the company has managed to put in place meticulous control and take measures that help to reduce the amount of waste generated. It has also put in place circular economy measures and sustainability improvements. Water consumption based on local restrictions Water consumption is not currently deemed to be a material consideration for everis, based on the scale of our impact on these areas and the relative importance that interested parties place on other issues. Nevertheless, this issue is regularly reviewed and we expect to be able to report this information in the future. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 101 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Consumption of raw materials and measures adopted to improve the efficiency of their use Another measure included in the environmental policy and part of the EMS is to raise awareness among all employees about the need to get involved in habitually using water, paper and energy in a rational way, as well as best practices for minimising the use of natural resources that can be extended to all of our daily lives. Furthermore, at everis we have an operational control process for recycling the waste generated in our offices, included in the scope of the EMS. We identify our waste, which is subsequently stored, separated into containers to be reused, recycled or processed. The separation of this waste is based on the criteria established under current legislation. The recycling control process is subject to a system that defines different levels of responsibility in order to ensure effective management. This system comprises: • An environmental manager. • An environmental office manager. • Professionals. everis has specific measures to promote the sustainable use of raw materials. For example, internally encouraging people not to print on paper, and using campaigns and posters that encourage employees not to use plastic cups or lids. Indicator 10 in Annex 3 shows the figures relating to the consumption of raw materials. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 102 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy consumption and the use of renewable energy Since 2016, the company has implemented and certified an Energy Management System in accordance with the ISO 50001 standard at its offices in Madrid (Manoteras 52) and is currently working to incorporate new offices in the Group into the project which already have energy audits. Taken as a whole, the energy-saving measures identified in those audits would represent an average saving of 10% annually over the baseline for consumption. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 103 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The final objective is to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020 compared to the base trend. everis’ Carbon Footprint Reduction Plan includes a series of reduction commitments in the field of energy efficiency. The global measure proposed by everis to reduce the carbon footprint in the area of electricity consumption relates to the widening the scope for the aforementioned ISO 50.0001 standard on Energy Management Systems to cover more of the Group’s work centres. The main objective of the standard is to maintain and improve an energy management system in an organisation that seeks to enable continuous improvement in energy efficiency, energy security, energy use and energy consumption through a systematic approach. This standard helps the organisation to continuously improve its efficiency, energy-related costs and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 104 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The specific energy-saving measures proposed by everis for electricity consumption are described below: • Gradually introduce electricity supply contracts from renewable energy sources. • Include sustainable purchasing criteria when selecting a supplier and type of electrical power. These criteria will favour electricity companies that can offer energy generated with a lower emissions factor. • Implementation of best practices related to the control of electricity bills in order to accurately understand the data and trends in the company’s energy consumption, which can help to make beneficial decisions in relation to everis’ energy consumption (this measure has already been implemented in some work centres). • Strengthen the role of the energy manager. everis currently has such a role and this measure has therefore been implemented. The energy manager’s role is to guide the company in various energy-related processes. In other words, to guide everis through the procedures to be carried out, so that it always obtains the best conditions and services. Furthermore, this generates financial and energy savings for the company; it takes into account current legislation; and it uses a tool developed by everis to monitor quarterly consumption, thereby reducing the total amount of energy consumed. • Replacement of T5 fluorescent lighting with LED fluorescent lighting (a measure to be implemented in the medium-term). • Management of awareness of the need for efficient energy use (already implemented). • Optimise lighting times based on a detailed study of the presence of personnel in our offices and on projects in progress (to be implemented in the short-term). • Optimisation of lighting presence control times in order to combine comfort, safety and economy (to be implemented in the short-term). CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 105 2018 SocialSocial Corporate Corporate Responsibility Responsibility ReportReport 2018 The measures proposed by everis to save energy related to air conditioning are described below: • The programming for air conditioning systems across all work centres will be adjusted (to be implemented in the short-term). • Implementation of high-efficiency filters in rooftop air conditioning units (already implemented). • Implementation of centralised air-conditioning control software (implemented). • Zone-based temperature management, managed by the maintenance team (implemented). Indicator 11 of Annex 3 shows the figures relating to energy. 2018 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 106 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 6.6 Atmospheric pollution,  including noise and light Noise and light pollution Noise and light pollution are not currently deemed to be a material consideration for everis, based on the scale of its impact on these areas and the relative importance that interested parties place on such issues. Therefore, apart from the information given below, data collection on these impacts has not been systematised. Nevertheless, as previously mentioned, everis has implemented and has held a Building Sustainability Certificate since 2016 based on the BREEAM Commercial and BREEAM In-Use methodologies. This sustainability certification, which has already been implemented at the Manoteras 52 headquarters (BREEAM Commercial) and the NOVUS building located at Fuente de la Mora 1 (BREEAM In-Use), ensure significantly better quality levels for air, lighting and noise compared to Spanish law, for example. The inclusion of everis buildings in this classification promotes: • Concentration of outdoor lighting in the appropriate areas • Minimise any up-lighting that is not strictly necessary to reduce light pollution, energy consumption and nuisance for neighbouring properties. Another objective is to reduce the possibility that noise from the installations of new buildings affect neighbouring buildings that may be noise-sensitive. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 107 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 6.7 Biodiversity This is not a material issue for the company. The everis Group does not have land that is home to habitats of interest or that is subject to any degree of protection or conservation requirement due to the existence of endangered species. No impacts on biodiversity resulting from operational facilities that are owned, leased, managed, adjoining or derived from the company’s activities or products were recorded in 2018. None of the subsections (304-1) of the GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY standard therefore apply to the activities of the everis Group. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 108 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 7 Human Rights 7.1 Application of due diligence procedures related to human rights The everis Group must follow the “NTT Group’s Human Rights Charter” at the express request of NTT DATA, and publish this Charter on its global intranet system to inform all employees. everis UK has a specific internal policy to comply with UK legislation under the UK Slavery Act. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 109 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 7.2 Prevention of risks to human  rights breaches everis has always promoted and complied with all legal provisions related to upholding the freedom of association and the right to collective-bargaining, as well as the provisions contained in EU law, the Spanish Constitution, international treaties and agreements (ILO Convention), the Spanish Workers’ Statute and Organic Law 11/1985 of 2 August on the freedom of association. Furthermore, everis is a global company, guided by the values of responsible freedom, discerning generosity, creative energy, consistency and transparency, concerned not only for the integral development of its employees, but also for the communities where it is present. Internally the company has procedures and policies that ensure compliance and respect with human rights, such as the code of ethics and professional conduct, the harassment policy, the equality policy, policies on work-life balance, etc. No cases of discrimination were received in FY18. everis believes that every professional must be treated with respect and dignity, preventing any kind of discrimination on grounds of race, gender, ideology, nationality, religion, sexual orientation or any type of disability. In accordance with these rights, everis is committed to maintaining and protecting a working environment that respects its employees’ dignity and fundamental working rights using all of the measures available to it. Accordingly, the everislife programme currently combines legal requirements with supplementary measures by the company, as well as the company’s own existing measures, as indicated in section 4. Although the consultancy sector in Spain is not an activity in which these types of serious violations occur, everis categorically condemns forced labour and child labour. Equally, everis upholds all laws relating to the minimum working age, both in Spain and in the other countries where it is present, and requires its subcontractors, suppliers and other commercial partners to fight against child labour. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 110 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 ANNEXES ANNEX 1 Materiality analysis ANNEX 2 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ANNEX 3 Breakdown of non-financial indicators ANNEX 4 Content of Non-financial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators ANNEX 5 Independent Verification Report CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 111 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Annex 1 Materiality Analysis CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 112 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Materiality analysis has been carried out through a study of the most relevant matters for the company and its stakeholders to report on material matters, the strategy for handling them and the concerns expressed by everis’ stakeholders. The report has been prepared using the results of the materiality analysis performed in 2017. The materiality analysis comprised the following phases to identify these matters: Identify PHASE 1 Stakeholders Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Identification Validation Weighting PHASE 2 of relevant through through issues surveys surveys Compiling conclusions PHASE 3 for the materiality analisys Once the different stakeholders were defined, the priority topics for everis and the different groups were identified following these steps: • Identify the most relevant issues that affect the technological consulting sector: Based on the study of the best practices of companies in the sector and on the global context, some aspects were identified that could have positive or negative impacts for stakeholders and for the company in carrying out its activity, from an economic, social, environmental or good governance point of view. • Validate these relevant topics: Once identified, the company’s leaders from the areas of people management, business, purchase department and customer relations were asked to validate these aspects considered of special relevance and determine their importance for everis, the impact that the company’s activity has on each one and the stakeholders that are affected by each one. • Weighting and identification of material issues: Finally, those responsible for these areas were asked to weigh these issues to determine their importance in accordance with the company’s mission and strategy, and with stakeholders’ knowledge. Once the most relevant aspects for everis were identified, those that are “material” for the company were determined; that is, those that have greater importance in the good governance, economic, social and environmental areas. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 113 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The following stakeholders were identified from this analysis: Shareholders Customers Employees Trade and sector associations Suppliers Society Academic institutions (universities) CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 114 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Having defined the stakeholders, their priority concerns were detected, validated and weighted accordingly. 1. Information security and data protection. 3.87 11. Economic sustainability. 3.96 2. Anticorruption, legal compliance and ethical 12. Client satisfaction. 3.85 code. 3.80 13. Job creation. 3.78 3. Reputation and image. 3.56 14. Innovation, R&D+i and new product 4. Good Corporate Governance. 3.40 and service portfolio. 3.74 5. Crisis management. 3.30 15. Fiscal Responsability. 3.00 6. Fair competition. 3.20 16. Efficiency. 2.96 7. Informative transparency. 3.10 8. Independence. 3.00 9. Risk management and internal control systems. 2.80 10. Safe infraestructure. 2.62 17. Training and career development plan + 26. Enviromental management: Human Resources IT development. 3.96 Eco-efficiency and climate change. 3.20 18. Caring for people. 3.60 27. Enviromental awareness actions. 2.54 19. Contribution to the local community for volunteering and entrepreneurship. 3.58 20. Compliance with employment practices. 3.40 21. Local community: Contribute to developing the services sector and knowledge sharing. 3.38 22. Commitment to the local community to achieve a fairer society. 3.36 23. Diversity in hiring and promotion. 3.30 24. Suppliers. 3.16 25. Relationship with the stakeholders. 2.80 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 115 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Not important Very important Ámbitos 9 7 5 3 1 Good Governance 2 10 8 6 4 15 13 11 Economic 16 14 12 25 23 21 19 17 Social 24 22 20 18 26 Enviromental 27 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 116 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 The stand-out material aspects broken down by the stakeholder they have an impact on are: Relevant issue Area Stakeholders affected Direct/ indirect impact Economic sustainability Economic All Direct Job creation Economic Local community, society. Direct universities, schools, companies Innovation. R&D and new portfolio Economic Customers, partners, niche Direct companies and society Customer satisfaction Economic Customers and staff Direct Career training and development plan. IT Social Current and potential staff Direct talent development Caring for people Social Current and potential staff Direct Contributing to the local community for Social Staff. local community Direct volunteering and entrepreneurship and society Compliance with employment practices Social Staff. public administrations Direct Local community: Contribute to developing Social Staff. local community Direct the services sector and knowledge sharing and society Commitment to the local community to Social Staff. local community Direct achieve a fairer society and society Diversity Social All Direct Information security and data protection Good Corporate Customers and society Direct Governance Anticorruption. legal compliance and Code Good Corporate All Direct of Ethics Governance Reputation and image Good Governance All Direct/ indirect Good corporate governance Good Governance All Direct Crisis management Good Governance Staff, customers and Direct shareholders Table 26. Relevant issue CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 117 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Annex 2 Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 118 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 In 2017 and 2018. a growing interest was piqued in society to know the extent to which the private sector contributes toward Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). These are 17 objectives established by the United Nations in 2015 to achieve a sustainable planet from an environmental. social and economic point of view. Together with them. 169 goals that countries should achieve by 2030 were specified. The United Nations called for action from the private sector to work with the governments of the different countries to achieve these objectives. The SDGs with which everis contributes in the different economic. social and environmental areas are as follows: Area SDG with which it Contribution with Explanation of how everis contributes contributes this SDG/Initiatives with this SDG SDG 8: Promote sustained. inclusive and sustainable economic growth. Between 2015 and 2017 everis increased its full and productive annual hires by 32% from 6.271 people in 2015 to employment and decent Economic Job creation. 8.250 in 2017. This pledge to create jobs boosts work. economic growth in the communities in which the company operates. Social SDG 4: Guarantee inclusive Career training and Investment in the development of staff and other and equitable. quality development plan. IT groups (school communities. university students. education and promote talent development. etc.). to ensure their continuous professional lifelong learning training and their current and future employability opportunities. in STEM skills. MATERIAL ISSUES FOR EVERIS IN THE SOCIAL SPHERE: Train and employ people in STEM careers SDG 5: Equality and Diversity The equality plan with specific measures and Achieve gender Plan. objectives is aimed at ending any type of equality and empower all discrimination against women. Promote women and girls. Programming and The company’s diversity criteria are also taken diversity and robotics workshops for into account so that the different professional inclusion children. profiles and diversity in selection are reflected in the company’s actions. It is aimed at ensuring Girlsgonna. Women in equal access to jobs for everyone. irrespective Promote science. of their age. gender. level of disability. race. decent and ethnicity. nationality. religion. etc. stable work Teaming: Crowdfunding social platform. Púlsar Programme: Successful women mentoring brilliant girls. SDG 10: Contributing to the Promoting corporate volunteering and support Reduce inequality. local community for for entrepreneurship. volunteering and entrepreneurship. This contributes to creating decent jobs and entrepreneurship. creativity and innovation and Social Intrapreneurship promoting the creation of micro-companies. Awards. Technovation Challenge Chile and Spain CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 119 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Ámbito ODS con los Contribución Explicación sobre cómo se contribuye con que contribuye con este ODS / este ODS en everis Iniciativas Social SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, everis social hub. Developing projects aimed at improving and full and productive professionalising the service sector through employment and decent Local community: providing professional services in government work. Contribute to developing bodies and undertaking pro-bono projects that the services sector and contribute to increasing the impact of the activity. . knowledge sharing. Enviromental Our commitment to the environment. SDG 13: MATERIAL Adopt measures to Environmental ENVIROMENcombat climate change management at everis. TAL ISSUES everis is committed to preserving the and its effects. FOR EVERIS environment through an environmental policy ISO 14001 that serves as a frame of reference to minimise. Responding to reverse or eliminate any possible damage to Environmental awareness the threat of nature. campaigns. climate change Volume Carbon Footprint. of GHG emissions Innovation SDG 9: Innovation. R&D and new Build resilient portfolio. infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation. everis Entrepreneurship MATERIAL Awards. INNOVATION ISSUES FOR EVERIS: Open Innovation Contest Help develop innovative IT solutions for SDG 11: society and Make cities and human customers everisLiving Lab. settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and Support and sustainable. collaborate By investing in innovation. the company helps with the startForging of alliances with boost the economic productivity of its customers. up ecosystem various organisations Social projects for Foster a customers. culture of innovation SDG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation Cotec and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 120 Table 27. Sustainable Development Goals Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Annex 3 Breakdown of non-financial indicators CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 121 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 1 Distribution of workforce by country CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 122 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) ARGENTINA Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ARGENTINA Partner 41-50 1 1 2 51-60 0 2 2 Total Partner 1 3 4 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Director 31-40 1 1 2 41-50 1 4 5 Total Director 2 5 7 Manager 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 1 6 7 41-50 5 10 15 51-60 1 2 3 Total Manager 7 19 26 Leader 21-30 3 6 9 31-40 17 31 48 41-50 9 24 33 51-60 0 6 6 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 29 68 97 Staff -20 1 0 1 21-30 59 144 203 31-40 58 115 173 41-50 19 36 55 51-60 4 5 9 +60 0 4 4 Total Staff 141 304 445 TOTAL ARGENTINA 180 400 580 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 123 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) BELGIUM Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL BELGIUM Director 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 1 4 5 Manager 31-40 1 4 5 41-50 1 6 7 51-60 0 2 2 +60 0 1 1 Total Manager 2 13 15 Leader 21-30 3 0 3 31-40 7 7 14 41-50 1 8 9 51-60 0 2 2 Total Leader 11 17 28 Staff 21-30 13 10 23 31-40 21 20 41 41-50 6 12 18 51-60 0 4 4 Total Staff 40 46 86 TOTAL BELGIUM 54 80 134 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 124 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) BRAZIL Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL BRAZIL Partner 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 0 5 5 Total Partner 0 6 6 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 1 1 2 Total Executive Director 1 2 3 Director 31-40 12 12 41-50 3 11 14 51-60 3 7 10 Total Director 6 30 36 Manager 21-30 0 4 4 31-40 11 35 46 41-50 6 11 17 51-60 1 3 4 Total Manager 18 53 71 Leader 21-30 4 18 22 31-40 45 102 147 41-50 26 41 67 51-60 3 10 13 +60 2 3 5 Total Leader 80 174 254 Staff -20 2 4 6 21-30 236 796 1.032 31-40 203 514 717 41-50 60 155 215 51-60 19 64 83 +60 5 12 17 Total Staff 525 1,545 2,070 TOTAL BRAZIL 630 1,810 2,440 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 125 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) CHILE Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CHILE Partner 41-50 1 5 6 Total Partner 1 5 6 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 7 7 41-50 1 17 18 Total Director 1 24 25 Manager 31-40 8 15 23 41-50 4 20 24 51-60 1 2 3 Total Manager 13 37 50 Leader -20 0 0 0 21-30 3 22 25 31-40 37 167 204 41-50 16 78 94 51-60 1 13 14 +60 1 1 2 Total Leader 58 281 339 Staff -20 1 1 21-30 93 486 579 31-40 61 500 561 41-50 24 109 133 51-60 8 22 30 +60 1 13 14 Total Staff 188 1,130 1,318 TOTAL CHILE 261 1,478 1,739 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 126 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) COLOMBIA Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL COLOMBIA Partner 31-40 0 2 2 Total Partner 0 2 2 Director 31-40 5 5 41-50 1 4 5 51-60 1 0 1 Total Director 2 9 11 Manager 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 2 16 18 41-50 7 4 11 51-60 1 1 2 Total Manager 10 22 32 Leader 21-30 5 7 12 31-40 45 59 104 41-50 10 19 29 51-60 1 8 9 Total Leader 61 93 154 Staff -20 1 0 1 21-30 278 318 596 31-40 148 176 324 41-50 31 31 62 51-60 2 9 11 +60 0 1 1 Total Staff 460 535 995 TOTAL COLOMBIA 533 661 1,194 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 127 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) SPAIN Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL SPAIN Partner 31-40 1 9 10 41-50 12 106 118 51-60 5 42 47 +60 0 1 1 Total Partner 18 158 176 Executive Director 41-50 5 27 32 51-60 2 8 10 Total Exectutive Director 7 35 42 Director 31-40 8 52 60 41-50 32 135 167 51-60 4 26 30 +60 0 1 1 Total Director 44 214 258 Manager 21-30 1 3 4 31-40 69 245 314 41-50 69 153 222 51-60 7 21 28 +60 1 4 5 Total Manager 147 426 573 Leader 21-30 40 112 152 31-40 457 1.141 1.598 41-50 234 519 753 51-60 23 66 89 +60 2 4 6 Total Leader 756 1,842 2,598 Staff -20 0 4 4 21-30 1,145 3,673 4,818 31-40 994 2,419 3,413 41-50 389 724 1.113 51-60 75 152 227 +60 6 9 15 Total Staff 2,609 6,981 9,590 TOTAL SPAIN 3,581 9,656 13,237 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 128 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) ITALY Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ITALY Partner 41-50 0 4 4 Total Partner 0 4 4 Executive Director 51-60 1 0 1 Total Exectutive Director 1 0 1 Director 31-40 1 5 6 41-50 1 9 10 51-60 0 4 4 Total Director 2 18 20 Manager 31-40 2 17 19 41-50 2 11 13 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 4 29 33 Leader 21-30 3 19 22 31-40 37 115 152 41-50 13 43 56 51-60 0 3 3 Total Leader 53 180 233 Staff 21-30 73 205 278 31-40 47 107 154 41-50 6 13 19 51-60 0 5 5 Total Staff 126 330 456 TOTAL ITALY 186 561 747 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 129 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) LUXEMBOURG Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL LUXEMBOURG Director 30-40 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Executive Director 50-60 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Manager 40-50 0 1 1 Total Manager 0 1 1 Leader 30-40 0 2 2 Total Leader 0 2 2 Staff 21-30 0 3 3 31-40 5 21 26 41-50 2 18 20 51-60 0 3 3 +60 0 1 1 Total Staff 7 46 53 TOTAL LUXEMBOURG 7 51 58 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 130 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) MEXICO Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL MEXICO Partner 41-50 0 2 2 +60 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 3 3 Director 31-40 1 6 7 41-50 4 14 18 51-60 4 4 Total Director 5 24 29 Manager 31-40 7 19 26 41-50 1 3 4 51-60 0 2 2 Total Manager 8 24 32 Leader 21-30 13 32 45 31-40 57 89 146 41-50 10 25 35 51-60 2 4 6 Total Leader 82 150 232 Staff 21-30 70 153 223 31-40 43 53 96 41-50 9 14 23 51-60 3 10 13 +60 2 2 Total Staff 125 232 357 TOTAL MEXICO 220 433 653 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 131 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) PERU Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL PERU Partner 51-60 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 4 4 41-50 1 6 7 51-60 1 4 5 Total Director 2 14 16 Manager 31-40 4 13 17 41-50 6 23 29 51-60 1 4 5 +60 0 1 1 Total Manager 11 41 52 Leader 21-30 8 12 20 31-40 62 138 200 41-50 17 61 78 51-60 1 4 5 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 88 216 304 Staff -20 1 0 1 21-30 444 1,019 1,463 31-40 222 633 855 41-50 30 113 143 51-60 3 20 23 +60 1 6 7 Total Staff 701 1,791 2,492 TOTAL PERU 802 2,063 2,865 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 132 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) PORTUGAL Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL PORTUGAL Partner 41-50 0 5 5 +60 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 6 6 Director 31-40 0 3 3 41-50 3 8 11 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 3 12 15 Manager 31-40 5 15 20 41-50 3 6 9 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 8 22 30 Leader 21-30 11 15 26 31-40 31 71 102 41-50 6 42 48 51-60 1 3 4 Total Leader 49 131 180 Staff 21-30 170 251 421 31-40 53 110 163 41-50 7 14 21 51-60 0 6 6 +60 0 1 1 Total Staff 230 382 612 TOTAL PORTUGAL 290 553 843 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 133 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) UNITED KINGDOM Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL UNITED Partner 41-50 0 6 6 KINGDOM Total Partner 0 6 6 Director 31-40 1 3 4 41-50 1 9 10 Total Director 2 12 14 Manager 31-40 2 14 16 41-50 1 6 7 51-60 2 2 Total Manager 3 22 25 Leader 21-30 3 7 10 31-40 14 41 55 41-50 4 11 15 51-60 2 6 8 +60 0 2 2 Total Leader 23 67 90 Staff 21-30 27 57 84 31-40 25 35 60 41-50 5 18 23 51-60 3 8 11 +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 60 120 180 TOTAL UNITED KINGDOM 88 227 315 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 134 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) USA Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL USA Partner 41-50 1 3 4 51-60 0 1 1 Total Partner 1 4 5 Director 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 0 2 2 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 0 4 4 Manager 31-40 3 3 41-50 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 1 4 5 Leader 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 1 14 15 41-50 1 5 6 Total Leader 2 20 22 Staff 21-30 8 17 25 31-40 10 28 38 41-50 6 17 23 51-60 2 10 12 +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 26 74 100 TOTAL USA 30 106 136 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 135 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) MOROCCO Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL MOROCCO Director 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 2 3 5 Total Leader 2 4 6 Staff 21-30 39 34 73 31-40 11 26 37 41-50 0 1 1 Total Staff 50 61 111 TOTAL MOROCCO 52 66 118 Distribution of workforce by country (number) ANDORRA Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ANDORRA Manager 41-50 0 1 1 Total Manager 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 2 3 5 41-50 1 1 2 Total Leader 3 4 7 Staff 21-30 1 6 7 31-40 1 5 6 41-50 0 3 3 51-60 0 1 1 Total Staff 2 15 17 TOTAL ANDORRA 5 20 25 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 136 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) NETHERLANDS Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL NETHERLANDS Director 41-50 1 1 2 Total Director 1 1 2 Manager 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 0 2 2 Leader 31-40 1 2 3 41-50 3 1 4 51-60 0 1 1 Total Leader 4 4 8 Staff 21-30 1 4 5 31-40 2 4 6 Total Staff 3 8 11 TOTAL NETHERLANDS 8 15 23 Distribution of workforce by country (number) FRANCE Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL FRANCE Leader 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 0 5 5 41-50 0 1 1 Total Leader 0 7 7 Staff 31-40 0 3 3 41-50 0 2 2 Total Staff 0 5 5 TOTAL FRANCE 0 12 12 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 137 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Distribution of workforce by country (number) TOTAL Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, GRI 102-7. 102-8. 405-1 age, country and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL TOTAL GENERAL 6,927 18,192 25,119 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 138 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 2 Type of contract by gender, age and professional category CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 139 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 ARGENTINA Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT ARGENTINA PERMANENT Partner 41-50 1 1 2 51-60 2 2 Total Partner 1 3 4 Executive Director 41-50 1 1 Total Executive Director 1 1 Director 31-40 1 1 2 41-50 1 4 5 Total Director 2 5 7 Manager 21-30 1 1 31-40 1 6 7 41-50 5 10 15 51-60 1 2 3 Total Manager 7 19 26 Leader 21-30 3 6 9 31-40 17 31 48 41-50 9 24 33 51-60 6 6 +60 1 1 Total Leader 29 68 97 Staff -20 1 1 21-30 59 143 202 31-40 56 115 171 41-50 19 36 55 51-60 4 5 9 +60 4 4 Total Staff 139 303 442 TOTAL PERMANENT 178 399 577 TEMPORARY Staff 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 2 0 2 Total Staff 2 1 3 TOTAL TEMPORARY 2 1 3 TOTAL ARGENTINA 180 400 580 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 140 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 BELGIUM Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT BELGIUM PERMANENT Director 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 1 1 Total Director 1 4 5 Manager 31-40 1 4 5 41-50 1 6 7 51-60 2 2 +60 1 1 Total Manager 2 13 15 Leader 21-30 3 3 31-40 7 7 14 41-50 1 8 9 51-60 2 2 Total Leader 11 17 28 Staff 21-30 12 10 22 31-40 20 20 40 41-50 6 12 18 51-60 0 4 4 Total Staff 38 46 84 TOTAL PERMANENT 52 80 132 TEMPORARY Staff 21-30 1 0 1 31-40 1 0 1 Total Staff 2 2 TOTAL TEMPORARY 2 2 TOTAL BELGIUM 54 80 134 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 141 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 BRAZIL Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT BRAZIL PERMANENT Partner 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 0 5 5 Total Partner 6 6 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 1 1 2 Total Executive Director 1 2 3 Director 31-40 12 12 41-50 3 11 14 51-60 3 7 10 Total Director 6 30 36 Manager 21-30 0 4 4 31-40 11 35 46 41-50 6 11 17 51-60 1 3 4 Total Manager 16 53 71 Leader 21-30 4 18 22 31-40 45 102 147 41-50 26 41 67 51-60 3 10 13 +60 2 3 5 Total Leader 80 174 254 Staff -20 2 4 6 21-30 233 787 1,020 31-40 203 513 716 41-50 60 155 215 51-60 19 64 83 +60 5 12 17 Total Staff 516 1,535 2,057 TOTAL PERMANENT 627 1,800 2,427 TEMPORARY Staff 21-30 3 9 12 31-40 1 1 Total Staff 3 10 13 TOTAL TEMPORARY 3 10 13 TOTAL BRAZIL 630 1,810 2,440 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 142 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 CHILE Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT CHILE PERMANENT Partner 41-50 1 5 6 51-60 0 0 Total Partner 1 5 6 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 7 7 41-50 1 16 17 Total Director 1 23 24 Manager 31-40 8 15 23 41-50 4 20 24 51-60 1 1 2 Total Manager 13 36 49 Leader -20 1 1 2 21-30 2 20 22 31-40 35 164 199 41-50 17 80 97 51-60 1 12 13 +60 1 1 Total Leader 57 277 334 Staff -20 1 1 21-30 93 486 579 31-40 61 500 561 41-50 24 109 133 51-60 8 22 30 +60 1 13 14 Total Staff 188 1,130 1,318 TOTAL PERMANENT 260 1,472 1,732 TEMPORARY Director 41-50 1 1 Total Director 1 1 Manager 51-60 1 1 Total Manager 1 1 Leader 21-30 1 1 2 31-40 1 1 51-60 1 1 +60 1 1 Total Leader 1 4 5 TOTAL TEMPORARY 1 6 7 CHILE 261 1,478 1,739 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 143 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 COLOMBIA Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT COLOMBIA PERMANENT Partner 31-40 0 2 2 Total Partner 2 2 Director 31-40 5 5 41-50 1 4 5 51-60 1 1 Total Director 2 9 11 Manager 21-30 1 1 31-40 2 16 18 41-50 7 4 11 51-60 1 1 2 Total Manager 10 22 32 Leader 20-30 5 7 12 31-40 45 59 104 41-50 10 19 29 51-60 1 8 9 Total Leader 61 93 154 Staff -20 1 0 1 21-30 275 317 592 31-40 144 174 318 41-50 31 30 61 51-60 2 7 9 +60 0 1 1 Total Staff 453 529 982 TOTAL PERMANENT 406 543 949 TEMPORARY Staff 21-30 3 1 4 31-40 4 2 6 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 0 2 2 Total Staff 7 6 13 TOTAL TEMPORARY 7 6 13 TOTAL COLOMBIA 533 661 1,194 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 144 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 SPAIN Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT SPAIN PERMANENT Partner 31-40 1 9 10 41-50 12 106 118 51-60 4 41 45 +60 0 0 0 Total Partner 18 157 175 Executive Director 41-50 5 27 32 51-60 2 8 10 Total Executive Director 7 35 42 Director 31-40 8 53 61 41-50 32 135 167 51-60 4 25 29 +60 0 1 1 Total Director 44 214 258 Manager 21-30 1 3 4 31-40 68 244 312 41-50 69 153 222 51-60 7 21 28 +60 1 4 5 Total Manager 146 425 571 Leader 21-30 40 111 151 31-40 457 1,141 1,598 41-50 232 519 751 51-60 22 65 87 +60 2 4 6 Total Leader 753 1,840 2,593 Staff -20 0 4 4 21-30 996 2,908 3,904 31-40 974 2,335 3,309 41-50 369 716 1,085 51-60 71 151 222 +60 3 9 12 Total Staff 2,413 6,123 8,536 TOTAL PERMANENT 3,381 8,794 12,175 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 145 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 PART-TIME Partner 51-60 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 1 1 Manager 31-40 1 1 2 41-50 0 0 0 51-60 0 0 0 Total Manager 1 1 2 Leader 41-50 2 0 2 51-60 1 1 2 Total Leader 3 1 4 Staff 21-30 18 46 64 31-40 8 11 19 41-50 20 2 22 51-60 4 1 5 +60 3 0 3 Total Staff 53 60 113 TOTAL PART-TIME 57 63 120 TEMPORARY Leader 21-30 0 1 1 Total Leader 0 1 1 Staff 21-30 131 716 847 31-40 12 76 88 41-50 0 5 5 51-60 0 1 1 Total Staff 143 798 941 TOTAL TEMPORARY 143 798 941 TOTAL SPAIN 3,581 9,656 13,237 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 146 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 ITALY Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT ITALY PERMANENT Partner 41-50 0 4 4 Total Partner 1 1 Executive Director 51-60 1 0 1 Total Executive Director 1 0 1 Director 31-40 1 5 6 41-50 1 9 10 51-60 4 4 Total Director 2 18 20 Manager 31-40 2 17 19 41-50 2 11 13 51-60 1 1 Total Manager 4 29 33 Leader 21-30 3 19 22 31-40 37 115 152 41-50 13 43 56 51-60 3 3 Total Leader 53 180 233 Staff 21-30 73 205 278 31-40 47 106 153 41-50 6 13 19 51-60 5 5 Total Staff 126 329 455 TOTAL PERMANENT 186 560 746 TEMPORARY Staff 31-40 1 1 Total Staff 1 1 TOTAL TEMPORARY 1 1 TOTAL ITALY 186 561 747 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 147 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 LUXEMBOURG Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT LUXEMBOURG PERMANENT Executive Director 51-60 1 1 Total Executive Director 1 1 Director 31-40 1 1 Total Director 1 1 Manager 31-40 1 1 Total Manager 1 1 Leader 31-40 2 2 Total Leader 2 2 Staff 21-30 3 3 31-40 5 21 26 41-50 2 18 20 51-60 3 3 +60 1 1 Total Staff 7 46 53 TOTAL PERMANENT 7 51 58 TOTAL LUXEMBOURG 7 51 58 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 148 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 MEXICO Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT MEXICO PERMANENT Partner 41-50 0 2 2 +60 0 1 1 Total Partner 3 3 Director 31-40 1 6 7 41-50 4 14 18 51-60 4 4 Total Director 5 24 29 Manager 31-40 7 19 26 41-50 1 3 4 51-60 2 2 Total Manager 8 24 32 Leader 21-30 13 30 43 31-40 56 88 144 41-50 10 25 35 51-60 2 3 5 Total Leader 81 146 227 Staff 21-30 2 2 31-40 62 135 197 41-50 43 53 96 51-60 9 13 22 Total Staff 117 213 330 TOTAL PERMANENT 211 410 621 TEMPORARY Leader 21-30 2 2 31-40 1 1 2 51-60 1 1 Total Leader 1 4 5 Staff 21-30 8 18 26 41-50 1 1 Total Staff 8 19 27 TOTAL TEMPORARY 9 23 32 TOTAL MEXICO 220 433 653 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 149 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 PERU Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT PERU PERMANENT Partner 51-60 1 1 Total Partner 1 1 Director 31-40 4 4 41-50 1 6 7 51-60 1 4 5 Total Director 2 14 16 Manager 31-40 4 13 17 41-50 6 23 29 51-60 1 4 5 +60 1 1 Total Manager 11 41 52 Leader 21-30 8 12 20 31-40 62 138 200 41-50 17 61 78 51-60 1 4 5 +60 1 1 Total Leader 88 216 304 Staff -20 1 1 21-30 444 1,019 1,463 31-40 222 633 855 41-50 30 112 142 51-60 3 20 23 +60 1 6 7 Total Staff 701 1,790 2,491 TOTAL PERMANENT 802 2,062 2,864 TEMPORARY Staff 41-50 1 1 Total Staff 0 1 1 TOTAL TEMPORARY 0 1 1 TOTAL PERU 802 2,063 2,865 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 150 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 PORTUGAL Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT PORTUGAL PERMANENT Partner 41-50 0 5 5 +60 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 6 6 Director 31-40 0 3 3 41-50 3 8 11 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 3 12 15 Manager 31-40 5 15 20 41-50 3 6 9 51-60 1 1 Total Manager 8 22 30 Leader 21-30 11 13 23 31-40 31 73 103 41-50 6 41 49 51-60 1 3 4 Total Leader 49 130 179 Staff 21-30 170 251 421 31-40 53 110 163 41-50 7 14 21 51-60 0 6 6 +60 0 1 1 Total Staff 230 382 612 TOTAL PERMANENT 290 552 842 PART-TIME Leader 41-50 0 1 1 Total Leader 0 1 1 TOTAL PART-TIME 0 1 1 TOTAL PORTUGAL 290 553 843 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 151 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 UNITED KINGDOM Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT UNITED KINGDOM PERMANENT Partner 41-50 6 6 Total Partner 6 6 Director 31-40 1 3 4 41-50 1 9 10 Total Director 2 12 14 Manager 31-40 2 14 16 41-50 1 6 7 51-60 2 2 Total Manager 3 22 25 Leader 21-30 3 7 10 31-40 14 41 55 41-50 4 11 15 51-60 2 6 8 +60 2 2 Total Leader 23 67 90 Staff 21-30 27 57 84 31-40 25 35 60 41-50 5 18 23 51-60 3 8 11 +60 2 2 Total Staff 60 120 180 TOTAL PERMANENT 88 227 315 TOTAL UNITED KINGDOM 88 227 315 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 152 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 USA Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT USA PERMANENT Partner 41-50 1 3 4 51-60 1 1 Total Partner 1 4 5 Director 31-40 1 1 41-50 2 2 51-60 1 1 Total Director 4 4 Manager 31-40 3 3 41-50 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 1 4 5 Leader 21-30 1 1 31-40 1 14 15 41-50 1 5 6 Total Leader 1 18 19 Staff 21-30 8 17 25 31-40 10 28 38 41-50 6 17 23 51-60 2 10 12 +60 2 2 Total Staff 26 74 100 TOTAL PERMANENT 30 106 136 TOTAL USA 30 106 136 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 153 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 MOROCCO Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT MOROCCO PERMANENT Director 51-60 1 1 Total Director 1 1 Leader 31-40 1 1 41-50 2 3 5 Total Leader 2 4 6 Staff 21-30 39 34 73 31-40 11 26 37 41-50 1 1 Total Staff 50 61 111 TOTAL PERMANENT 52 66 118 TOTAL MOROCCO 52 66 118 Type of contract (number) FY18 ANDORRA Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT ANDORRA PERMANENT Manager 41-50 1 1 Total Manager 1 1 Leader 31-40 2 3 5 41-50 1 1 2 Total Leader 3 4 7 Staff 21-30 1 6 7 31-40 1 5 6 41-50 3 3 51-60 1 1 Total Staff 2 15 17 TOTAL PERMANENT 5 20 25 TOTAL ANDORRA 5 20 25 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 154 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 NETHERLANDS Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT NETHERLANDS PERMANENT Director 41-50 1 1 2 Total Director 1 1 2 Manager 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 1 Total Manager 2 2 Leader 31-40 1 2 3 41-50 3 1 4 51-60 1 1 Total Leader 4 4 8 Staff 21-30 1 4 5 31-40 2 4 6 Total Staff 3 8 11 TOTAL PERMANENT 8 15 23 TOTAL NETHERLANDS 8 15 23 Type of contract (number) FY18 FRANCE Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT FRANCE PERMANENT Leader 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 0 5 5 51-60 0 1 1 Total Leader 0 7 7 Staff 31-40 0 3 3 41-50 0 2 2 Total Staff 0 5 5 TOTAL PERMANENT 0 12 12 TOTAL FRANCE 0 12 12 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 155 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts GRI 102-8 by gender, age and professional category TYPE OF COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CONTRACT TOTAL GENERAL 6,927 18,192 25,119 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 156 2018 SocialSocial Corporate Corporate Responsibility Responsibility ReportReport 2018 Indicator 3 Number of hires CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 157 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 ARGENTINA Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ARGENTINA Director 41-50 1 1 Total Director 1 1 Manager 41-50 1 1 2 51-60 1 2 3 Total Manager 2 3 5 Leader 21-30 2 7 9 31-40 10 12 22 41-50 2 5 7 51-60 1 1 Total Staff 14 25 39 Staff -20 1 1 21-30 27 68 95 31-40 30 37 67 41-50 7 14 21 51-60 2 2 4 Total Staff 67 121 188 TOTAL ARGENTINA 83 150 233 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 158 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 BELGIUM Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL BELGIUM Manager 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 2 2 Total Manager 1 4 5 Leader 21-30 1 1 2 31-40 1 4 5 41-50 7 7 51-60 2 2 Total Leader 2 14 16 Staff 21-30 9 5 14 31-40 10 9 19 41-50 3 7 10 51-60 4 4 Total Staff 22 25 47 TOTAL BELGIUM 25 43 68 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 159 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 BRAZIL Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL BRAZIL Director 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 1 51-60 2 2 Total Director 1 3 4 Manager 31-40 2 9 11 41-50 2 3 5 Total Manager 4 12 16 Leader 21-30 2 6 8 31-40 18 33 51 41-50 15 24 39 51-60 4 4 Total Leader 35 67 102 Staff -20 5 10 15 21-30 170 636 806 31-40 78 322 400 41-50 23 83 106 51-60 9 34 43 +60 1 9 10 Total Staff 286 1,094 1,380 TOTAL BRAZIL 326 1,176 1,502 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 160 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 CHILE Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CHILE Director 41-50 3 3 51-60 1 1 Total Director 4 4 Manager 31-40 1 2 3 41-50 1 7 8 Total Manager 2 9 11 Leader -20 1 1 2 21-30 2 4 6 31-40 5 24 29 41-50 2 10 12 51-60 3 3 Total Leader 10 42 52 Staff -20 3 3 21-30 57 245 302 31-40 31 141 172 41-50 8 21 29 51-60 1 2 3 +60 1 1 Total Staff 101 409 510 TOTAL CHILE 113 464 577 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 161 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) FY18 COLOMBIA Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL COLOMBIA Director 31-40 0 2 2 41-50 1 1 2 Total Director 1 3 4 Manager 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 0 4 4 41-50 2 2 51-60 1 1 Total Manager 3 5 8 Leader 21-30 2 5 7 31-40 13 20 33 41-50 5 10 15 51-60 3 3 Total Leader 20 38 58 Staff -20 7 2 9 21-30 124 193 317 31-40 54 101 155 41-50 9 12 21 51-60 6 6 +60 1 1 Total Staff 194 315 509 TOTAL COLOMBIA 218 361 579 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 162 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 SPAIN Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL SPAIN Partner 31-40 0 1 1 Total Partner 1 1 Director 31-40 0 4 4 41-50 5 6 11 51-60 1 4 5 Total Director 6 14 20 Manager 21-30 0 3 3 31-40 1 14 15 41-50 3 7 10 51-60 0 4 4 Total Manager 4 28 32 Leader 21-30 4 14 18 31-40 47 115 162 41-50 49 94 143 51-60 4 16 20 +60 1 2 3 Total Leader 105 241 346 Staff -20 1 6 7 21-30 505 1,781 2,286 31-40 231 599 830 41-50 81 174 255 51-60 14 35 49 +60 6 2 8 Total Staff 838 2,597 3,435 TOTAL SPAIN 953 2,881 3,834 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 163 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 ITALY Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ITALY Director 41-50 0 3 3 51-60 0 2 2 Total Director 5 5 Manager 31-40 0 3 3 41-50 1 1 2 51-60 1 1 2 Total Manager 2 5 7 Leader 21-30 1 4 5 31-40 6 29 35 41-50 5 18 23 51-60 0 2 2 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 12 54 66 Staff 21-30 22 77 99 31-40 10 21 31 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 0 3 3 Total Staff 33 103 136 TOTAL ITALY 47 167 214 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 164 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 LUXEMBOURG Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL LUXEMBOURG Director 31-40 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Manager 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 0 1 1 Staff 21-30 0 2 2 31-40 3 10 13 41-50 1 8 9 51-60 0 2 2 Total Staff 4 22 26 TOTAL LUXEMBOURG 4 24 28 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 165 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 MEXICO Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL MEXICO Director 31-40 1 3 4 41-50 3 3 51-60 1 1 Total Director 1 7 8 Manager 31-40 2 5 7 51-60 1 1 2 Total Manager 3 6 9 Leader 21-30 7 22 29 31-40 21 30 51 41-50 3 5 8 51-60 3 3 Total Leader 31 60 91 Staff 21-30 44 119 163 31-40 14 16 30 41-50 2 3 5 51-60 3 3 +60 1 1 60 142 202 TOTAL MEXICO 95 215 310 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 166 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 PERU Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL PERU Director 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 0 2 2 Total Director 0 4 4 Manager 31-40 0 5 5 41-50 1 8 9 51-60 1 1 2 Total Manager 2 14 16 Leader 21-30 6 5 11 31-40 16 42 58 41-50 2 15 17 51-60 0 3 3 Total Leader 24 65 89 Staff -20 4 5 9 21-30 303 741 1,044 31-40 82 306 388 41-50 10 46 56 51-60 3 9 12 +60 2 3 5 Total Staff 404 1,110 1,514 TOTAL PERU 430 1,193 1,623 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 167 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 PORTUGAL Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL PORTUGAL Director 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 1 51-60 2 2 Total Director 0 4 4 Manager 31-40 2 3 5 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 1 1 Total Manager 3 6 9 Leader 21-30 7 6 13 31-40 12 24 36 41-50 3 17 20 51-60 2 2 Total Leader 22 49 71 Staff 21-30 112 158 270 31-40 33 39 72 41-50 7 14 21 51-60 2 2 +60 1 1 Total Staff 152 214 366 TOTAL PORTUGAL 177 273 450 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 168 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 UNITED KINGDOM Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL UNITED KINGDOM Director 31-40 1 1 41-50 2 2 Total Director 0 3 3 Manager 41-50 1 2 3 Total Manager 1 2 3 Leader 21-30 1 1 2 31-40 1 6 7 41-50 1 1 2 51-60 1 1 2 +60 2 2 Total Leader 4 11 15 Staff 21-30 20 30 50 31-40 13 12 25 41-50 1 6 7 51-60 1 1 Total Staff 34 49 83 TOTAL UNITED KINGDOM 39 65 104 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 169 Total number and distribution of Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 hires by gender, age, country and professional category Hires (number) FY18 USA Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL USA Leader 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 1 51-60 1 1 Total Leader 1 2 3 Staff 21-30 5 16 21 31-40 4 21 25 41-50 1 11 12 51-60 3 8 11 +60 1 1 Total Staff 13 57 70 TOTAL USA 14 59 73 Hires (number) FY18 MOROCCO Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL MOROCCO Leader 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 1 2 Total Leader 1 2 3 Staff 21-30 15 20 35 31-40 6 16 22 Total Staff 21 36 57 TOTAL MOROCCO 22 38 60 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 170 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 ANDORRA Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ANDORRA Manager 41-50 1 1 Total Manager 1 1 Leader 31-40 1 1 2 Total Leader 1 1 2 Staff 21-30 4 4 31-40 1 3 4 41-50 1 1 51-60 1 1 Total Staff 1 9 10 TOTAL ANDORRA 2 11 13 Hires (number) FY18 NETHERLANDS Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL NETHERLANDS Manager 41-50 1 1 51-60 2 2 Total Manager 3 3 Leader 31-40 1 3 4 41-50 2 1 3 51-60 1 1 Total Leader 3 5 8 Staff 21-30 2 2 31-40 2 2 4 Total Staff 2 4 6 TOTAL NETHERLANDS 5 12 17 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 171 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Hires (number) FY18 FRANCE Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL FRANCE Leader 21-30 1 1 41-50 2 2 51-60 1 1 Total Leader 0 4 4 Staff 31-40 4 4 41-50 1 1 Total Staff 0 5 5 TOTAL FRANCE 0 9 9 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 172 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Type of contract (number) TOTAL Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country GRI 102-8 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL TOTAL GENERAL 2,553 7,141 9,694 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 173 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 4 Number of dismissals by gender, age, country and professional category CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 174 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 ARGENTINA Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ARGENTINA Director 51-60 2 2 Total Director 0 2 2 Leader 31-40 1 1 41-50 2 2 51-60 1 1 Total Leader 0 4 4 Staff 21-30 6 7 13 31-40 4 5 9 41-50 2 3 5 51-60 2 2 Total Staff 12 17 29 TOTAL ARGENTINA 12 23 35 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 BELGIUM Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL BELGIUM Manager 31-40 1 1 Total Manager 0 1 1 Leader 41-50 1 1 Total Leader 1 0 1 Staff 21-30 2 2 41-50 2 2 Total Staff 2 2 4 TOTAL BELGIUM 3 3 6 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 175 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 BRAZIL Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL BRAZIL Executive Director 41-50 1 1 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Director 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 1 Total Director 0 2 2 Manager 21-30 1 1 31-40 2 1 3 41-50 1 1 Total Staff 3 2 5 Leader 31-40 2 4 6 41-50 1 7 8 51-60 3 3 Total Leader 3 14 17 Staff 21-30 17 36 53 31-40 12 50 62 41-50 7 15 22 51-60 3 10 13 +60 1 1 2 Total Staff 40 112 152 TOTAL BRAZIL 46 131 177 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 176 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 CHILE Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CHILE Director 41-50 2 2 Total Director 2 2 Manager 31-40 3 3 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 1 1 Total Staff 1 6 7 Leader 21-30 1 1 31-40 2 14 16 41-50 3 7 10 Total Leader 6 21 27 Staff 21-30 4 43 47 31-40 11 31 42 41-50 3 10 13 51-60 6 6 Total Staff 18 90 108 TOTAL CHILE 25 119 144 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 177 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 COLOMBIA Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL COLOMBIA Director 41-50 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Manager 31-40 1 1 Total Manager 0 1 1 Leader 21-30 1 1 31-40 1 3 4 41-50 4 2 6 Total Leader 6 5 11 Staff 21-30 17 14 31 31-40 18 8 26 41-50 2 3 5 51-60 2 2 Total Staff 37 27 64 TOTAL COLOMBIA 43 34 77 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 178 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 SPAIN Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL SPAIN Director 41-50 1 7 8 51-60 1 1 2 Total Director 2 8 10 Manager 31-40 0 3 3 41-50 1 1 2 51-60 0 2 2 Total Staff 1 6 7 Leader 21-30 1 0 1 31-40 4 18 22 41-50 6 19 25 51-60 0 5 5 Total Leader 11 42 53 Staff 21-30 17 77 94 31-40 33 64 97 41-50 15 21 36 51-60 4 6 10 +60 3 1 4 Total Staff 72 169 241 TOTAL SPAIN 86 225 311 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 179 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 ITALY Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ITALY Partner 41-50 1 1 Total Partner 0 1 1 Director 41-50 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Manager 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 1 Total Manager 1 1 2 Leader 31-40 2 2 41-50 1 1 Total Leader 0 3 3 Staff 21-30 2 2 4 31-40 1 2 3 51-60 1 1 Total Staff 3 5 8 TOTAL ITALY 4 11 15 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 MOROCCO Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL MOROCCO Staff 31-40 1 1 Total Staff 0 1 1 TOTAL MOROCCO 0 1 1 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 180 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 MEXICO Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL MEXICO Partner 41-50 1 1 Total Partner 0 1 1 Director 41-50 1 1 51-60 1 1 2 Total Director 1 2 3 Manager 31-40 1 1 41-50 1 1 Total Manager 0 2 2 Leader 31-40 2 3 5 41-50 1 4 5 Total Leader 3 7 10 Staff 21-30 2 2 31-40 1 4 5 41-50 1 1 Total Staff 2 6 8 TOTAL MEXICO 6 18 24 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 181 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 PERU Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL PERU Director 31-40 1 1 Total Director 1 0 1 Manager 31-40 1 2 3 41-50 2 2 51-60 2 2 Total Manager 1 6 7 Leader 21-30 1 1 31-40 4 7 11 41-50 1 1 2 Total Leader 5 9 14 Staff 21-30 23 49 72 31-40 10 36 46 41-50 4 4 Total Staff 33 89 122 TOTAL PERU 40 104 144 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 PORTUGAL Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL PORTUGAL Leader 21-30 1 1 31-40 3 1 4 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 1 1 Total Leader 4 5 9 Staff 21-30 12 17 29 31-40 4 9 13 41-50 2 2 Total Staff 16 28 44 TOTAL PORTUGAL 20 33 53 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 182 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 UNITED KINGDOM Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL UNITED KINGDOM Director 31-40 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Manager 41-50 1 1 Total Manager 1 1 Leader 31-40 1 1 2 41-50 1 1 51-60 3 3 Total Leader 1 5 6 Staff 21-30 2 3 5 31-40 3 5 8 41-50 1 1 Total Staff 5 9 14 TOTAL UNITED KINGDOM 7 15 22 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 USA Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL USA Staff 31-40 2 2 Total Staff 0 2 2 TOTAL USA 0 2 2 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 183 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Dismissals by country (number) FY18 TOTAL Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country GRI 401-1 and professional category COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL TOTAL GENERAL 292 719 1,011 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 184 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 4 Total employee turnover by age group, gender and region CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 185 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Employee turnover by age group and region FY18 GRI 401,1 REGION AGE GROUP 18-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 TOTAL GLOBAL 30.55 30.16 24.92 19.44 16.69 18.85 19.80 25.18 ANDORRA 54.55 39.34 16.00 16.61 ARGENTINA 69.77 54.31 44.65 26.73 22.04 31.07 41.96 94.74 44.40 BELGIUM 35.29 39.34 21.93 27.07 37.21 24.74 30 29.67 BRAZIL 31.14 38 36.18 33.07 29.73 29.01 29.39 33.81 CHILE 26.06 35.54 30.36 25.71 19.53 36.36 41.71 30.00 COLOMBIA 35.48 31.57 30.61 31.93 26.84 22.89 35.29 20.69 31.98 USA 48.00 68.18 34.74 19.05 35.59 8.39 42.86 33.50 SPAIN 23.26 21.98 17.73 14.29 13.65 13.5 12.81 18.24 FRANCE 66.67 21.05 ITALY 22.25 34.54 27.77 23.77 13.83 12.29 15.19 48.00 27.18 LUXEMBOURG 57.14 10.81 19.75 17.91 82.76 38.71 25.57 MOROCCO 27.50 36.36 61.40 60.00 37.58 MEXICO 24.22 19.1 33.3 18.56 20.81 35.88 14.81 24.13 NETHERLANDS 102.86 75 29.45 PERU 46.46 43.99 31.76 24.79 14.33 22.47 12.06 37.16 PORTUGAL 30.44 36.14 24.04 20.25 19.74 24.10 28.24 63.16 28.83 UNITED KINGDOM 20.17 26.06 40.39 22.19 15.72 22.06 39.81 29.48 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 186 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Employee turnover by gender and region FY18 GRI 401.1 COUNTRY SEXO FEMALE MALE GENERAL 23.81 25.71 ANDORRA 35.29 10.86 ARGENTINA 39.26 46.60 BELGIUM 25.17 32.18 BRAZIL 28.31 35.78 CHILE 30.94 29.85 COLOMBIA 30.16 33.53 USA 59.70 24.79 SPAIN 16.43 18.91 FRANCE 21.05 ITALY 24.64 28.00 LUXEMBOURG 32.88 24.58 MOROCCO 26.13 46.85 MEXICO 23.96 24.22 NETHERLANDS 16.44 40.00 PERU 39.17 36.31 PORTUGAL 24.71 30.88 UNITED KINGDOM 26.92 30.33 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 187 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 5 Wage distribution by gender, age and professional category 2018 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 188 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 ARGENTINA Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ARGENTINA Partner 41-50 61,537 76,822 69,180 51-60 0 84,564 84,564 Total Partner 61,537 81,984 76,872 Executive Director 41-50 0 43,002 43,002 Total Exectutive Director 0 43,002 43,002 Director 31-40 36,401 33,590 34,995 41-50 35,631 47,379 45,029 Total Director 36,016 44,621 42,162 Manager 21-30 0 20,229 20,229 31-40 0 24,130 24,130 41-50 22,738 23,067 22,944 51-60 28,522 25,670 26,621 Total Manager 23,565 23,527 23,537 Leader 21-30 16,381 17,535 17,150 31-40 17,075 17,689 17,467 41-50 16,381 18,000 17,572 51-60 0 16,821 16,821 +60 0 16,100 16,100 Total Leader 16,787 17,690 17,420 Staff -20 3,690 0 3,690 21-30 7,895 8,294 8,179 31-40 11,857 11,530 11,641 41-50 11,052 12,243 11,831 51-60 15,650 14,760 15,155 +60 0 15,594 15,594 Total Staff 10,169 10,199 10,189 TOTAL ARGENTINA 12,329 13,156 12,899 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 189 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 BELGIUM Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL BELGIUM Director 31-40 0 127,700 127,700 41-50 145,530 129,209 134,649 51-60 0 124,626 124,626 Total Director 145,530 127,686 131,255 Manager 31-40 84,731 80,417 81,280 41-50 74,577 89,996 87,793 51-60 0 114,072 114,072 +60 0 225,600 225,600 Total Manager 79,654 101,184 98,313 Leader 21-30 47,504 0 47,504 31-40 59,173 65,190 62,181 41-50 69,686 69,917 69,892 51-60 0 76,671 76,671 Total Leader 56,946 68,765 64,122 Staff 21-30 35,257 39,224 36,982 31-40 41,171 50,738 45,838 41-50 47,952 64,864 59,227 51-60 0 46,084 46,084 Total Staff 40,266 51,515 46,283 TOTAL BELGIUM 47,072 67,061 59,005 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 190 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 BRAZIL Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL BRAZIL Partner 31-40 0 124,081 124,081 41-50 0 156,342 156,342 Total Partner 0 150,965 150,965 Executive Director 41-50 0 90,451 90,451 51-60 108,058 94,379 101,218 Total Exectutive Director 108,058 92,415 97,629 Director 31-40 0 85,872 85,872 41-50 83,514 90,035 88,731 51-60 89,024 113,323 106,034 Total Director 86,269 93,942 92,664 Manager 21-30 0 43,415 43,415 31-40 52,976 52,427 52,558 41-50 52,859 50,838 51,551 51-60 42,623 44,414 43,966 Total Manager 52,362 50,964 51,318 Leader 21-30 33,633 29,934 30,462 31-40 31,336 33,260 32,662 41-50 32,145 36,582 34,860 51-60 31,692 34,758 34,050 +60 30,153 45,169 39,163 Total Leader 31,669 33,990 33,259 Staff -20 9,012 14,437 12,629 21-30 11,247 11,323 11,306 31-40 15,570 18,862 17,934 41-50 16,118 21,265 19,853 51-60 15,878 22,280 20,814 +60 17,977 20,346 19,649 Total Staff 13,685 15,386 14,954 TOTAL BRAZIL 17,915 20,052 19,501 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 191 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 CHILE Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL CHILE Partner 41-50 187,944 193,264 192,377 Total Partner 187,944 193,264 192,377 Executive Director 41-50 0 154,694 154,694 Total Exectutive Director 0 154,694 154,694 Director 31-40 0 106,736 106,736 41-50 111,370 105,104 105,452 Total Director 111,370 105,580 105,811 Manager 31-40 59,789 66,224 63,986 41-50 60,044 71,183 69,326 51-60 79,300 60,227 66,584 Total Manager 61,368 68,580 66,705 Leader -20 38,008 48,691 43,349 21-30 36,803 41,061 40,550 31-40 38,603 42,158 41,539 41-50 44,388 44,796 44,723 51-60 33,289 48,042 46,988 +60 51,178 31,822 41,500 Total Leader 40,320 43,063 42,594 Staff -20 14,600 33,444 22,137 21-30 18,437 17,248 17,438 31-40 22,106 25,138 24,816 41-50 23,331 28,595 27,653 51-60 13,347 27,506 23,395 +60 9,484 26,570 25,349 Total Staff 19,880 22,214 21,881 TOTAL CHILE 27,483 29,361 29,079 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 192 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 COLOMBIA Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL COLOMBIA Partner 31-40 0 127,400 127,400 Total Partner 0 127,400 127,400 Director 31-40 0 84,840 84,840 41-50 67,200 81,648 79,240 51-60 73,920 0 73,920 Total Director 70,560 83,067 80,793 Manager 21-30 0 53,760 53,760 31-40 45,032 52,030 51,253 41-50 45,800 52,668 48,298 51-60 42,000 48,720 45,360 Total Manager 45,267 52,074 49,947 Leader 21-30 21,842 20,505 21,062 31-40 28,257 29,883 29,179 41-50 27,135 32,269 30,499 51-60 15,470 32,981 31,035 Total Leader 27,338 29,931 28,904 Staff -20 3,014 0 3,014 21-30 5,805 8,082 7,028 31-40 8,033 12,979 10,679 41-50 7,660 13,576 10,665 51-60 3,643 17,923 15,327 +60 0 13,468 13,468 Total Staff 6,656 10,197 8,560 TOTAL COLOMBIA 9,987 15,714 13,158 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 193 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 SPAIN Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL SPAIN Partner 31-40 130,000 112,222 114,000 41-50 127,500 135,755 134,915 51-60 127,047 168,571 164,154 +60 0 40,509 40,509 Total Partner 127,513 142,535 140,999 Executive Director 41-50 96,500 95,778 95,891 51-60 96,500 98,375 98,000 Total Exectutive Director 96,500 96,371 96,393 Director 31-40 82,888 80,883 81,155 41-50 83,742 84,172 84,090 51-60 93,125 93,553 93,496 +60 0 88,000 88,000 Total Director 84,440 84,545 84,527 Manager 21-30 28,000 49,235 43,927 31-40 56,921 58,086 57,834 41-50 64,649 63,678 63,954 51-60 68,642 66,034 66,686 +60 71,000 76,866 75,693 Total Manager 61,006 60,613 60,707 Leader 21-30 37,263 36,628 36,787 31-40 40,197 41,420 41,070 41-50 43,653 44,653 44,341 51-60 43,086 46,918 45,896 +60 50,725 49,750 50,075 Total Leader 41,256 42,268 41,974 Staff -20 0 15,000 15,000 21-30 22,096 20,607 20,962 31-40 24,119 25,701 25,240 41-50 25,041 29,786 28,145 51-60 25,662 32,981 30,531 +60 34,305 37,086 35,974 Total Staff 23,445 23,634 23,584 TOTAL SPAIN 30,216 32,453 31,849 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 194 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 ITALY Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ITALY Partner 41-50 0 120,000 120,000 Total Partner 0 120,000 120,000 Director 31-40 85,000 75,228 76,857 41-50 84,872 84,632 84,656 51-60 0 183,000 183,000 Total Director 84,936 103,879 101,985 Executive Director 51-60 96,500 0 96,500 Total Exectutive Director 96,500 0 96,500 Manager 31-40 62,288 57,279 57,807 41-50 61,500 60,730 60,848 51-60 0 67,000 67,000 Total Manager 61,894 58,923 59,283 Leader 21-30 37,000 37,271 37,232 31-40 39,332 39,823 39,703 41-50 43,089 44,146 43,909 51-60 0 51,333 51,333 Total Leader 40,121 40,841 40,677 Staff 21-30 25,921 26,066 26,028 31-40 27,742 28,804 28,484 41-50 30,701 34,090 33,020 51-60 0 30,778 30,778 Total Staff 26,843 27,374 27,227 TOTAL ITALY 32,379 36,441 35,430 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 195 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 LUXEMBOURG Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL LUXEMBOURG Executive Director 51-60 0 154,774 154,774 Total Exectutive Director 0 154,774 154,774 Director 31-40 0 146,784 146,784 Total Director 0 146,784 146,784 Manager 41-50 0 108,855 108,855 Total Manager 0 108,855 108,855 Leader 31-40 0 69,502 69,502 Total Leader 0 69,502 69,502 Staff 21-30 0 66,000 66,000 31-40 57,567 55,031 55,519 41-50 55,695 63,268 62,510 51-60 0 47,428 47,428 +60 0 49,200 49,200 Total Staff 57,032 58,347 58,173 TOTAL LUXEMBOURG 57,032 63,399 62,631 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 196 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 MEXICO Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL MEXICO Partner 41-50 0 143,939 143,939 +60 0 237,193 237,193 Total Partner 0 175,024 175,024 Director 31-40 64,731 86,386 83,292 41-50 82,819 99,280 95,406 51-60 0 87,063 87,063 Total Director 79,201 93,511 91,044 Manager 31-40 48,459 50,377 49,861 41-50 55,551 47,815 49,749 51-60 0 42,419 42,419 Total Manager 49,346 49,394 49,382 Leader 21-30 24,287 24,394 24,364 31-40 26,490 27,717 27,241 41-50 27,710 31,402 30,274 51-60 21,169 32,048 28,422 Total Leader 26,202 27,760 27,209 Staff 21-30 11,269 11,616 11,508 31-40 13,022 16,189 14,767 41-50 15,836 15,217 15,459 51-60 12,583 17,790 16,488 +60 0 23,248 23,248 Total Staff 12,247 13,288 12,923 TOTAL MEXICO 20,319 25,869 23,999 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 197 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 PERU Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL PERU Partner 51-60 0 214,008 214,008 Total Partner 0 214,008 214,008 Director 31-40 0 109,682 109,682 41-50 85,068 110,493 106,861 51-60 93,629 113,936 109,874 Total Director 89,348 111,245 108,508 Manager 31-40 57,822 71,419 68,220 41-50 63,332 68,691 67,582 51-60 96,304 66,513 72,471 +60 0 81,064 81,064 Total Manager 64,326 69,645 68,520 Leader 21-30 28,324 33,803 31,869 31-40 33,867 36,207 35,477 41-50 34,471 38,447 37,541 51-60 31,108 41,239 39,213 +60 0 39,725 39,725 Total Leader 33,581 36,827 35,887 Staff -20 3,732 0 3,732 21-30 8,330 10,539 9,872 31-40 12,904 16,632 15,651 41-50 15,350 18,474 17,819 51-60 17,167 20,579 20,134 +60 24,076 17,512 18,450 Total Staff 10,172 13,345 12,453 TOTAL PERU 13,681 17,685 16,564 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 198 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 PORTUGAL Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL PORTUGAL Partner 41-50 0 117,800 117,800 +60 0 131,536 131,536 Total Partner 0 120,089 120,089 Director 31-40 0 73,000 73,000 41-50 78,473 84,257 82,680 51-60 0 90,000 90,000 Total Director 78,473 81,922 81,232 Manager 31-40 56,230 59,952 59,021 41-50 52,670 61,863 58,798 51-60 0 65,000 65,000 Total Manager 54,895 60,702 59,154 Leader 21-30 29,600 31,428 30,655 31-40 34,855 36,719 36,165 41-50 39,582 41,053 40,843 51-60 47,000 35,500 38,375 Total Leader 34,598 37,475 36,692 Staff 21-30 18,144 17,438 17,726 31-40 18,989 22,962 21,701 41-50 16,717 24,681 22,026 51-60 0 24,701 24,701 +60 0 17,150 17,150 Total Staff 18,296 19,465 19,026 TOTAL PORTUGAL 22,682 27,819 26,052 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 199 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 UNITED KINGDOM Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL UNITED Partner 41-50 0 221,209 221,209 KINGDOM Total Partner 0 221,209 221,209 Director 31-40 160,086 154,847 156,156 41-50 145,533 159,918 158,479 Total Director 152,809 158,650 157,815 Manager 31-40 130,979 109,638 111,060 41-50 126,613 117,028 119,424 51-60 0 122,247 122,247 Total Manager 128,069 112,799 114,632 Leader 21-30 65,393 69,167 68,034 31-40 76,946 80,006 79,227 41-50 87,931 75,586 78,878 51-60 106,239 75,855 83,451 +60 0 58,745 58,745 Total Leader 79,897 77,141 77,846 Staff 21-30 40,634 48,487 45,963 31-40 49,227 60,759 55,954 41-50 48,540 63,744 60,439 51-60 41,457 60,484 55,295 +60 0 62,095 62,095 Total Staff 44,914 55,382 51,892 TOTAL UNITED KINGDOM 59,345 77,211 72,220 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 200 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 USA Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL USA Partner 41-50 264,867 272,224 270,385 51-60 0 309,012 309,012 Total Partner 264,867 281,421 278,110 Director 31-40 0 145,677 145,677 41-50 0 220,723 220,723 51-60 0 264,867 264,867 Total Director 0 212,997 212,997 Manager 31-40 0 147,443 147,443 41-50 117,301 159,980 138,640 51-60 0 165,983 165,983 Total Manager 117,301 155,212 147,630 Leader 21-30 0 95,352 95,352 31-40 110,361 108,613 108,730 41-50 114,776 122,340 121,080 Total Leader 112,568 111,382 111,490 Staff 21-30 55,678 55,810 55,768 31-40 82,722 73,564 75,974 41-50 71,442 83,737 80,530 51-60 77,253 118,013 111,220 +60 0 82,780 82,780 Total Staff 71,377 78,078 76,336 TOTAL USA 82,103 100,037 96,081 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 201 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 MOROCCO Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL MOROCCO Director 51-60 0 85,331 85,331 Total Director 0 85,331 85,331 Leader 31-40 0 26,544 26,544 41-50 36,431 30,182 32,682 Total Leader 36,431 29,273 31,659 Staff 21-30 6,871 7,695 7,255 31-40 15,576 17,884 17,198 41-50 0 26,577 26,577 Total Staff 8,786 12,347 10,743 TOTAL MOROCCO 9,850 14,479 12,439 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 ANDORRA Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL ANDORRA Manager 41-50 0 56,430 56,430 Total Manager 0 56,430 56,430 Leader 31-40 40,500 38,377 39,226 41-50 40,560 56,000 48,280 Total Leader 40,520 42,783 41,813 Staff 21-30 28,000 22,597 23,369 31-40 24,000 31,515 30,262 41-50 0 39,667 39,667 51-60 0 28,248 28,248 Total Staff 26,000 29,360 28,965 TOTAL ANDORRA 34,712 33,398 33,661 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 202 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 NETHERLANDS Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL NETHERLANDS Director 41-50 141,000 168,000 154,500 Total Director 141,000 168,000 154,500 Manager 41-50 0 92,000 92,000 51-60 0 98,000 98,000 Total Manager 0 95,000 95,000 Leader 31-40 69,912 67,250 68,137 41-50 71,833 87,000 75,625 51-60 0 70,000 70,000 Total Leader 71,353 72,875 72,114 Staff 21-30 36,000 36,918 36,735 31-40 57,076 57,073 57,074 Total Staff 50,051 46,995 47,829 TOTAL NETHERLANDS 72,070 68,364 69,653 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 FRANCE Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL FRANCE Leader 21-30 0 62,000 62,000 41-50 0 61,200 61,200 51-60 0 60,000 60,000 Total Leader 0 61,143 61,143 Staff 31-40 0 53,667 53,667 41-50 0 55,000 55,000 Total Staff 0 54,200 54,200 TOTAL FRANCE 0 58,250 58,250 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 203 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Wage distribution by country (€) FY18 TOTAL Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, GRI 405-2 age and professional category or similar COUNTRY CATEGORY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE TOTAL TOTAL GENERAL 25,139 29,222 28,096 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 204 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 6 Training hours by professional category CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 205 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Training hours (number) FY2018 TOTAL Total training hours by professional category and gender GRI 404-1 TRAINING HOURS GNDER PARTNER EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MANAGER LEADER STAFF TOTAL TOTAL DIRECTOR COUNTRY/ COUNTRY GENDER H 1,110 496 2,857 11,303 59,829 210,935 286,530 SPAIN 390,380 M 125 140 600 4,421 24,221 74,343 103,850 H 53 32 68 153 ANDORRA 189 M 20 16 36 H 6 8 23 81 513 2,118 2,749 ARGENTINA 3,862 M 1 2 49 131 930 1,113 H 15 213 172 308 708 BELGIUM 1,254 M 11 137 398 546 H 15 11 203 507 3,718 38,163 42,617 BRAZIL 54,950 M 4 77 218 1,904 10,130 12,333 H 6 58 176 630 3,091 3,961 CHILE 4,455 M 3 27 113 351 494 H 35 273 589 2,636 12,842 16,375 COLOMBIA 24,756 M 38 128 1,696 6,519 8,381 H 4 8 12 45 183 252 USA 375 M 1 2 8 112 123 FRANCE H 35 9 44 44 H 37 121 267 1,646 3,421 5,492 ITALY 7,140 M 32 1 64 427 1,124 1,648 H 1 2 56 3 47 109 LUXEMBOURG 115 M 6 6 H 1 10 399 410 MOROCCO 654 M 244 244 H 6 77 99 667 1,335 2,184 MEXICO 3,121 M 11 39 361 526 937 H 6 11 80 97 NETHERLANDS 161 M 24 22 18 64 H 324 2,606 7,417 25,886 36,233 PERU 50,158 M 21 719 3,326 9,859 13,925 H 24 100 355 3,188 8,309 11,976 PORTUGAL 17,583 M 78 261 1,183 4,085 5,607 UNITED H 23 180 532 915 1,414 3,064 4,455 KINGDOM M 10 9 471 901 1391 TOTAL 1,393 692 5,107 22,803 115,487 418,170 563,652 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 206 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 7 Occupational accidents and occupational illnesses CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 207 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Occupational accidents and occupational illnesses FY2018 TOTAL Occupational accidents and occupational illnesses (number) GRI 403-2. 403-3 (*) Scope of occupational accidents and occupational illnesses does not include Andorra and Morocco. The formulae for calculating the frequency and severity indexes are those published by Spain’s Ministry of Employment and Social Security: The frequency index (FI) shows a ratio of accidents to the average number of workers exposed to risk. IF = (Number of accidents/Number of workers) * 1000 workers The severity index (SI) shows a ratio of time not worked due to an occupational accident to the time worked by workers exposed to risk. SI = (Number of work days lost/Number of hours worked) * 1000 hours worked In itinere accidents have not been included for Spain. The severity index only includes those countries availing of information on the length of absences. COUNTRY ACCIDENTS TOTAL IF IG OCCUPATIONAL TOTAL ACCIDENTS ILLNESS OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS M H M H M H M H SPAIN 9 8 17 0,47 1,50 0,01 0,01 0 0 0 EUROPA PORTUGAL 2 2 4 3,44 1,80 0,14 0,07 0 0 0 UNITED KINGDOM 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 4 BENELUX 3 1 4 21,67 3,15 0 0 0 0 0 ITALY 3 0 3 8,04 0 0 0 0 0 0 ANDORRA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AMERICA BRASIL 1 2 3 0,79 0,55 0 0 5 8 13 COLOMBIA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 MEXICO 0 1 1 0 1,15 0 0,03 0 0 0 PERU 1 1 2 0,62 0,24 0,01 0,001 0 0 0 CHILE 0 2 2 0 0,67 0 0,01 0 0 0 ARGENTINA 2 2 4 11,11 2,49 0 0 0 0 USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 AFRICA MOROCCO* *No data CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 208 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 8 Waste generated by the organisation by type Waste control (t) FY2018 TOTAL Waste generated by the organisation by type (t) GRI 103-2, 301-1,2,3, (*) Includes the offices in Madrid (Manoteras 52 and NOVUS), 303-3, Sevilla Torre Pelli, UK and USA. 306-1,2,3 Total non-hazardous waste 41.01 Total hazardous waste 0.14 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 209 2018 SocialSocial Corporate Corporate Responsibility Responsibility ReportReport 2018 Indicator 9 GHG emissions GHG emissions (t CO2 eq.) FY2018 TOTAL Emissions of greenhouse gases by the organisation in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent verified as per (*) Includes the standard UNE-EN-ISO 14064-3. Data on confirmed all offices in emissions source factors has been used for the Spain. calculation. GRI 305-3 Global* 10,526 Scope 1 82 Refrigerant gases** 82 Scope 2 2,203 Electricity consumption 2,203 Scope 3 8,241 Business travel by land 1,377 Business travel by air 6,357 Business travel by rail 507 2018 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 210 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 10 Consumption of raw materials Raw materials consumption (Tn) FY2018 TOTAL Consumption of most important raw materials (*) Includes all offices in for the company and measures to improve Spain. Portugal. Chile efficient use thereof. and USA. GRI 301-1. 2. 3 Total paper consumption 47,84 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 211 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Indicator 11. Non-renewable energy consumption and intensity Non-renewable energy consumption (kWh) FY2018 TOTAL (*) Includes all Consumption of electricity by everis’ facilities offices in Spain. UK obtained from bills issued by electricity suppliers. and Chile. GRI 302-1 Global 8,262,421 Energy intensity (kWh/m2) FY2018 TOTAL Consumption of electricity from non-renewable sources per square metre of office space. The ratio (*) Only includes all is for energy consumed within the organisation (no offices in Spain. other fossil fuels are consumed). GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 120,91 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION INFORMATION STATEMENT STATEMENT 212 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Annex 4 Content of Non-financial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 213 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Table 28. Location of content in Act 11/2018 CONTENT OF ACT 11/2018 GRI STANDARD PAGE/REFERENCE DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUP’S BUSINESS MODEL Short description of the group’s business model. 102-2. 0. Introduction which will include its business environment. its 102-4. 1.1 Business model BUSINESS organisation and structure. the markets in which 102-6. 2.4 Risk management MODEL it operates. its objectives and strategies. and the 102-7. 6.1 Environmental policy main factors and trends that may affect its future 102-10. performance 102-15 POLICIES APPLIED BY THE GROUP Policies that the group applies. which will include: 103-3. 2.3 Control policies the due diligence procedures applied for the 102-29. POLICIES identification. assessment. prevention and mitigation 102-30. of risks and significant impacts and of verification 102-31 and control. including the measures in which they have been adopted THE MAIN RISKS RELATED TO THESE MATTERS ASSOCIATED WITH THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES Main risks related to these matters associated with 102-11. 2.4 Risk management the group’s activities. including. where appropriate 102-15. and pertinent. business relationships. products or services that may have a negative effect in these areas. and how the group manages these risks. explaining the procedures used to detect and assess them in accordance with national. KEY RISKS European or international frameworks of reference for each matter. It must include information about the impacts that have been detected. offering a breakdown. in particular of the main risks in the short. medium and long term GENERAL Current and foreseeable effects of the activities 102-15. 6.1 Environmental policy: of the company on the environment and. where 102-29. our reference framework appropriate. health and safety 102-31 Environmental assessment and certification 102-11. 6.2 Environmental procedures 102-29 management system INFORMAy 102-30 TION TO THE Resources dedicated to the prevention of 102-29 6.2 Environmental ENVIRONenvironmental risks management system MENT Application of the principle of caution 102-11 6.2 Environmental management system Amount of provisions and guarantees for 307-1 6.2 Environmental environmental risks management system CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 214 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CONTENT OF ACT 11/2018 GRI STANDARD PAGE/REFERENCE CONTAMINATION Measures to prevent. reduce or repair CO2 103-2. 6.6. Air pollution. including emissions that seriously affect the environment 302-4. noise and light pollution 302-5. 6.4. Climate change 305-5. strategy 305-7 Measures to prevent. reduce or make good any 416-1 6.6. Air pollution. including type of air pollution (including noise and light noise and light pollution pollution) CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND WASTE PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT Waste prevention measures. waste recycling 103-2. 6.3. Environmental best measures. waste reuse measures. and other forms 301-1. practices of waste recovery and reuse 301-2. 301-3. 303-3. 306-1. 306-2. 306-3 Actions against food waste 307-1 N/A INFORMASUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES TION TO THE Use and supply of water according to local 303-1. 6.5. Sustainable use of ENVIRONlimitations 303-2. resources MENT 303-3 Consumption of raw materials and measures taken 301-1. 6.5. Sustainable use of to improve the efficiency of its use 301-2. resources 301-3 Direct and indirect consumption; measures taken 302-1. 6.5. Sustainable use of to improve energy efficiency. use of renewable 302-2. resources energies 302-3. 302-4. 302-5 CLIMATE CHANGE Important elements of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 305-3 6.4. Climate change generated as a business activity (including goods strategy and services produced) Measures taken to adapt to the consequences of 102-15. 6.4. Climate change climate change 103-2. strategy 201-2. 305-5 Reduction targets voluntarily established in the 103-2 6.4. Climate change medium and long term to reduce greenhouse strategy gas emissions and means implemented for this purpose CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 215 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CONTENT OF ACT 11/2018 GRI STANDARD PAGE/REFERENCE PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY INFORMATION Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity 304-1 6.7. Biodiversity TO THE ENVIRONMENT Impacts caused by the activities or operations of 304-1 6.7. Biodiversity protected areas EMPLOYMENT Total headcount and distribution of employees by 102-7. 4.1. Empleo gender. age. country and professional category 102-8. 405-1 Total number and distribution of contracts types 102-8 4.1. Empleo Annual average of permanent contracts. 102-8 4.1. Empleo temporary contracts. and part-time contracts by gender. age and professional category Number of dismissals by gender. age and 401-1 4.1. Empleo professional category Average remuneration and its progression broken 405-2 4.1. Empleo down by gender. age and professional category Salary gap 405-2 4.1. Empleo Remuneration of equal or average jobs in society 4.1. Empleo DISCLOSURES ON PERSONNEL Average remuneration of directors and 102-35. 4.1. Empleo executives. including variable remuneration. 102-36. allowances. compensation. payment to long-term 201-3 savings forecast systems and any other payment broken down by gender Implementation of work disconnection policies 402-1. 4.3. Work-life balance 402-2 measures Employees with disabilities 405-1 4.4. Equality 4.9. Accessibility and disability ORGANISATION OF WORK Organisation of work time 102-8 4.2. Organisation of work Number of absent hours 403-2 4.2. Organisation of work Measures designed to facilitate work-life balance 401-3 4.3. Work-life balance and encourage a jointly responsible use of said measures measures by parents CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 216 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CONTENT OF ACT 11/2018 GRI STANDARD PAGE/REFERENCE HEALTH AND SAFETY Conditions of health and safety in the workplace 103-2 4.7. Health and safety Occupational accidents. in particular their 403-2. 4.7. Health and safety frequency and severity. as well as occupational 403-3 illnesses. Broken down by gender SOCIAL RELATIONS Organisation of social dialogue (including 403-1 4.8. Social dialogue procedures to inform and consult staff and negotiate with them) Percentage of employees covered by collective 102-41 4.8. Social dialogue bargaining agreements by country Balance of the collective bargaining agreements 403-1. 4.8. Social dialogue (particularly in the field of health and safety in the 403-4 workplace) TRAINING Policies implemented in the field of training 404-2 4.6. Talent management Total number of hours of training by professional 404-1 4.6. Talent DISCLOSURES category management ON PERSONNEL ACCESSIBILITY Universal accessibility of people 103-2 4.9. Accessibility and disability EQUALITY Measures taken to promote equal treatment and 103-2 4.4. Equality opportunities between women and men Equality plans (Chapter III of Organic Law 3/2007. 103-2 4.4. Equality of 22 March. for the effective equality of women and men) Measures taken to promote employment 103-2. 4.1 Employment 404-2 4.4. Equality 4.6. Talent management Protocols against sexual and gender-based 103-2 4.5. Prevention of harassment harassment Policies against all types of discrimination and. 103-2 4.4. Equality and where appropriate. integration of protocols 4.5. Prevention of against sexual and gender-based harassment harassment Protocols against all types of discrimination and. 103-2. 4.4. Equality and where appropriate. management of diversity 406-1 4.5. Prevention of harassment CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 217 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CONTENT OF ACT 11/2018 GRI STANDARD PAGE/REFERENCE DISCLOSURES ON HUMAN RIGHTS Application of due diligence procedures in the 414-2 7.1 Application of due field of Human Rights diligence procedures in the field of Human Rights Prevention of the risks of Human Rights violations 410-1. 7.2 Risk prevention and. where appropriate. measures to mitigate. 412-1 manage and repair any possible abuses committed DISCLOSURES Complaints about cases of human rights violations 102-17. 7.2 Risk prevention ON 419-1. HUMAN 411-1 RIGHTS Promotion and compliance with the provisions of 103-2 7.2 Risk prevention the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation regarding respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; elimination of forced or obligatory labour; and effective abolition of child labour DISCLOSURES ON FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY Measures taken to prevent corruption and bribery 103-2 2.3 Control policies DISCLOSURES ON FIGHT AGAINST Measures to combat money laundering 103-2 2.3 Control policies CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY Contributions to non-profit foundations and 103-2 2.3 Control policies entities CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 218 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 CONTENT OF ACT 11/2018 GRI STANDARD PAGE/REFERENCE RELATIONS MAINTAINED WITH THE REPRESENTATIVES OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND THE MODALITIES OF DIALOGUE WITH THEM Impact of the company’s activity on employment 203-1. 5. Impact on society and local development. local towns and villages 204-1 and in the country Relations maintained with the representatives of 102-43 5.2 Social commitment local communities and the modalities of dialogue with them Association or sponsorship actions 102-13. 5.3 Activities. 203-1 partnerships. sponsorships. social awards and action OUTSOURCING AND SUPPLIERS Inclusion of social. gender equality and 103-3 5.5 Suppliers environmental issues in the procurement policy Consideration in relations with suppliers and 102-9. 5.5 Suppliers DISCLOSURES subcontractors of their responsibility 308-1. ON SOCIETY 308-2. 407-1. 409-1. 414-2 Supervision and audit systems and resolution 308-1. 5.6 Supervision systems thereof 308-2. and audits CONSUMERS Measures for the health and safety of consumers 416-1 5.5 Suppliers Systems for complaints received and resolution 416-1 5.4 Customers thereof TAX INFORMATION Profits obtained country by country 3.1 Profits obtained by country Taxes on profits paid 3.2 Taxes on profits paid Public grants received 201-4 3.3 Public grants received CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 219 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Annex 5 Independent verification report CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 220 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 AENOR Verification Statement for everis Spain, S.L.U. relating to the reporting of non-financial information in accordance with Law 11/2018 corresponding for the year ended 31 march 2019 FILE: 2000/0355/VNOF/01 everis Spain, S.L.U. (hereinafter the company) has commissioned AENOR to carry out a verification under a limited level of assurance of the state of nonfinancial information (hereinafter NFI reporting), in accordance with Law 11/2018 amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Law approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010, of 2 July, and Law 22/2015, of July 20, on Account Auditing, in matters of non-financial information and diversity (hereinafter, Law 11/2018), for the verification period of its activities, fiscal year ended March 31 2019, included in the CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT FY18 approved June 30th 2019 which is part of this Statement. AENOR, in accordance with the aforementioned Law, has carried out this verification as an independent provider of verification services. In this sense, AENOR has carried out the present verification under the principles of integrity, independence, ethics, objectivity, professional competence and diligence, confidentiality and professional behaviour that are required based on the accreditations that it has, within the general scope of application of ISO/IEC 170211:2015 and ISO 14065, and individuals, such as the Accreditation granted by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) for verification and validation of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects. AENOR, as required by the aforementioned Law, declares that it has not participated in processes prior to the verification of the NFI reporting. AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Página 1 de 6 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 221 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Company data: everis Spain, S.L.U. headquartered in: Avenida de Manoteras, 52 – 28050 MADRID Representatives of the Organization for the purposes of statement of non-financial information: Antonio GÓMEZ JARILLO. everis Spain, S.L.U. had the responsibility to report its non-financial information status in accordance with Law 11/2018. The formulation of the NFI reporting as well as its content is the responsibility of the Administrators of the company. This responsibility also includes the design, implementation and maintenance of the internal control considered necessary to allow the NFI reporting to be free from any material misstatement, due to fraud or error, as well as the management systems from which the necessary information is obtained for the preparation of the NFI. Purpose The purpose of the verification is to provide interested parties with a professional and independent judgement about the information and data contained in the nonfinancial information statement of the aforementioned organization, prepared in accordance with Law 11/2018. Scope of Verification CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT FY18 approved June 30th 2019 of everis Spain, S.L.U and companies included in the consolidated and related statements Annex A. Materiality For verification purposes, it was agreed to consider material discrepancies those omissions, distortions or errors that can be quantified and result in a difference greater than 5% with respect to the total declared. AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Página 2 de 6 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 222 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Criteria The criteria and information that have been taken into account as a reference for carrying out the check have been: 1) Law 11/2018 of 28 December amending the Commercial Code, the revised text of the Capital Companies Law approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of 2 July and Law 22/2015 of 20 July on the Auditing of Accounts, on non-financial information and diversity. 2) Standard ISAE 3000 (revised), relating to the commissioning of different insurances or the review of historical financial information. 3) The criteria established by the global sustainability reporting initiative at GRI standards when the organization has opted for this internationally recognized framework for the disclosure of information related to its corporate social responsibility. AENOR expressly disclaims any responsibility for investment or other decisions based on this statement. Verification process carried out During the verification process carried out, under a limited level of assurance, AENOR conducted interviews with the staff in charge of collecting and preparing the non-financial information statement and reviewed evidence relating to: Activities, products and services provided by the organization Consistency and traceability of the information provided, including the process followed to compile it, sampling information on the reported one. Completion and content of the statement of non-financial information in order to ensure the completeness, accuracy and truthfulness of its content. AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Página 3 de 6 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 223 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Conclussion Based on the foregoing, in our opinion, there is no evidence to suggest that the statement of non-financial information included in the CONSOLIDATED NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT FY18 approved June 30th 2019 and for the year ended march 31 2019, is not a faithful representation of the everis Spain, S.L.U. performance in social responsibility matters under Law 11/2018. Specifically, in relation to environmental, social and personnel issues, including the management of equality, non-discrimination and universal accessibility, human rights, the fight against corruption and bribery and diversity. Madrid July 31, 2019 Rafael GARCÍA MEIRO Chief Executive Officer AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Página 4 de 6 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 224 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 ANEXO Companies included in Non Financial Statements Everis Spain, S.L.U. Everis Chile, S.A. Everis Brasil Consultoría de negocios e Tecnologia de informaçao, Ltda Everis Argentina, S.A. Everis Portugal, S.A. Everis México, S.R.L. de C.V. Everis Italia, S.p.a. Everis Colombia, Ltda Everis Centers Group, S.L.U. Everis BPO, S.L.U. Everis Polonia, S.p. zoo Everis Initiatives, S.L.U. Everis Centers, S.L.U. Everis Centers Chile, Ltda Everis Training Chile, Ltda. Everis BPO Servicios Profesionales Técnicos y Tecnológicos Chile, Ltda. Everis Perú S.A.C. Everis BPO México SRL de CV Everis Ingeniería, S.L.U. NTTData Brasil Consultoría Em.T.I. & Soluçoes, LTDA Everis BPO Perú, S.A.C. Everis BPO Colombia, Ltda. Everis Aragón, S.L.U. Everis consultancy Limited Fit inversión en talento, S.A.U. BPxnet Limited Everis USA, Inc. Everis Aeroespacial y Defensa, S.L.U. Everis Mobile, S.L.U, Everpross, S.L.U. Cetel Ingeniería de Sistemas, S.L.U. Everis Panamá Inc. I-Deals Innovation & Technology Venturing Services, S.L. Everis South Africa Limited Everis Centers Latam Limitada EVERIS INFRASTRUCTURES ENGINEERING, S.L.U EVERIS SISTEMAS DE SEGURIDAD, S.L.U. Everis, Outsourcing de Processos, Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. EVERIS INFRASTRUCTURES OPERATIONS, S.L.U. Arilion, S.L.U. Everis Centers Morocco, S.A.R.L. Everis Centers Group Portugal, Unipessoal, Lda. Everis Andorra Consulting IT Services, S.L.U. AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Página 5 de 6 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 225 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Everis Belgique, SPRL Detalle de Participaciones en Sociedades Asociadas a 31 de marzo de 2019 Embention Sistemas Inteligentes, S.L. Toro vehículos especiales y Sistemas, S.L. Ingeniería y Sistemas de Información y Documentación, ISID, S.L. New technologies global systems, S.L. Herta Security, S.L. Palo Biofarma, S.L. Nettit Colaborative Payments, S.L. PlayStark Games, S.L Licencias Proyectos Seguridad y Salud, S.L. Oncostellae, SL. Futuna Blue España, SL. Iobuilders Blockchain Tech & Ventures, S.L. Booboo Red de Optimización, S.L Bajas del perímetro durante el año fiscal 2018 Ibetor, S.L. Azurebio, S.L. AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Página 6 de 6 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 226 Andorra Argentina Belgium Brazil Chile Colombia Spain United States of America France Italy Luxembourg Morocco Mexico Netherlands Peru Portugal United Kingdom Switzerland everis.com Consulting, Transformation, Technology and Operations
