Contents 001 Contents Environment Quick Reference (Navigation) 041 Reduction of Environmental Footprint About us Society 003 Overview of the Dentsu Group 043 Respect for Human Rights and Pursuit of Humanity 005 History 044 Diversity and Inclusion Dentsu Group's Growth Story 045 Decent and Creative Work 007 Top Message 046 Responsible Communications and Content 009 How We Create and Share Value 048 Community 011 Our Business Business Lineup and Primary Services 019 Dentsu Group Medium-term Direction ESG Data Summary 021 Financial/Non-financial Highlights 049 Data Summary 023 Message from Chief Financial Officer 027 Discussion: The Transformation “Phase 2” of the Finance Dentsu Group 053 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Operating Results Governance 065 Consolidated Financial Statements 031 Corporate Governance 034 Compliance Corporate Data 035 Message from Outside Director 141 Subsidiaries and Affiliates 036 Board Members/Management 142 Information for Shareholders 142 Share Information CSR Strategy 037 Message from the Chairperson of the CSR Committee 038 Dentsu Group CSR 039 Dentsu Group SDGs-related Action Editorial Policy Period covered by the report • This integrated report explains the Dentsu Group’s operating performance for the Centered on activities during FY2018 (January 1, 2018 through December reporting period and introduces the Group’s strategies and initiatives to create value 31, 2018), but also describes some activities from preceding or more recent over the medium to long term. Information related to efforts to enhance sustainability periods. is also arranged within an ESG framework, taking increased disclosure requirements into account. Organizations covered • Target audience Dentsu Inc. and Dentsu Group companies All stakeholders including shareholders and investors Publication date Reference guidelines August 2019 IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) (Next edition scheduled for publication in August 2020) The International Integrated Reporting Framework Contact info Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry CSR Department, Legal Division, Dentsu Inc. Email: dentsucsr@dentsu.co.jp GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 4 (G4) Investor Relations Department, Corporate Strategy Division, Dentsu Inc. Email: irmail@dentsu.co.jp Forward-looking Statements This integrated report contains statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Dentsu Inc. or its management with respect to the results of operations and financial condition of Dentsu or the Dentsu Group. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. The information contained in this integrated report identifies important factors that could cause such differences. These forwardlooking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Dentsu disclaims any obligation to update or publicly announce any revisions to these forwardlooking statements to reflect future events, conditions or circumstances. 001 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Quick Reference (Navigation) The Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 has been designed to enable readers to easily navigate the site, to find the information in which they are most interested. Please use the following for reference while reading the Integrated Report. ? Content Frequently Asked Questions Search Content Summary Location ◦ Top Message • Toward the creation of a new Dentsu Group P. 7 What are issues that • In accordance with its corporate philosophy Dentsu must address with of “Good Innovation.” the Dentsu Group respect to changes in the ◦ How We Create and Share Value contributes to the achievement of a sustainable P. 9 society by working together with clients to probusiness environment? vide optimal solutions to global social issues. ◦ Discussion (Heads of Japan and Interna• Second phase of Dentsu Group transformaP. 27 tional Businesses) tion—Aiming to Become One Dentsu— • Performance highlights for three-year period including FY2018 ◦ Financial/Non-financial Highlights P. 21 • Underlying factors and explanations of FY2018 FY2018 Performance performance ◦ Message from CFO • Dentsu regards 2019–2020 as a second phase P. 23 in its development aimed at promoting Groupwide business reform • Implementing wide-ranging reforms that ◦ How We Create and Share Value P. 9 provide value to people and society ◦ Discussion (Heads of Japan and Interna• Second Phase of Dentsu Group Evolution— How will Dentsu achieve P. 27 tional Businesses) Aiming to Become One Dentsu— mediumto long-term growth in its international business? ◦ Key Persons • Perspectives of Dentsu Group key persons P. 12-18 • Dentsu’s own innovation ◦ Dentsu Group Medium-term Direction P. 19 • Leading the Dentsu Group into a new phase How is the Working • The significance of working environment reforms Environment Reform ◦ Decent and Creative Work • Working environment reforms: specific initiaP. 45 Plan in Japan progressing? tives and their current progress ◦ Overview of the Dentsu Group • At a Glance—Quick Facts about Dentsu— P. 3-4 • Message from the Chairperson of the CSR How is Dentsu ◦ Dentsu Group CSR Committee P. 37,39 engaged in achieving • Dentsu Group SDGs-related Actions the Sustainable Development Goals • Focus on Goal Three: Health—working with Common Ground NGOs to prevent global infectious diseases, Website (SDGs)? such as malaria and tuberculosis • Consumer Survey on SDGs Dentsu Team SDGs • Production of SDGs Communication Guide Website 002 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Overview of the Dentsu Group As the driving force in Japan’s advertising industry, the Dentsu Group maintains long-term business relationships with a variety of customers that include leading corporations in Japan and overseas. We have also established distinctive services in overseas markets and built a solid network covering Japan, Americas, EMEA and APAC. Our operations are led by Dentsu in Japan and Dentsu Aegis Network internationally. Operating Area Finance Revenue less Cost of Sales 9,326 billion January to December 2018 Over 145 countries and regions International Business around the world Share of Profit by Region Digital Domain Ratio Ratio APAC 14% Americas Japan 24% 40% 60.4% EMEA 22% in Japan 23.9% (1.7pt↑) international 60.6% (2.7pt↑) January to December 2018 Japan Business International Business Market Position Award Share of the Japanese Ranking of Advertising Number of international Advertising Market Holding Company Groups awards for advertising No. 1 Share 5 171 28.8％ Top Worldwide Calculated by comparing sales by Number of awards for advertising business category in Dentsu’s Japan Source: Advertising Age, April 29, 2019 during the last year business to nationwide advertising (As of June 10, 2019) expenditures in 2019 003 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Number of Employees (consolidated) EMEA Americas As of December 31, 2018 17,814 12,497 62,608 Male Female Male Female 8,096 9,718 5,733 6,764 45.4% 54.6 % 45.9 % 54.1% APAC Japan 13,758 18,539 Male Female Male Female Male Female 32,443 30,165 6,195 7,563 12,419 6,120 51.8 ％ 48.2％ 45.0 % 55.0 % 67.0 % 33.0 % Sustainability Non-finance SDGs-related Action Reduction Rate of DentsuTeam SDGs Common Ground CO2 Emission 18.6 % Year-to-year comparison basis, scope 1+2+3 Number of companies participating in CSR Procurement Survey Dentsu Diversity LAB Global Compact Network Japan 750 Companies As of the end of December, 2018 Assessment from Outside Institutions 004 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us History Dentsu Group's Growth Story One hundred and nineteen years after its founding, Dentsu has transformed itself from a telecommunications company to an advertising company and an integrated communications company. Dentsu aims to become “the best partner in realizing the business transformation of our customers. ” The images below show the progress of the Group, which will become One Dentsu under the new structure in 2020, together with its other milestones 1901 1974 Hoshiro Mitsunaga established Japan Advertising Ltd. The US-based magazine Advertising Age and Telegraphic Service (currently know as Dentsu). ranks Dentsu the No.1 advertising agency worldwide in terms of billings (calendar 1973). 1951 Commercial radio broadcasting begins: Establishment 1984 of Radio Division at the Head Office. Contributing to the support of the Los Angeles Olympic Games. 1953 Eatablished DYR, an international service network jointly with USCommercial Television Broadcasting begins. based Young & Rubicam. Establishing Radio and Television Division at the Head Office and Osaka Office. 1989 Net sales exceed one trillion yen in the fiscal year ending March 1989. 1955 1996 The corporate name is changed to Dentsu Inc. Contributing to the establishment of cyber communications inc.(cci), 1959 Japan's first Internet advertising agency. Establishing Marketing Department. 1998 Promote the introduction of marketing. Contributing to the support of the Nagano Winter Olympic Games. Opening a New York office. 2000 1964 Establishing the Bcom 3 Group with the US-based firms Leo Group Contributing to the support of the Tokyo Olympic Games. and the McManas Group. 1970 Contributing to the support of the Osaka Expo '70. 1901 1974 With the astonishing development of the mass meIn an era in which corporate communication needs include dia due to the rapid economic growth in Japan after sports, cultural activities, and mecenat activities, from advertis1950's, it occupies an overwhelming share of the ing company to an integrated communication company. initial TV advertising market. Street TV audience TVCM No. 1, Seikosha noon time New symbol on the entrance Opening ceremony of the Nagano Olymtone“ (1953) to the Tsukiji head office pic Games (1998) building (1986) 1960' 1979 Foundation of a media agency Centrale d'achats WCRS Group was formed as an advertising agency. Radio, Affichage, Télévision (Carat) in France. 1984 WCRS Group acquired Carat. 1989 Foundation of Aegis as a separate company based on the original WCRS media buying division. 1990 The name of the company was officially changed from WCRS to Aegis Media. 005 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 2001 2013 Listing its shares on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Acquiring Aegis Group plc., a UK-based advertising firm. Exchange. Dentsu Group Medium-Term Management Plan Dentsu 2017 and Commemorating the 100th anniversary. Beyond was announced. Procurement of funds through public offering of new shares, etc. 2002 Contributing to the support of the 2002 FIFA World Cup Korea/Japan.™ 2014 The Organizing Committee of the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games The Bcom3 Group merges with the French company Publicis appointed Dentsu as marketing agency. Groupe S.A. and Dentsu acquires capital in Publicis Groupe S.A. 2007 2016 Commencing construction of Dentsu Network West (DNW). Transitting from a Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board to a Dentsu's consolidated net sales reach two trillion yen in the Company with Audit & Supervisory Committee. Establishing Dentsu Digital. fiscal year ending Mar 2007. Initiated the labor environment reform in Japan. 2008 Dentsu Holdings USA acquires U.S.-based mcgarybowen, LLC. 2017 Expanding DNW to Dentsu Network. Toshihiro Yamamoto is apppointed as the 13th president. 2012 Reaching an agreement with Publicis Groupe to termi2018 nate strategic alliance agreements and other agreements Dentsu Group Medium-Term DIrection is announced. and sell shares of Publicis Groupe S.A. 2019 Announcement to transition to a pure holding company structure. 2001 2013 Globalization of the global advertising industry and As the digital domain continues to expand globally continuing rapid changes focus on expanding internaBuilding an international Network and Changing the tional businesses and promoting globalization. Group‘s Business Driving Innovation into a new sustainOne able growth phase. Dentsu Listed on the First Section of FIFA World Cup Korea JaMeeting in Dentsu Aegis London The Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Tokyo Stock Exchange (2002) pan™ (2002) (2013) Games (2020) 2013 Creation of Dentsu Aegis Network. 2003 Creation of Amplifi, the media investment arm of Aegis. Formation of Isobar, the world’s first global digital network. 2016 Acquisition of a majority stake in Merkle, a leading independent data-driven 2008 technology enabled performance marketing agency in the USA. Aegis Media adopts a six point strategy to address Dentsu Aegis Network digital revenues reach over 50%. convergence and globalization. 2019 2009 Tim Andree appointed as CEO of Dentsu Aegis Network in addition to Aegis Media launched a unique operating model, his role as Executive Chairman of Dentsu Aegis Network. One P&L. 006 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Top Message Remaking the Dentsu Group for the Future Toshihiro Yamamoto Representative Director President & CEO In fiscal 2018, ended December 31, 2018, Dentsu Group more complex and difficult for many in the industry. companies in Japan completed a two-year workplace In actuality, however, we now have many more reform project to improve labor conditions and curb valuable techniques and media that can be integrated excessive working hours. Launched in fiscal 2017, the into advertisements to increase their effectiveness. As project involved wide-ranging and comprehensive those techniques are applied, advertisements in the reforms throughout our Company in Japan. future will increasingly appear very different than those Giving priority to the mental and physical health of to which we have been accustomed, and this will present all employees, we overhauled operational processes, advertising companies with greater opportunities made forward-looking investments in IT and advanced through which advertising can be realized. systems, improved working conditions in our offices, I also believe that, in the future, advertising comrevamped personnel systems, and introduced initiatives panies will become much more involved in issues outfor helping employees develop. side of advertising. Essentially, an advertising company Now that the project has been completed, we clarifies what a client wants to achieve, creates ideas to are pursuing innovations in our business practices achieve that goal, and then applies those ideas in an throughout the Dentsu Group, while laying a path advertising project. toward its sustainable growth. If we consider advertising in the broadest sense, I am confident that the reforms we have accomhowever, this process of clarifying goals, finding plished in Japan, together with the establishment of practical solutions and applying those ideas can be common systems and platforms we have implemented extended beyond advertising to all kinds of issues in our international business, will contribute greatly to confronting people around the world. the Group’s growth and competitiveness. Indeed, advertising companies will be increasingly called on to get more involved in such issues as the postOur Future in a Post-digital World Requires Diversity digital era brings the world’s people closer together. As The post-digital business world of today is unlike members of the Dentsu Group, we aspire to promptly any other before—now practically any information is and flexibly respond to such calls. To respond effectively, instantly accessible anywhere in the world. I believe this I believe diversity will be a key factor. has major implications for both the future of advertising and the future of advertising companies. Toward a More Diverse Dentsu Group First, advertising in the future will be in a form We decided to organize the Dentsu Group under a pure completely unlike that of the present. Historically, holding company structure effective January 2020, and advertisements were once limited to printed text and preparations for this shift are currently underway. As photographs, and later evolved with the inventions of part of this reorganization, we will encourage all Group radio and television. Sporting events became venues companies to respond decisively to changes in the for advertising, and eventually consumers themselves operating environment by making the most of diversity. served as advertising mediums through fashion and Over a history spanning almost 120 years, Dentsu wearable products. has adapted to the changing times by embracing Then, that long evolution of advertising dramatically diversity. Looking ahead, the Dentsu Group will need to accelerated when the internet came on the scene and diversify as a metanational group capable of quickly and radically escalated the number of advertising mediums. effectively combining the diverse capabilities of each of Following that explosion of media, advertising grew its members around the world, rather than rely on those 007 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 based in any particular country. I believe this will be the Group’s most important competitive advantage. Driven by the growth of the Dentsu Aegis Network, which we launched in 2013 to lead international operations, the Dentsu Group has expanded to over a thousand companies in over 45 countries and regions, with more than 60,000 employees around the world. Having achieved our past goal of becoming a global group, our task now is to explore the diversity of the world’s people while promoting the wide-ranging approaches and talents of our own members so that the Dentsu Group may continue to evolve. Today, new ideas, skills, and innovations spawned by any given market can be instantly transmitted digitally. For that reason, we recognize how essential it is for the Dentsu Group to explore, connect, and foster its own diversity without delay. The focal points for this undertaking are the opportunities given to all Group employees who comprise our collective team of dentsu-jin with the aim to have all of the Group’s 60,000-plus members worldwide to come together and discover each other under One Dentsu. In Partnership with Our Clients and Other Stakeholders Our mission is to consistently offer outstanding value to our clients and help them grow. To accomplish that, we must consider every aspect of our clients, including their own customers, end-users of their products, their partners, the communities they serve, and the public at large. In that sense, our work should contribute to making society more prosperous and the world a better place. As vital stakeholders, Dentsu Group’s employees can help our clients and contribute to society by creating value in all kinds of ways. I want all of the Group’s members to take pride and satisfaction in these pursuits. The Dentsu Group remains committed to helping realize a sustainable society in partnership with its clients. We thus will continue promoting innovation and fresh initiatives. We ask the Group’s stakeholders for their understanding and support of these endeavors. 008 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us How We Create and Share Value The value creation process of the Dentsu Group Based on our corporate philosophy of “Good Innovation,” the Dentsu Group contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by providing best solutions for solving worldwide issues in collaboration with our customers. Transform Worldwide … challenges. Issues into… We face challenges as We recognize and call attenOne Team. tion to the issues. Megatrends Corporate Philosophy Financial Capital Limited • Sound financial position. environment • Multifaceted funding sources. and resources Manufacturing Capital Dentsu Dentsu who want to solve them. A crossing point of worldwide issues and people • Working environments that makes employISID East Japan ees comfortable and collaborative. Dentsu Dentsu • Cloud platforms that enable location-free Digital West Disparities and collaboration. Japan Differences Intellectual Capital CARTA Japan Dentsu Hokkaido • Accumulated consumer, client, and social insights gleaned from business operations. Data Dentsu Artist Kyushu • Unique and original ideation methods. Demographic • Data expertise represented by PDM and M1. Dentsu changes Live ・・・ Dentsu Tec Human Capital • 60,000 diverse talented individuals in over Business Domains 145 countries and regions. Media Contents Digital Marketing Marketing • Talent development programs supporting the growth of employees. Diverse Values Promotions Creative PR Global Business • Inclusivity to incorporate talent from outside. Societal Capital • Wide and solid customer base (clients, media owners, affiliates, sports organizaAdvance of tions, content holders, public sectors, local Digitalization communities). International Natural Capital • Limited dependence on natural capital due to nature of business. • Stable access to electricity and other power Climate Change sources. The world is full of issues. And those are increasing not only in terms of numbers but also in terms of External complexities. Environment Since we are aiming to become ‶the best partner in realizing the business transformation of our customers” in solving their issues, we, the Dentsu Group, consider this situation as our opportunity. 009 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Create solutions… … and take actions Multi-angle and uncontogether. strained thinking. Materialize solutions together with customers. All-encompassing transformations to Financial Capital P. 026 bring new value to people and society. • Internal reserves and allocation for future growth, including M&A. • Return of profit to society through stable dividend. Contributions to rich life through Innovations for a better society. Manufacturing Capital P. 024 communication • Realization of a better working environment. • IT platforms to facilitate collaboration. Intellectual Capital P. 027 • Expertise and knowledge gained through providing solutions. Contribution to the • Client and consumer benefits from ⿟w growth of our Dentsu Group learning and growing from those. ⿟ our gained data expertise. customers One Dentsu Human Capital P. 044 • Talent development. • Promotion of diversity based on the respect to individuals. Societal Capital P. 027 • Stronger bond with customers Realization of through collaboration. a sustainable society • Wider range of solutions by building wider external network. Natural Capital P. 039 • Protect natural capital by leveraging customer-owned programs through support for their SDGs activities. We have set six CSR Material Themes to face these challenges. (Page 40). Goals of the SDGs • Material Themes with deep connecRespect for human rights and pursuit of humanity Decent and creative work tion between Dentsu Reduction of environmental footprint Responsible communications and content Diversity and Inclusion Social transformation through business Group business. 010 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Our Business Business Lineup and Primary Services The Dentsu Group demonstrates its powers of integration by combining services spanning a wide variety of business domains. Dentsu is supported by its many years of experience, its distinctive and original methods, its efficient tool-backed media planning, and its ability to build media buying tactics. We have also established an environment in which we can utilize our rich, Media quality content assets through the production of television programs, investment in film production committees, acquisition of broadcasting rights for large sporting events, and other endeavors. Using this expertise in media planning, our buying power and our access to abundant content, we set up the Integrated Solutions Division devoted to comprehensive media content planning. The division provides optimized and seasonal media plans designed to resolve branding issues. Through this division, Dentsu is applying its expertise and executive abilities to develop and provide comprehensive media plans. These serve both the mass media of yesteryear and the wide range of new digital media, represented by ever-changing and growing social networking services and video sites. Business field • Media planning • Interactive media • Audience insight development • Media buying • New business development with • Private marketplace media companies Value provided • Media planning know-how, methods and tools • Top-tier content assets Advertising is undergoing many changes, as client advertising needs and consumer's access points no longer fit past frameworks. With society maturing, sports and Content entertainment content are becoming an increasingly indispensable part of our cultural lives. As Dentsu continues to take on the challenges of content production one sees its ability to innovate and produce wide-ranging communication by delivering universally exciting sports, movies, music and other media to a broad sector of the community. Dentsu has been appointed exclusive marketing agent for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, and will contribute to the success of the Games by selling related marketing rights Business field • Sports business • Entertainment content Value provided • Provide sports, movie and music content that excites and inspires all people 011 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 The spread of digitalization and the ongoing evolution of technology have driven changes in consumer behavior. These, in turn, are fuelling demand for comprehensive Digital digital marketing. Companies must, therefore, break away from traditional individual Marketing marketing activities, while marketing service companies are expected to provide comprehensive professional support services. Dentsu, thus, continues to disrupt the traditional marketing silo format to provide integrated services. It will offer consulting, development, implementation, management, and operation support in all digital marketing domains. Business field • Marketing intelligence services • System solutions services • Digitally performance-based advertising services • Data solutions services • Direct marketing services • Social marketing services Value provided • Various data solutions • Integrated digital marketing services Key Persons Venture DNA Mono-dukuri Product Development Capability Assets into New Value CARTA HOLDINGS is a company created through a business merger between Cyber Communications Inc. (CCI), at the time the largest media representative in Japan specializing in branded advertising, and the VOYAGE GROUP Inc., which also at the time had strengths in performance-based advertising and digital technologies. With the popularization of the digital environment, the line between performance-based advertising and branding-oriented brand advertising is blurring. Thus, we believe that CARTA HOLDINGS, which handles both performance-based and brand advertising, will become increasingly significant. Shinsuke Usami In addition, we can offer each Dentsu Group company Mono-dukuri Product Developement Chief Executive Officer, Capability—based on our ability to develop, operate, and improve our proprietary advertising platform— CARTA HOLDINGS, Inc. as well as venture DNA. We want to turn our strengths and assets into new value for the Dentsu Group BIO: Born in Aichi Prefecture. After by leveraging our advertising technologies, DNA as a venture company focused on challenges, as well graduating from the Faculty of as our experience. Commerce at Waseda University, joined a major consulting firm, then launched axiv.com, Inc. (now VOYAGE GROUP, Inc.) in 1999. From 2005 to 2010, jointly served as a director at Cyber Agent, working mainly in the technology department. Pursuant to a merger with CCI in 2019, assumed the position of Chief Executive Officer of CARTA HOLDINGS, Inc. 012 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Our Business The spread of digital and social media, changes in consumer values and behaviors, and the evolution of technology, such as big data, are steadily transforming company– Marketing consumer relationships. Companies are finding it difficult to produce adequate results unless they are able to coordinate marketing processes and individual-focused measures. To this end, Dentsu refers to this significant change as “marketing convergence” and is developing and providing integrated solutions for the modern issues clients face. In the context of integrated, people-driven marketing, the methods we have accumulated over the years are concentrated and optimized. The resultant framework enables us to work out and evaluate measures and policies from a broad perspective. We are aiming to become a partner that tackles client issues head on, by providing leading comprehensive marketing solutions for a new era, as well as marketing design that engineers mechanisms to support continued sales. Business field • Integrated marketing • System solutions services • Digital performance-based advertising services • Data solutions services • Direct marketing services • Social marketing services Value provided • Provide integrated digital marketing solutions The field of promotion is evolving thanks to the digital environment. At the same time, designing the customer experience, in the context of purchasing behavior, has become Promotion the main goal. Encouraging purchases merely through product appeal is now difficult, and efforts to isolate consumer needs are pushing further ahead during an era in which large volumes of information are exchanged among customers. Dentsu is responding to this high-level evolution by building promotion systems that provide specific measures based on the PDCA cycle and offer clear returns on investment. We will not stop at offering more intelligent storefront communication. In addition, we will provide knowledge regarding social networking services, web videos, and devices such as smartphones, while also offering optimal digital solutions, including tools related to online-merges-with-offline marketing. We concentrate our energies on activation and ideas that match target preferences, and on creativity that enhances the value of customer experiences. These efforts are rewarded with many internal and external awards each year. Further, we are well versed in space branding methods that influence behavior by making experiences more dramatic and impressive, thereby increasing their value. Promotion by the Dentsu Group results in marketing return on investment, and maximizes the value of customer experiences, while optimizing purchasing behavior. Thus, we will continue to develop the basics of promotion. Business field • Customer experience branding • Model • Digital activation • Purchasing behaviors data • Channel solutions Value provided • Activation ideas matching target tastes • Creative elements that enhance the value of customer experience 013 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Dentsu proposes optimal solutions based on a theme of innovative creativity by combining ideas, media, and human resources with a freedom that is not constrained Creative by established concepts, the digital realm, or tradition. All of Dentsu’s approximately 900 creative people are innovators. With each creator applying their own characteristics, they create roughly 900 individual solutions that allow them to respond to a wide variety of communication issues. The Creator of the Year award is granted annually to the individual who produced the most excellent creative work during the year. A representative from Dentsu has been the recipient of this award 28 times out of 30, and most recently in 2018. This level of frequency speaks volumes for the capabilities of our creative staff. Dentsu’s creativity is held in high esteem throughout the world, having won many advertising awards at home and abroad. Business field • International awards • Creator of the Year Value provided • Activation ideas matching target tastes • Creative elements that enhance the value of customer experience Key Persons Creativity Means Business Creativity is the driving force of Dentsu Jayme Syfu. We believe that to future-proof the agency, we have to use our creative lens beyond producing great work. Our creativity has to inspire stronger client relationships, improve organizational management, increase financial efficiency, drive insight generation, and of course keep our people inspired and happy. Here are a few creative moves we made within our business last year: We redesigned the agency’s organizational structure to meet the shifting needs of clients and the growing demand for digital. As an adaptation to the change, we dissolved the position of the Chief Merlee Cruz-Jayme Digital Officer and, instead, hired four executives with expertise in CRM, Customer Experience (CX), Chairmom and Chief Creative Social Media, and Digital Media. Officer Dentsu Jayme Syfu We also restructured our creative team. The talent pool was divided into four teams, each with BIO: Merlee Cruz-Jayme is Chairaccount, creative, digital and planning leaders. This allowed us to efficiently maintain the quality of our man and Chief Creative Officer at output with the balanced companywide assignment of agency talent. Dentsu Jayme Syfu, and the only female listed among the 20 top To ensure employee’s well-being and strengthen their work–life balance, we implemented a series of creative directors in Asia (Campaign measures for all employees. These measures include WOOO Day (Work Out Of Office Wednesdays), five Asia magazine). Most recently, she was named one of only eight days of mental wellness leave, and SISTERGOOD, a female leadership program. women among the 100 best chief Lastly, we also give back to the community by educating underprivileged students. Through the creative officers in the world, based on the 2019 Drum global ranking. IDEAS SCHOOL at Bulacan State University, we aim to give students the confidence and fortitude to fight One of CNN’s Leading Women, for their place in the creative community. she has written and illustrated a These initiatives have helped the agency become a more diverse, welcoming and ultimately book to help readers discover their creative side (Everyone Can Be Crea creatively stronger, while the global medals conferred on us last year made us the Most Awarded ative—Inspiring Habits from an ExCreative Agency in the Philippines. nun, Summit Books, 2016). She has 4 daughters. 014 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Our Business The essence of PR can be found through the process of talking with people around the world to achieve consensus. But the process is not possible without the formulation PR of strategies based on global perspectives. Breaking with a purely advertisementbased approach, we aim to change consumer attitudes by involving experts and media with third-party perspectives and using social media. Public opinion is increasingly being influenced by social media as a forum through which consumers can express themselves. By collaborating with all Group companies, Dentsu will be in a position to provide integrated planning that combines PR with advertising, creativity, digital technology, promotion, and content. We will contribute to both client branding and reputation management through global consensus-building and the strategic alignment of global and client perspectives. Business field • Strategic PR • Digital PR • Influencer marketing • Crisis communications • Global PR Value provided • Formulate integrated communication plans combining advertising, creative, digital, promotions, content and other elements Key Persons Using Information Distribution Design for Social Innovation Given the diversification of information delivery methods due to the spread of social media, the quality of information distribution design is crucial for accurately conveying information. Although the mass media has strong information delivery capabilities, we can show explosive information diffusion by social media, through which it is easy to convey joy, surprise, and other emotions. Information now frequently flows between mass media and social media, creating a strong reciprocal relationship between the two. Topics reported in the mass media are often probed more deeply on social Motoko Kunita media, while social media topics are reported as trends by the mass media. We are engaged in information distribution design, namely, the sterical design of information delivery Executive Officer and head of Business Development Division, routes for different media. This involves integrated PR planning and the production of easily conveyed Dentsu Public Relations Inc. and distributed content. BIO: Joined Dentsu PR in 1991. In The strength of Dentsu PR is that it has human resources that constantly consider what information addition to providing marketing consumers need and the ability to provide one-stop services, from upstream planning to downstream communication and corporate communication services to clients execution. As a member of the Dentsu Group, we are able to make use of their talented personnel and in a wide range of industries— valuable resources. from private companies to educaThe change to a pure holding company stracture in 2020 will further enhance the Dentsu Group’s tional institutions to government agencies—also focused on the connections with various countries and companies around the world. It will enable Dentsu PR to advance new business in the digital domain our offerings and continue providing effective communication services to our clients. development. After serving as head of the Business Creation In addition, we aim to create a better and sustainable society with our clients by contributing to the Office and head of the Informarealization of the social innovations they are engaged in, to create new social values and mechanisms to tion Distribution Design Division, in current position since January better the world. 2019. 015 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Japanese companies pursue larger markets across the globe at an ever faster pace. Global Thus it is becoming increasingly important for them to know how to communicate the Business appeal of their products to unknown consumers who speak other languages and are the products of different cultures. With the major events of 2020 just around the corner, Japan continues to be a focal market for overseas companies. At the same time, interest in the proper approach to Japan’s distinctive markets and media environments is growing. Dentsu provides domestic and overseas client companies marketing and communication services aimed at accelerating this kind of business intersection, contributing indirectly to societal and economic development. Further, Dentsu now is able to propose a wide variety of solutions that involve the resources of Dentsu Aegis Network. Using this ability to our advantage, we will provide marketing services that utilize the strengths of Japan and other nations to best meet customer needs. Business field • Outbound account operations • Inbound account operations • Global content operations Value provided • Combine with DAN resources, propose various solutions • Global-level quality Focusing on the Digital Sector within a Growing Indian Market The high-growth, fast-paced Indian advertising market is expected to reach $10bn during fiscal 2019, continuing its track record of double-digit growth driven by digital advertising, which is forecast to grow 32% yoy (DAN Global Ad Spend Forecast January 2019). Recognizing the trend, DAN India was an early investor in digital agencies and talent. This focus on digital has enabled us to become India’s largest digital agency group. We generate 46% of our revenue from the digital domain vs the wider market at 19%, and almost 50% of our people are digital experts. In a digital market characterized by the domination of Google and Facebook, DAN India has emerged as Ashish Bhasin the largest agency group partner for both. CEO of the Greater South APAC In a decade, DAN India has grown from a 50 member team to a 3,600-member powerhouse, and chairman and CEO India, Dentsu Aegis Network becoming the 2nd largest, fastest-growing agency group in India, consistently outperforming the market. Our revenues have grown by 50 times over the past 10 years, helped by both organic growth and BIO: Over the past 32 years, acquisitions. Ashish Bhasin has become a wellknown personality in the AdvertisWe have achieved our market share of 35% as a result of our unique One P&L philosophy which ing and Media industry in the Asia drives a collaborative mindset enabling us to deliver integrated solutions to our clients across the region. Pacific. He is presently CEO of the Greater South APAC and chairman With the Indian economy expected to grow by 8% over the next decade, I am confident that we can and CEO India, Dentsu Aegis continue to harness the opportunities across this exciting, fast-changing country. Network. He is also a member of the Dentsu Aegis Network Asia Pacific Executive Board. 016 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Our Business Key Persons Contributing to Maintain and Expand SPORTS Movement beyond 2020 We are told that, over the past decade, the global sports business market has doubled in size and that sports business continues to grow. During this time, there have been many competitors and new entrants in the market, and Dentsu has been involved in a number of ways. From the acquisition of marketing and broadcast rights, to conducting sales based on our understanding of client needs, we have developed all areas related to the sports business as only an integrated advertising agency can. Dentsu’s sport business, which has long contributed to the spread and development of sports, occupies a distinctive position in the global market. Koji Henmi Dentsu is now engaged in approaching key players in the sports business from a variety of Managing Director, Sports Business angles—from upstream intellectual property rights (sports organizations, athletes, facilities, etc.) to Division, Dentsu end users—as we launch efforts aimed at becoming a partner connecting various stakeholders. Joined Dentsu in 1991 and was assigned to the Sports Culture BusiAs we develop long-term partnerships with key players and use technology and data to benefit ness Division. Appointed manager them, we will cultivate new areas of commerce—such as consulting, ticketing, and licensing—to of the Sports Business Division in connect the sports world and end users. 2019. In addition to contributing to the success of the 2019 Rugby World Cup and Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, Dentsu is focusing on the future of Japan’s sports industry. We will make full use of the legacies established by the World Cup and the Olympics. In terms of new approaches, we will promote relationships and business with all of our partner entities, while encouraging the promotion of parasports in the interests of ensuring the sustainable growth of society. Further, Dentsu will develop and promote sports business producers in-house, to contribute to the perpetuation and expansion of the sports movement. Storytelling as a Branding Framework There’s nothing more relatable than a story. That’s why mcgarrybowen brings a classic storytelling framework that has proven to be so powerful and effective in transforming clients’ businesses. The framework begins like every great story—with an arch-enemy, a plot twist that allows our audience to see something in a new and interesting way, and a moral of the story. To get there, we have a proprietary strategic process—masterbranding™—based on the simple premise that arriving at a fresh solution requires a fresh starting place. We start by uncovering a company’s Jennifer Zimmerman underlying organizational belief system, then look for tangible evidence of this in its products, services, Global Chief Strategy Officer and cultural truths. The outcome of this strategic process is what we call Big Organizing Ideas. “Big” mcgarrybowen because ideas are born from a powerful brand belief, and “Organizing” in that they live across today’s complex media ecosystems. BIO: Jennifer Zimmerman joined mcgarrybowen in 2003, after The Big Organizing Idea, acting as a brand’s North Star, is a distinct and ownable point of view. It serving as executive vice presiserves as a cohesive element of every omni-channel touchpoint and informs every behavior, internally dent and director of strategy at and externally. Today’s modern marketers need to dramatically shift their approach, from claiming “a Y&R and Wunderman. A respected and seasoned veterpoint of difference” to crafting “a point of view.” This is because when you know what you believe, you an, she is sought-after speaker know how to behave. at industry events from Cannes to ANA. The skills Zimmerman We believe that uncovering a client’s unfair advantage and intelligently creating work that resonates in demonstrated while overseeing culture will lead to transformative business results. Understanding our clients’ needs is the reason we have strategic work for a number of major clients earned her the honbeen so successful in winning new business—last year alone, exceeding double digits in new revenue. or of being named a top finalist By applying our signature platform approach, we successfully serve the world’s most iconic brands. for the Creativity Award 2019 Most importantly, we have an enviable retention rate, with more than 30% of our clients with us for more Chief Strategy Officer of the Year. than 10 years. That’s proof that our work is not only winning in the boardroom but also in the world. 017 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Cutting Edge Promotion Services beyond the Speed of Business Environment Changes Within the Dentsu Group, Dentsu Tec develops promotional activities achieving engagement between consumers and clients. We are constantly striving to develop new promotion-related services. In recent years, as with the rapid increase in cashless payments for example, real and digital daily experiences are overlapping and the line between them is disappearing. Based on a marketing concept that views online and offline as parts of the same whole, Dentsu Tec provides an efficient and effective online-merges-with-offline (OMO) marketing promotion service. Eriko Kogure Consumer data is the foundation of engagement in OMO promotions. In September 2018, Dentsu Tec established a new company, MyData Intelligence Inc. (MDI), to handle and manage Executive Officer, Dentsu Tec Inc. consumer personal data (PD). The MDI platform allows consumers to centrally manage their own PD BIO: Joined the company (at that and provide it to companies that request it, while the latter can use it for marketing. time Dentsu Prox Inc.) in 1990. MainIn addition to collaborating with MDI for PD marketing, last year we established a technology ly involved in promotion production development company, +tech labo, to advance OMO promotions using cutting-edge technologies. for foreign multinational clients and the development of Asian markets. We are starting to work in-house, as well as with various organizations and companies to develop new Appointed Business Supervisor in marketing service technologies. 2011, then Executive Officer in 2017. Dentsu Tec will continue to contribute to the growth of client businesses by accurately grasping At present, responsible for global business. consumer purchasing behavior and changes in the social environment. Operational Excellence Creates Organizations Operational excellence is a way of working that organizations apply to run their business efficiently and effectively. The underlying concept was developed mainly by automotive companies such as Toyota and was, over the past few decades, adopted by other industries. Given the challenges facing the media industry, it is crucial that Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) develop a culture of continuous improvement through Operational Excellence. We define operational excellence as attaining process efficiency, measuring performance, and having the right mindset and behavior, to enable us to focus relentlessly on client value. Volker Doberanzke At DAN, the client is at the heart of everything we do. This requires a deep understanding of what our Global President of clients want and need, so that we can provide them with best-in-class quality outcomes. Business Operations Dentsu Aegis Netowrk In terms of business process, we evaluate our key processes at all levels to optimize our service and offer our clients a consistent experience. BIO: Volker Doberanzke joined Furthermore, measuring the quality of delivery towards our clients is crucial to allow us to continuously Dentsu Aegis Network in 2019 as global president of business improve. operations and is a member of the Then, we can build on our common infrastructure, which provides us business insights across markets, Group Executive Board of Dentsu Aegis Network. With responsibilities regions, and lines of business. covering 145 markets, Doberanzke An important part of operational excellence is the cultural aspect. Based on our high-performing has more than 20 years’ experience culture, we develop the right skills and capabilities as individuals and as an organization, to deliver the in transformational leadership, driving business excellence, and best outcomes for our clients, employees, and business. digital transformation. Before joining Our goal is to be the market leader serving our clients and helping them to win in the digital Dentsu Aegis Network, he worked for UBS, the world’s top wealth economy by building the most sustainable relationships across the entire customer journey. manager, where he developed and executed a groupwide process excellence roadmap across divisions, regions, and support functions. 018 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Dentsu Group Medium-term Direction The Dentsu Group will play a leading role in the creation of value for all our stakeholders and wider society. We presented how we plan to drive growth in the medium to long term as a Group in August, 2018. The Dentsu Group aims to be a corporate group that will play a leading role in the creation of value for all our stakeholders and wider society. WEB Dentsu Group Medium-term Direction http://www.dentsu.com/ir/corporatestrategy/ ⿟ ⿟Dentsu Group’s Self-Reforms In 2019 and 2020, we will continue our Create value for all our stakeholders: shareholders, necessary transformation to ensure we have clients, our people and society sustainable growth in 2020 and beyond. The Dentsu Group is committed to creating value for all our stakeholders; our shareholders, our clients, our people and society. To address the changing operating Creativity＆Technology Collaborations environment, we must innovate our business to reflect the opportunity that presents. Diverse & rich customer relationship ⿟ ⿟Dentsu Group Moving on to a New Phase 2019 and 2020 will be a key phase for implementing business transformation throughout the Dentsu Group beyond 2020. In these two years, focusing on growth and evolution in our Japan and international businesses, we will continue our necessary transformation to ensure we have sustainable growth through 2020 and beyond. Simultaneously, we will transition to a new corporate structure which enables us to connect the assets in our Group for maintaining our sustainable growth 2017 2018 2019 2020 Post-2020 Japan Group ・Expand domain in business Working environment reforms ・New business development and investment Transition to a new Establish Leverage strong founstrong foundaphase of dation tion sustainable growth Strengthen capability in ・Business to become 100% Data & Analytics digital economy International 019 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Medium-Term Direction for Japan Business We are promoting the business structure transformation for the Japan business in the medium-term. Advertising business Expand domain in busi• Share expansion • Improve profit margins ness New business Expand domain in business development and investment Marketing Technology Business Design Advertising • Data strategy consulting • Management reform support/ new business development business • Marketing cloud system integration • Customer experience design • New media development • Content management Core competence New business development and investment • Develop new business partnerships with our diverse customer base and invest own capital • Create new value through connecting the capabilities of the Dentsu Group and our customers • Gain revenue share by becoming a part of the business Accelerate business growth by expanding capabilities • Attract and retain talent • Increase investment activity, including M&A Medium-Term Direction for International Business We will continue on our current trajectory, with Dentsu Aegis Network’s vision to become 100% digital economy business by 2020. We have 6 key strategic priorities as below. We plan to continue to proactively pursue market transformation opportunities to accelerate our strategy through our ongoing M&A program. Continue evolving our business to become “100% digital economy” by 2020 Six strategic priorities to promote momentum and growth: 1 Build integrated solutions offering 4 Purposefully grow revenue in high margin, high growth sectors 2 Leverage media partnership and content opportunities 5 Mitigate cost of complexity 3 Differentiate the business with effective use of data 6 Evaluate market transformation opportunities to accelerate our strategy through ongoing M&A program ⿟ ⿟Guidance up to 2020 Organic growth rate Operating margin Shareholder returns (Revenue less cost of sales) Continual improveSteady dividend policy 3-year CAGR* up to 2020 ment in margin Consider returns from 2018 tracking earnings and 3% or higher CF performance *compound annual growth rate 020 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Financial/Non-financial Highlights (Consolidated, IFRS) Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (Millions of Yen) 2016 2017 2018 Turnover 4,924,933 5,187,300 5,357,278 Revenue 838,359 928,841 1,018,512 Revenue less cost of sales 789,043 877,622 932,680 Organic growth rate(1) (Consolidated) 5.1% 0.1% 3.4% Organic growth rate (Japan) 4.5% (0.3%) 2.1% Organic growth rate (International) 5.7% 0.4% 4.3% Operating profit 137,681 137,392 111,638 Underlying operating profit(2) 166,565 163,946 153,229 (3) Operating margin (Consolidated) 21.1% 18.7% 16.4% Operating margin (Japan) 26.8% 24.5% 21.7% Operating margin (International) 16.2% 14.6% 12.9% Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 83,501 105,478 90,316 Underlying net profit(4) 112,972 107,874 97,419 Basic earnings per share ¥292.85 ¥373.11 ¥320.39 Basic underlying net profit per share ¥396.20 ¥381.58 ¥345.59 Return on equity (ROE)(5) 8.3% 10.4% 8.4% Underlying ROE(6) 11.3% 10.6% 9.1% ROA(7) 4.4% 4.5% 4.1% Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent(8) 29.6% 30.7% 28.8% Cash dividend per share ¥85 ¥90 ¥90 (9) Dividend payout ratio 29.0% 24.1% 28.1% Underlying dividend payout ratio(10) 21.5% 23.6% 26.0% (1)Organic growth rate represents the constant currency year-on-year growth after adjusting for the effect of business acquired or disposed of since the beginning of the previous year. (2) Underlying operating profit: KPI to measure recurring business performance which is calculated as operating profit added with amortization of M&A related intangible assets, acquisition costs, share-based compensation expenses related to acquired companies and one-off items such as impairment loss and gain/loss on sales of non-current assets (3) Operating margin = Underlying operating profit÷Revenue less cost of sales×100 (4) Underlying net profit (attributable to owners of the parent): KPI to measure recurring net profit attributable to owners of the parent which is calculated as net profit (attributable to owners of the parent) added with adjustment items related to operating profit, revaluation of earnout liabilities/M&A related put-option liabilities, gain/loss on sales of shares of associates, taxrelated and NCI profit-related and other one-off items (5) ROE (IFRS) = Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent÷Average equity attributable to owners of the parent based on equity at the beginning and end of the fiscal year×100 (6) Underlying ROE = Underlying net profit (attributable to owners of the parent)÷Average equity attributable to owners of the parent based on equity at the beginning and end of the fiscal year×100 (7) ROA (IFRS) = Profit before tax÷Average total assets based on total assets at the beginning and end of the fiscal year ×100 (8) Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent = Equity attributable to owners of the parent ÷Total assets (9) Dividend payout ratio = Cash dividend per share÷ Basic earnings per share×100 (10) Underlying dividend payout ratio = Cash dividend per share÷ Basic underlying profit per share×100 021 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Revenue収益 838,359 928,841 1,018,512 Revenue 売上総利益 Less Cost of Sales 877,622 789,043 932,680 Organic Gross Profit Growth Rate (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (%) Consolidated 1,200,000 1,000,000 7.5 Japan International 900,000 750,000 5.5 600,000 500,000 3.5 300,000 250,000 1.5 0 0 -0.5 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Operating Profit Underlying Operating Profit Operating Margin Consolidated (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (%) Japan 150,000 200,000 30.0 International 150,000 22.0 100,000 100,000 15.0 50,000 50,000 7.5 0 0 0.0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Profit for the Year Attributable to Owners of Underlying 調整後当期利益 Net Profit (6) 112,972 107,874 97,419 Basic 基本的 Earnings per Share 1 株当たり当期利益 292.85 円 373.11 円 320.39 円 the Parent (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (Yen) 150,000 150,000 400.00 300.00 100,000 100,000 200.00 50,000 50,000 100.00 0 0 0.00 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Basic Underlying Net Profit per Share Return on Equity (ROE) Underlying ROE調整後 ROE 11.3% 10.6% 9.1 (Yen) (%) (%) 600.00 12.0 12.0 9.0 9.0 400.00 6.0 6.0 200.00 3.0 3.0 0.00 0.0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Ratio of Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent Cash Dividend per Share/Dividend Payout Ratio Underlying Dividend Payout Ratio (%) (Yen) ■ Cash dividend per share （％） (%) 40.0 100 Dividend payout ratio 40.0 30.0 75 30.0 20.0 20.0 50 20.0 10.0 25 10.0 0 0 0.0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 CO2 emissions* 109,840 124,698 113,134 Total Hours Worked Per Year Number/Ratio of Woman Among Managers* (Parent Company only) (Parent Company only) (t) 124,698 (Hours) （％） 125,000 113,134 113,791 2,500 2,166 200 8.4 10 2,031 1,952 7.8 8.0 62,500 1,250 100 5 155 165 174 0 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 *Excluding some of Dentsu Group companies * Including personnel seconded to the Company and excluding personnel seconded from the Company 022 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Message Message from Chief Financial Officer Value and Profit for the Medium to Long term In August 2018, the Dentsu Group announced mediumterm financial guidance based on three metrics that would carry us through to the end of FY2020 (ending December 31, 2020). The first metric is organic growth of revenue less cost of sales, which shows how much our business has grown, namely, the degree to which customers depend on us. Business acquired through M&A activity aside, we aim to achieve a three-year compound annual growth rate of 3% or more during the three years leading up to FY2020. The second metric is our operating margin. This shows the degree of added value we provide for customers, and our business efficiency. As long as customers value our solutions, the operating margin should rise. Further, since efficient business management boosts the operating margin, it should be higher than in FY2018 by FY 2020. The third metric concerns steady shareholder returns, to ensure that our operating performance and cash flow enable shareholders to profit. To this end, each year we will Director and Executive Officer maintain or increase the dividend per share and consider buying back shares, as we reflect regular comprehensive Arinobu Soga reviews of our assets and capital requirements. We are currently in the process of restructuring our business on the basis of the above metrics. Phase 1 was completed during 2017–18 with the setting up of new business foundations. Phase 2 will cover FY2019–20, and will see us carry out Group-wide business reforms. 023 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 International Business Phase 1: Foundations FY2017–18 We also faced operational challenges in the International business as well. Since acquiring Aegis in 2013, our international business has grown some threeIn 2017, both the domestic and international businesses fold, and we have conducted more than 150 acquisitions. of Dentsu Group began a period of internal investment. As a result, we encountered functional overlap—primarily This required that we transformed ourselves to in our middle office, where inefficiency was caused by the reflect the accelerated transformation of society through simultaneous use of a number of different systems. digitalization. To give a software analogy, the Operating These issues were resolved as we adopted shared, System we were using to conduct business needed to be global platforms, systems, and services during phase 1 updated. restructuring. The investments have led to long-term business Japan Business reform, and have created a scalable platform that will We began the working environment reforms in 2017 allow for future growth whilst also raising our operating and, by the end of FY2018, had invested ¥18.3 billion in margin over the medium term. the restructuring. Using the total number of hours worked A second international business challenge was how by employees as a key performance indicator, we cut staff we might strengthen our ability in new domains, and working hours at the Parent Company by carrying out the raise our top line, namely, gross sales. Our acquisition following measures: of Merkle Group Inc. in August 2016 provided us with a • Increasing staff numbers to reduce workload. market leading data driven, tech enabled performance • Streamlining operations, and eliminating, automating, marketing agency specializing in people-based marketing. and outsourcing as much as possible. Integrating Merkle’s advanced services and technologies • Upgrading our office environments to reflect the era into our own global network has allowed our brands of progressive digitalization. to deliver unique, personalized customer experiences These steps reduced the hours worked by employees across platforms and devices, building competitive at the Parent Company. At the same time, they allowed superiority. Continued integration of our services, sharing us to attain our highest revenue less cost of sales levels the knowledge and experience we have gained across ever, and two of our targets: reduced working hours and countries and brands, raises the value of the solutions we improved efficiency of our operations. provide to our clients. A third initiative of our international business in FY2018 involved reinstating our performance-based Diagrams 1: Total hours worked by employees and gross profit (Parent Company only) incentive system, investing in our people, the Group’s ■ Total hours worked (ten thousand hours) greatest asset. The race to acquire human resources with Revenue less cost of sales (hundred million of yen) sophisticated skills related to digital technology and data 2,353 analytics is intensifying and crossing industry boundaries. 2,348 2,315 2,000 2,266 2,285 Maintaining our competitive advantage whilst attracting 2,232 Transition to a new growth domain and retaining talent remains a challenge – one we 1,500 address through investing in our people through our Skills Working hours produced Academy platform. 1,000 1,564 1,356 1,318 500 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Results Forecast 024 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Message on year; up 10.2% on a constant currency basis), while its FY2018 Operating Performance organic growth rate was 4.3% year on year. The digital domain accounted for 60.6% of revenue less cost of sales in international business (up 2.7pp year on year; same on A review of our 2018 operating performance shows that a constant currency basis), while the underlying operating our reforms advanced while our top line steadily rose. profit was ¥72.9 million (down 2.9% year on year; down The expenditures incurred to undertake the reforms 1.6% on a constant currency basis). were related to current measures, but also future By region, the revenue less cost of sales for the Asia– investment. Thus, I believe that some time will pass before Pacific area was almost flat, falling 0.4% year on year (a we can see the effects on our operating performance. 0.8% increase on a constant currency basis, with an organic In the meantime, our underlying operating profit fell, a growth rate of -1.7%). However, the Group’s performance phenomenon that I discuss below. was strong in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Our consolidated revenue less cost of sales rose 6.3% recording 15.2% (13.9% on a constant currency basis, with year on year in FY2018, to ¥932.6 billion. The increase was an organic growth rate of 7.4%). Also, in the Americas, we due to a combination of Japan and international organic grew by 9.8% (12.4% in on a constant currency basis, with growth (up ¥30.6 billion year on year) and the effects of an organic growth rate of 4.9%). overseas acquisitions (up ¥28.6 billion). * Underlying operating profit: A profit indicator that measures recurring business Our year-on-year growth in consolidated revenue less performance. It is calculated by subtracting depreciation of intangible cost of sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes assets associated with acquisitions, M&A-related expenses and share-based compensation expenses attributable to acquired companies, as well as temporary the impact of foreign exchange rates (down ¥4.2 billion factors including impairment loss and gain/loss on sales of noncurrent assets, from operating profit. year on year), was 6.8%. Meanwhile, our consolidated underlying operating profit was ¥153.2 billion (down 6.5% year on year; down 6.0% on a constant currency basis). This decline was due, in Diagrams 2: Consolidated FY2018 results part, to increased costs associated with domestic working (Millions of yen) environment reforms and planned infrastructure spend FY FY YoY Constant Organic Currency growth to support the new growth phase in our international 2018 2017 (%) basis rate (%) business. Revenue less Consolidated Next, I will explain how these figures break down cost of sales 932,680 877,622 +6.3 +6.8 +3.4 according to region. Underlying In our domestic business, we saw a revenue less cost operating 153,229 163,946 (6.5) (6.0) profit of sales of ¥369.2 billion (up 2.0% year on year), primarily thanks to contributions by subsidiaries. The organic Revenue less 369,258 361,902 +2.0 +2.0 +2.1 cost of sales growth rate was 2.1%, with particularly large expansion in Japan Underlying the digital domain, which accounted for 23.9% of domestic operating 80,268 88,801 (9.6) (9.6) profit revenue less cost of sales (up 1.7 points year on year). Our underlying operating profit was ¥80.2 billion (down 9.6% EMEA (Europe, year on year) due to planned expenses related to working Middle 213,029 184,946 +15.2 +13.9 +7.4 environment reforms and the establishment of corporate East and Africa) infrastructure. In our international business, the growth momentum Americas 226,257 206,001 +9.8 +12.4 +4.9 International we have maintained since forming the Dentsu Aegis APAC(Asia 124,573 125,089 (0.4) +0.8 (1.7) Network in 2013 came to a temporary standstill in 2017. Pacific) However, in FY2018, revenues returned to growth driven Total revenue less cost of 563,852 516,052 +9.3 +10.2 +4.3 by new accounts won during the previous year. sales As a result, the overall revenue less cost of sales of Underlying 72,963 75,146 (2.9) (1.6) operating our international business was ¥563.8 billion (up 9.3% year profit 025 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Phase 2: FY2019–20 Group Business Reforms Dividends: Capital Policy, Philosophy Were we to compare the 2017–18 overhaul of our business When pursuing sustainable profit growth, our capital foundations to an Operating System update, we could allocation priority is continuous and proactive investment then compare investment in growth we expect to conduct in the domestic and overseas growth areas. in 2019–20 to installing the applications running on that While recognizing the need for management stability new Operating System. and financial soundness, we believe corporate digital Through establishing workstreams and knowledge transformation represents a huge opportunity for us. By sharing between our domestic and international investing in the creation of further business opportunities, businesses, we will enrich capabilities from a Group-wide we aim to help Group businesses expand, and so raise perspective. our intrinsic corporate value. To this end, we will accelerate investment in external At the same time, fully aware of the importance opportunities in Japan and continue our overseas M&A of shareholder returns, we will ensure comprehensive investments strategy. shareholder returns by combining steady dividends with Efforts to strengthen our domestic digital domain opportunistic share buy-backs (table 4), while aiming for business foundations include the absorption of SEPTENI higher return on equity over the medium term. HOLDINGS CO., LTD. and VOYAGE GROUP Inc. into the While we consider steady dividends to be important, Dentsu Group in October 2018. The former was achieved we make decisions regarding dividends based on through a capital and business alliance, and the latter factors including consolidated business results, financial through a business merger by integrating it with Cyber conditions, and the retained earnings necessary for Communications Inc. investment in business growth. Through collaboration with these companies, we aim As a result of these considerations, we paid a FY2018 to provide the highest level of service possible in the field dividend of ¥90 per share (payout ratio of 26.0%). Although of digital advertising. The Dentsu Group will collaborate we project that our underlying net profit will decrease in within the solutions, advertising, and digital technology 2019, we are planning to increase our dividend by ¥5 per domains to solidify its position in the Japanese market. share and predict that the payout ratio will increase to In our international business, we aim to enhance 28.1%, continuing our track record of improving dividends our competitive advantage and secure continuous topand payout ratios that we have maintained since 2015. line growth through persistent innovation and greater integration of our services. Thank you for your continued support of the Dentsu Further, we will re-examine and rebuild our business Group. lines, simplifying our offer, appropriate for an era of datadriven marketing. In addition, I want us to view the wave Diagrams 3: Cash Dividend of digital and societal reforms as our biggest opportunity ■ Cash Dividend per share Dividend payout rate to establish growth momentum. (Yen) 95 (%) 90 90 100 85 (47.5) 40 (45) (45) 75 (40) (35) 75 30 28.1 26.0 23.6 50 21.5 20 19.0 25 10 0 0 FY2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* ∙ Dividend payout rate: Underlying Net Profit (Equity attributable to owners of the parent) base ∙ ( ) : interim dividend per share * As of Feb, 2019 026 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us Japan Hiroshi Igarashi International Tim Andree Business Director and Executive Vice President, Business Director and Executive Vice President, Dentsu Inc. Dentsu Inc. Executive Chairman & CEO, Dentsu Aegis Network Discussion The Transformation “Phase 2” of the Dentsu Group Head of the Japanese Business, Hiroshi Igarashi and Head of the International Business, DAN CEO, Tim Andree, discuss changes and issues in the business environment surrounding the Dentsu Group, as well as the Group’s purpose and future prospects. sense of the potential for expansion in the Japan business Reasons why we need to pursue further as well as DAN. transformation Andree: DAN has certainly delivered tremendous growth Igarashi: We have learned much from the business during the past six years. We generate more than 60% conducted by Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) in the six of the Dentsu Group revenue, completed more than years since its establishment in 2013. While engaging 150 M&As and we have over 44,000 people in DAN. in many targeted M&A deals, you have also scaled But our journey does not end here and I think there are your operations to cover more than 145 markets. Early still many areas where we can evolve. Some of them proactive efforts toward the achievement of your goal of are strengthening our creative capabilities, diversifying becoming a 100% digital economy business by 2020 have our income source and building our sports and content resulted in over 60% of your revenue coming from the businesses. These are all areas where we can learn from digital domain. the know-how of the Japan business and we consider it to You enhanced your data be a huge opportunity. In addition to establishing robust marketing capabilities with the lines of business we will continue to work to build deep, acquisition of the Merkle long-term relationships with clients and to deliver an Group Inc., and are integrated, holistic approach. Again these are also areas further developing the in which DAN can learn from Dentsu. business with industry leading digital products Igarashi: The need for further transformation is the same in and services. These the Japan business. At present, our business environment are all outstanding is undergoing substantial changes. How we respond to achievements, giving these changes—and transform them into opportunities— me an even stronger will determine the future success of the Dentsu Group. 027 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 company”. We are Andree: Clients are increasingly challenged by new expanding in business market entrants, disruptors, technological evolution and domains where we changing consumer needs. As clients’ needs change, are able to commit to all agencies need to be more focused on long term, client marketing activities sustainable growth and the role of marketing as a driver and have launched numerous of business value and transformation. In turn, we are initiatives aimed at becoming an organization that compelled to rethink our marketing approach. If we are generates a wide-range of innovation and value. able to sufficiently prepare, quickly evolve and respond, I am confident that we can transform these changes into Andree: The DAN executive team recognize that continual opportunities. innovation will strengthen our specialties, allowing us to become a high performing organization that is focused Igarashi: This is exactly why we are promoting business on relentlessly delivering value for our clients. transformation. We must value our uniqueness, strengths and DNA cultivated in Japan, but be careful not to adhere Igarashi: The cornerstone of our business is providing a to these so much so that we hinder the pace of change. quality of service unmatched by any other company. Thus, In areas where we think we are not as competitive, or still we aim to become a company that is not only able to in the process of overcoming challenges, we need to enhance each of our specialties but also able to integrate address them with maximum speed. We are now engaged those specialties offerings into a single solution for our in business transformation with the determination to drive clients. change in all areas boldly and quickly, no matter the conditions with which we are faced. Andree: We have exactly the same idea. Up to now, with sufficient level of collaboration, we have been able to meet client needs. However, going forward, services designed to be more organized and integrated will be the Transformation: Phase 2 foundation of proposals delivering client success within an increasingly complex business environment. Dentsu is the only Asia-based global marketing Andree: Clients want new capabilities to drive innovation communications agency and continues to demonstrate in their own businesses and there is a desire for integrated client-centricity focused on the long term. capabilities and holistic solutions. Over the past six years, the Dentsu Group have worked We are transforming ourselves – simplifying our model to establish robust businesses in Japan and throughout to become integrated by design and organized around the world with the aim of delivering consistent, high quality our clients to deliver these integrated brand solutions. service to our clients, globally. Through this process, the DAN has acquired high-level digital capabilities, mainly domestic and international business have collaborated through acquisitions. To help our clients win, keep & grow and created various levels of business synergies. their best customers, and to become their most trusted I believe now is the time for us to decide how best to partner, we need to have a strong footprint and ensure integrate our respective businesses even further. Greater we are ideas-led, data-driven and tech-enabled. We are integration will result in applying the best practices of also investing internally to make sure our operations are the global companies we have acquired, to client work efficient and effective so that we can consistently provide in Japan while utilizing the outstanding innovation and the highest level of service in all global markets. expertise cultivated in Japan, for client work overseas. These are some of the directions and initiatives that These are the new and exciting opportunities we see we are working on in DAN but I understand the Japanese before us. business is also working towards a new focus. Igarashi: Yes, we aim to transform ourselves from an “Advertising Agency” to a “business producing 028 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 About us new value. The Teaming Platform will encourage our Expectations for One Dentsu employees to create new value and expand our business by collaborating seamlessly with people both internally and externally. Andree: In January 2020, we plan to transition to a new This is the true meaning behind our transition to a holding company structure, and I have huge expectations holding company structure. It is our responsibility as for the changes this will bring. Becoming “One Dentsu” management to make sure everyone understands our means increased integration and synergy between Japan commitment to creating a new Group. and Dentsu Aegis Network, built around a shared passion for clients, innovation and creativity. If we can collaborate around these shared passion points, our potential is unmatched. Beyond One Dentsu As a result, the organization will be more agile and efficient. And, the holding company will focus on the future of the overall Group and indicate the direction Igarashi: At present, society is entering a period of in which we should be headed. This will enable Dentsu complexity that can be phrased as a certain chaos. To in Japan and DAN to move forward together along the resolve the social issues within elements of society, I think same trajectory. This is an incredibly important point. it is natural that corporations should utilize their resources in ways that can contribute to society in resolving these Igarashi: I also have high expectations. One thing that is issues. worth commenting is that it is not our intention to create an ordinary holding company structure. Andree: I completely agree. We have a responsibility The holding company structure Dentsu will take is not to the rest of the world and we must contribute to a the typical controlling, top-down hierarchical organization, sustainable future. We are leading various projects to but rather, will play a supporting role in creating a promote education, entrepreneurship and reducing our foundation that enables each operating company to carbon footprint but we also partner with organizations operate more easily. such as Malaria No More to fulfill the commitment we have One Dentsu will be a flat organization comprising made with the United Nations Sustainable Development operating companies that connect organically. We Goals. will create an environment in which collaboration and innovation can be generated by any one of our 60,000+ Igarashi: I agree. However, if we are simply saying we exist Group employees — otherwise called as the “Teaming only to resolve social issues, then I think we are missing Platform.” Dentsu’s uniqueness. Our goal is not to eliminate the negative, but to Andree: Yes, it will be a flexible organization with a turn negatives into positives—Dentsu’s uniqueness as a team structure. I don’t think there are many companies company is to make the world more interesting and to structured this way and it will enable us to promote the transform it. We at Dentsu are in a position to play an digital economy while navigating uncertainties and active role in this endeavor. complexities we may face. Andree: Ultimately, we believe in sustainable growth. Our Igarashi: It is an already-known fact that we cannot ambitions must be supported by our own organizational achieve this by simply following a method whereby only behavior. It is important for our employees to feel inspired “the person who makes the decision is solely responsible and empowered to take part in creating a better future.. for making changes.” Furthermore, through this, we will ultimately create value This is why we will have employees with individual for our shareholders, too. expertise working together across the Teaming Platform to expand business with a strong desire to create Igarashi: Our business activities contribute not only to 029 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 improving society with unique solutions, but also to disparities and striking an appropriate balance with realizing a society comprising corporate citizens and regard to sustainable growth and performance in both consumers that is interesting and enjoyable for everyone. the short and long term. However, I believe that DAN, as If this were not the case, then there would be no reason a pioneer in the digital revolution, will be able to build a for Dentsu to exist. We must strive to achieve this goal. digital society for all. Andree: I echo the idea of creating a better society for Igarashi: The advancement of digitization impacts all of everyone. Digital societies in particular, experience our clients. Dentsu believes there is an opportunity to dramatic changes, and disparities are increasing. Some engage in social transformation through our business and people have access, while others do not, and the gap contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. between rich and poor is growing ever wider. There are difficult decisions involved in reducing 030 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Governance Corporate Governance ⿟ ⿟Basic Perspective The pursuit of optimal corporate governance is critical for achieving Dentsu’s goal of creating new social values and sustainable societies. We aim to achieve sustainable growth and enhance corporate value by ensuring transparent, fair, rapid, and decisive decision-making, as well as the effective allocation of management resources. To this end, we will continue to improve corporate governance by: 1. Respecting shareholders' rights and ensure their equal treatment 2. Considering the interests of stakeholders, including shareholders, and cooperate with them appropriately 3. Appropriately disclosing company information and ensure transparency 4. Enhancing the effectiveness of the supervisory function of the Board of Directors concerning business execution 5. Engaging in constructive dialogue with shareholders who have an investment policy that conforms to the midto long-term interests of shareholders ⿟ ⿟Promotion of Corporate Governance Dentsu has an Audit and Supervisory Committee comprising individuals in executive positions appointed by the Board of Directors to promote swift and effective decision-making in the conduct of business. At the same time, we have reinforced the supervisory function of the Board of Directors over executive officers. As of January 1, 2019, the Board of Directors comprises 12 Directors (of whom four are independent outside directors). We have appointed four directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members (of whom three are outside directors). Under the Board of Directors is the Group Executive Management Committee, comprising executive officers, including the representative director and executive directors. This committee makes decisions on important matters relating to management and conducts preliminary deliberations on Board of Directors agenda items. Furthermore, we delegate authority on domestic group business to the “Dentsu Domestic Board” and set up the “DAN Board” for the international business. In the business execution structure of Japan Business HQ and International Business HQ, we delegate profit responsibilities and authority to each. In addition, the Internal Control and Compliance Committee, which has been delegated by the Board of Directors on internal control and risk management, has been established to improve the effectiveness of internal control and risk management. Through these systems, we are ensuring soundness, transparency and efficiency of management, and are working to improve corporate value over the medium to long term. WEB Corporate Governance Policy http://www.dentsu.com/whoweare/cgp.html Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Cooperation Audits Audit and Supervisory Independent Auditors Board of Directors Committee Audits Selection/ Delegates Delegates Delegates Requests cooperation Audits Supervision Audit and Supervisory Representative Explanation Committee Office Director Internal Control / Compliance Committee Respective Divisions/ Internal Audit Office Executive Officers Internal Respective Departments audits Group Executive Management Committee (Group HQ) Group Companies in Japan Internal Delegates Delegates Delegates audits Dentsu Domestic Board DAN Board CSR (Japan Business HQ) (International Business HQ) Committee Delegates Delegates Various Committees Various Committees 031 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Appointment of Senior Management; Nomination of Director Candidates When nominating directors who are not members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, the representative director—the individual in a Japanese company who has the company seal and represents it in transactions—will submit the proposed names and, to ensure transparency, explain to the independent outside director members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee the reasons for having selected, and suitability of, nominees. Directors shall be nominated by the Board of Directors, which will take into consideration the opinions of outside directors. When nominating directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, the representative director will submit a list of proposed names and, after they have been approved by the Audit and Supervisory Committee, the Board of Directors shall decide the new board members. For the policies and procedures involved in nominating director candidates, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report. WEB Corporate Governance Report http://www.dentsu.com/csr/pdf/governance_201903_en.pdf Effectiveness, Self-evaluation of Board of Directors To ensure the maximum effectiveness of the Board of Directors, a questionnaire was submitted to all Board members pertaining to the efficacy and appropriateness of the Board’s supervision of management. Based on results of analysis and evaluation by a third party, Overall efficacy were analyzed and evaluated. The analysis and evaluation for FY2017 indicated that the composition, operation, and items deliberated by the Board of Directors were generally appropriate. It was noted that sufficient deliberation had been conducted through the exchange of opinions, and confirming that the Board remained effective and appropriate in its supervision of operations. In the future, the Company will strive to make improvements on the issues identified in these areas, in order to further improve the effectiveness and appropriateness of management oversight by the Board of Directors. Issues identified • Involvement of independent outside direc• Group company management and • Opinions and other feedback from investors. tors in nomination and remuneration supervision Training for Directors and Executive Officers Directors and executive officers are provided with trainings and continuous opportunities to acquire essential knowledges for executing duties in order to properly fulfill given roles. Specific Examples of Training Position When appointed After appointment • Training on Dentsu management, business and fnancial • Monthly study seminars as opportunity to acquire Directors and Executive strategies, related important matters and laws the latest information regarding best practices and Officers • Discussion related to identifying and formulating megatrend-related issues solutions to Dentsu Group issues • Explanation of Dentsu’s business, organizational • Regular provision of information related to business Outside Directors structure, etc. issues, etc. Compensation for Directors, Audit and Supervisory Board Members Each fiscal year, Dentsu determines the appropriate compensation for Directors as well as Audit and Supervisory Board members based on corporate value, scale, and compensation levels, referencing compensation market survey data from external specialized institutions. The Company introduced a new policy stipulating a performance-based stock compensation plan as a mediumto long-term bonus that was approved at the 170th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held in March 2019. The plan clarifies the relationship between compensation for Audit and Supervisory Board members and Directors on one hand, and Dentsu’s performance and corporate value on the other. The plan is designed to promote shared interests with stakeholders, while raising awareness among Audit and Supervisory Board members and Directors. The latter Company members contribute to the sustainable growth, and enhance the mediumto long-term corporate value, of the Dentsu Group. For details, please refer to the following news release: Notice Regarding Introduction of Performance-based Stock Compensation Plan WEB Notice Regarding Introduction of Performance-based Stock Compensation Plan http://www.dentsu.com/news/release/2019/0214-009747.html 032 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Governance Total Amount of Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors (excluding Audit and Directors (Audit and Supervisory All Directors (of which are Outside Supervisory Committee Members)(Of Committee Members)(Of which are Directors) which are Outside Directors) Outside Directors) Monthly 291 million yen: 10 persons 81 million yen: 5 persons 372 million yen: 14 persons Remuneration (15 million yen) (1 persons) (45 million yen) (3 persons) (60 million yen) (4 persons) 155 million yen: 7 persons yen: persons 155 million yen: 7 persons Bonuses (yen) (persons) (yen) (persons) (yen) (persons) 446 million yen: 10 persons 81 million yen: 5 persons 527 million yen: 14 persons Total (15 million yen) (1 persons) (45 million yen) (3 persons) (60 million yen) (4 persons) Notes: 1. The annual remuneration amounts for Directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee Members and Directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee Members were approved by shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 30, 2016. The resolution limits the amounts to 1,200 million yenper year and 150 million yen per year, respectively. 2. Bonuses in the table above shows the amount approved at the meeting of the Board of Directors held in February2018 within the limit of remuneration for Directors stated in Note 1. above. The Company does not pay bonuses toDirectors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee Members. 3. The Audit and Supervisory Committee considered the above, and did not find any particular points of note. 4. With regard to the above, decision-making policies, concepts and processes were confirmed and examined by the Audit and Supervisory Committee, but it found no problems. Nomination and Compensation Committee In July 2019, Dentsu set up a Nomination and Compensation Committee. It advises the Board of Directors and reinforces its functional independence, objectivity, and accountability in connection with the nomination, compensation, and other matters related to directors as well as Audit and Supervisory Board members. It also serves to enhance corporate governance. For details, please refer to the following news release: WEB Notice Concerning Establishment of Nomination and Compensation Committee http://www.dentsu.com/news/release/2019/0628-009842.html ⿟ ⿟Dentsu Group Internal Control System Internal Control System The Dentsu Group Internal Control System encourages compliance among directors, executive officers, and employees, while at the same time supporting continuous corporate development as Dentsu meets its social responsibilities. The Dentsu Group Code of Conduct is positioned as a shared behavioral code to ensure that directors, executive officers, and employees of Dentsu and its subsidiaries carry out their duties in compliance with the law, regulations, and the Company’s Articles of Incorporation. The code also ensures that business is conducted appropriately, while the Internal Control and Compliance Committee works to maintain and improve internal controls. In accordance with Internal Control and Compliance Committee policies, the CSR Committee and other committees formulate rules and develop manuals to inculcate a thorough awareness of proper business execution among all employees through training and other activities. There are business-related check items for risk management and compliance, while a broad range of inspections are conducted. The items checked include the appropriateness of rules; whether business is conducted in accordance with the rules; and if reporting of, and responses to, problems are prompt, in order that issues might be identified and issues improved. We also establish internal control mechanisms at Group companies to maintain and enhance corporate value throughout the entire Dentsu Group. WEB Dentsu Group Code of Conduct http://www.dentsu.com/csr/overview/codeofconduct.html 033 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 ⿟ ⿟Dentsu Group Risk Management Risk Management Under the Internal Control and Compliance Committee, which is chaired by the executive director in charge of internal controls as a system for comprehensively managing Group-wide risks, the Dentsu Group strives to achieve continuous improvement by understanding Group risk management conditions and formulating, executing, monitoring, and improving policies and risk management processes using the four-step PDCA management method. We establish risk management rules, as well as formulate and execute specific response plans, prioritized in order of risk severity. This we do to maintain and improve our system to prevent risks and to minimize their impact should they occur. Departments and directors are assigned responsibility for each key risk. They formulate and implement response plans to reduce the likelihood of risk; submit midterm progress reports; and prepare year-end self-assessments as well as guidelines for the next fiscal year after they have been discussed by the Internal Control and Compliance Committee. The committee then shares risk awareness and the proposed responses with the Board of Directors and Audit and Supervisory Committee, and monitors situations as appropriate. Compliance ⿟ ⿟Compliance Promotion System Dentsu formulated the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, according to which directors and executive officers who discover violations of prevailing laws or who encounter other serious compliance-related issues are required to report their findings immediately to the Executive Comittee, Internal Control and Compliance Committee, as well as the Audit and Supervisory Committee.To maintain and 電通グループ内限 improve the level of employee compliance and ensure employee awareness of 2018年度版 compliance-related issues, rules and manuals are developed and training programs conducted. In addition, a Compliance Line was set up for the reporting of internal violations and an external contact point handled by a law office was established to ensure that those seeking consultation or reporting violations are in no way penalized. In FY2018 (ended December 2018), Dentsu Inc. and Dentsu Group employees in Japan submitted twenty-four reports and proposals (FY2017: 9; FY2016: 7; FY2015: 15), all of which were addressed. Moreover, the booklet Compliance Digest was distributed to all Group companies to promote an understanding of compliance. The Compliance Digest booklet ⿟ ⿟Corruption Prevention Response In accordance with the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, which underpins our CSR activities, we have anti-corruption policies to ensure that we conduct business in an honest, fair, and transparent manner. In compliance with bribery regulations in the countries and communities around the world where we do business, Dentsu is proscribed from involvement in corrupt acts designed to enable the Company to obtain unfair profits. In order to meet our social responsibilities and conduct sound business activities, we shall strive always to cultivate compliance awareness through in-house training. 034 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Governance Message Message from Outside Director Dentsu Group Corporate Governance Toshiaki Hasegawa Outside Director (Audit and Supervisory Committee member) The shape of corporate governance at the Dentsu effectiveness of our global governance system. The roles Group will change substantially starting in 2020. This of Groupwide governance and business execution will be is because the Group will come under a pure holding divided among the holding company and its subsidiaries. company, Dentsu Group Inc., one that governs and While Group management through a holding manages subsidiaries through stock ownership and does company has a number of merits, probably the most not conduct business in the advertising agency or any important aspect is that it facilitates the introduction other. Its businesses will be handled by the subsidiaries, of major management reform. Separating decisions including Dentsu Inc. Thus, we should consider how the regarding management strategy from those of business conversion will improve the Dentsu Group’s governance execution management will more clearly delineate and how we might use this system to contribute to the responsibilities, leading to more efficient management anticipated improvement. and faster decision-making. Dentsu Inc. has been conducting business in Progress in globalization and digitalization has resulted advertising while managing subsidiaries as an operating in demand for speedy management. The success of holding company. However, improving Group company our business depends on how quickly, yet precisely, we governance and Groupwide internal controls has become respond to the needs of customers and clients. a substantial burden, because we must also consider how Converting to a pure holding company structure will these apply to our global subsidiaries. help the Group function more flexibly by contributing to Through the Group’s conversion to a holding company business integration, M&As, as well as the diversification structure, Dentsu Inc. will become a new subsidiary of the and reorganization of internal Group businesses. By holding company. This does not mean that Dentsu Inc. will delegating the execution of business to subsidiaries, we never manage subsidiaries that handle a portion of the can cut costs by slimming down the holding company, Group’s domestic businesses. Instead, the move will allow while revitalizing the businesses managed by subsidiaries the company to focus almost entirely on the execution of and clarifying management responsibilities. Japan business. Since this will result in smooth personnel administration It can be said that the most significant theme and labor management, we anticipate greater employee to consider when discussing current Dentsu Group motivation. governance is the question of how we can improve In short, by converting to a holding company structure, aspects of global governance that also apply to overseas the Dentsu Group is confident that it can improve Group subsidiaries. governance and achieve next-level growth. It will be up to the holding company to improve the 035 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Board Members/Management As of March 28, 2019 ⿟ ⿟Board Members Representative Directors Toshihiro Yamamoto Yoshio Takada Nobuyuki Tohya Directors Shun Sakurai Tim Andree Arinobu Soga Hiroshi Igarashi Nobuko Matsubara (Outside Director) Directors / Audit and Supervisory Committee Members Yoshiharu Sengoku Toshiaki Hasegawa Kentaro Koga Etsuko Katsu (Outside Director) (Outside Director) (Outside Director) ⿟ ⿟Executive Officers President & CEO Toshihiro Yamamoto Executive Officers Yoshio Takada Hidemi Matsuo Soichi Takahashi Nobuyuki Tohya Norihiro Kuretani Masao Tatsuuma Tim Andree Shigeru Ishida Chieko Ohuchi Arinobu Soga Kiyoshi Nakamura Hiromi Suzuki Hiroshi Igarashi Norio Kamijo Seikyo Son Shun Sakurai Motohiro Yamagishi Keiichi Yoshizaki Jun Shibata Akira Ando Nick Priday Takashi Yagi Tetsuji Hirose Shinichi Maeda Yutaka Ishikawa Norihiko Sakata Nobutaka Hayashi Yuichi Okubo Ichiro Itani Shuji Yamaguchi Keiichi Maeda Masaya Nakamura Koki Sato Takaki Hibino Norifumi Adachi 036 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 CSR Strategy Message Message from the Chairperson of the CSR Committee Engaging with Society to Create New Added Value Nobuyuki Tohya Representative Director Executive Vice President With the rapid development of the digital economy and the social impact of the unfolding societal changes, we the increasing severity of social issues, such as global established priority CSR areas with themes such as respect environmental problems, the societal environment for human rights and environmental protection. At the surrounding the Group continues to undergo drastic same time, the Group is proactively engaged in achieving changes. These changes have a significant impact on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as set by the consumers. United Nations in 2015. In June 2019, the G20 Ministerial Meeting on Energy Voluntary activities related to the SDGs are on the Transitions and Global Environment for Sustainable rise, including employees taking the initiative to start Growth presented an action plan addressing climate up Group-wide project teams, holding seminars to raise change, the loss of biodiversity, resource efficiency, as well awareness among individual employees, and conducting as sustainable consumption and production. SDGs penetration surveys in Japan. If these social issues are not resolved on a global According to our survey conducted in February level, companies will be unable to achieve sustainable 2019, a general awareness of the SDGs in Japan is still growth. Thus, it is necessary for companies to seek new only 16%, but I am sure that the promotion of initiatives relationships with society. related to various stakeholders will gradually increase Amid these conditions, the Dentsu Group is this ratio. Through the steady promotion of the SDGs undertaking structural reforms to enable rapid decision-related activities, I believe that every employee will have making from a mediumto long-term perspective. an opportunity to create new added value by considering Having made the decision to transition to a pure holding their own social value and how they can work for the company structure in 2020, one of the steps toward this benefit of society. objective involves flexibly responding to changes in the The ideas and concepts created by Dentsu Group business environment as a unified Group. employees are our core competence. This has remained I believe the marketing and communications areas unchanged over time. We will respond flexibly to changes in which the Dentsu Group conducts business involve and continue taking on new challenges so that we can a greater social mission, since they link companies and create new added value and make society richer and consumers. With an awareness of the magnitude of more fulfilling through our relationship with it. 037 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Dentsu Group CSR ⿟ ⿟Code of Conduct The Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, basic to our CSR activities, is based on seven key areas of Dentsu CSR activities: corporate governance, respect for human rights, ensuring a safe and civilized working environment, environmental protection, fair business practices, addressing consumer issues, and contributing to the community. While strictly observing the laws, regulations, and social norms of each country, the code outlines the conduct that all managers and employees in the Dentsu Group must comply with to fulfill their social responsibilities. ⿟ ⿟Dentsu Group CSR Promotion System The Dentsu Group’s CSR Committee—comprising five officers and chaired by an executive officer—serves as an advisory body to the Group Management Committee, which is tasked with making management decisions. In FY2018, the CSR Committee met nine times. Subordinate advisory committees are set up under the CSR Committee to examine specific facets of the Company. CSR activities for our overseas businesses are formulated by Dentsu Aegis Network Board of Directors, before being reported to the Management Committee and CSR Committee. CSR promotion committee members have been designated in all Dentsu Head Office divisions, in an effort to promote awareness of specific CSR policies among all employees. At the same time, executive officers in charge of CSR have been appointed in Group companies in Japan, while in Group companies abroad, CSR Champions have been appointed. These efforts are designed to advance CSR activities on a Group-wide basis. Dentsu Group CSR Promotion System Board of Directors Group Executive Management Committee CSR Committee ▪Evaluates and determines CSR policies and measures ▪Receives and confirms activity reports on each measure DAN Board Subcommittees Specialist working groups Social Impact Steering Group • Human rights education • Internal control • Charitable donations • Various task forces Social Impact Team Group Companies in Japan Dentsu Directors assigned to implement CSR measures at Employees assigned to promote CSR promote Group Companies outside Japan the Group company level awareness and CSR champions are assigned in each Group disseminate information on speci­fic CSR measures base to develop CSR measures in each country to employees ⿟ ⿟Participation in International Initiatives Dentsu participates in international initiatives in order to contribute to global social development, and strives to address activities with a focus on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues and to promote information sharing. The Company joined the United Nations Global Compact in December 2009 and upholds its 10 principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. It submits a CSR report every year to the UN Global Compact, and compiles an annual stand-alone activities report (Communication on Progress: COP) aimed at the realization of the 10 principles. Dentsu also has become a member of CSR Asia, the largest CSR-related think tank in the Asia– Pacific region, which focuses on deliberation of ESG issues in Asia and the strengthening of alliances with companies in Asia. 038 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 CSR Strategy Dentsu Group SDGs-related Actions In the belief that the SGDs concern the entire Dentsu Group, it is taking part in the groundbreaking initiative Common Ground, along with five other top global advertising and marketing services groups: Havas, IPG, Omnicom, Publicis, and WPP. The initiative, promoted by the global advertising communications industry, is aimed at helping to realize the SDGs. The Dentsu Group is currently working to raise awareness regarding Goal 3, which is Health. It is working with NGOs to prevent global infectious diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis. At the same time, the Dentsu Team SDGs project members, who promote the SDGs from a business perspective, are offering their services in the areas of SDG communication-related consulting and business co-creation, based on concepts and connections that the Dentsu Group is uniquely positioned to realize. CASE Dentsu Team SDGs Dentsu Team SDGs is a project promoting activities in collaboration with the Dentsu Group in order to support stakeholder SDG initiatives. To promote awareness of the status of the SDGs in Japan, the team publishes lifestyle surveys. To further an understanding of the SGDs and encourage initiatives within Dentsu, the team arranges seminars and workshops, engages in advertising communications consulting, and is responsible for business co-creation. Major Activities 1. SDGs Communication Guide The guidebook, with an emphasis on the SDGs, is designed for Company management and those employees involved in advertising. 2. SDGs-related Movie It presents the Dentsu Group’s aims for the SDGs and its role therein. 3. Second SDGs Penetration Survey A survey was conducted in April 2019 targeting a total of 6,576 men and women between the ages of 10 and 70 from across Japan aimed at understanding the current status of the SDGs in Japan. The survey focused on “concrete behavior” in addition to “recognition and understanding,” and also investigated the current status of, and changes in, “expectations for local governments and companies,” “actual conditions of, and barriers to, SDGs in practice,” and “the methods by which information is acquired.” A Call for Global Citizens to End Ma-laria VOICE “In 2018 I worked closely with Malaria No More on their public awareness campaign. The aim was to convince world leaders to commit the resources needed to end Malaria. The campaign was a huge success, involving six Dentsu Aegis Network agencies. We secured $4.1bn of incremental funding from government and the private sector. But even more importantly, the heads of the Commonwealth nations committed to halve Malaria by 2023. The real work starts now as we design our campaign for The Commonwealth Summit in Rwanda in 2020. Creating a Alexandra Lima public mandate is essential to ensuring Malaria remains high on the political Global Social Impact agenda. Our ability to both reach and influence the public is unparalleled so Manager – Dentsu Aegis we have a critical role to play. Network 039 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 ⿟CSR⿟ Medium-term Strategy Material Themes The Dentsu Group promotes activities based Responsible communications Social transformation through on its Medium-term CSR Strategy 2020, which and content business establishes four key areas and common goals in Japan and overseas aimed at the realization of a sustainable society. As global social issues become increasingly complex, and in light of its social responsibilities Diversity and inclusion Decent and creative work and the demands of stakeholders, the Group has formulated six material themes to help it contribute Respect for human rights and pursuit of humanity to the realization of a sustainable society. Reduction of environmental footprint Respect for human rights and pursuit of humanity Decent and creative work Initiatives for respecting human rights and pursuing human Mechanisms and initiatives for realizing workstyles enabling potential, and to realize a better future and higher ideals. a diverse array of human resources to maximize employees’ performance. ◦Main Actions ・Formulate a Group Human Rights Policy and disseminate ◦Main Actions internally. ・Occupational safety and health: Improved and compre・Create a system for supplementing and enhancing human hensive labor management, level and efficient operations, rights due diligence. employee health maintenance and care. ・Use e-learning for human rights training in Japan. ・Creative work: Diverse workstyle options, vitality design and self-development. ・Support organizational and individual growth: Growth support program, organization revitalization measures. Reduction of environmental footprint Responsible communications and content Initiatives for minimizing the environmental impact on the Initiatives for attaining sincere and highly ethical standards Earth through Dentsu Group business aiming for a sustainable within services provided to Dentsu Group stakeholders. environment. ◦Main Actions ◦Main Actions ・Responsible communications: Awareness based on cre・Reduce GHG emissions and transition to renewable energy. ative principles and checklists. Reduce GHG emissions 24% by 2030 under Scope 1 and 2 ・Trustworthy media content: Contribute to the creation of a (Groupwide compared to 2014). structure and mechanism that creates a healthy industry. Reduce business trip-related emissions per employee 25% ・Cyber security and privacy: Create a system for preventing by 2050 under Scope 3 risk events and deploy measures. (Groupwide compared to 2014). ・Sustainable supply chain: Create and manage a supply ・Launch effort to stop use of plastic straws and food packchain management structure. aging at business offices in Japan to address the marine plastic problem. 100% elimination of plastic straws and food packaging at business offices in Japan by 2022. Diversity and inclusion Social transformation through business Initiatives related to the creation of an organization and mechInitiatives for promoting social transformation conducted with anisms including those related to decision-making to enable the aim of realizing a sustainable society. the active participation of a diverse array of human resources and maximize value creation. ◦Main Actions ・Develop mechanisms to create and promote internal sys◦Main Actions tems. ・Initiatives aimed at increasing the ratio of female managers. ・Aim to increase the ratio of female managers to 10% by 2020. ・LGBT initiatives Maintain Work with Pride “PRIDE Index” Gold Medal. Initiatives for people with disabilities. 040 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Environment Reduction of Environmental Footprint Dentsu Group Initiatives Recognizing environmental problems to be a key issue in terms of the Group’s corporate social responsibility, Dentsu established the Dentsu Eco Program to promote Group-wide environmental protection initiatives. In recognition of these efforts, Dentsu was certified as an Eco-First Company by the Ministry of the Environment. As a result, the Group will continue these activities and contribute to the realization of a sustainable society by collaborating with all stakeholders and engaging in environmental communication activities. Environmental Policy The Dentsu Group aims to make each employee strongly conscious of its corporate philosophy of Good Innovation and, based on the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, reduce the environmental burden generated through its business operations in order to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. • In order to realize a sustainable society, we will correctly assess the environmental impact of its business activities and work to reduce its burden on the environment. • Work to develop and propose environmentally conscious business activities and contribute to the improvement of environmental issues. • Ensure thorough implementation of environmental compliance and engage in ongoing improvements to boost environmental performance through more precisely defined environmental objectives and outcomes. Environmental Protection • Actively endeavor to prevent pollution, alleviate climate change, and conserve biodiversity and ecosystems. Environmental Communication • Actively engage in environmental education, for the next generation and environmental communication activities for business partners and employees, to raise recognition of environmental issues. ⿟ ⿟Structures for Environmental Activities and Management System Dentsu designated environmental managers to advance Group-wide efforts for the environment. Additionally, we adopted the Dentsu Group Eco Program (ongoing) in January 2005, and we acquired ISO 14001 certification in May 2005. Integrated Group certification that included subsidiaries in Japan was acquired in June 2006. Dentsu and 17 Group companies hold this certification as of February 2019. ⿟ ⿟Raising Awareness At Dentsu, we promote environmental slogans, eco-awards, and other awareness activities as measures aimed at heightening employee environmental awareness. In addition, we encourage employees to take the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s Certification Test for Environmental Specialists and acquire certification. Our activities include providing handbooks for use in employee education, including the Green Event Guide to promote eco-friendly green events, and the Greenwash Guide to eliminate advertisements that are misleading in terms of their impact on the environment. ⿟ ⿟Eco-First Commitment Declaration Dentsu is an Eco-First company*1 certified under the Eco-First System* set up in 2004 by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. In 2017, Dentsu declared its commitment to the EcoFirst System, which aims to help realize sustainable societies through cooperation with stakeholders. Our Company-wide environmental conservation efforts have been praised by the Ministry of the Environment, which certified Dentsu as an Eco-First Company. We will continue to promote awareness and understanding of environmental issues, as we work to reduce environmental burdens. WEB Eco-First System details (Ministry of the Environment website) http://www.env.go.jp/guide/info/eco-first/pdf/eco-first_en.pdf *1 Dentsu was certified under the government’ s market greening policy in 2008. *2 The system is operated by the Ministry of the Environment for companies that promote initiatives for environmental conservation, involving initiatives that support environmental conservation, such as those designed to ameliorate the effects of global warming, as well as curb waste and support recycling and other environment-friendly conservation efforts. 041 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 ⿟ ⿟Eco-First Promotion Council Initiatives The Eco-First Promotion Council is an organization established with the aim of connecting Eco-First companies and further expanding and enhancing environmental conservation activities. Dentsu is a member of the council. With 2018 having marked 10 years of the Eco-First system, and the tenth anniversary of the council’s creation, Dentsu participated in the Talanoa Dialogue*, which presented council efforts and ideas regarding climate change countermeasures. As the chair of the Talanoa working group in the council, Dentsu compiled the opinions of constituent companies and released examples of initiatives in a publication—entitled If the Private Sector Does Nothing, Decarbonized Societies Will Not Materialize—that outlines the Company’s vision for the future. As announced by the Ministry of the Environment in September 2018, if the council goals are to be achieved, it will be necessary to limit global warming relative to a pre-industrial baseline. The global average temperature increase will have to be kept at between 1.5°C and 2.0°C above pre-industrial levels. *Effort aimed at realizing the agreement with corporate and other member efforts shared as a story to achieve the Paris Agreement with the goal of improving the willingness to address climate change countermeasures proposed by the Fijian chairman of the 23rd Conference of the Parties to the Climate Change Convention (COP23). ⿟ ⿟Climate Change Countermeasures Governance The CSR Committee takes a lead in determining Company policies and key items related to global climate. These are discussed by the CSR Committee, before being reported to the Group Executive Management Committee. Strategies and Responses Based on the Group’s environmental policy, the CSR Committee conducts performance evaluations on sustainability and provides feedback to business units through the CSR Promotion Committee. During this process, risks and opportunities are discussed from mediumand long-term perspectives. This is imperative, given that environmental protection is one of the key targets of the Group’s Medium-term CSR Strategy 2020. Risks and Opportunities With the recent expansion of our international business involving M&As and other arrangements, our global environmental burden may increase. Recognizing the issue as an emerging risk, in collaboration with DAN we are working on ways to reduce this burden. Initiatives to Reduce CO2 through SBT To realize a decarbonized society, the Dentsu Group aims to achieve the 2°C target* stipulated in the Paris Agreement, an accord within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, with the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions based on scientific evidence by establishing Science Based Targets (SBT). Dentsu received the international Science Based Targets initiative certification in recognition of having established science-based goals. The Dentsu Group aims to reduce Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions 24% by 2030 compared with 2014 levels, and to reduce Scope 3 (business trips) CO2 emissions 25% per employee by 2050 compared with 2015 levels. We plan to continue tackling climate change issues by making further efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. *According to the framework for global warming countermeasures adopted at COP 21, the planet’s average temperature increase is to be held at under 2°C compared with pre-industrial revolution levels. It was agreed that we must reduce global greenhouse gas emissions to zero during this century. 042 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Society Respect for Human Rights and Pursuit of Humanity ⿟ ⿟Human Rights Policy Human Rights Policy and Systems The Dentsu Group is engaged in business activities that incorporate a respect for global human rights in all communications related to business activities, including advertising. We ensure that our activities maintain high ethical standards and reflect awareness of human rights, with the aim of helping to realize a sustainable and rich communication society. Recognizing that respect for human rights is at the core of the Company’s existence, it set up the Dentsu Group Human Rights Policy to promote ethical and sustainable business practices. We recognize protecting employee human rights to be an important responsibility, and so strive to prevent harassment and honor the human rights and individuality of all our employees, in order to make the most of their abilities. Dentsu Aegis Network released the Group’s declaration with regard to slave labor and human trafficking, which echoes the stipulations of the United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act 2015. We will make an effort to prevent human trafficking, slavery, and forced labor by identifying and evaluating potential human rights impacts and risks in our business activities and supply chain. WEB Dentsu Group Human Rights Policy http://www.dentsu.com/csr/humanrights/pdf/human_rights_policy_en.pdf WEB Statement on UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015 https://www.dentsuaegisnetwork.com/policies/modern-slavery-act Human Rights Promotion System The Human Rights Education Committee, which promotes human rights education as a specialized member under the CSR Committee, meets once every six months. In addition, a Dentsu Group Human Rights Education Conference is held once every six months for employees in charge of human rights education and general human rights education supervisors at domestic Group companies. In addition to basic human rights issues, we present content that incorporates rights issues of timely relevance in terms of current affairs. In FY2018, a human rights awareness survey was conducted as part of our due diligence on human rights. Based on the results, we will enhance human rights-related measures throughout the Group. Human Rights Awareness To increase human rights awareness, the Group runs human rights awareness training programs based on both employee hierarchy and occupational field. The Dentsu Group Human Rights Education Conference is held twice a year for those in charge of human rights education at the Company, and for human rights education managers at Group companies. There are also various opportunities to raise awareness of human rights. Textbooks with information on human rights and explanations of their connection to advertising are utilized by employees. The Human Rights College, a site that collects past examples of advertising expressions related to human rights, is posted on the Company’s intranet. This initiative enables continuous online learning that increases knowledge and realizes the pursuit of better communication. Further, a newsletter dealing with timely human rights-related topics is distributed within the Group twice a month. In the area of advertising and human rights, the Group has a permanent consulting contact, to ensure that expressions communicated to the world are appropriate, and to respond to Group-wide inquiries. In addition to this, we cooperate with human rights-related seminars held at the Japan Advertising Agencies Association, and make efforts to raise awareness throughout the advertising industry. Internal Reporting to Protect Human Rights We established a contact desk that responds to inquiries from Group employees and allows the identification of possible human rights-related risks associated with the right of expression in advertising. During FY2018, the desk received 275 inquiries. These were handled individually, in a bid both to prevent any recurrence of the issues, and to increase human rights awareness. Harassment-related consultations are centrally managed by the Harassment Consultation Section within the Labor Administration Department of the Human Resources Division, with consultations available at Dentsu branch offices as well as outside the Company. The section coordinates with harassment contacts at each Group company, in a bid to prevent harassment across the Group. 043 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Diversity and Inclusion Dentsu Group Initiatives In recognition of the substantial impact advertising has on society, Dentsu has established behavioral principles and guidelines related to creative work, and pays the utmost attention to advertising production. Promoting Female Participation Motivated by the goal of raising our ratio of female managers to 10% by 2020, we are raising awareness by such means as providing training for female leaders and holding Diversity Cafés, a series of in-house sessions focused on the gender divide. In FY2018, we launched unconscious bias training as part of our efforts to become an organization that is more accepting of diversity. This training is designed to help participants become aware of, and fix distortions or biases in, their points of view or perceptions regarding unfamiliar matters. Employing People with Disabilities We established Dentsu Solari, a wholly owned, special-purpose subsidiary, in April 2013 as part of our efforts to promote the employment of people with disabilities. As of June 1, 2019, some 2.35% of employees at three of our Group companies (Dentsu, Dentsu Works, and Dentsu Solari) were individuals with disabilities. Many of these employees are also active in our sales and creative departments, and we are working to expand employment opportunities for those with disabilities. In FY2018, we held three seminars, aimed at eliminating mental barriers, that attracted 220 participants. The seminars were designed to foster comprehension among employees throughout the Group. The aim was to deepen understanding of mental barriers that individuals with disabilities face, and to promote a mindset that allows mutual respect. ⿟ ⿟Promotion of Diversity LGBT Initiatives In accordance with our societal responsibilities and in response to stakeholder demand, in 2018 we expanded the range of those eligible to participate in Dentsu Family Day in Japan. As one of our employee welfare programs, it now welcomes common-law and same-sex partners. Then in April 2019, we also implemented a variety of revisions to existing policies. We updated our vacation policy, parental and nursing care leave systems, and working hours. At the same time, we expanded eligibility for benefits and services, as well as the range of individuals who may participate in events sponsored by the Employee Mutual-Aid Association. In addition, we have engaged in a number of diversity-supporting initiatives. These include the Dentsu Diversity Lab, a solution development task force set up in 2011, and the Ally Network, comprising individuals who are sympathetic and understanding regarding LGBT issues. In October 2018, the Dentsu Diversity Lab conducted a wide-ranging LGBT survey, which gathered information from sexual minorities, primarily individuals in the LGBT community. Our plan is to continue providing working environments that are respectful and Six rainbow color’s accepting of the characteristics of all individuals, as we engage in initiatives to change logos representing employee attitudes toward LGBT issues and promote diversity on a societal level. diversity, announced by Dentsu. WEB Dentsu Diversity Lab, https://dentsu-diversity.jp Launch of Education Programs The Dentsu Group has concluded a partnership agreement with the University of Tsukuba known for its advanced research and initiatives through which both entities will cooperate to establish human resources training and develop solutions aimed at achieving a more inclusive society. With the topics of diversity and inclusion increasing attention as diversification of society, Dentsu has set as goals helping to establish academic disciplines focused on these topics, and spreading social awareness. Dentsu thus plans to combine its perspectives—based on the expertise and knowledge it has cultivated over the years—with those of academic institutions. Based on these perspectives, Dentsu hopes to promote the achievement of a more diverse and inclusive society, primarily through the development of human resources, products, and services with a focus on the diversity of individuals. 044 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Society Decent and Creative Work Dentsu Group Initiatives The Dentsu Group is promoting mechanisms and initiatives aimed at enabling all members of its diverse human resources to work in ways that allow them to perform to the best of their abilities. Working Environment Reforms The mental and physical health of its employees are at the core of Dentsu’s management values. Reflecting this, in November 2016 the Company set up the Dentsu Working Environment Reforms Commission. The aim was to reduce the number of hours employees worked and improve the quality of their work. In July 2017, we announced the Working Environment Reform Plan for Dentsu Inc., which was compiled by management and employees. Over the two years since the plan’s adoption, we have introduced more than 100 measures, primarily based on the plan’s pillars of comprehensive labor management and enhanced worker protection; “work diets,” based on reviews of work inventory and improvement in business processes; and an enhanced health management system. The efficacy of these measures has been verified through monitoring, conducted by the Independent Advisory Committee for Labor Environment Reform Activities, which comprises external third-party experts. In terms of labor management, we have appointed human resource managers and made it possible to see working conditions on the Time Management Dashboard. Further, in terms of leveling workloads and improving efficiency, we have promoted “work diets” and outsourcing, at the same time implementing measures such as conversion to robotic process automation. As a result of these efforts, the total number of hours worked annually per employee came down to 1,952 in FY2018, from 2,166 in FY2016. In addition, in FY2018, the annual utilization rate of paid leave per employee rose to 66.0%, from 56.0% in FY2016, while the total number of paid leave days taken per employee was 21.4* in FY2018, verses 12.4 two years earlier. Other measures we adopted in FY2018 include Vitality Note, a program that allows employees to check their health daily using their PC; and Input Holidays, which program ensures the entire company takes a nonstatutory holiday once a month. We plan to promote comprehensive reforms and make up for the reduced working hours by improving the quality of work, as we set our sights on reflecting such societal trends as changes in legal regulations related to work styles. *Including Input Holidays Diversification of Work Styles In accordance with its promotion of work style diversification, in FY2018 Dentsu Inc. took a number of steps, including the introduction of flextime and the work-from-home system, as well as the use of satellite offices. The percentage of employees who used flextime rose to 92% in FY2018, versus 22% in October 2017. Since the work-from-home system was launched in October 2017, it has been used by an average of 720 employees per month. Meanwhile, a monthly average of 405 employees have utilized our satellite offices for an average of 740 hours per month since they were launched in July 2017. The Japan Telework Association awarded us an honorable mention in the Telework Implementation category of its 19th annual Telework Promotion Awards, in recognition of our initiatives to promote telework. Telework Promotion Awards ceremony 045 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Responsible Communications and Content Dentsu Group Initiatives In recognition of the substantial impact advertising has on society, Dentsu has established behavioral principles and guidelines related to creative work, and pays the utmost attention to advertising production. Dentsu Creative Code Society is substantially impacted by creative output and processes centered on advertising. In recognition of our social responsibility and in order to fulfill our role, we position the success of our customers and the creation of a better society as our mission. To this end, we established the Dentsu Group Creative Operational Code, a behavior policy for every employee involved in creative businesses in all Dentsu Group companies, units and divisions. We make an effort to improve ethics and creativity within creative businesses by constantly learning and improving. ⿟ ⿟Guidelines Regarding Advertising and Marketing That Affect Children In 2016, NGO Save the Children Japan published Guidelines Regarding Advertising and Marketing that Affects Children formulated by the NGO’s Children's Rights and Marketing/Advertisement Review Committee. Dentsu cooperated with the formulation of these guidelines through Global Compact Network Japan. ⿟ ⿟Publicity Business Guidelines Dentsu has formulated Publicity Business Guidelines, and conducts its publicity business in accordance with these guidelines. ⿟ ⿟SDGs-related Communication Guide In June 2018, Dentsu created an SDGs Communication Guide, a handbook for people involved in corporate management and advertising, as well as people working at advertising companies to use when thinking about SDGs-related communication. In the field of advertising communications, the use of expressions that do not reflect the actual state of corporate initiatives, and improper expressions that could cause misunderstanding among consumers is criticized as a deviation from the principles of the SDGs. Experts have also indicated that use of improper expressions may damage corporate value. Based on these factors, we launched the Dentsu SDGs Communication Guide Preparation Committee, which created the guide by compiling data that should be learned, points of caution that must receive attention, and other SDGs Communication Guide information that is useful when conducting advertising or promotional activities that are mindful of the SDGs. 046 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Society ⿟ ⿟Sustainable Supply Chain Dentsu Group Initiatives To ensure that procurement activities are socially responsible throughout its supply chain, the Dentsu Group distributes guidelines and CSR-related questionnaires to its business partners, while monitoring environmental, social and governance risks. Dentsu Basic Procurement Policy In line with the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct and desire for fair business dealings with its suppliers and business partners, the Company established the Dentsu Basic Procurement Policy. 1. Fair business dealings We shall conduct fair business dealings. (1) Our business dealings shall comply with laws and regulations. (2) When selecting suppliers and business partners, we shall not only take into account economic factors, but also give due consideration to compliance and environmental issues. 2. Cooperation with Dentsu’s management system When our suppliers and business partners collaborate with us, we request understanding of, and cooperation with, Dentsu’s management system, including the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, the Dentsu Procurement Guidelines and other Dentsu Group rules. WEB Dentsu Basic Procurement Policy, Dentsu Procurement Guidelines http://www.dentsu.com/csr/compliance/procurementactivities.html ⿟ ⿟Dentsu’s CSR Procurement Activities The Dentsu Group promotes CSR initiatives even with regard to procurement. By distributing Dentsu procurement guidelines among its business partners, we expect them to respect human rights, comply with prevailing laws and regulations, support environmental conservation, and show respect for intellectual property rights in terms of the production and provision processes of all services. The Dentsu procurement guidelines were revised in March 2014, in order to observe the addition of international anti-corruption regulation tenets (the 1977 US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the 2010 UK Bribery Act), as well as regulations pertaining to conflict minerals (Section 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank Act of 2010) as part of our business ethics with the aim of realizing CSR procurement that helps contribute to human rights. To monitor environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risks in the supply chain, Dentsu conducts supply chain assessments. These are online surveys comprising 30 ESG-related questions. By 2020, we aim to have collected survey responses from 900 companies. Having already received responses from 246 companies, it was revealed that 182 companies (73.9%) are specifically aware of the existence of the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct. In addition, we ask all new clients to comply with the requirements of CSR-related procurement by incorporating a subcontractor basic agreement clause governing CSR procurement activities. 047 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Community Dentsu Group Initiatives Recognizing that local communities are important stakeholders, Dentsu is expanding those of its community activities and contributions to society that help develop regional communities and resolve issues they face. Dentsu is fulfilling its role as a leader in the sphere of communications by building trust-based relationships with regional residents. These relationships are built in a number of ways, including through direct employee involvement in volunteer activities. Community Activities As volunteers, we are taking part in foreign currency coin sorting led by the NPO Habitat for Humanity Japan. Donation boxes set up at international airports in Japan are filled with paper money and coins from all over the world. The money is sorted and exchanged for its US dollar equivalent. This money is used to support afforestation projects in Southeast Asia and to improve the living conditions of local children. Dentsu started taking part in the coin sorting in 2017. In 2018, it held two sessions at its corporate headquarters in Tokyo, where 39 employees took part. Since 2018, we have also helped in the picture book drive organized by the Shanti Volunteer Association. This drive involves the affixing of seals, with text in a number of languages, on the pages of picture books published in Japan. The books are then delivered to children in parts of Asia impacted by conflict or poverty. At its corporate headquarters in Tokyo, Dentsu held two sessions of this book drive, in which a total of 74 employees inserted seals with translated texts into picture books. In 2019, sessions will also be held at Company branches in the nation’s Kansai and Chubu regions. In April 2018, in an effort to deepen its relationship with the local community, the Kansai branch office that in November 2017 had relocated to Nakanoshima, Osaka, teamed up with Group companies. Together they took part in the Nakanoshima-West Major Clean-Up Operation, designed to make ecological and aesthetic improvements in the area. A total of 31 Dentsu employees worked together with employees from other participating companies to pick up garbage around the community. Volunteers sort coin-based Participants work to deliver picture Participants in the Nakanoshima-West foreign currency books to underprivileged children Major Clean-Up Operation gather for a photograph CASE Digital Technology Gives Children Confidence, Hope Through the Dentsu Aegis Network Taiwan and with help from other supporters, we are expanding Fly! Showmei*. We have been conducting this CSR activity for three years in the Taiwan village of Laomei, famous for the Laomei Green Reef located at its northernmost tip. Fly! Showmei supports Laomei’s less-than-optimal education by using digital technology to provide local children with opportunities to showcase their creativity and individual abilities. As part of the program, we colored in pictures children had painted on the walls of local buildings; produced video content for which the children provided the narration, explaining the pictures and introducing Laomei; and set up eight locations within the community where this content could be viewed via smartphone. In addition, we gave the children the opportunity to experience VR content, created based on picture books that they had authored themselves. This initiative attracted much attention, with related videos receiving 5.2 million views on social media. We believe that, through Fly! Showmei, we can provide children with confidence and hope. At the same time, we expect it will lead to major reforms in the region. * Showmei: A nickname for the children living in Laomei 048 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 ESG Data Summary Data Summary Scope of Implementation ・Dentsu (Group-wide), or non-specified: Dentsu (Parent Company) ・Domestic Group: Dentsu Group in Japan ・DAN: Dentsu Aegis Network and its subsidiary ・Consolidated: Dentsu, Dentsu Group in Japan and DAN ⿟ ⿟Governance FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Directors 12 9 12 12 12 Outside directors (independent officers) 2 3 3 4 4 Ratio of independent outside directors 16.7% 33.3% 25.0% 33.3% 33.3% Female directors 0 1 1 2 2 Ratio of female directors 0.0% 11.1% 8.3% 16.7% 16.7% Board of Director meeting attendance rate 95.8% 91.9% 95.4% 96.9% 98.0% Attendance rate of independent outside 89.5% 83.3% 96.1% 96.3% 98.5% directors at Board of Director meetings ⿟ ⿟Employment Data (Parent Company only) Number of Employees (Each year-end) Average Age of Employees December December December December Total 40.8 March 2015 2015 2016 2017 2018 Male 42.5 Consolidated 43,583 47,324 55,843 60,064 62,608 Female 36.9 Parent company 7,348 7,261 6,799 6,927 6,921 Ratio of Women among Managers Average Number of Consecutive Years Served December 31, 2018 January 1, 2019 Total 14.0 Manager 2,127 2,074 Male 16.0 Female Manager 178 174 Female 9.1 Female Manager Component 8.369% 8.389% Note: Includes data for those members currently on temporary assignment. New Graduates Hired Number of Employees by Generation April 2015 April 2016 April 2017 April 2018 April 2019 Under 30 Years Old 1,125 Total 132 144 145 145 141 30-39 Years Old 2,327 Male 92 88 82 84 73 40-49 Years Old 1,825 Female 40 56 63 61 68 50-59 Years Old 1,392 Female Over 60 Years Old 252 30.3% 38.9% 43.4% 42.0% 48.2% Component Total 6,921 Note: Includes employees on temporary assignment but does not include those accepted for temporary Number of New Graduates and Mid-career Personnel Hired assignments. FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total 167 152 176 244 240 Male 120 108 115 158 158 Female 47 44 61 86 82 Female 28.1% 28.9% 34.7% 35.2% 34.2% Component 049 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Employee Composition (December 31, 2018) Male Female Total Executive officers, others 49 4 53 Managers 1,560 158 1,718 Non-Managers 2,468 1,035 3,503 Contract employees 291 332 623 Clerical staff 0 469 469 Partners / Senior staff 156 40 196 Part-timers, others 40 25 65 Seconded from other entities 188 106 294 Total 4,752 2,169 6,921 Note: 1.“Executive officers, others” includes senior corporate advisors, special advisors, etc. “Part-timers, others” indicates permanent part-timers, nonpermanent part-timers and employees of overseas branches. 2. Employees on temporary transfer are excluded. ⿟ ⿟Work–Life Balance Average Number of Paid Vacation Days Taken FY2014 FY2015＊ FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total 10.8 8.4 11.2 12.8 13.2 Male 9.6 7.5 10.2 12.1 12.9 Female 13.8 10.6 13.9 14.5 14 Leave Taken 54.0% 42.0% 56.0% 64.0% 66.2% Annual Paid Vacation in Hour Increments Taken (Part of paid vacation days) FY2014 FY2015＊ FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total Hours Taken 49,712 38,275 47,138 49,459 39,085 Total Number of People Taking Leave 14,568 14,308 18,217 19,401 14,605 Number of Hours Taken at One Time 3.4 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.7 Note: Available as part of annual paid leave. Employees Taking Childcare Leave, Reinstatement Ratio FY2014 FY2015＊ FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total 60 81 81 106 155 Male 10 15 31 47 102 Female 50 66 50 59 53 Reinstatement ratio 100% 100％ 100% 100% 100% Note: In FY2014, we recounted the number of the employees who took childcare leave in the past and revised the number in conjunction with the reinstatement ratio. Total Hours Worked per Year (Per Non-manager Employees) FY2014 FY2015＊ FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total 2,252 2,187 2,166 2,031 1,952 Note: 1. Following the change in the working hours management, the number of actual working hours has been revised from FY2017. 2. Including management positions from FY2017. * Period of data collection: Nine months spanning April–December 2015 050 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 ESG Data Summery ⿟ ⿟Health and Safety Health Checkup Rate FY2014 FY2015＊ FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total 99.0 76.1 95.5 96.6 95.4 *Period of data collection: Nine months spanning April–December 2015 ⿟ ⿟Leveraging Diverse Human Resources Social Contribution Activities Employment Rate of People with Disabilities (%) June 2015 June 2016 June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 Total 2.01 2.04 2.07 2.14 2.35 Number of Post-retirement Rehires FY2014 FY2015＊ FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Total 55 53 46 51 58 Male 45 44 35 41 53 Female 10 9 11 10 5 Union Membership Ratio (As of January 1, 2019) Union membership ratio among all employees (Including Tokyo, Annex, Hamarikyu, Osaka, Kyoto and Nagoya 44.7 employees) *Period of data collection: Nine months spanning April–December 2015 ⿟ ⿟Social Contribution Activities Dentsu DAN Total Donation(Yen) 664,412,477 143,641,694 808,054,171 Participants in Volunteer activities 513 14,428 14,941 Hours spent participating in Volunteer 5,994 72,253 78,247 activities ⿟ ⿟Employee Engagement Surve Survey on the Company and Work (Unit : %) January January January January January 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Q. Have you gained experience and knowledge 95.1 94.4 93.2 92.3 92.9 made possible only by working at Dentsu? Q. Are you proud to work at Dentsu? 88.1 86.8 80.2 78.4 80.0 Q. Going forward, do you want to continue working 78.5 75.6 73.5 72.1 72.6 at Dentsu? 051 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 ⿟ ⿟Environmental Performance Data FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 CO2 emissions (tons) 124,698 113,134 113,791 Dentsu (non-consolidated) 30,886 28,991 27,624 Dentsu Group in Japan 18,584 16,443 16,223 DAN (Dentsu Group Overseas) 75,229 67,700 70,045 CO2 emission intensity (tons per FTE) 2.42 2.11 1.88 Scope 1 (tons) 5,170 5,611 4,981 Dentsu (non-consolidated) 594 452 104 Dentsu Group in Japan 409 417 322 DAN (Dentsu Group Overseas) 4,166 4,742 4,555 Scope 2 (market-based, tons) 55,126 48,573 39,130 Dentsu (non-consolidated) 21,867 20,287 18,868 Dentsu Group in Japan 10,496 8,258 7,645 DAN (Dentsu Group Overseas) 22,762 20,028 12,617 Scope 3 (tons) 64,403 58,949 69,679 1. Purchased goods and services 3,066 2,396 2,087 5. Waste generated in operations 933 1,110 1,627 6. Business travel 57,372 52,603 62,253 7. Employee commuting 3,030 2,841 3,713 Amount of waste (kg) 6,768,018 6,665,499 7,884,635 Dentsu (non-consolidated) 3,224,884 2,884,696 2,196,440 Dentsu Group in Japan 1,292,447 1,444,553 1,550,789 DAN (Dentsu Group Overseas) 2,250,687 2,336,250 4,137,406 Water consumption (m³) 853,583 458,786 806,030 Dentsu (non-consolidated) 155,741 133,048 125,331 Dentsu Group in Japan 230,391 143,299 148,063 DAN (Dentsu Group Overseas) 467,451 182,439 532,636 Scope and Method of Calculation • Excluding some of Dentsu Group companies • Based on the calculation standards of WRI (World Resources Institute) GHG Protocol • For CO₂ emissions, Categories 1, 5, 6, and 7 were calculated for Scope 3 • The volume of waste generated (in kg) is the sum of general waste and industrial waste (including waste oil, waste plastic) • The volume of water resources used is the sum of municipal water and gray water at the Tokyo Head Office, and the municipal water used at the Kansai Branch Office and Chubu Branch Office. • For improved accuracy, the values of the previous fiscal years have been revised. ⿟ ⿟Third-Party Assurance LR Independent Assurance Statement Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Relating to GHG and Social Data of Dentsu Corporation within Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 for the Calendar Year 2018 LR’s approach LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with ISAE 30000 and ISO 14064-3 for GHG emissions data. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Dentsu Corporation in accordance with our contract but is engagement: intended for the readers of this Report. • Auditing the Company’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or mis-statements in the report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling Terms of engagement procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification; Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LR) was commissioned by Dentsu Corporation (“the Company”) to • Interviewing with key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the report; provide independent assurance on its greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and social data within its Dentsu • Sampling datasets and tracing activity data back to aggregated levels; Integrated Report 2019 (“the report”) for the calendar year 2018, that is, from 1 January 2018 to 31 December • Verifying the historical GHG emissions data and records for the calendar year 2018; 2018, against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the • Teleconferencing with key peoples in Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. in London to assess whether the data professional judgement of the verifier using ISAE3000 and ISO14064-3:2006 for GHG emissions data. management systems have been effectively implemented; and • Visiting Cyber Communication Inc. and Dentsu Public Relations Inc. to assess whether the data Our assurance engagement covered the operations and activities of the Company and its consolidated management systems have been effectively implemented. subsidiaries in Japan and overseas and specifically the following requirements: • Verifying conformance with the Company’s reporting methodologies Observations • Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of GHG and social data for the selected indicators listed below; The Company has year-on-year demonstrated improvement in its data management system. However, the GHG indicators 1 Company should further demonstrate the completeness of its future GHG Emissions Inventory. In addition, we • Scope 1 GHG emissions (tonnes CO2e) recommended that the Company will further improve the completeness, accuracy and reliability of its social • Scope 2 GHG emissions (Market-based and Location-based) (tonnes CO2e) indicators. • Scope 3 GHG emissions (Category 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8) (tonnes CO2e) Social indicators • The rate of women in leadership (%) LR’s standards, competence and independence LR implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements • The amount of donation (Japanese kYen) The rate of women in leadership, the for ISO 14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in • The number of volunteers accreditation or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021-1 Conformity assessment – Requirements for • The total hours of attendance of the volunteers (hours) bodies providing audit and certification of management systems – Part 1: Requirements that are at least as demanding as the requirements of the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of the Company’s suppliers, contractors and of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. amount of donation, the number of any third-parties mentioned in the report. LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and LR’s responsibility is only to the Company. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior the end footnote. The Company’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. data and information within the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from volunteers, and the total hours of which the report is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of the This is the only work undertaken by LR for the Company and as such does not compromise our independence Company. or impartiality. LR’s Opinion Signed Dated: 21 June 2019 attendance of the volunteers, and CO₂ Based on LR’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the Company has not, in all material respects: • Met the requirements above • Disclosed accurate and reliable environmental and social indicators which is disclosed in the report and Norihiko Kinoshita LR Lead Verifier emissions (greenhouse gas emissions) as summarised in Table 1 and 2 below. On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited 10th Floor, Queen's Tower A, 2-3-1 Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, JAPAN The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the LR reference: YKA4005213 professional judgement of the verifier. 1 GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty. from Dentsu group are verified by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd (LRQA) Page 1 of 3 Page 2 of 3 052 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Operating Results Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 28, 2019 Any forward-looking statements in the following Step 1: Distinguish between contracts with customers discussion and analysis are based on the judgment Step 2: Distinguish between contractual obligations of management as of the date that Dentsu Inc. Step 3: Calculate transaction values (hereinafter “Dentsu” or “the Company”) filed its Step 4: A  llocate transaction values to contractual securities report for the fiscal year ended December obligations 31, 2018 with regulatory authorities. Step 5: R  ecognize revenue once contractual obligations have been fulfilled Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates The Group offers its customers advertising and In the preparation of these consolidated financial information services, in addition to other services. statements, management discloses the amounts of In our advertising business, we primarily offer the reported asset and liability figures as well as those advertisement placement services in a wide variety of offbalance sheet transactions such as contingent of media, as well as wide-ranging content services liabilities, as of the date the accounts are closed. and advertising production, which includes creative Management also estimates the impact of these services. In the case of advertising placement, the figures on the Company’s financial position and Group’s contractual obligations are most often fulfilled operating results during the reporting period. when ads are actually placed, while, in the case of Management continuously evaluates forecasts and advertising production and content services, they assumptions regarding such items as investments, are primarily fulfilled once finished advertisements business combinations, retirement benefits and have been delivered or the relevant labor has been corporate taxes, as well as contingencies and litigation. provided. It is at these times that the Group recognizes Management bases its estimates and assumptions the revenue associated with these obligations. In on the consideration of several factors, given past terms of rights businesses, such as marketing rights performance and conditions. These results underpin for sporting events, revenue is recognized based on asset and liability book values and reported revenue the rights bestowed upon customers. In cases in which and expense figures. However, uncertainties are these rights are granted at a certain point in time, inherent in such results and estimates may vary from revenue is recognized at that point in time. When these actual results. rights are conferred over a period of time, revenue is The critical accounting policies described below gradually recognized over the duration of the period. are those that management considers to have specific For transactions related to the advertising business, potential to affect the financial position and operating the Group primarily records either the net amount results of the Group. Such policies may also include received from customers as remuneration for services, important assumptions and estimates used in creating which is calculated by subtracting related costs from the Company’s consolidated financial statements and considerations received, or certain remunerations and therefore have a material impact on these statements. considerations received as commission. In a portion of cases in which customers have been deemed to Revenue Recognition possess particularly strong attributes, we record the total amount combining considerations with costs. Starting from the consolidated fiscal year under review, In our information services business, we primarily the Group is applying IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts conduct the sale of software and other products with Customers (released in May 2014) and Clarifications while offering services that include contracted system to IFRS 15 (released in April 2016; both in combination development, as well as outsourcing and operation referred to “IFRS 15” below). In accordance with our and maintenance services. In the case of software and application of IFRS 15, we recognize revenue using the other product sales, the Group acknowledges the following five-step approach: fulfillment of contractual obligations and recognizes revenue at the time of delivery. For contracted 053 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 software development, we recognize revenue based on assets exist, excluding inventories and deferred tax the degree of development progress and, in the case assets. In cases where these signs do exist, we conduct of operation and maintenance services, we recognize impairment testing based on the recoverable amounts revenue once contract periods have elapsed. As for of the assets in question. As for goodwill, we do not transactions related to the information services business, conduct amortization. Instead, we conduct impairment revenue and costs are displayed in their full amounts. testing at a minimum of one time per year, regardless of Turnover disclosed on the Group’s consolidated whether signs of impairment exist or not. However, we income statement represents the total amount that has also conduct impairment testing in all cases when signs been billed or can be billed to customers (excluding of impairment are discovered. We set the recoverable discounts or related taxes such as consumption tax, amount of assets as their fair value or the fair value etc.) and does not conform to IFRS. of their generated capital after subtracting disposal Based on transitional measures related to IFRS 15, costs, or their utility value, whichever is higher. When the Group is recognizing the cumulative impact of the book value of assets or the capital they generate applying these standards from the beginning of the exceeds recoverable amounts, we reduce the value of consolidated fiscal year under review and is adopting a the asset in question to match the recoverable amount policy of not conducting retrospective restatement of and recognize an impairment loss. When calculating comparative information. Accounting policies for fiscal utility value, we utilize predetermined assumptions years under comparison to the current consolidated based on factors including the estimated useful life of fiscal year are indicated below. the asset, future cash flow, growth and discount rates. Group revenue primarily comprises commission These assumptions are determined based on received from advertisement placement in a wide optimal forecasts and judgements made in reference to variety of media and remuneration obtained from past results, business plans approved by management advertisers and other customers utilizing services and other factors. However, these assumptions can such as wide-ranging content services and advertising be impacted by factors such as changes in business production, which includes creative services. strategy or market environment. When assumptions Revenue received through advertising production must be changed due to these factors, recognized or other advertising services is recorded as the net impairment loss amounts can be significantly affected. amount of remuneration received from advertisers and other clients, which is calculated by subtracting Valuation of Financial Instruments costs from considerations, or as fixed fees or certain remunerations and considerations. The Group retains financial assets, including securities Revenue received through commission is recognized and derivatives. When evaluating these financial assets, when ads are placed in their corresponding media. we utilize pre-determined assumptions. The fair value Other revenue is recorded after services have been of these assets is based on market value and calculation rendered to completion, when the logical measurement procedures such as market approach. Specifically, fair of considerations becomes possible and the influx of values of shares and other financial assets with trading economic benefit becomes highly possible. names for which there are lively markets are calculated As for transactions related to businesses other based on their market prices. Fair values for those with than the advertising business, revenue and costs are trading names for which there are no lively markets are displayed in their full amounts. primarily calculated with the market approach, using amounts calculated based on observable market data Impairment Loss on Property, Plant and Equipment, or unobservable input. Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Investment Property The fair values of contingent considerations and share acquisition debt resulting from business On the closing date of the fiscal year, the Group judges combination is calculated through the discounted cash whether signs of possible impairment of non-financial flow method using unobservable input. 054 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Our management has deemed our evaluations against future taxable earnings. Deferred tax assets concerning the fair values of financial instruments and are revised on the closing date of each fiscal year and other matters to be logical. However, the recognized values are reduced for deferred tax assets that are not fair values of these financial instruments can be predicted to product tax benefits. significantly impacted in cases in which forecasts The Group records deferred tax assets based on must be updated due to changes in prerequisite future taxable earnings and the continuous review assumptions or other unpredictable factors. of careful and highly implementable tax planning. We deem the forecasts we make when evaluating Valuation of Defined Benefit Obligations recoverability to be logical. However, recognized expenses and recorded assets can be significantly Defined benefit obligations and retirement benefit impacted when actual results differ from forecasts expenses are calculated based on preconditions due to factors such as unpredictable events or established for use in actuarial calculations. Included circumstantial changes. among these preconditions are discount rates and future remuneration levels, employee turnover rates Analysis of the Operating Results for the and mortality. Consolidated Fiscal Year under Review Our management has deemed these preconditions logical. However, recognized expenses and recorded Revenue and Revenue Less Cost of Sales obligations can be significantly impacted in cases in which actual results differ from these preconditions or In the consolidated fiscal year under review, the when these preconditions change. Group’s revenue was 1,018,512 million yen (up 9.7% year on year) and gross profit was 932,680 million yen Reserves (up 6.3%). Revenue less cost of sales in the Japan business was The Group currently has legal and constructive up 2.0% year on year, to 369,258 million yen. obligations resulting from past events. We recognize Revenue less cost of sales in the Group’s international reserves for these obligations in cases in which businesses was 563,852 million yen (up 9.3%). The demand for their settlement is highly possible and growth rate of organic revenue less cost of sales in the their amounts are reliably predictable. In cases in which international businesses rose 4.3%. By region, this rate the time value of money has a significant impact, we was 7.4% in EMEA, 4.9% in the Americas and -1.7% in measure reserves using present value, which utilizes a APAC. discount rate that reflects the unique risks associated with the liabilities in question. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, These reserves are calculated based on optimal Other Income and Expenses and Operating Profit forecasts that consider uncertain factors present on fiscal year closing dates. However, recorded obligation In the consolidated fiscal year under review, SG&A amounts can be significantly impacted in cases in expenses were 820,058 million yen (up 9.1% year on which actual results differ from forecasts due to the year). occurrence of unpredictable events or unforeseeable Other income was 11,168 million yen (down 52.2%) circumstantial changes. and other expenses were 12,151 million yen (up 4.6%). As a result, operating profit for the consolidated fiscal Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets year under review was 111,638 million yen (down 18.7%). Deferred tax assets are only recognized in cases in which tax credits carried forward or deductible temporary differences are highly likely to be utilized 055 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 G  ains on Equity Method Investment, Gains from the thorough time management and enhanced worker Sale of Affiliate Shares, Financial Gains or Losses and protection, business process improvement and Profit Work-Diet through the thorough review of workflows, and smart work styles through enhanced internal In the consolidated fiscal year under review, gains infrastructure such as ICT. We have engaged in many on equity method investment were 2,699 million yen related reformative efforts for two years, and, as a (down 36.1% year on year), gains from the sale of result, total working hours per employee fell to 1,952, affiliate shares were 52,127 million yen and financial indicating a steady decline that is mostly in line with income fell to become financial expenses, resulting in our targets. In addition, many of these wide-ranging financial losses of 17,713 million yen. As a result, profit measures, including our numerous initiatives in the field before tax was 148,751 million yen (down 0.6%). of RPA, will have increasingly significant positive effects Out of net profit, which is calculated by subtracting in the future. Value creation starts with our employees, corporate income tax expenses from profit before tax, who constantly maintain excellent conditions and profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent are progressively completing infrastructure aimed at was 90,316 million yen (down 14.4%). maximizing the amount of time invested in creating added value for our customers and client companies. Management Policy, Management Environment We will continue to work toward creating conditions and Issues to Be Addressed that allow all Group companies in Japan to demonstrate the results of these efforts. The Dentsu Group has viewed FY2017 and FY2018 as a period of reform in its Japan business. During this ii. E  nhancing Capabilities in the Japanese Digital time span, we have made the working environment Domain reforms our top priority. In international businesses, the In October 2018, the Group announced a capital and momentum we have maintained since acquiring Aegis business alliance with SEPTENI HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Group plc (now “Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd.;” below, and business integration with VOYAGE GROUP Inc. and “DAN”) in 2013 has been recovering thanks to our cyber communications inc. The purpose of these moves business portfolio, which is primarily focused on wellwas to strengthen business foundations in the Japanese balanced regional expansion and growth domains. In digital domain. We will promote collaboration and the future, we will continue to work toward Group-wide improvement measures using both the management business transformation to secure continuous growth resources of these groups and the management in both our Japanese and international businesses. resources that we have held since before these All matters relating to the future in this text are announcements while we work to provide the highest based on judgements made by the Group as of the level of services possible in the digital advertising field. submission date of its Annual Securities Report. Furthermore, the Dentsu Group recognizes that is must expand and improve its capabilities to support (1) Japanese Business reforms being implemented by client companies. In the Japanese digital marketing domain, which we consider i. Summary of Working Environment Reforms to be of paramount importance, we have promoted In our Japan business, we have been promoting capability enhancement across three fields: solutions, working environment reforms as an integral part of advertising and data technology. By shoring up these our business transformation efforts for two years by collaborative formations, we will work to establish our simultaneously shortening working hours and raising position as a partner that supports the implementation work quality and restructuring all functions of our of reforms promoted by our client companies. corporate infrastructure. The three pillars of reform that support our environmental and infrastructural overhauls are 056 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance (2) International Businesses key platform developers, as well as securing digital human resources and new technology through M&A. i. Establishment of Business Foundations Additionally, DAN will work to distinguish itself in The Group actively invested in its international an increasingly intense competitive environment by businesses in FY2017 and FY 2018, establishing enhancing its own uniqueness. business foundations in the three categories below. First, we integrated strong common platforms, • Raising profitability systems and shared services into our global network Supported by our previous active investment in areas and linked them with long-term business reform to such as common platforms, we will raise profitability raise productivity. While ensuring that our operating over the next few years while streamlining our model functions effectively, we have aimed to secure business operations. Additionally, we will appoint top line growth by constructing a growth platform supervisors with the mission of sustaining recent that works as an original system designed to promote increases in operational excellence and will also internal collaboration. We believe that this platform place further emphasis on the importance of raising will help raise the quality of our new business operational efficiency throughout DAN. processes by accelerating the sharing of knowledge and experiences gained through business conducted (3) Group-wide Business Transformation at DAN. At the same time, we actively promoted M&A with the goal of securing access to growth potential The entire Group will continue to work toward the and the most advanced services and technologies and establishment of common foundations for growth in to obtain fascinating human resources. Furthermore, both the Japanese and international businesses while we are conducting investment in people to maintain expanding capabilities and human resources from a and acquire superior human resources from both Group-wide point of view. From this point of view, we inside and outside the Group. These investment plan to accelerate a variety of efforts, including linkage efforts include revisions to our incentive system made of external management resources, both in Japan and in FY2018. overseas. Furthermore, we regard the construction of systems that enable swift decision-making from a ii. Maintenance of Recovering Momentum mediumto long-term perspective as important when Starting in FY2019, we have been focusing on the facing a rapidly changing environment. Therefore, following three important fields to expand recovering we are promoting conversion to a holding company momentum. system. • Achievement of further top line growth through the (4) Consolidation Guidelines in Place until 2020 provision of integrated services To secure top line growth at DAN, it is important The Group has set the following consolidation for us to provide solutions through integrated guidelines in place until 2020: services. As this approach has contributed to recent account acquisitions, we will work to develop related i. Achieve a gross profit organic growth rate of 3% competency levels while working from a level or more (CAGR over the three years leading up to involving more brands and regions than ever before. 2020), providing momentum for all businesses ii.  Improve the operating margin, an indicator of • Continuing innovation and developing our uniqueness profitability, annually after 2018.  DAN has actively worked to acquire advanced iii. In terms of shareholder return, firmly maintain stable technologies and will continue to promote efforts dividends as before and discuss appropriate return aimed at strengthening data, analytics and of profits to shareholders while considering the technologies obtained through collaboration with future statuses of results and cash flow 057 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finally, we will also continue to engage in global Cash Flows CSR activities. During the fiscal year under review, we updated our As of December 31, 2018, cash and cash equivalents medium-term CSR strategy. We have selected CSR (below, “cash”) were 416,668 million yen (305,760 issues that are important for the Group, including million yen at the end of the previous fiscal year). respect for human rights and reducing environmental This figure was up 110,907 million yen year on year burdens, and plan to continuously monitor our because cash provided by operating activities and progress on these issues moving forward. cash provided by financing activities were greater than The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are cash used in investing activities. the subject of increasingly energetic discussion both in Japan and overseas. We are conducting activities Cash flows from operating activities aimed at widely spreading awareness regarding the Cash provided by operating activities was 133,049  importance of the SDGs throughout society, with million yen (provided 141,557 million yen in the previous a particular focus on Team SDGs that traverse all consolidated fiscal year). This result was primarily due Japanese Group companies. These activities include to pretax profit. conducting consumer SDG surveys and distributing SDGs communication guides. Through Com on Cash flows from investing activities Ground, a collaborative campaign involving the Cash used in investing activities was 61,382 million yen world’s top five advertising groups, we will continue to (used 85,531 million yen in the previous consolidated support NGO activities aimed at eradicating malaria fiscal year). This was primarily because cash used for and tuberculosis on a global scale. the purchase of non-current assets, the acquisition of In the future, we will continue to strengthen activities subsidiaries and the purchase of securities exceeded befitting a leading global group in the communications proceeds from the sale of securities. domain and work to raise corporate value. For more details regarding individual activities, please see the Dentsu Integrated Report (http://www. Cash flows from financing activities dentsu.com/csr/). Cash provided by financing activities was 57,522 We will lead the creation of diverse value that will million yen (provided 1,226 million yen in the previous further enrich society while pressing forward with our consolidated fiscal year). This result was primarily ceaseless efforts to become a corporate group that thanks to proceeds from issuance of bonds. opens pathways into a new era. Capital Requirements Analysis of Capital Resources and Cash Liquidity The Group’s primary working capital requirements Assets, Liabilities and Equity are production costs and media fees supporting advertising operations and personnel costs and other As of December 31, 2018, total assets were up 75,631 SG&A expenses. million yen year on year, primarily due to an increase In recent years, the Group has developed new in cash and cash equivalents. Total liabilities increased capital requirements related to investment in various by 115,015 million yen year on year, due mostly to a domains, including global business and digital rise in corporate bonds and borrowings. Total equity technology, aimed at expanding existing businesses fell 39,384 million yen year on year, mainly caused and discovering and developing new businesses. by a decrease in translation adjustment from foreign operations. 058 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Financial Policy The Group acknowledges the potential occurrence of these risks and works to avoid them and, in the event The Group procures working capital through internal that they do occur, to respond appropriately. funds, corporate bonds, commercial papers and shortterm borrowings. The Group has generally had positive Risks related to the advertising industry in general working capital (current assets minus current liabilities) on a consolidated basis. In the previous fiscal year i. Risks due to economic fluctuation and the fiscal year under review, the Group’s working The performances of advertising companies such as capital recorded positive amounts of 94,300 million the Group tend to be easily affected by changes in yen and 149,900 million yen, respectively. the market or business conditions. This is because To secure short-term capital liquidity, we have set many advertisers adjust their advertising expenditures a maximum bank loan limit of 50,000 million yen, depending on these changes. calculated through the syndication method. At Dentsu The Group is working to form a business structure Aegis Network Ltd., we have set a maximum bank loan that is resistant to changes in business conditions by limit of 500 million British pounds (about 70,000 million diversifying the content of its services and its regions yen) for the purpose of emergency response. To raise of business, in addition to other efforts. Despite capital efficiency within the Group, we have adopted this, macroeconomic trends in Japan and business a cash management system (CMS) that allows use to environment changes in the main Japanese industrial borrow capital from subsidiaries in Japan with a capital sector, which spends heavily on advertising, can surplus and lend capital to Japanese subsidiaries potentially affect the Group’s performance. Additionally, with capital requirements. Dentsu Aegis Network has factors such as slumping business conditions overseas adopted a global CMS that consolidates overseas and fluctuations in exchange rate can sometimes capital in London. negatively impact business conditions in Japan. In a meeting held on March 15, 2018, our Board The Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 of Directors passed a comprehensive resolution exerted a major negative impact on the Japanese concerning the issue of unsecured straight bonds economy by interrupting supply chains and causing with the goal of securing capital necessary for future power shortages. The economy and business business expansion. The total value of these bonds, environment in Japan have since improved, but future which will only be publicly offered in Japan, will be earthquakes and other major natural disasters also under 100,000 million yen. On October 25, 2018, we threaten the business environment with potential issued bonds worth 80,000 million yen. The use of negative impact. funds gained through the issue of these bonds will be In March 2013, we acquired Aegis Group plc, a used for investment, debt repayment and as working major advertising agency in the United Kingdom. This capital. acquisition substantially raised the overseas share of We have received a long-term credit rating of AAour gross profit to 60.4% in FY2018. A higher overseas and a short-term credit rating of a-1+ from Rating and share means that worsening economic conditions or Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), a debt rating agency. business environments in major overseas markets in which the Group conducts business can potentially Business and Other Risks have a further negative impact on the Group’s overall performance. The Group faces the following risks, which have a potential impact on factors such as operating results, ii. R  isks related to technological innovation and stock prices and financial conditions. structural changes in media All matters relating to the future in the sections The Group’s businesses are impacted by technological below are based on judgements made by the Group innovation and structural changes in media. According as of the filing date of its Annual Securities Report. to 2018 Advertising Expenditures in Japan (published 059 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 by Dentsu), the scale of internet advertising medium Risks from competition expenditures has been growing since data collection on it began in 1996, and it has exceeded the combined i. Competition with advertising agencies expenditures of advertising posted for newspapers, The Group is exposed to intense competition with magazines and radio, three of the four traditional other advertising agencies both in Japan and overseas. media (the other being television). Business integration and restructuring among The Group believes that the development of Japanese advertising agencies and the increasing advertising methods that utilize the Internet and other participation of foreign agencies could potentially alter new media will heighten synergy between internet the structure of the industry and intensify competition advertising and advertising in the traditional media by in the Japanese advertising market. If the Group linking them together, contributing to future overall cannot appropriately adapt to intensified competition expansion in the advertising market. The Group already for customers or to future changes in industry structure holds leading positions in the fields of traditional media or trade practices caused by participation from and internet advertising and is working to unearth and foreign agencies, it may face potentially negative expand further business opportunities. consequences in terms of performance. However, the Group’s performance may be negatively Overseas, the Group is exposed to competition with affected by situations in which it cannot appropriately enormous foreign advertising agencies that conduct respond to rapid technological innovation or structural business over a wide range of regions and possess changes in media. abundant financial assets, personnel and other corporate resources, as well as with small advertising agencies iii. Risks associated with trade practices, etc. that specialize in one or a few countries or regions. If In Japan, the Group could potentially be required to the Group is unable to retain primary customers due incur debt from media companies, even in cases in to overwhelming competition, its performance could which advertisers are unable to pay advertising fees potentially face negative consequences. due to reason such as insolvency. If unpaid fees from advertisers increase, they can potentially impact the ii. C  ompetition with newcomer companies from Group’s performance negatively. Due to a variety of adjacent industries circumstances, sudden changes to advertisement As the Group’s business domains expand, so do design and content are common in the advertising opportunities for competition with entities from industry. The Group works to avoid transaction-related adjacent industries, including general trading and trouble before it happens by forming basic transaction consulting companies. Furthermore, many new agreements with primary customers and through companies are participating in businesses related to other efforts, but could still possibly face unforeseen the Internet and social network media, and the Group accidents or disputes. has a competitive relationship with these companies Overseas, particularly in the United States and in realms such as new business development. If, in the Europe, advertising agencies employ “one industry future, the Group is unable to appropriately respond one company” systems in which they do not assume to customer demands concerning services and cost responsibility for more than one client company in any in these business fields, or if participation from new given industry. However, this practice is not common companies causes rapid changes in advertising trading in Japan, and the Group also counts several leading practices, the Group’s performance may be negatively companies that are in the same industries among impacted. its clients. If practices in Japan were to change in this regard and the Group were to fail to respond appropriately, its performance would face potential negative impact. 060 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Risks concerning relationships with advertisers and ii. R  isks related to investment in media and internet media companies advertising businesses To solidify its position in the media advertising The Group has business relationships with major market, the Group has been conducting investment advertisers in Japan, most of which it has stably in the four traditional media, out-of-home media maintained over many years. (transit advertising, outdoor advertising, etc.) and The Group has built the cornerstone of its business satellite media (BS and CS broadcasting), as well as development by providing business operation and related research and business development projects. operating activities for mass media companies. Through However, in cases including sluggish demand for media these activities, it facilitates needs adjustment and advertising or intensified competition, the revenue or smooth transactions between advertisers and media results produced may not be commensurate with the companies. investment required for commercialization or research However, if the Group is unable to services that meet the and development. needs of new or existing advertisers or media companies, In the internet advertising domain, the already it could face the cancellation of its relationships with these diverse range of advertising methods and advertisers entities, falling order numbers or changes in terms and is expanding, including the obligatory acceleration of conditions of sale. Its performance could also potentially cross-media campaign proposals (effective campaign be negatively impacted by these factors. proposals that adapt several media and advertising In recent years, advertisers have increasingly attempted expressions to the behavior of consumers) and growth to cut costs by seeking more efficient advertising services in performance-based advertising (an advertising through a variety of methods, including cutting their method that automatically and instantly supports advertisement suppliers down to one advertising agency. advertisement optimization through platforms that The Group’s performance may potentially face negative process vast amounts of data). To respond to these consequences if the trend of falling profitability in mass changes, the Group is proactively investing in alliances media advertising transactions continues. with major specialized agencies and other specialized companies, as well as technology. However, the Risks related to business infrastructure enhancement Group may not be able to produce projected results in the domestic market if it cannot appropriately respond to the rapid development of technologies and services in the field i. R  isks related to the development of information of online advertising. processing technology, databases, etc. The Group researches and develops databases and iii. Risks related to promotion business expansion information processing technology that it uses to Promotional measures are becoming more important to empirically investigate the effects of advertisers’ advertisers, and the market for them is expanding. The marketing and advertising expenditures. These Group is aware of this business opportunity and, in an activities are aimed at uncovering potential demand effort to expand its business in the promotion domain, and expanding the Group’s share of the domestic has established companies specializing in various advertising market. However, the point in time at which fields, including in-store marketing, flyer production, the results of this research and development can be direct business and customer access. However, the commercialized or implemented is uncertain, and it is Group may not be able to reach its projected business possible that the Group’s research and development expansion targets if advertiser demand does not grow activities may not produce their expected results or if it cannot maintain its competitiveness relative to at all, due to future changes in advertiser needs, rival companies. technological difficulties or other factors. 061 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Risks related to the content business including restrictions on the ability to enforce agreements or intellectual property rights and The Group actively invests in acquiring rights related constraints on personnel management to movies, television programs, sporting events, music • Changes in trade restrictions or tariff systems and other similar commodities, as well as in their Risks related to political instability and uncertain •  production. It obtains income from the production, business environments distribution and sale of movies and other content, • Changes in the political and economic relationships the sale of licensing, sponsorship and broadcasting between Japan and the countries and regions in rights and the sale of advertisements related to which the Group conducts business movies and other similar content. However, in some • Acts of terrorism, war, epidemics and other causes of cases, business projects related to these investments social unrest can extend over many accounting periods, or the • Difficulty in managing labor locally and in preventing investments may involve large acquisition costs or inappropriate actions from suppliers financial commitments. In addition, media providing content have been recently becoming more diverse. Any of the above risks could raise the Group’s costs, Furthermore, reliably estimating consumer reaction, reduce its revenue or cause operational obstacles. As which will influence whether or not the content business a result, they could potentially have seriously negative succeeds, is difficult. If this business does not progress impacts on the Group’s businesses, financial conditions according to projections or if investment effect falls or performance. short of expectations, the Group’s performance could potentially suffer. ii. R isks related to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Risks related to the global business The Group recorded large amounts of goodwill and intangible assets when it acquired Aegis Group plc. i. Risks related to international business expansion If, in the future, the value of these assets is damaged With its acquisition of Aegis Group plc, the Group to the points where they are considered irrecoverable, now conducts business in more than 140 foreign the Group may be forced to recognize impairment. countries and regions. As a result, it faces additional This could potentially have serious negative impacts risks associated with overseas business operation, the on the Group’s businesses, financial conditions or following in particular: performance. Difficulty in managing and regulating business in •  Risks related to the acquisition and development of numerous and wide-ranging countries and regions human resources • Impact from fluctuations in the global economy • Risks related to foreign laws, regulations and policies, The Group’s growth potential and competitiveness including capital regulation, foreign currency largely depend on the acquisition and development exchange regulations, etc. of superior human resources. When acquiring human • Differences and inconsistencies in tax systems of the resources, the Group targets stable employment various countries and regions in which the Group of new graduates, as well as mid-career hires who conducts business are immediate assets because of their specialized •  Tax system changes, including the imposition or knowledge and experience. In addition, it aims to increase of withholding taxes on money sent by conduct human resource development through foreign Group subsidiaries or other forms of payment education and training adapted to fit the functions • Fluctuations in foreign exchange rate and abilities of individual employees. However, the Various standards and practices implemented •  Group could potentially face difficulty in acquiring in legislation, regulations and business culture, or retaining superior human resources for a variety 062 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance of reasons. Under such circumstances, the growth regulations pose a threat to the Group’s businesses. potential and competitiveness of the Group could be However, the Group’s businesses and the advertising negatively affected. industry as a whole could potentially be negatively Additionally, the Group retains many employees impacted by the adoption or strengthening of laws and with varied cultural and geographical backgrounds and regulations that exert new influences over advertiser responds to accompanying personnel management activity or the format or content of advertising or issues. In particular, the Group is facing issues related to by changes in the interpretation of these laws and the integration of many foreign employees who joined regulations. through the acquisition of Aegis Group plc. If the Group Furthermore, the Group acquires data and personal secures competent human resources but cannot utilize information from advertisers when conducting business. them adequately or is unable to appropriately respond The Group exhaustively works to ensure the quality of to these issues, its financial conditions, performance or its information management through the acquisition competitive standing could potentially face negative of certifications indicating that its information security consequences. management systems comply with international standards and through other methods. However, in the Risks related to information systems unlikely event that information leaks or other accidents occur, the Group’s reliability could suffer significantly, The Group relys on information systems and infrawhich could, in turn, negatively affect its performance. structure when conducting business management, which includes executing transactions, reporting finanLitigation, etc. cial results, handling advertiser marketing and managing information related to advertising. Its information The Group may directly or indirectly take part in systems can potentially be exposed to system failure, litigation related to its business practices, including network disruption, illegal intrusion or indiscriminate advertisement content and expression, or litigation attacks. Similarly, the Group’s confidential information raised by business partners, various groups, consumers could be revealed to unauthorized individuals or to the or holders of a variety of intellectual property rights. public through data security accidents or violations that occur as a result of either authorized or unauthorized system access performed by employees or other parties. Additionally, the Group employs third parties when saving, communicating or processing data. It adopts exhaustive measures to safeguard its data and information systems. However, there is no guarantee that these measures will completely prevent failures, network disruptions or security breaches in the systems of the Group or these third parties. Furthermore, any of these phenomena, could potentially have a negative impact on the Group’s performance. Risks related to legal regulations, etc. The Group has accepted the application of laws and various regulations, including the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors and the Act on the Protection of Personal Information. Currently, none of these laws or 063 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 064 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Notes ASSETS (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) CURRENT ASSETS: Cash and cash equivalents 8, 35 ¥305,760 ¥416,668 $3,754 Trade and other receivables 9, 35 1,410,454 1,368,728 12,331 Inventories 10 22,074 28,580 257 Other financial assets 11, 20, 35 21,934 15,090 136 Other current assets 12 74,525 106,516 960 Subtotal 1,834,749 1,935,583 17,438 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 13 1,835 2 0 Total current assets 1,836,584 1,935,586 17,438 NON-CURRENT ASSETS: Property, plant and equipment 14 196,659 199,207 1,795 Goodwill 7, 15 798,177 786,851 7,089 Intangible assets 7, 15 274,502 249,921 2,252 Investment property 17 37,360 37,089 334 Investments accounted for using the equity method 6, 18 56,752 39,897 359 Other financial assets 11, 35 327,356 348,537 3,140 Other non-current assets 23 15,062 14,242 128 Deferred tax assets 19 20,401 27,155 245 Total non-current assets 1,726,272 1,702,902 15,341 TOTAL ASSETS 6 ¥3,562,857 ¥3,638,488 $32,779 065 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Notes LIABILITIES AND EQUITY (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) LIABILITIES: CURRENT LIABILITIES: Trade and other payables 20, 35 ¥1,380,875 ¥1,341,461 $12,085 Borrowings 21, 35 89,325 104,879 945 Other financial liabilities 16, 21, 35 43,030 47,395 427 Income tax payables 23,366 42,981 387 Provisions 22 2,070 1,575 14 Other current liabilities 203,091 247,315 2,228 Subtotal 1,741,758 1,785,608 16,087 Liabilities directly associated with non-current 13 456 – – assets classified as held for sale Total current liabilities 1,742,215 1,785,608 16,087 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES: Bonds and borrowings 21, 35 371,187 433,980 3,910 Other financial liabilities 16, 21, 35 146,076 163,362 1,472 Liability for retirement benefits 23 19,210 30,675 276 Provisions 22 4,983 4,705 42 Other non-current liabilities 34 19,497 18,133 163 Deferred tax liabilities 19 109,552 91,272 822 Total non-current liabilities 670,507 742,130 6,686 Total liabilities 2,412,722 2,527,738 22,772 EQUITY: Share capital 24 74,609 74,609 672 Share premium account 24 99,751 99,751 899 Treasury shares 24 (40,182) (40,194) (362) Other components of equity 227,272 160,735 1,448 Retained earnings 24 731,759 752,717 6,781 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 35 1,093,211 1,047,619 9,438 Non-controlling interests 56,923 63,129 569 Total equity 1,150,134 1,110,749 10,007 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY ¥3,562,857 ¥3,638,488 $32,779 066 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Consolidated Statement of Income Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Notes (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) (Turnover (Note 1)) 6 ¥5,187,300 ¥5,357,278 $48,264 Revenue 6, 26 928,841 1,018,512 9,176 Cost 14, 15, 23, 28 51,218 85,831 773 Revenue less cost of sales 6 877,622 932,680 8,403 Selling, general and administrative expenses 14, 15, 23, 27, 28 751,957 820,058 7,388 Other income 29 23,347 11,168 101 Other expenses 14, 15, 30, 34 11,620 12,151 109 Operating profit 6 137,392 111,638 1,006 Share of profits of investments accounted for using the 18 4,222 2,699 24 equity method Gain on sale of investments in associates 18 – 52,127 470 Profit before interest and tax 141,614 166,465 1,500 Finance income 31 20,302 6,839 62 Finance expenses 23, 28, 31 12,254 24,553 221 Profit before tax 149,662 148,751 1,340 Income tax expenses 19 36,520 51,250 462 Profit for the year ¥113,142 ¥97,501 $878 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥105,478 ¥90,316 $814 Non-controlling interests ¥7,663 ¥7,185 $65 Earnings per share (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) Basic earnings per share 33 ¥373.11 ¥320.39 $2.89 Diluted earnings per share 33 ¥373.10 ¥320.38 $2.89 Reconciliation from operating profit to underlying operating profit (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Notes (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Operating profit ¥137,392 ¥111,638 $1,006 Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions 31,779 35,123 316 Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative 5,265 1,700 15 expenses) Other adjusting items (other income) (15,410) (840) (8) Other adjusting items (other expenses) 4,919 5,606 51 Underlying operating profit (Note 2) 6 ¥163,946 ¥153,229 $1,380 (Note 1) Turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the Group, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Disclosure of turnover information is not required under IFRS; however, it is voluntarily disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Income since management has concluded that the information is useful for users of the financial statements. (Note 2) For the definition of underlying operating profit, refer to 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (21) Underlying Operating Profit. 067 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Notes (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR ¥113,142 ¥97,501 $878 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ITEMS THAT WILL NOT BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT OR LOSS: Net change in financial assets measured at fair value 32, 35 66,721 (23,273) (210) through other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 23, 32 11,563 (7,532) (68) Share of other comprehensive income of investments 18, 32 163 (213) (2) accounted for using the equity method ITEMS THAT MAY BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT OR LOSS: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 32 32,687 (47,516) (428) Effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow 32 (888) 133 1 hedges Share of other comprehensive income of investments 18, 32 232 (332) (3) accounted for using the equity method Other comprehensive income, net of tax 110,479 (78,735) (709) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ¥223,621 ¥18,766 $169 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Owners of the parent ¥214,979 ¥15,326 $138 Non-controlling interests ¥8,642 ¥3,439 $31 068 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Exchange Effective portion Net change in financial Share differences of the change assets measured at Treasury Share Notes Share capital premium on translation in the fair value fair value through shares options account of foreign of cash flow other comprehensive operations hedges income As of January 1, 2017 ¥74,609 ¥99,751 ¥(20,168) ¥48 ¥37,403 ¥7,120 ¥84,409 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies Restated balance as of January 1, 2017 74,609 99,751 (20,168) 48 37,403 7,120 84,409 Profit for the year Other comprehensive income 32,331 (888) 66,510 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – 32,331 (888) 66,510 Repurchase of treasury shares 24 (20,014) Disposal of treasury shares (0) 0 Dividends 25 Transactions with non-controlling interests 24 Transfer from other components of equity to retained 337 earnings Transactions with owners—total – (0) (20,013) – – – 337 As of December 31, 2017 ¥74,609 ¥99,751 ¥(40,182) ¥48 ¥69,734 ¥6,231 ¥151,258 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies Restated balance as of January 1, 2018 74,609 99,751 (40,182) 48 69,734 6,231 151,258 Profit for the year Other comprehensive income (45,845) 133 (21,718) Comprehensive income for the year – – – – (45,845) 133 (21,718) Repurchase of treasury shares (12) Disposal of treasury shares (0) 0 Dividends 25 Transactions with non-controlling interests 24 Transfer from other components of equity to retained 941 earnings Other (48) Transactions with owners—total – (0) (12) (48) – – 941 As of December 31, 2018 ¥74,609 99,751 ¥(40,194) – ¥23,888 ¥6,364 ¥130,482 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Exchange Effective portion Net change in financial Share differences of the change assets measured at Treasury Share Notes Share capital premium on translation in the fair value fair value through shares options account of foreign of cash flow other comprehensive operations hedges income As of December 31, 2017 $672 $899 $(362) $0 $628 $56 $1,363 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies Restated balance as of January 1, 2018 672 899 (362) 0 628 56 1,363 Profit for the year Other comprehensive income (413) 1 (196) Comprehensive income for the year – – – – (413) 1 (196) Repurchase of treasury shares (0) Disposal of treasury shares (0) 0 Dividends 25 Transactions with non-controlling interests 24 Transfer from other components of equity to retained 8 earnings Other (0) Transactions with owners—total – (0) (0) (0) – – 8 As of December 31, 2018 $672 $899 $(362) – $215 $57 $1,176 069 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (Millions of Yen) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Remeasurements Retained Non-controlling Notes of defined Total Total Total equity earnings interests benefit plans As of January 1, 2017 ¥(7,634) ¥121,346 ¥657,203 ¥932,742 ¥49,218 ¥981,961 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies 7,634 7,634 (7,634) – – Restated balance as of January 1, 2017 – 128,981 649,568 932,742 49,218 981,961 Profit for the year – 105,478 105,478 7,663 113,142 Other comprehensive income 11,547 109,501 109,501 978 110,479 Comprehensive income for the year 11,547 109,501 105,478 214,979 8,642 223,621 Repurchase of treasury shares 24 – (20,014) (20,014) Disposal of treasury shares – 0 0 Dividends 25 – (25,516) (25,516) (2,735) (28,252) Transactions with non-controlling interests 24 – (8,980) (8,980) 1,798 (7,182) Transfer from other components of equity to retained (11,547) (11,210) 11,210 – – earnings Transactions with owners—total (11,547) (11,210) (23,286) (54,510) (937) (55,448) As of December 31, 2017 – ¥227,272 ¥731,759 ¥1,093,211 ¥56,923 ¥1,150,134 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies – (3,850) (3,850) (3,850) Restated balance as of January 1, 2018 – 227,272 727,909 1,089,360 56,923 1,146,284 Profit for the year – 90,316 90,316 7,185 97,501 Other comprehensive income (7,558) (74,989) (74,989) (3,745) (78,735) Comprehensive income for the year (7,558) (74,989) 90,316 15,326 3,439 18,766 Repurchase of treasury shares – (12) (12) Disposal of treasury shares – 0 0 Dividends 25 – (25,370) (25,370) (7,229) (32,600) Transactions with non-controlling interests 24 – (31,684) (31,684) 10,321 (21,363) Transfer from other components of equity to retained 7,558 8,500 (8,500) – – earnings Other (48) 48 0 (324) (324) Transactions with owners—total 7,558 8,452 (65,507) (57,067) 2,766 (54,300) As of December 31, 2018 – ¥160,735 ¥752,717 ¥1,047,619 ¥63,129 ¥1,110,749 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Remeasurements Retained Non-controlling Notes of defined Total Total Total equity earnings interests benefit plans As of December 31, 2017 – $2,047 $6,592 $9,849 $513 $10,362 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies – (35) (35) (35) Restated balance as of January 1, 2018 – 2,047 6,558 9,814 513 10,327 Profit for the year – 814 814 65 878 Other comprehensive income (68) (676) (676) (34) (709) Comprehensive income for the year (68) (676) 814 138 31 169 Repurchase of treasury shares – (0) (0) Disposal of treasury shares – 0 0 Dividends 25 – (229) (229) (65) (294) Transactions with non-controlling interests 24 – (285) (285) 93 (192) Transfer from other components of equity to retained 68 77 (77) – – earnings Other (0) 0 0 (3) (3) Transactions with owners—total 68 76 (590) (514) 25 (489) As of December 31, 2018 – $1,448 $6,781 $9,438 $569 $10,007 070 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Notes (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax ¥149,662 ¥148,751 $1,340 ADJUSTMENTS FOR: Depreciation and amortization 55,587 59,739 538 Impairment loss 1,093 27 0 Interest and dividend income (5,544) (6,032) (54) Interest expense 11,391 13,364 120 Share of profits of investments accounted for using the (4,222) (2,699) (24) equity method Gain on sale of investments in subsidiaries and associates – (52,133) (470) Increase (decrease) in liability for retirement benefits 2,462 1,249 11 Other — net (19,558) 11,213 101 Cash flows from operating activities before adjusting 190,870 173,481 1,563 changes in working capital and others CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL: (Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables (93,833) (13,409) (121) (Increase) decrease in inventories (2,158) (6,028) (54) (Increase) decrease in other current assets (11,059) (35,736) (322) Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables 111,943 14,161 128 Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities 10,402 48,878 440 Change in working capital 15,293 7,865 71 Subtotal 206,164 181,347 1,634 Interest received 2,082 2,563 23 Dividends received 5,792 8,063 73 Interest paid (11,424) (12,956) (117) Income taxes paid (61,058) (45,968) (414) Net cash flows from operating activities 141,557 133,049 1,199 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Payment for purchase of property, plant and equipment, 6 (27,767) (31,631) (285) intangible assets and investment property Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, 18,420 309 3 intangible assets and investment property Net cash (paid) received on acquisition of subsidiaries 7 (67,299) (50,804) (458) Net cash (paid) received on disposal of subsidiaries 86 249 2 Payments for purchases of securities (14,985) (65,114) (587) Proceeds from sales of securities 6,754 86,539 780 Other — net (739) (931) (8) Net cash flows from investing activities (85,531) (61,382) (553) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 21 (95,990) 25,893 233 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 21 155,773 38,818 350 Repayment of long-term borrowings 21 (4,131) (45,134) (407) Proceeds from issuance of bonds 21 – 79,739 718 Payment for acquisition of interest in subsidiaries from non(5,396) (21,505) (194) controlling interests Proceeds from sale of interest in subsidiaries to non– 11,588 104 controlling interests Payments for repurchase of treasury shares 24 (20,014) (12) (0) Dividends paid 25 (25,516) (25,370) (229) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (2,983) (6,685) (60) Other — net (513) 192 2 Net cash flows from financing activities 1,226 57,522 518 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND 6,097 (18,281) (165) CASH EQUIVALENTS NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 63,349 110,907 999 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD 8 242,410 305,760 2,755 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD 8 ¥305,760 ¥416,668 $3,754 071 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1. REPORTING ENTITY 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Dentsu Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the Company ) is a joint stock (1) Basis of Consolidation corporation under the Companies Act of Japan located in Japan. A. Subsidiaries The addresses of the Company's registered corporate headquarters A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. An entity is treated as a and principal business offices are available on the Company's website subsidiary if the Group is deemed, in principle, to have control over that (http://www.dentsu.co.jp/). entity when it holds a majority of the voting rights of that entity. An entity The details of businesses and principal business activities of the Comis treated as a subsidiary even if the Group holds less than a majority of the pany and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the “Group”) are voting rights of the entity, where control is deemed to be achieved when stated in “6. SEGMENT INFORMATION”. the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involveThe consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, ment with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its 2018 were approved by Toshihiro Yamamoto, Representative Director and power over the entity. President & CEO, and Yushin Soga, Director, Executive Officer & CFO, on Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control March 28, 2019. over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. In cases where the accounting policies adopted by a subsidiary 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION are different from those adopted by the Group, adjustments are made (1) Compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (hereto the subsidiary’s financial statements, as necessary, to conform with the inafter referred to as IFRS ) accounting policies adopted by the Group. The Company's consolidated financial statements meet all of the requireA change in the ownership interest in a subsidiary without a loss of conments of Article 1-2 Designated IFRS Specified Company stipulated in trol is accounted for as an equity transaction, and any difference between the Ordinance on Terminology, Forms and Preparation Methods of Conthe amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the solidated Financial Statements (Ordinance of the Ministry of Finance No. fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in 28 of 1976; (the Ordinance on Consolidated Financial Statements )) and equity as equity attributable to owners of the Company. are prepared in accordance with IFRS under the provisions of Article 93 of When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, any resulting gain or loss the Ordinance on Consolidated Financial Statements. is recognized in profit or loss. (2) Basis of Measurement B. Associates and Joint Ventures The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence in basis, except for financial instruments and others stated in 3. SIGNIFIrespect to the financial and operating policies but does not have control. CANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES. When the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, the entity is, in principle, treated as an associate. (3) Functional Currency and Presentation Currency When the Group holds less than 20% of the voting rights of the entity The consolidated financial statements are presented in Japanese yen, but is determined to have significant influence over the entity, such as which is the functional currency of the Company. through delegation of officers, the entity is treated as an associate. For the convenience of readers outside Japan, the accompanying ConA joint venture is an entity in which two or more parties, including the solidated Financial Statements are also presented in United States dollars Group, have contractually agreed to sharing of control of an arrangement by translating Japanese yen amounts at the exchange rate of ¥111.00 to and have rights to the net assets of the joint venture, and in which unaniU.S.$1, the approximate rate of exchange at the end of December 31, mous consent of the controlling parties is required to make decisions on 2018. Such translations should not be construed as representations that relevant business activities. the Japanese yen amounts could be converted into United States dollars The Group's investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted at the above or any other rate. for using the equity method. The investments are measured as the carryAmounts less than one million yen have been rounded down to the ing amount (including goodwill recognized upon acquisition) determined nearest million yen and those less than one million U.S. dollars have been using the equity method less accumulated impairment losses. rounded to the nearest million U.S. dollars in the presentation of the The consolidated financial statements include the Group's share of accompanying consolidated financial statements. As a result, the totals in changes in profit or loss and other comprehensive income of an associate yen and U.S. dollars do not necessarily agree with the sum of the individual and joint venture from the date of acquisition of significant influence or amounts. joint control until the date such influence or control is lost. In cases where the accounting policies adopted by an associate or joint venture are dif(4) Early adoption of New Standards ferent from those adopted by the Group, adjustments are made to the There are no early adoption of standards. associate or joint venture’s financial statements, as necessary, to conform with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. If application of the equity method ceases as a result of the loss of sig072 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance nificant influence on associates or joint ventures, gain or loss on the sales (3) Foreign Currency Translation of shares is recognized in profit or loss, and the valuation difference arising A. Translation of Foreign Currency Transactions from remeasurement of the residual shares at fair value is recognized in Foreign currency transactions are translated into each functional currency profit or loss in the same period the significant influence is lost. of the group entity using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities C. Transactions Eliminated Under Consolidation denominated in foreign currencies, and non-monetary assets and liabiliAll intragroup balances, transactions, and unrealized gains resulting ties denominated in foreign currencies carried at fair value are translated from intragroup transactions are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealized into the functional currency at the closing rate, and the resulting translagains resulting from transactions with associates and joint ventures are tion differences are recognized in profit or loss. deducted from investments, to the extent it does not exceed Company's Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated share in an investee. at the exchange rate at the date of transaction.. (2) Business Combinations B. Translation of Foreign Operations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. For financial statements of foreign operations such as subsidiaries, assets Consideration transferred in a business combination is measured as the and liabilities are translated into Japanese yen using the closing rate of the sum of the acquisition-date fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilireporting period, and revenue and expenses are translated into Japanese ties assumed and equity instruments issued by the Company in exchange yen using the average rate of the reporting period unless there are signiffor control over an acquiree and includes contingent consideration when icant changes in the exchange rate. Resulting translation differences are appropriate. recognized in other comprehensive income, and cumulative differences At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets and liabilities are recogare recognized in other components of equity. nized at their fair value, except that: When a foreign operation of the Group is disposed of, cumulative (i)  Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and assets or liabilities, which are translation differences relating to that foreign operation are transferred related to employee benefit arrangements, are recognized and to profit or loss. measured in accordance with International Accounting Standards (hereinafter referred to as IAS ) 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee (4) Financial Instruments Benefits, respectively. The Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (2014) from the year (ii) Assets or disposal groups that are classified as held-for-sale under IFRS ended December 31, 2018. The adoption did not result in significant 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are changes with regards to classification and measurement compared to IFRS measured in accordance with such standard. 9 Financial Instruments (2010). Any excess of the consideration of acquisition over the fair value of idenAs for hedge accounting, the Group elected to apply IAS 39 Financial tifiable assets and liabilities is recognized as goodwill. If the consideration Instruments: Recognition and Measurement in accordance with the tranof acquisition is lower than the fair value of the identifiable assets and sitional measures. liabilities, the difference is immediately recognized in profit. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the A. Non-derivative Financial Assets end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, provisional (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement amounts of incomplete items are measured based on best estimates. ProThe Group initially recognizes trade and other receivables on the date visional amounts are adjusted retrospectively to reflect new information of occurrence. All other financial assets are initially recognized on the obtained during the measurement period, within one year from the date transaction date when the Group became the contracting party for the of acquisition, that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognized financial asset. at that date. Trade and other receivables which do not include significant financial The contingent consideration is recognized at fair value at the time of components are measured at transaction price upon initial recognition. acquisition and the change in fair value after acquisition is reflected as Non-derivative financial assets are classified as financial assets meaan adjustment to the consideration transferred when the change qualifies sured at amortized cost if both of the following conditions are met at the as adjustment during the measurement period, otherwise the change is time of initial recognition of financial assets. Otherwise, they are classified recognized in profit or loss. as financial assets measured at fair value. The Group elects to measure non-controlling interests at either fair ・The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold value or based on the proportionate share in the recognized identifiable assets in order to collect contractual cash flows. net asset amounts for each business combination transaction. ・The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified Acquisition-related costs incurred to achieve a business combination dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are recognized as expenses when incurred, with the exception of costs on the principal amount outstanding. related to the issuance of debt instruments and equity instruments. Financial assets measured at fair value are classified as financial assets in which changes in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are recog073 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 nized in profit or loss (hereinafter referred to as financial assets measured Impairment losses for a financial asset measured at amortized cost are at fair value through profit or loss ) and financial assets in which changes measured as the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are recognized in other compresent value of estimated future cash flows discounted using the origiprehensive income (hereinafter referred to as financial assets measured nal effective interest rate of the financial asset, and recognized as losses. at fair value through other comprehensive income ). If the amount of impairment losses decreases due to an event occurring At the time of initial recognition, debt financial instruments that do not after the impairment losses were recognized, impairment losses previously satisfy amortized cost criteria are classified as financial assets measured at recognized are reversed by the amount of such decrease through profit. fair value through profit or loss. The impairment losses are recognized through an allowance for doubtEquity financial instruments not held-for-sale, in principle, are ful accounts, and the carrying amount of a receivable is directly reduced by designated as financial assets measured at fair value through other coman offset against the allowance for doubtful accounts when it is considered prehensive income at the time of initial recognition. uncollectible. All financial assets are measured at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to such financial assets, except for when they are FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. The Group recognizes an allowance for doubtful accounts for expected credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost. (ii) Subsequent Measurement After initial recognition, financial assets are measured based on the clasDetermination of Significant Increase in Credit Risk sification as follows: At each reporting date, the Group compares the risk of financial asset (a) Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost defaults as of the reporting date and the initial recognition date to assess Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured at amorwhether the credit risk associated with the financial asset has increased tized cost using the effective interest rate method. significantly since the initial recognition. (b) Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss The Group assesses whether there has been a significant increase in Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are remeasured at fair credit risk based on changes in the risk of default since the initial recognivalue at each reporting period end. Changes in fair value and income such tion. In assessing whether there has been a change in the risk of default, as dividends are recognized in profit or loss. the Group considers overdue information, as well as the following factors. (c) Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive ・Significant changes in external credit ratings of financial assets Income ・Downgrade of internal credit ratings Changes in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are recognized in ・Deterioration in borrowers' operating results other comprehensive income, and are transferred to retained earnings if a financial asset is derecognized or the fair value declined significantly. DivExpected Credit Loss Approach idends derived from these financial assets are recognized in profit or loss. Expected credit losses are the present value of the difference between the contractual cash flows to be received by the Group under the contracts (iii) Derecognition and the cash flows expected to be received. If the credit risk associated Financial assets are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive with a financial asset has increased significantly since the initial recognicash flows expire, or when substantially all risks and rewards of ownership tion, the allowance for doubtful accounts related to the financial asset is are transferred to another entity. measured at an amount equal to the expected credit loss for the entire period, and if it has not increased significantly, it is measured at an amount B. Impairment of Financial Assets equal to the expected credit loss for the 12-month period. FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 Notwithstanding the foregoing, for trade receivables that do not include The Group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists significant financial components, the allowance for doubtful accounts is at each reporting date. Financial assets are determined to be impaired always measured at an amount equal to the expected credit losses for the when there is objective evidence that loss events occurred subsequent entire period. to initial recognition of the financial assets and when negative effects on In measuring expected credit losses, the Group uses reasonable and estimated future cash flows of the financial assets from those events can corroborating information available at the reporting date that is relevant be reasonably estimated. to historical events, current conditions and projections of future economic Objective evidence of impairment for a financial asset measured at conditions. For individually significant financial assets, the Group evaluamortized cost includes, but is not limited to; default or delinquency by the ates expected credit losses individually, and for other financial assets, the borrower, reductions of repayment amounts or extensions of repayment Group establishes a loss valuation allowance by grouping financial assets periods, significant financial difficulty of the borrower, and bankruptcy of with similar credit risk characteristics based on location, number of days the borrower. past due, security status, and external credit ratings. The existence of objective evidence of impairment is assessed individuDefaults are recognized when the obligor is unable to recover all or part ally and collectively for financial assets measured at amortized cost. of the financial assets or is determined to be extremely difficult to recover, 074 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance such as when the obligor fails to make payments within 90 days after the charged, or expired. due date. In the event of default or significant financial difficulties of the issuer or the obligor, the Group determines that the credit impairment is deemed to exist. D. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting Provisions for doubtful accounts related to financial assets are recogThe Group utilizes derivative financial instruments, such as foreign nized in profit or loss. Reversal of the allowance for doubtful accounts is exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts, to hedge its foreign recognized in profit or loss. currency risks and interest rate risks, respectively. Financial assets are written off directly when collection is not reasonably At the inception of the hedge, the Group designates and documents expected, such as the debtor's inability to execute the repayment plan the relationship to which hedge accounting is adopted, as well as the agreed with the Group. objectives and strategies of risk management for undertaking the hedge. This typically applies when the Group determines that the borrower The documentation includes hedging relationships, the risk management does not have an asset or revenue source that generates sufficient cash objective, strategies for undertaking the hedge and assessments of hedge flow to repay the amount directly written off. The Group continues to effectiveness. enforce performance against directly written-off financial assets so that These hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes past due receivables can be collected. in fair value or cash flows, however are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether hedge relationship have actually been highly effective C. Non-derivative Financial Liabilities (Including put option liabilities. throughout the hedging periods. Refer to (2) Business combination for contingent consideration.) Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value. In (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement addition, derivatives are measured at fair value after initial recognition and The Group initially recognizes debt securities on the date of issue. Conchanges in fair value are accounted for as follows: tingent consideration arising from a business combination and put option As for hedge accounting, the Group elected to apply IAS 39 in accorliabilities to acquire interests from non-controlling interests are recognized dance with the transitional measure. on the date the Group acquires control of the acquired entity. All other financial liabilities are initially recognized on the transaction date when the (i) Cash Flow Hedge Group becomes the contracting party for the financial liability. Regarding gains or losses on hedging instruments where hedges are Non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities effective, changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial liabilities meaincome, and are reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit sured at amortized cost at initial recognition. or loss when the cash flows from the hedged items affect profit or loss. All financial liabilities are measured at fair value at initial recognition. Where hedges are ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized in However, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are measured at profit or loss. cost, net of transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument liabilities. In addition, put option liabilities are measured based on the is expired or sold, terminated or exercised, when the hedge no longer present value of future redemption amount. meets the criteria for hedge accounting, or when the hedging designation is revoked. (ii) Subsequent Measurement After initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured based on the (ii) Hedge of Net Investment in Foreign Operations classification as follows. However, put option liabilities are measured at Translation differences resulting from the hedges of net investment in forthe present value of the redemption amount, with changes recognized eign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. as profit or loss. Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective (a) Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost portion of the hedge are recognized in other comprehensive income Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at amorwhile those for the ineffective portion are recognized in profit or loss. tized cost are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate Cumulative gains or losses recognized in equity as other comprehenmethod. sive income are reclassified to profit or loss upon disposal of foreign (b) Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss operations. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss are remeasured at fair value at each reporting period (iii) Derivative Financial Instruments not Designated as Hedges end and changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognized in profit or loss. (iii) Derecognition A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation is fulfilled, disE. Offsetting of Financial Instruments 075 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented on a net useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and changes basis if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the are made as necessary. recognized amounts, and if there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. (5) Cash and Cash Equivalents (9) Leases Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, demand deposits, and Leases are classified as finance leases whenever substantially all the risks short-term investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred to the Group. All cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value and due within other leases are classified as operating leases. three months from the date of acquisition. A. Finance Leases (6) Inventories Leased assets and lease obligations are recognized at the lower of the fair Inventories are mainly comprised of rights and contents related to sports value of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease and entertainment. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net payments. realizable value. The cost of inventories is determined mainly by the speLeased assets are depreciated using the straight-line method over the cific identification method. shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease terms. Total minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance costs and the reduction of (7) Property, Plant and Equipment (Excluding Leased Assets) the outstanding liability, and the finance costs allocated to each reporting Cost model is applied for subsequent measurement of property, plant and period are calculated using the effective interest rate method. equipment, and is measured at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. B. Operating Leases Acquisition cost includes any costs directly attributable to the acquisiLease payments are recognized as expenses using the straight-line tion of the asset and dismantlement, removal and restoration costs. method over their lease terms. Except for assets such as land which are not depreciated, property, plant and equipment are depreciated mainly using the straight-line method (10) Investment Property over their estimated useful lives. Investment property is property held to earn rental income, for capital The estimated useful lives of major property, plant and equipment items appreciation or for both. are as follows: Cost model is applied for subsequent measurement of investment ・Buildings and structures: 2 to 100 years property, and is measured at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciaDepreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at tion and accumulated impairment losses. the end of each reporting period and changes are made as necessary. Except for assets that are not depreciated, such as land, investment property is depreciated mainly using the straight-line method over its esti(8) Goodwill and Intangible Assets mated useful life. Estimated useful lives are between 6 and 50 years. A. Goodwill Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values of investment Goodwill is not amortized and is measured at acquisition cost less accuproperty are reviewed at the end of each reported period and changes mulated impairment losses. are made as necessary. B. Intangible Assets (Excluding Leased Assets) (11) Impairment of Non-financial Assets Cost model is applied for subsequent measurement of intangible assets, Except for inventories and deferred tax assets, the Group assesses at the and are measured at acquisition cost less accumulated amortization and end of the reporting period whether there is any indication that a non-fiaccumulated impairment losses. nancial asset may be impaired. If such an indication exists, an impairment Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at acquisition cost test is performed based on the recoverable amount of the asset. for initial recognition, and the costs of intangible assets acquired in busiGoodwill is not amortized. Impairment tests for goodwill are performed ness combinations are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. once a year, irrespective of whether there is any indication that they may The acquisition cost for internally generated intangible assets is the sum be impaired, or in cases where there is an indication of impairment. Refer of the expenditures incurred from the date when the intangible asset first to Note 15. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS for details of meets all of the capitalization criteria. impairment testing of goodwill. Intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their Except for assets that generally do not generate independent cash estimated useful lives. flows from other assets or asset groups, the recoverable amount of an The estimated useful lives of major intangible asset items are as follows: asset or a cash-generating unit is determined individually by asset at the ・Software: 3 to 5 years higher of its fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use. ・Customer relationships: Effective period (mainly 5 to 18 years) Where the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit exceeds Amortization methods and useful lives of intangible assets with finite its recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount 076 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance and impairment losses are recognized. or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the obligation An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsewill be required to be settled and a reliable estimate can be made for the quent period. For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at amount of the obligation. reporting period end to determine whether there is any indication that Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or have measured based on the present value using a discount rate reflecting the decreased. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the risks specific to the liability. asset is estimated. In cases that the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, a reversal of impairment losses is recognized. (15) Revenue The amount of the reversal of the impairment loss shall not exceed the The Group has adopted IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customcarrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation or ers (issued in May 2014) and Clarifications to IFRS 15 (issued in April amortization) if no impairment loss had been recognized. 2016) (hereinafter referred to as IFRS 15 ) since the year ended DecemBecause goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of an investber 31, 2018. Upon the adoption of IFRS 15, revenue is recognized under ment in entities accounted for using the equity method is not separately the five-step approach described below. recognized, it is not tested for impairment separately. If there is any indicaStep 1: Identify contracts with customers tion that an investment in entities accounted for using the equity method Step 2: Identify performance obligations in a contract may be impaired, the entire carrying amount of the investment is tested Step 3: Calculate the transaction price as a single asset. Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract (12) Non-current Assets Classified as Held for Sale Step 5: R ecognize revenue when the entity satisfies its performance A non-current asset or asset group whose carrying amount is expected to obligations. be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through The Group provides advertising, information services and other busicontinuing use is classified as held-for-sale if the non-current asset or nesses to our customers. asset group is available for immediate sale in its present condition, Group In the advertising business, the Group mainly provides services such as management is committed to a sales plan and its sale is expected to be placement of advertising into various media, production of advertising completed within one year. including creative services, and various content-related services. ReveThe Group measures a non-current asset or asset group classified as nue is recognized when the Group satisfies its performance obligation, held-for-sale at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs which in case of placement of advertising into various media, would to sell. mainly be when the media is placed, and in case of production of advertising and provision of various content-related services, would mainly be (13) Post-employment Benefits when such creative products are delivered or such professional services The Group has set up defined benefit plans and defined contribution are provided. With regards to right-related business such as marketing plans as employee retirement benefit plans. rights for sports events, revenue is recognized at a point in time when For defined benefit plans, the Group recognizes the present value of such rights is transferred to the customer at a certain point in time, or defined benefit obligations less the fair value of any plan assets as liabilis recognized over a period of time when such rights can be used by ities or assets. the customer over a period time, depending on the nature of the rights For defined benefit plans, the Group determines the present value of granted to the customer. defined benefit obligations, related current service cost and past service Transactions related to the advertising business are principally recorded cost using the projected unit credit method. The discount rate is deterbased on the net amount of consideration received from customers, less mined based on high quality corporate bond yield rates at fiscal year end related costs, or a certain amount of fee received as a commission, for for the corresponding discount period based on projected period until the services provided by the Group. For certain transactions which the Group expected benefit payment date. determined that it is acting as a principal, consideration received from Service costs and interest costs of defined benefit plans are recognized customers and costs are presented on a gross basis. in profit or loss, and net interest is determined using the discount rate In the information services business, the Group is mainly involved in described above. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans are recogsales of software products, development of systems, and outsourcing/ nized in other comprehensive income in the period when they are incurred operation/maintenance services. The Group satisfies its performance obliand reclassified to retained earnings immediately. Past service costs are gations when the software is delivered to the customer in case of sales of recognized in profit or loss in the period incurred. software products, based on progress in case of development of systems, The cost for defined contribution plans is recognized in profit or loss in or over the contract period in case of operation and maintenance services, the period in which the employees render the related services. therefore recognizes revenue at such point. Revenue and cost is presented on a gross basis for transactions related to information services business. (14) Provisions Turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to customers by Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal the Group, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Disclosure 077 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 of turnover information is not in accordance with IFRS. joint ventures to the extent the Group controls the timing of the reversal In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 15, the Group has of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference elected to recognize the cumulative effect of the adoption of the standard will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recogat the beginning of the current fiscal year and has not restated the comnized for deductible temporary differences associated with investments in parative information. The accounting policies applied for the comparative subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that it is probperiod are as follows. able that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future Revenue consists primarily of commissions received for the placement of and there will be sufficient taxable profits against which the temporary advertising into different media and consideration received from advertisdifferences can be utilized. ers and others for providing services, such as assistance in the production Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are of advertising, including creative, and various content-related services. expected to apply to the reporting period when the asset is realized or the Revenue from the production of advertising and other advertising liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substanrelated services is recorded based on the consideration paid as compentively enacted by the reporting period end. sation for such service to the Group by advertisers and others less costs Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that incurred. In some cases, revenue is recorded based on fixed or certain fee. taxable profits will be available against which carryforwards of unused tax Revenue from commissions received from advertisers for the placement losses, tax credit carryforwards and deductible temporary differences can of advertising is generally recognized when the media is placed. Other be utilized. Deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of the fiscal year revenue is generally recorded when the service is complete, an estimate and reduced by the amount of any tax benefits that are not expected to of the amount of compensation can be reasonably determined and it is be realized. probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if the Group has a legally Revenue and cost arising from transactions relating to services other enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, than advertising services are presented on a gross basis. and income taxes are levied by the same taxation authority on the same taxable entity. (16) Finance Income and Finance Expenses Finance income mainly consists of interest and dividend income. Interest (18) Equity income is recognized as accrued using the effective interest rate method A. Share Capital and Share Premium Account while dividend income is recognized when the shareholder’s right to Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded in share capital receive payment is established. and share premium account. Transaction costs directly attributable to the Finance expenses mainly consist of interest expenses on borrowings issuance of an equity instrument are deducted from equity. and bonds. Interest expenses are recognized as incurred using the effective interest rate method. B. Treasury Shares Treasury shares are recognized at cost and deducted from equity. No (17) Income Taxes gain or loss is recognized on the purchase, sale or cancellation of treasury Income taxes consist of current income taxes and deferred income taxes. shares. Income taxes are recognized in profit or loss, except for taxes arising from When treasury shares are sold, any difference between their carrying items that are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in amount and consideration received is recognized in the share premium equity and taxes arising from business combinations. account. Current income taxes are measured at the amount which is expected to be paid to or refunded from the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax (19) Earnings per Share laws used to calculate the amount are those that are enacted or substanBasic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit for the year tively enacted, by the end of the reporting period. attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary difweighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, ferences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the adjusted by the number of treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share are Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and their tax basis amount. calculated by adjusting the effects of all potential ordinary shares with diluDeferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognized for differences arising tive effect. from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in transactions that are not business combinations and affect neither accounting profit or loss nor (20) Share-based Payments taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax liabilities are also not recognized for taxCertain subsidiaries grant cash-settled share-based payment plans. able temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill. For cash-settled share-based payments, services received and the liaDeferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences bility incurred are measured at the fair value of the liability. The Group associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. recognizes expense and liability, as the employees render services during However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for taxable temporary the vesting period. differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and The fair value of the liability is remeasured at the end of each reporting 078 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance period and at the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recogreassessment of the nature of its commitments under the newly stipulated nized in profit or loss. guidance as to whether the Group's performance obligation is to provide (21) Underlying Operating Profit the identified goods or services itself (i.e., the entity is the principal), or is The underlying operating profit is calculated by eliminating from operatto arrange for those goods or services to be provided by the other party ing profit certain adjusting items such as amortization of intangible assets (i.e., the entity is the agent) where other parties are involved in providing incurred in acquisition, cost associated with M&A, share-based compengoods or services to customers. As a result, revenue and cost of sales have sation expense attributable to the acquiree, impairment, and gain or loss increased by ¥32,598 million($294 million) in the consolidated statement of on sale of property, plant and equipment, and is used by management for income for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared with what would the purpose of measuring constant business performance. have been recorded under the previous accounting standard. The underlying operating profit is not defined under IFRS; however, it is voluntarily disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Note C. Change in accounting policy for remeasurement of defined benefit 6. SEGMENT INFORMATION since management has concluded that plans the information is useful for users of the financial statements. The remeasurement of defined benefit plans was previously recognized as other comprehensive income in the period in which it was incurred and (22) Change in significant accounting policies recorded as an accumulated amount in other components of equity. HowA. Adoption of IFRS 9 (2014), Financial Instruments ever, following the completion of the transition to a defined contribution The Group adopted IFRS 9 (2014), Financial Instruments effective from plan at domestic group companies in the year ended December 31, 2018, the year ended December 31, 2018. Under IFRS 9, impairment of finanthe Group changed to immediately reclassify the remeasurement from cial assets was replaced by the Expected Credit Loss Model from the other components of equity to retained earnings. Incurred Loss Model under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition This change has been applied retrospectively, and other comprehensive and Measurement. Under IFRS 9, credit losses are recognized earlier than income recognized as other components of equity in each of the years if they were based on IAS 39. have been reclassified immediately to retained earnings. As a result, the Group recognized an allowance for doubtful accounts As a result, other comprehensive income recognized in the year ended of ¥5,088 million ($46 million) and recognized a decrease of ¥3,850 million December 31, 2017 of ¥11,547 million was transferred to retained earn($35 million) in retained earnings at the date of adoption in accordance ings. The beginning and ending balances of other components of equity with transitional measures in IFRS 9. The impact on the consolidated statein the year ended December 31, 2017 have increased by ¥7,634 million ment of income for the year ended December 31, 2018 was insignificant. and decreased by ¥3,913 million, respectively, and retained earnings have As for hedge accounting, the Group elected to apply IAS 39 in accordecreased and increased by the same amount, respectively. In addition, dance with the transitional measure. other comprehensive losses recognized in the year ended December 31, 2018 of ¥7,558 million($68 million) was transferred to retained earnB. Adoption of IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ings. The beginning and ending balances of other components of equity The Group has adopted IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customdecreased by ¥3,913 million($35 million) and increased by ¥3,645 milers (issued in May 2014) and Clarifications to IFRS 15 (issued in April lion($33 million), respectively, and retained earnings have increased and 2016) (hereinafter referred to as IFRS 15 ) since the year ended Decemdecreased by the same amount, respectively. ber 31, 2018. Upon the adoption of IFRS 15, revenue is recognized under As a result, other components of equity as of December 31, 2017 the five-step approach described below. and 2018 have decreased by ¥3,913 million($35 million) and increased Step 1: Identify contracts with customers by ¥3,645 million($33 million), respectively, and retained earnings have Step 2: Identify performance obligations in a contract increased and decreased by the same amount respectively, in the consoliStep 3: Calculate the transaction price dated statements of financial position. Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND Step 5: R ecognize revenue when the entity satisfies its performance ASSUMPTIONS obligations. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires manBased on the five-step approach described above, the recognition of agement to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the certain transactions based on fulfillment of performance obligations has adoption of accounting policies and the reported amounts of revenues, changed, however the impact for the year ended December 31, 2018 is expenses, assets and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions are immaterial. based on the best judgment of management in light of historical expeThe Group elected to retrospectively apply the standard and recognize rience and various factors deemed to be reasonable as of the fiscal year the cumulative effect of the adoption at the beginning of the year, howend date. However, given their nature, actual results may differ from those ever the cumulative effect as of the date of the adoption is immaterial. estimates and assumptions. In accordance with IFRS 15, the Group has decided to change the recThe estimate and underlying assumptions are continuously reviewed. ognition of revenue from net to gross for certain transactions based on the The effects of a change in estimate are recognized in the period of the 079 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 change and future periods. Information relating to judgments carried out in the process of the application of accounting policies that have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements, is mainly as follows: ・Scope of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures ( 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (1) Basis of Consolidation ) ・ Revenue recognition ( 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (15) Revenue ) Estimates and assumptions that may have a material effect on the amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: ・Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and investment properties ( 14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, 15. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS, and 17. INVESTMENT PROPERTY ) ・Valuation of financial instruments ( 35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ) ・Valuation of defined benefit obligations (“23. POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS”) ・Provisions ( 22. PROVISIONS ) ・Recoverability of deferred tax assets ( 19. INCOME TAXES ) ・Remeasurement of put option liabilities ( 31. FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE EXPENSES ) 080 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 5. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT YET ADOPTED BY THE GROUP New accounting standards, amended standards and new interpretations that have been issued by the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements, but have not been subject to early adoption by the Group are as follows: The impact of adopting IFRS 16 is estimated to be an increase of approximately ¥133.0 billion($1.2 billion) in total assets, an increase of approximately ¥143.0 billion($1.3 billion) in total liabilities, and a decrease of approximately ¥10.0 billion($0.1 billion) in retained earnings. The adoption of IFRIC 23 will not have a material impact. Mandatory adoption Standards Name of standards (From the year beginning) To be adopted by the Group Description of new standards and amendments Fiscal year ending Amendments for accounting treatment for lease IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 December 31, 2019 arrangements Uncertainty over Income Fiscal year ending Amendments for accounting treatment for IFRIC 23 January 1, 2019 Tax Treatments December 31, 2019 uncertainty over income tax treatments 081 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 6. SEGMENT INFORMATION (1) Description of reportable segments The Group’s reportable segments are those for which discrete financial information is available and the Board of Directors conducts regular reviews to make decisions about resources to be allocated and assess their performance. The Group is mainly engaged in providing communication-related services focusing on advertising, and manages its Japan business and international business separately. Accordingly, the Group has two reportable segments: Japan business segment and international business segment. (2) Information on reportable segments Accounting methods for reportable segments are identical to those described in 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES. Segment profit is based on operating profit, adjusted by Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions and Other adjusting items. Intersegment revenues are based on the prevailing market price. FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 (Millions of Yen) International Japan business Total Adjustments Consolidated business Turnover (Note1) ¥1,865,117 ¥3,329,418 ¥5,194,536 ¥(7,235) ¥5,187,300 Revenue (Note 2) 416,671 519,405 936,077 (7,235) 928,841 Revenue less cost of sales (Note 3) 361,902 516,052 877,954 (331) 877,622 Segment profit (underlying operating profit) (Note 3) 88,801 75,146 163,948 (1) 163,946 (Adjusting items) Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions – – – – (31,779) Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative – – – – (5,265) expenses) (Note 5) Other adjusting items (other income) (Note 5) – – – – 15,410 Other adjusting items (other expenses) (Note 5) – – – – (4,919) Operating profit – – – – 137,392 Share of profits of investments accounted for using the equity – – – – 4,222 method Finance income – – – – 20,302 Finance expenses – – – – 12,254 Profit before tax – – – – 149,662 (Other income and expense items) Depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of 9,477 14,330 23,807 – 23,807 intangible assets incurred in acquisitions) Segment assets (Note 4) 1,337,776 2,373,085 3,710,862 (148,005) 3,562,857 (Other asset items) Investments accounted for using the equity method 55,726 1,026 56,752 – 56,752 Capital expenditures ¥9,659 ¥18,108 ¥27,767 – ¥27,767 082 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) International Japan business business Total Adjustments Consolidated (Note 6) (Note 6) Turnover (Note1) ¥1,880,768 ¥3,488,430 ¥5,369,199 ¥(11,920) ¥5,357,278 Revenue (Note 2) 430,292 600,140 1,030,433 (11,920) 1,018,512 Revenue less cost of sales (Note 3) 369,258 563,852 933,111 (430) 932,680 Segment profit (underlying operating profit) (Note 3) 80,268 72,963 153,231 (2) 153,229 (Adjusting items) Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions – – – – (35,123) Other adjusting items – – – – (1,700) (selling, general and administrative expenses) (Note 5) Other adjusting items (other income) (Note 5) – – – – 840 Other adjusting items (other expenses) (Note 5) – – – – (5,606) Operating profit – – – – 111,638 Share of profits of investments accounted for using the equity – – – – 2,699 method Gain on sale of investments in associates – – – – 52,127 Finance income – – – – 6,839 Finance expenses – – – – 24,553 Profit before tax – – – – 148,751 (Other income and expense items) Depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of 9,303 15,312 24,615 – 24,615 intangible assets incurred in acquisitions) Segment assets (Note 4) 1,411,258 2,396,629 3,807,888 (169,399) 3,638,488 (Other asset items) Investments accounted for using the equity method 38,998 898 39,897 – 39,897 Capital expenditures ¥12,957 ¥18,674 ¥31,631 – ¥31,631 083 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) International Japan business business Total Adjustments Consolidated (Note 6) (Note 6) Turnover (Note1) $16,944 $31,427 $48,371 $(107) $48,264 Revenue (Note 2) 3,877 5,407 9,283 (107) 9,176 Revenue less cost of sales (Note 3) 3,327 5,080 8,406 (4) 8,403 Segment profit (underlying operating profit) (Note 3) 723 657 1,380 (0) 1,380 (Adjusting items) Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions – – – – (316) Other adjusting items – – – – (15) (selling, general and administrative expenses) (Note 5) Other adjusting items (other income) (Note 5) – – – – 8 Other adjusting items (other expenses) (Note 5) – – – – (51) Operating profit – – – – 1,006 Share of profits of investments accounted for using the equity – – – – 24 method Gain on sale of investments in associates – – – – 470 Finance income – – – – 62 Finance expenses – – – – 221 Profit before tax – – – – 1,340 (Other income and expense items) Depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of 84 138 222 – 222 intangible assets incurred in acquisitions) Segment assets (Note 4) 12,714 21,591 34,305 (1,526) 32,779 (Other asset items) Investments accounted for using the equity method 351 8 359 – 359 Capital expenditures $117 $168 $285 – $285 (Note 1) T urnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the Group, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Disclosure of turnover information is not required under IFRS; however, it is voluntarily disclosed since management has concluded that the information is useful for users of the financial statements. (Note 2) Adjustments for revenue are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions (same amount as for turnover). (Note 3) Adjustments for revenue less cost of sales and segment profit (underlying operating profit) are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions. (Note 4) Adjustments for segment assets are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions. (Note 5) T he breakdown of Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative expenses), Other adjusting items (other income) and Other adjusting items (other expenses) is shown on the following page. (Note 6) D ue to the effect of adoption of IFRS 15 (see 3. Significant Accounting Policies (22)Changes in accounting policies), revenue from overseas business increased by ¥32,598 million($294 million), however the impact on revenue and profit from domestic business and profit from overseas business is immaterial. The impact on segment assets is immaterial. 084 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative expenses) Early retirement benefits ¥366 ¥72 $1 Costs associated with merger and acquisitions 1,795 1,554 14 Other 3,103 73 1 Total ¥5,265 ¥1,700 $15 Other adjusting items (other income) Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible ¥14,441 ¥5 $0 assets and investment property Gain on sale of investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 790 8 0 Other 178 826 7 Total ¥15,410 ¥840 $8 Other adjusting items (other expenses) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible ¥1,069 ¥1 $0 assets and investment property Impairment losses (Note) 1,093 27 0 Other 2,757 5,577 50 Total ¥4,919 ¥5,606 $51 (Note) Impairment losses in Japan business and International business are ¥451 million and ¥641 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2017, and ¥27 million ($0 million) and nil, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2018. (3) Information about products and services With regard to advertising services, the Group provides various advertising through media including newspapers, magazines, radio, television, internet, sales promotion, movies, out-of-home, public transportation, and others. The Group also provides clients with event marketing, creative services, marketing, public relations, contents services, and other services. With regard to information services, the Group provides information services, sales of information-related products and other services. The Group also provides other services such as office rentals, building maintenance and fiduciary services of computation. Revenues from external customers for each product and service are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Advertising Services ¥857,439 ¥941,938 $8,486 Information Services 67,531 72,745 655 Other Services 3,870 3,828 34 Total ¥928,841 ¥1,018,512 $9,176 085 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (4) Regional information A. Revenue from external customers Revenue attributable to the United States within the overseas is ¥177,156 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and ¥195,125 million($1,758 million) for the year ended December 31, 2018. In general, the amount is based on the customer's location. B. Non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and investment property) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Japan ¥212,894 ¥222,281 $2,003 Overseas (mainly the United Kingdom and the United States) 1,093,805 1,050,788 9,467 Total ¥1,306,700 ¥1,273,069 $11,469 (Note 1) Non-current assets are allocated according to the location of each group entity. (Note 2) W  ithin the overseas, goodwill and intangible assets not tied to a specific country amounted to ¥798,177 million and ¥262,312 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017, and ¥782,515 million ($7,050 million) and ¥219,733 million ($1,980 million), respectively, as of December 31, 2018. (5) Information about major customers Information about major customers is omitted as the Group does not have a single external customer that contributes 10% or more to Group revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 7. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The Group's major acquiree acquired during the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: Name of acquiree Place of incorporation Character USA Red8 Poland FoxP2 South Africa M8 Argentina and USA Valuklik Indonesia White Label Chile Red Communication Norway The Big Now Italy Partners Portugal Animal Maker Spain Whitespace UK Global Mind Argentina Amicus Digital Argentina Aaron Lloyd Russia Mangham Gaxiola 1 Singapore B2B International UK Namics Germany and Switzerland DEG USA Data Artist Japan The acquisitions were entered into to strengthen the Group’s operations and increase its market share around the world, especially in faster growing regions; and to enhance its servicing capabilities in media and digital. During the period, the Group acquired multiple subsidiaries. As the impact of each acquition is not significant on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, the Group has taken the exemption, which allows for the non-disclosure on each acquisition basis. Total consideration for acquisitions of subsidiaries is ¥62,562 million ($564 million), consisting of cash consideration of ¥34,665 million ($312 million) and deferred consideration, which is subject to performance criteria of the acquiree, of ¥27,897 million ($251 million). Acquisition related costs is ¥1,554 million ($14 million). 086 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired through all acquisitions, total consideration, non-controlling interests and goodwill as of the date of acquisitions are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Total assets ¥35,572 $320 Total liabilities 11,248 101 Fair value of identifiable net assets 24,324 219 Total consideration 62,562 564 Non-controlling interests (Note 1) 886 8 Goodwill (Note 2) ¥39,124 $352 (Note 1) Non-controlling interests were measured by multiplying the shareholding ratio after the business combination by the fair values of identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the date control was acquired, excluding the portion individually attributable to non-controlling shareholders. (Note 2) Goodwill reflects the expected future excess earning power. The total amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for tax purposes is ¥19,231 million ($173 million). The above amounts, which are fair values based on the best estimate at present, may change within one year from the acquisition dates when additional information was obtained related to facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition dates. Post-acquisition revenue and profit of acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2018 were ¥8,114 million ($73 million) and ¥432 million ($4 million), respectively. (Pro forma information) Assuming that the business combinations were executed at the beginning of the current fiscal year, revenue and profit of the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2018 would be ¥1,037,170 million ($9,344 million) and ¥97,490 million ($878 million), respectively. This pro forma information is unaudited. Furthermore, such information does not necessarily indicate possible future events, nor reflect the operating results of the Group should the actual equity investment have occurred as of the beginning of the fiscal year. 8. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Cash and time deposits due within three months ¥305,760 ¥416,668 $3,754 Cash and cash equivalents are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. The above amount is after eliminating the deposit into the cash pooling account which the Company considers as loans to Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. amounting to ¥100,000 million and ¥120,000 million($1,081 million), respectively, as of December 31, 2017 and 2018. 9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES The breakdown of trade and other receivables is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Notes and accounts receivable trade ¥1,376,672 ¥1,340,857 $12,080 Other 34,009 32,130 289 Allowance for doubtful accounts (227) (4,260) (38) Total ¥1,410,454 ¥1,368,728 $12,331 Trade and other receivables are presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Trade and other receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. 087 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 10. INVENTORIES The breakdown of inventories is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Work-in-process ¥20,430 ¥26,449 $238 Other 1,643 2,131 19 Total ¥22,074 ¥28,580 $257 The amount of inventories recognized as expense by sales was ¥48,879 million and ¥50,872 million ($458 million) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. In addition, the amount of write-down of inventories recognized as expense was ¥743 million and ¥418 million ($4 million) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. There was no reversal of write-down of inventories for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018. 11. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (1) The breakdown of other financial assets is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Derivative assets ¥18,886 ¥16,792 $151 Equity securities 288,543 302,386 2,724 Debt securities 5 171 2 Other 63,958 62,238 561 Allowance for doubtful accounts (22,104) (17,963) (162) Total ¥349,290 ¥363,627 $3,276 Current assets 21,934 15,090 136 Non-current assets 327,356 348,537 3,140 Total ¥349,290 ¥363,627 $3,276 Other financial assets are presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In addition, derivative assets include those which hedge accounting is applied. Derivative assets are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, equity securities are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, and debt securities are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. Of the Other , ¥3,343 million and ¥3,150 million ($28 million), respectively as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, ¥11,785 million and ¥13,103 million ($118 million), respectively as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, remainder is classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. 088 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance (2) Names of major securities held as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and their respective fair values are as follows: (Millions of Yen) FY2017 Investees (As of December 31, 2017) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. ¥176,400 Digital Garage, Inc. 9,827 Macromill,Inc. 7,890 Tokyo Broadcasting System Holdings, Inc. 7,203 Perform Group Limited 5,363 Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. 5,133 Lion Corporation 3,830 Workpoint Entertainment Public Company Limited 3,634 TV Asahi Holdings Corporation 3,249 TOHO CO., LTD. 3,158 Others 74,642 Total ¥300,329 (Millions of Yen) FY2018 Investees (As of December 31, 2018) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. ¥167,737 Perform Group Limited 47,795 Digital Garage, Inc. 8,259 Tokyo Broadcasting System Holdings, Inc. 4,454 Macromill,Inc. 4,189 Lion Corporation 4,072 Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. 3,920 TOHO CO., LTD. 3,219 Others 71,845 Total ¥315,490 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2018 Investees (As of December 31, 2018) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. $1,511 Perform Group Limited 431 Digital Garage, Inc. 74 Tokyo Broadcasting System Holdings, Inc. 40 Macromill,Inc. 38 Lion Corporation 37 Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. 35 TOHO CO., LTD. 29 Others 647 Total $2,842 Equity securities are designated as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income since they are held mainly for strengthening relationships with investees. In order to enhance the efficiency of assets held and to use them effectively, sales (derecognition) of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are being carried out. 089 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 The fair value and cumulative gain or loss that was recognized in as other comprehensive income at the date of sales within equity for each fiscal year is as follows: FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 (Millions of Yen) Cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as Fair value other components of equity ¥4,945 ¥1,113 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as Fair value other components of equity ¥5,932 ¥(941) FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as Fair value other components of equity $53 $(8) The cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as other components of equity are transferred to retained earnings when an equity instrument is sold or its fair value declined significantly. 12. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Advance payments included in other current assets which are expected to be recognized in profit or loss after more than 12 months are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Advance payments which are expected to be recognized ¥5,393 ¥6,604 $59 in profit and loss after more than 12 months 090 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 13. NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE The breakdown of non-current assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 is as follows. Components of non-current assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Non-current assets classified as held for sale Cash and cash equivalents ¥10 – – Trade and other receivables 857 – – Inventories 26 – – Other financial assets 0 – – Other current assets 9 – – Property, plant and equipment 63 – – Intangible assets 5 – – Investments accounted for using the equity method 804 – – Other financial assets (non-current) 5 2 0 Deferred tax assets 53 – – Total ¥1,835 ¥2 $0 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale Trade and other payables ¥266 – – Other financial liabilities (current) 11 – – Income tax payables 21 – – Other current liabilities 21 – – Other financial liabilities (non-current) 1 – – Liability for retirement benefits 120 – – Provisions (non-current) 14 – – Total ¥456 – – Non-current assets classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2017 consist of assets and liabilities related to subsidiaries and affiliated companies accounted for under the equity method classified as disposal groups in the Japan business. Non-current assets classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2018 consist of assets related to shares held by the Company. 091 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The schedule of the carrying amount during the period is as follows: FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 (Millions of Yen) Buildings and structures Land Other Total Balance at the beginning of the year ¥65,033 ¥111,263 ¥17,460 ¥193,757 Additions 9,434 279 8,492 18,207 Acquisitions through business combinations 129 – 853 982 Sales or disposals (455) (1,101) (326) (1,884) Depreciation (7,374) – (7,282) (14,657) Impairment losses (60) – (15) (76) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 138 39 397 575 Other (251) – 6 (245) Balance at the end of the year ¥66,593 ¥110,480 ¥19,584 ¥196,659 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Buildings and structures Land Other Total Balance at the beginning of the year ¥66,593 ¥110,480 ¥19,584 ¥196,659 Additions 9,270 – 9,100 18,370 Acquisitions through business combinations 606 – 390 997 Sales or disposals (372) – (100) (473) Depreciation (6,784) – (7,743) (14,528) Impairment losses – – (2) (2) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (979) (50) (915) (1,945) Other 106 – 23 129 Balance at the end of the year ¥68,440 ¥110,430 ¥20,336 ¥199,207 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Buildings and structures Land Other Total Balance at the beginning of the year $600 $995 $176 $1,772 Additions 84 – 82 165 Acquisitions through business combinations 5 – 4 9 Sales or disposals (3) – (1) (4) Depreciation (61) – (70) (131) Impairment losses – – (0) (0) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (9) $(0) (8) (18) Other 1 – 0 1 Balance at the end of the year $617 $995 $183 $1,795 092 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance The acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are as follows: (Millions of Yen) Buildings and structures Land Other Total FY2017 (As of December 31, 2017) Acquisition cost ¥139,100 ¥110,485 ¥67,757 ¥317,343 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 72,506 4 48,173 120,684 Carrying amount 66,593 110,480 19,584 196,659 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) Acquisition cost ¥144,534 ¥110,435 ¥66,835 ¥321,805 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 76,094 4 46,499 122,598 Carrying amount 68,440 110,430 20,336 199,207 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Buildings and structures Land Other Total FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) Acquisition cost $1,302 $995 $602 $2,899 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 686 0 419 1,104 Carrying amount 617 995 183 1,795 The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment above includes the carrying amount of the following leased assets. (Millions of Yen) Leased assets Buildings and structures Other Total FY2017 (As of December 31, 2017) ¥7 ¥2,361 ¥2,369 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) 0 2,978 2,978 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Leased assets Buildings and structures Other Total FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) $0 $27 $27 There is no property, plant and equipment whose title is restricted or pledged as security for liabilities. Depreciation is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income as Cost and Selling, general and administrative expenses. 093 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 15. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (1) Schedule of goodwill and intangible assets The schedule of the carrying amount during the period is as follows: FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 (Millions of Yen) Customer Goodwill Software Other Total relationships Balance at the beginning of the year ¥718,717 ¥172,712 ¥24,138 ¥77,223 ¥992,791 Additions – – 10,162 725 10,888 Acquisitions through business combinations 55,637 14,404 154 7,503 77,700 Sales or disposals – – (165) 94 (71) Amortization – (20,926) (8,099) (11,333) (40,358) Impairment losses (946) (42) (17) (9) (1,016) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 24,489 6,200 811 1,071 32,573 Other 280 (30) (54) (21) 174 Balance at the end of the year ¥798,177 ¥172,318 ¥26,930 ¥75,253 ¥1,072,680 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Customer Goodwill Software Other Total relationships Balance at the beginning of the year ¥798,177 ¥172,318 ¥26,930 ¥75,253 ¥1,072,680 Additions – – 13,740 902 14,642 Acquisitions through business combinations 39,124 18,937 24 3,007 61,093 Sales or disposals – – (235) (13) (249) Amortization – (24,226) (9,456) (11,709) (45,392) Impairment losses – – (25) – (25) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (50,435) (10,702) (1,249) (3,556) (65,944) Other (15) 29 154 (201) (32) Balance at the end of the year ¥786,851 ¥156,357 ¥29,882 ¥63,681 ¥1,036,773 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Customer Goodwill Software Other Total relationships Balance at the beginning of the year $7,191 $1,552 $243 $678 $9,664 Additions – – 124 8 132 Acquisitions through business combinations 352 171 0 27 550 Sales or disposals – – (2) (0) (2) Amortization – (218) (85) (105) (409) Impairment losses – – (0) – (0) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (454) (96) (11) (32) (594) Other (0) 0 1 (2) (0) Balance at the end of the year $7,089 $1,409 $269 $574 $9,340 094 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance The acquisition cost, accumulated amortization and impairment losses, and carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets are as follows: (Millions of Yen) Customer Goodwill Software Other Total relationships FY2017 (As of December 31, 2017) Acquisition cost ¥798,447 ¥252,941 ¥114,786 ¥117,138 ¥1,283,314 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses 269 80,623 87,855 41,885 210,634 Carrying amount 798,177 172,318 26,930 75,253 1,072,680 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) Acquisition cost ¥787,121 ¥254,715 ¥123,944 ¥114,421 ¥1,280,203 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses 269 98,358 94,062 50,740 243,429 Carrying amount 786,851 156,357 29,882 63,681 1,036,773 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Customer Goodwill Software Other Total relationships FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) Acquisition cost $7,091 $2,295 $1,117 $1,031 $11,533 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses 2 886 847 457 2,193 Carrying amount 7,089 1,409 269 574 9,340 The carrying amount of intangible assets above includes the carrying amount of the following leased assets. (Millions of Yen) Leased assets Software FY2017 (As of December 31, 2017) ¥249 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) 135 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Leased assets Software FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) $1 There are no intangible assets whose title is restricted or pledged as security for liabilities. Amortization is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income as Cost and Selling, general and administrative expenses. (2) Significant goodwill and intangible assets The significant portion of goodwill as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, arose from the international business segment which forms a group of cash generating units, and amounted to ¥798,177 million and ¥782,515 million ($7,050 million) as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Significant intangible assets other than goodwill as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, consist of customer relationships in the international business segment, which amounted to ¥172,318 million and ¥156,357 million ($1,409 million) as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Among them, the amount recognized when the Company acquired Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. in March 2013 was ¥112,775 million and ¥96,228 million ($867 million) as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, which the remaining amortization period at December 31, 2018 is 12 years. (3) Impairment testing of goodwill Recoverable amounts of the international business segment to which significant goodwill was allocated are determined by the value in use based on the financial budget for the next fiscal year approved by management and the management forecast for the subsequent four years. The continuing growth rate of 1.75–2.0% (2.0% as of December 31, 2017) is set for cash flows beyond the four-year period. The pre-tax discount rates used for determining value in use are 7.3% and 8.1% as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. For the goodwill above, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units sufficiently exceeds its carrying amount. Therefore, it is unlikely that the recoverable amount of the group of cash-generating units will fall group of below the carrying amount even with reasonable changes in the key assumptions. 095 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 16. LEASES The Group leases buildings, software and other assets as a lessee. The lease contracts include those with renewal options, while they do not include significant contracts with escalation clauses. There are no restrictions on additional debt, further leasing and others imposed by the lease contracts. (1) Present value of finance lease obligations The total of future minimum lease payments for leased assets recognized based on the finance lease contracts, their future financial costs and present value are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Not later than 1 year Total of future minimum lease payments ¥1,126 ¥1,151 $10 Future finance costs 19 27 0 Present value ¥1,106 ¥1,123 $10 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years Total of future minimum lease payments ¥1,692 ¥2,299 $21 Future finance costs 22 36 0 Present value ¥1,670 ¥2,263 $20 Later than 5 years Total of future minimum lease payments ¥25 ¥20 $0 Future finance costs 0 0 0 Present value ¥25 ¥20 $0 Total Total of future minimum lease payments ¥2,844 ¥3,471 $31 Future finance costs 41 63 1 Present value ¥2,802 ¥3,408 $31 (2) Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Not later than 1 year ¥22,997 ¥27,740 $250 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 72,804 73,418 661 Later than 5 years 93,735 82,442 743 Total ¥189,537 ¥183,601 $1,654 (3) Total of minimum lease payments The total of minimum lease payments of operating lease contracts for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018 are ¥30,326 million and ¥32,624 million ($294 million), respectively. 096 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 17. INVESTMENT PROPERTY (1) Schedule of investment property. The schedule of the carrying amount of investment property during the period is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥37,837 ¥37,360 $337 Additions 97 79 1 Depreciation (572) (341) (3) Sales or disposals (2) (9) (0) Other – – – Balance at the end of the year ¥37,360 ¥37,089 $334 Acquisition cost (balance at the beginning of the year) ¥46,253 ¥46,345 $418 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 8,416 8,984 81 (balance at the beginning of the year) Acquisition cost (balance at the end of the year) ¥46,345 ¥46,186 $416 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 8,984 9,096 $82 (balance at the end of the year) (2) Fair value The carrying amount and fair value of investment property are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Investment property (Level 3) ¥37,360 ¥48,006 ¥37,089 ¥50,375 $334 $454 The fair value of investment property is determined by real estate appraisal value mainly based on discounted cash flow model and observable quoted prices for similar properties and others. The investment property that is measured at fair value is categorized into the three levels of fair value hierarchy according to observability and significance of the inputs used in the measurements. The fair value hierarchy is defined as follows: Level 1: Fair value measured at the quoted price in the active market Level 2: Fair value that is measured using the observable price other than categorized in level 1 directly or indirectly Level 3: Fair value that is measured based on unobservable inputs The fair value of investment property for each fiscal year end is categorized within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. (3) Income and expenses from investment property The rental income from investment property and direct operating expenses associated with the investment property are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Rental income ¥2,213 ¥2,171 $20 Direct operating expenses 1,020 800 7 There are no investment properties that do not generate rental income and direct operating expenses associated with the investment property. 097 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 18. INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD The carrying amount of investments in associates and joint ventures is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Total of carrying amount ¥56,752 ¥39,897 $359 The decrease in the carrying amount of investments in associates and joint ventures as of December 31, 2018 was mainly due to the disposal of all shares of Kakaku.com, Inc. The financial information of associates and joint ventures is as follows. These amounts take into account the Group's ownership ratio. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Profit for the year ¥4,222 ¥2,699 $24 Other comprehensive income 396 (545) (5) Comprehensive income for the year ¥4,618 ¥2,153 $19 In addition to the above, gain on sale of investments in associates of ¥52,127 million ($470 million) was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2018 due mainly to the disposal of all shares of Kakaku.com, Inc. The Group does not recognize the share of the cumulative amount of losses exceeding the carrying amounts incurred in certain investees accounted for using the equity method. Unrecognized losses for each fiscal year and cumulative unrecognized losses for the investments are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Unrecognized losses ¥1 ¥14 $0 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Cumulative unrecognized losses ¥156 ¥15 $0 098 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 19. INCOME TAXES (1) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities The breakdown of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities by major causes of their occurrence is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Deferred tax assets Liability for retirement benefits ¥25,546 ¥29,684 $267 Accrued expenses 10,864 11,516 104 Carryforwards of tax losses 7,214 7,025 63 Other 10,911 21,794 196 Total deferred tax assets ¥54,536 ¥70,022 $631 Deferred tax liabilities Gain on establishment of retirement benefit trust ¥(13,079) ¥(13,079) $(118) Unrealized gain on securities (66,193) (57,668) (520) Valuation differences on intangible assets (57,046) (52,695) (475) Other (7,368) (10,695) (96) Total deferred tax liabilities ¥(143,688) ¥(134,139) $(1,208) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) ¥(89,151) ¥(64,117) $(578) Changes in net deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥(59,759) ¥(89,151) $(803) Deferred income taxes 12,042 11,324 102 Deferred taxes related to components of other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0 1 0 Effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow 392 311 3 hedges Net change in financial assets measured at fair value through (29,887) 6,345 57 other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (5,219) 3,472 31 Changes in deferred tax assets (liabilities) arising from business (6,720) 3,578 32 combinations, and others Balance at the end of the year ¥(89,151) ¥(64,117) $(578) Taxable temporary differences, future taxable income determinations and tax planning are taken into account when recognizing deferred tax assets. The breakdown of deductible temporary differences and carryforwards of tax losses, for which deferred tax assets are not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Deductible temporary differences ¥11,389 ¥11,314 $102 Carryforwards of tax losses 55,925 59,952 540 099 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 The breakdown of carryforwards of tax losses by expiry date as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, for which deferred tax assets are not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Within 1 year ¥408 ¥873 $8 Within 2 years 194 148 1 Within 3 years 491 505 5 Within 4 years 268 207 2 Within 5 years 1,094 1,426 13 Over 5 years 5,167 5,721 52 Indefinite periods 48,301 51,071 460 Total ¥55,925 ¥59,952 $540 The total amount of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which deferred tax liabilities are not recognized amounted to ¥122,501 million and ¥122,255 million ($1,101 million) as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for these differences since the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. (2) Income tax expense The breakdown of income tax expense is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Current income taxes ¥48,562 ¥62,574 $564 Deferred income taxes (12,042) (11,324) (102) Deferred income taxes decreased by ¥5,809 million due to tax reform in the United States in the year ended December 31, 2017. (3) Reconciliation of effective tax rate The breakdown of major items that caused differences between the effective statutory tax rate and income tax rate after applying deferred tax accounting is as follows: The Company is mainly subject to corporate tax, inhabitant tax and enterprise tax. The effective statutory tax rates calculated based on these taxes are 31.0% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018. Foreign subsidiaries are subject to income taxes at their respective locations. (%) FY2017 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) Effective statutory tax rate 31.0 31.0 (Reconciliation) Non-deductible items, such as entertainment expenses 0.9 1.0 Non-taxable items, such as dividend income (0.3) (0.2) Changes in contingent consideration (3.4) 1.2 Share of profits of investments accounted for using the equity method (0.9) (0.6) Reduction of deferred tax assets (liabilities) at fiscal year end due to tax rate changes (3.9) – Other 1.0 2.1 Income tax rate after applying of deferred tax accounting 24.4 34.5 100 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (1) The breakdown of trade and other payables is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Notes and accounts payable—trade ¥1,315,941 ¥1,273,441 $11,472 Other 64,933 68,019 613 Total ¥1,380,875 ¥1,341,461 $12,085 Trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. (2) Assets pledged as collateral for liabilities Assets pledged as collateral and corresponding liabilities are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Assets pledged as collateral (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Other financial assets (current assets) ¥54 ¥54 $0 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Corresponding liabilities (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Notes and accounts payable ¥515 ¥440 $4 In addition to the above, other financial assets (current assets) of ¥15 million and ¥8 million ($0 million) are pledged as collateral for guarantee transactions related to the “Official Gazette” (Kanpou), sales etc. as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. 21. BONDS, BORROWINGS, AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (1) Breakdown of financial liabilities The breakdown of bonds, borrowings, and other financial liabilities are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Date of maturity (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Derivative liabilities ¥3,451 ¥2,893 – $26 Put option liabilities 105,758 120,839 – 1,089 Bonds (Note) – 79,746 2023–2028 718 Short-term borrowings 41,413 53,343 – 481 Current portion of long-term borrowings 47,912 51,536 – 464 Long-term borrowings 371,187 354,233 2019–2025 3,191 Other (mainly contingent consideration) 79,896 87,025 – 784 Total ¥649,619 ¥749,617 – $6,753 Current liabilities ¥132,355 ¥152,274 $1,372 Non-current liabilities 517,263 597,342 5,381 Total ¥649,619 ¥749,617 $6,753 Derivative liabilities include those to which hedge accounting is applied. Derivative liabilities are classified as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss. Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. The average interest rates of short-term borrowings and long-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term borrowings) for the year ended December 31, 2018 are 3.57% and 2.37%, respectively. Other (mainly contingent consideration) includes financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥61,932 million and ¥69,267 million ($624 million) as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Remaining amounts are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Financial covenants are attached to certain borrowings as of December 31, 2017 and 2018. The Group has complied with these covenants. The Group monitors these covenants to maintain the required level. 101 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (Note) A summary of the terms of the bonds issued is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Interest Company name Bonds Date of issue (As of December (As of December (As of December Collateral Date of redemption rate (%) 31, 2017) 31, 2018) 31, 2018) Dentsu Inc. First unsecured bond October 25, 2018 – ¥34,905 $314 0.110 N/A October 25, 2018 Second unsecured Dentsu Inc. October 25, 2018 – 19,931 180 0.240 N/A October 24, 2025 bond Dentsu Inc. Third unsecured bond October 25, 2018 – 24,910 224 0.424 N/A October 25, 2018 Total – – – ¥79,746 $718 – – – (2) Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 (Millions of Yen) Changes from Non-cash changes Balance at the cash flows Balance at the end of beginning of Increase due Exchange fromfinancing Newly Changes from the year the year to business differences and activities recogonized remeasurements combination others Short-term borrowings ¥127,768 ¥(95,990) – – ¥579 ¥9,056 ¥41,413 Long-term borrowings (Note 1) 275,831 151,641 – – 1,555 (9,928) 419,099 Put option liabilities (Note 1, 2) 107,568 (5,396) 10,711 (5,186) – (1,938) 105,758 Total ¥511,167 ¥50,254 ¥10,711 ¥(5,186) ¥2,135 ¥(2,811) ¥566,271 (Note1) The above includes current liabilities due within one year. (Note2) Changes from remeasurements includes interest expense from the passage of time. FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Changes from Non-cash changes Balance at the cash flows Balance at the end of beginning of Increase due Exchange fromfinancing Newly Changes from the year the year to business differences and activities recogonized remeasurements combination others Short-term borrowings ¥41,413 ¥25,893 – – ¥567 ¥(14,531) ¥53,343 Long-term borrowings (Note 1) 419,099 (6,316) – – 38 (7,051) 405,769 Put option liabilities (Note 1, 2) 105,758 (6,886) 19,982 10,723 – (8,738) 120,839 Bonds – 79,739 – – – 7 79,746 Total ¥566,271 ¥92,430 ¥19,982 ¥10,723 ¥605 ¥(30,314) ¥659,698 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Changes from Non-cash changes Balance at the cash flows Balance at the end of beginning of Increase due Exchange fromfinancing Newly Changes from the year the year to business differences and activities recogonized remeasurements combination others Short-term borrowings $373 $233 – – $5 $(131) $481 Long-term borrowings (Note 1) 3,776 (57) – – 0 (64) 3,656 Put option liabilities (Note 1, 2) 953 (62) 180 97 – (79) 1,089 Bonds – 718 – – – 0 718 Total $5,102 $833 $180 $97 $5 $(273) $5,943 (Note1) The above includes current liabilities due within one year. (Note2) Changes from remeasurements includes interest expense from the passage of time. 102 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 22. PROVISIONS The breakdown and schedule of provisions are as follows: FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 (Millions of Yen) Provisions for asset Provisions for loss on Other provisions Total retirement obligations order received Balance at the beginning of the year ¥1,247 ¥64 ¥4,162 ¥5,475 Additional provisions in the year 596 625 1,981 3,203 Interest expense incurred over the discount period 5 – – 5 Provisions used (224) (64) (281) (570) Provisions reversed – (3) (1,029) (1,032) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0 – (39) (39) Other (27) – 40 12 Balance at the end of the year ¥1,598 ¥622 ¥4,833 ¥7,053 Current liabilities ¥28 ¥622 ¥1,419 ¥2,070 Non-current liabilities 1,569 – 3,413 4,983 Total ¥1,598 ¥622 ¥4,833 ¥7,053 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Provisions for asset Provisions for loss on Other provisions Total retirement obligations order received Balance at the beginning of the year ¥1,598 ¥622 ¥4,833 ¥7,053 Additional provisions in the year 680 32 855 1,569 Interest expense incurred over the discount period 7 – – 7 Provisions used (98) (130) (134) (364) Provisions reversed (6) (0) (1,497) (1,503) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0 – (387) (387) Other (42) – (52) (94) Balance at the end of the year ¥2,139 ¥523 ¥3,617 ¥6,280 Current liabilities ¥2 ¥523 ¥1,049 ¥1,575 Non-current liabilities 2,137 – 2,567 4,705 Total ¥2,139 ¥523 ¥3,617 ¥6,280 103 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Provisions for asset Provisions for loss on Other provisions Total retirement obligations order received Balance at the beginning of the year $14 $6 $44 $64 Additional provisions in the year 6 0 8 14 Interest expense incurred over the discount period 0 – – 0 Provisions used (1) (1) (1) (3) Provisions reversed (0) (0) (13) (14) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0 – (3) (3) Other (0) – (0) (1) Balance at the end of the year $19 $5 $33 $57 Current liabilities $0 $5 $9 $14 Non-current liabilities 19 – 23 42 Total $19 $5 $33 $57 (1) Provisions for asset retirement obligations The probable amount to be paid in the future, taking past results in consideration is recognized in order to settle restoration obligations in lease contracts for offices that the Group uses. These expenses are primarily expected to be paid after one year, however may change due to future events such as changes in business plan. (2) Provisions for loss on order received If losses are expected to be incurred in subsequent years from the performance of contracts related to orders received from customers and such losses can be reasonably estimated, loss provisions are recognized at the amounts expected to be incurred in subsequent years. 104 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 23. POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates defined benefit corporate pension plans and retirement lump-sum payment plans as defined benefit plans. The Group and asset managers are required by law to act in the best interests of the plan participants, and is responsible for managing the plan assets in accordance with the designated policy. The Company voluntarily operates a retirement benefits trust for defined benefit corporate pension plans and retirement lump-sum payment plans. In addition, the Company and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries operate defined contribution pension plans while certain overseas consolidated subsidiaries operate defined contribution retirement benefit plans. Previously, remeasurements of defined benefit plans were recognized as other comprehensive income and included in accumulated other components of equity. However, following the completion of the transition to a defined contribution pension plan for domestic Group companies in the year ending December 31, 2018, remeasurements of defined benefit plans will immediately be transferred from other components of equity to retained earnings. For details, please refer to 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (22) Changes in Significant Accounting Policies, C. Changes in Accounting Policies for Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans. (1) Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and plan assets The reconciliation of the defined benefit obligations and plan assets to the net defined benefit liabilities (assets) recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Funded defined benefit obligations ¥121,816 ¥125,146 $1,127 Plan assets (119,037) (110,700) (997) Subtotal 2,779 14,446 130 Unfunded defined benefit obligations 14,409 15,104 136 Total ¥17,188 ¥29,550 $266 Balance recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Liabilities for retirement benefits ¥19,210 ¥30,675 $276 Assets for retirement benefits (2,021) (1,124) (10) Net defined benefit liabilities (assets) recognized in the ¥17,188 ¥29,550 $266 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (2) Schedule of defined benefit obligations The schedule of defined benefit obligations is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥131,800 ¥136,226 $1,227 Current service cost (Note 1) 7,431 8,358 75 Interest expense (Note 1) 626 642 6 Actuarial gains and losses (Note 2) 2,981 4,953 45 Benefits paid (6,824) (8,317) (75) Past service cost – 1 0 Changes due to termination (curtailment or settlement) – (759) (7) of defined benefit plans Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 353 (852) (8) Other (143) – – Balance at the end of the year ¥136,226 ¥140,251 $1,264 (Note 1) Current service cost is recognized in Cost and Selling, general and administrative expenses . Interest expenses, net of interest income, are recognized in Finance expenses. (Note 2) Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes in financial assumptions, etc. 105 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 The weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 is as follows: (Years) FY2017 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) Weighted average duration 9.7 9.1 (3) Schedule of plan assets The schedule of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥101,369 ¥119,037 $1,072 Interest income 475 559 5 Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in 19,763 (6,052) (55) interest income) Contributions by the employer 179 792 7 Benefits paid (2,847) (2,784) (25) Changes due to termination (curtailment or settlement) – (564) (5) of defined benefit plans Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 96 (286) (3) Balance at the end of the year ¥119,037 ¥110,700 $997 The Group plans to pay contributions of ¥125 million ($1 million) in the year ending December 31, 2019. 106 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance (4) Major breakdown of plan assets The major breakdown of the total of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Plan assets with Plan assets Plan assets with Plan assets Plan assets with Plan assets quoted market without quoted quoted market without quoted quoted market without quoted Total Total Total price in an market price in price in an active market price in price in an active market price in active market an active market market an active market market an active market Equity instruments ¥86,800 – ¥86,800 ¥76,064 – ¥76,064 $685 – $685 Debt instruments 2,705 66 2,771 2,575 170 2,746 23 2 25 General account of life – 12,504 12,504 – 10,250 10,250 – 92 92 insurance companies Other – 16,960 16,960 – 21,639 21,639 – 195 195 Total ¥89,506 ¥29,531 ¥119,037 ¥78,640 ¥32,060 ¥110,700 $708 $289 $997 (Note) Plan assets above include retirement benefit trusts established for defined benefit corporate pension plans and retirement lump-sum payment plans of ¥87,521 million and ¥78,188 million ($704 million), as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2017 and 2018, equity instruments are mainly those issued in Japan and debt instruments are mainly those issued in overseas. The objectives of plan asset investments are to reduce long-term contribution obligations and improve benefits within a tolerable risk while securing sufficient assets to grant benefits. To achieve these objectives, mediumto long-term future estimates of pension finance are taken into account, and the effect of uncertainty in the plan asset management on plan assets financing (such as the possibility of fund shortages) and tolerable levels of uncertainty in the rates of return on plan assets are adequately reviewed. In addition, asset investments are managed to achieve these objectives by establishing a policy for future optimal asset composition ratios (hereinafter referred to as policy asset allocation ), selecting an asset manager and monitoring asset allocation, after setting forecasts of expected rates of returns on appropriate assets for investment. The policy asset allocation is verified annually and reviewed as necessary if any changes are made to the terms and conditions set at the time of the policy's establishment. (5) Actuarial assumptions The major items of actuarial assumptions are as follows: (%) FY2017 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) Discount rate 0.5 0.5 (Note) The sensitivities of the defined benefit obligations due to changes in major assumptions as of each fiscal year are as follows. Each of these analyses assumes that other variables remain fixed; however, they do not always change independently. Negative figures indicate a decrease in defined benefit obligations, while positive figures indicate an increase. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 Change in assumptions (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Increase by 0.5% ¥(5,802) ¥(5,561) $(50) Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% ¥6,286 ¥6,018 $54 (6) Defined contribution plans Expenses recognized due to contributions to defined contribution plans by the Company and consolidated subsidiaries amounted to ¥9,218 million and ¥10,779 million ($97 million) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. Such amounts are recognized in Cost and Selling, general and administrative expenses. 107 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 24. EQUITY AND OTHER EQUITY ITEMS (3) Reserves (1) Share capital A. Share premium account A. authorized shares Under the Companies Act of Japan, at least 50% of the proceeds upon The number of authorized shares as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 is issuance of equity instruments shall be credited to share capital, while the 1,100,000,000 ordinary shares. remainder of the proceeds shall be credited to capital reserves included in share premium account. B. Fully paid and issued shares The number of issued shares is as follows: B. Retained earnings Number of ordinary The Companies Act of Japan provides that 10% of the dividends of retained issued shares (Shares) earnings shall be appropriated as capital reserves or as retained earnings FY2017 (As of December 31, 2017) 288,410,000 reserves until their aggregate amount equals 25% of share capital. Increase (decrease) – (4) Transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) 288,410,000 The Group enters into a contract with non-controlling shareholders, mainly those of a newly acquired company, to purchase their shares under certain All the shares issued by the Company are non-par value ordinary shares condition in the future. that have no restriction on any content of rights. The Group recognizes financial liabilities at the present value of redemption amount based on the contract, and reduces retained earnings by the (2) Treasury shares same amount upon execution of the contract. A. Number of treasury shares is as follows: Number of shares (Shares) FY2017 (As of December 31, 2017) 6,511,082 Increase (decrease) 2,377 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) 6,513,459 (Note) The above includes 2,430 shares of increase due to repurchase of shares less than one unit, and 53 shares of decrease due to sales of shares less than one unit. B. Repurchase of treasury shares The Company executed the repurchase of treasury shares as follows, based on the resolution by the Board of Directors on February 14, 2017, in accordance with article 156 of the Companies Act applied with article 165, paragraph 3 of the Companies Act, and the articles of incorporation of the Company. (i) Type of shares repurchased: Ordinary shares of the Company (ii) Total number of repurchased shares: 3,235,300 shares (iii) Total amount of repurchased shares: ¥19,999 million (iv) Repurchase period: From February 20, 2017 to May 17, 2017 (v) Repurchase method: Market purchase at Tokyo Stock Exchange 108 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 25. DIVIDENDS (1) Dividends paid FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 Total dividends Dividends per share Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date (Millions of Yen) (Yen) Board of Directors (February 14, 2017) Ordinary shares ¥12,831 ¥45.00 December 31, 2016 March 9, 2017 Board of Directors (August 9, 2017) Ordinary shares ¥12,685 ¥45.00 June 30, 2017 September 1, 2017 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 Total dividends Dividends per share Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date (Millions of Yen) (Yen) Board of Directors (February 13, 2018) Ordinary shares ¥12,685 ¥45.00 December 31, 2017 March 8, 2018 Board of Directors (August 9, 2018) Ordinary shares ¥12,685 ¥45.00 June 30, 2018 September 7, 2018 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 Total dividends Dividends per share Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date (Millions of U.S. Dollars) (U.S. Dollars) Board of Directors (February 13, 2018) Ordinary shares $114 $0.41 December 31, 2017 March 8, 2018 Board of Directors (August 9, 2018) Ordinary shares $114 $0.41 June 30, 2018 September 7, 2018 (2) Dividends for which the basis date falls before fiscal year end, while the effective date falls in the following fiscal year FY2017: Year ended December 31, 2017 Total dividends Dividends per Resolution Class of shares Source of dividends Basis date Effective date (Millions of Yen) share (Yen) Board of Directors (February 13, 2018) Ordinary shares Retained earnings ¥12,685 ¥45.00 December 31, 2017 March 8, 2018 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 Total dividends Dividends per Resolution Class of shares Source of dividends Basis date Effective date (Millions of Yen) share (Yen) Board of Directors (February 14, 2019) Ordinary shares Retained earnings ¥12,685 ¥45.00 December 31, 2018 March 7, 2019 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 Total dividends Dividends per Resolution Class of shares Source of dividends Basis date Effective date (Millions of U.S. Dollars) share (U.S. Dollars) Board of Directors (February 14, 2019) Ordinary shares Retained earnings $114 $0.41 December 31, 2018 March 7, 2019 109 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 26. REVENUE The Group provides advertising, information services and other businesses to our customers. A. Advertising In the advertising business, the Group mainly provides services such as placement of advertising into various media, production of advertising including creative services, and various content-related services. With respect to placement of advertising into various media, revenue is recognized mainly when the media is placed, where the Group's performance obligations are satisfied and control over the service transfers to the customer. With respect to the production of advertising and provision of various content-related services, the Group recognizes revenue mainly when such creative products are delivered or such professional services are provided, where the control over the goods or services transfers to the customer and the Group’s performance obligations are satisfied. With regards to right-related business such as marketing rights for sports events, revenue is recognized at a point in time when such rights is transferred to the customer at a certain point in time, or is recognized over a period of time when such rights can be used by the customer over a period time, depending on the nature of the rights granted to the customer. With regards to revenue that are recognized over a period of time, performance obligations are primarily satisfied over the contractual period, and therefore revenue is recognized on a pro rata basis over the contractual period in which the performance obligations are satisfied. The Group determines that it primarily acts as an agent considering the primary responsibility for the performance of commitments, inventory risk, pricing discretion and other factors in the transaction. Therefore, revenue from the advertising business is recorded principally based on the net amount of consideration received from customers, less related costs, or a certain amount of fee received as a commission, for services provided by the Group. For certain transactions which the Group determined that it is acting as a principal, consideration received from customers and costs are presented on a gross basis. Consideration for transactions in the advertising business is received primarily within one year after satisfaction of the performance obligations and does not include any significant financing components. B. Information Services In the information services business, the Group is mainly involved in sales of software products, development of systems, and outsourcing/operation/maintenance services. With respect to sales of software products, revenue is recognized at upon delivery to the customer as the control over the product is transferred to the customer and the Group's performance obligations are satisfied. With respect to system development, the Group recognizes revenue based on progress, as the customer's assets enhance and acquire control of such assets as the development progresses, and accordingly the Group satisfies its performance obligations. Progress of development is calculated based on the percentage of the inputs used to satisfy the performance obligations (costs incurred) to the total inputs expected to be incurred until such performance obligations are fully satisfied. As for operation and maintenance services, performance obligations are satisfied over the contractual period, and revenue is recognized on a pro rata basis over the contractual period in which the performance obligations are satisfied. Revenue in the information services business is calculated based on the consideration under the sales contracts, net of any discounts. In addition, the Group presents revenue and cost on a gross basis as it is determined that the Group is acting as a principal considering the primary responsibility for the performance of commitments, inventory risk, pricing discretion and other factors in the transaction. Consideration for transactions in the information services business is received primarily within one year after satisfaction of the performance obligations and does not include any significant financing components. 110 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance C. Other The other businesses include leasing of office spaces, provision of building services and calculation services. (1) Disaggregation of revenue The breakdown of revenue recognized from contracts with customers is as follows: FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Reporting segment Intercompany transaction Total Japan Business International Business Subtotal adjustments Major services Advertising business ¥353,636 ¥600,140 ¥953,776 – – Information service business 72,825 – 72,825 – – Other business 3,829 – 3,829 – – Total 430,292 600,140 1,030,433 (11,920) 1,018,512 Breakdown by regions Japan 430,292 – 430,292 – – EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) – 233,300 233,300 – – Americas (Americas) – 238,669 238,669 – – APAC (Asia Pacific) – 128,170 128,170 – – Total ¥430,292 ¥600,140 ¥1,030,433 ¥(11,920) ¥1,018,512 FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Reporting segment Intercompany transaction Total Japan Business International Business Subtotal adjustments Major services Advertising business $3,186 $5,407 $8,593 – – Information service business 656 – 656 – – Other business 34 – 34 – – Total 3,877 5,407 9,283 (107) 9,176 Breakdown by regions Japan 3,877 – 3,877 – – EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) – 2,102 2,102 – – Americas (Americas) – 2,150 2,150 – – APAC (Asia Pacific) – 1,155 1,155 – – Total $3,877 $5,407 $9,283 $(107) $9,176 111 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (2) Contract balance The balances of receivables and contractual liabilities arising from signings with customers are as follows: (Millions of Yen) January 1, 2018 December 31, 2018 Receivables arising from contracts with customers ¥1,398,455 ¥1,358,705 Notes and accounts receivable-trade 1,376,672 1,340,857 Others 21,783 17,847 Contract liabilities ¥66,948 ¥56,070 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) January 1, 2018 December 31, 2018 Receivables arising from contracts with customers $12,599 $12,241 Notes and accounts receivable-trade 12,402 12,080 Others 196 161 Contract liabilities $603 $505 Notes and accounts receivable-trade are included in trade and other receivables, others are included in other financial assets in non-current assets, and contract liabilities are included in other current liabilities and other non-current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The amount of revenue recognized in the year ended December 31, 2018 that was included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period was ¥62,181 million ($560 million). In addition, the amount of revenue recognized during the year ended December 31, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in prior periods is immaterial. In addition, there were no material changes in the balance of contract liabilities during the year ended December 31, 2018. Contract liabilities primarily relate to advances received from customers in the advertising business. (3) Calculation of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Within 1 year ¥13,354 $120 Over 1 year and below 2 years 11,905 107 Over 2 years and below 3 years 3,364 30 Over 3 years 7,452 67 Total ¥36,076 $325 The amount represents transaction prices allocated to the remaining performance obligations (related to the rights business) expected to exceed one year on individual contract basis. (4) Assets recognized from costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with customers The Group has no assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill contracts with customers. 112 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 27. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES The breakdown of selling, general and administrative expenses for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Staff costs ¥500,855 ¥543,106 $4,893 Depreciation and amortization 53,217 57,734 520 Other 197,884 219,217 1,975 Total ¥751,957 ¥820,058 $7,388 Other includes research and development expenses of ¥1,134 million and ¥1,110 million ($10 million) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. 28. STAFF COSTS The breakdown of staff costs for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Salaries, bonuses and allowances ¥438,515 ¥477,565 $4,302 Welfare expenses 65,517 68,825 620 Post-employment benefits costs 17,072 19,220 173 Other 366 72 1 Total ¥521,472 ¥565,683 $5,096 Staff costs are recorded in Cost, Selling, general and administrative expenses and Finance expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 113 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 29. OTHER INCOME The breakdown of other income for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Profit distributions ¥6,405 ¥8,528 $77 Foreign exchange gains – 446 $4 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and 14,441 5 0 investment property Other 2,499 2,188 20 Total ¥23,347 ¥11,168 $101 30. OTHER EXPENSES The breakdown of other expenses for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Amortization of long-term prepaid expenses ¥4,073 ¥4,031 $36 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and 1,069 1 0 investment property Impairment losses 1,093 27 0 Cash-settled share-based payment 2,046 4,313 39 Foreign exchange losses 625 – – Other 2,713 3,777 34 Total ¥11,620 ¥12,151 $109 114 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 31. FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE EXPENSES (1) The breakdown of finance income for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Interest income Financial assets measured at amortized cost ¥2,137 ¥2,735 $25 Dividend income Financial assets measured at fair value through other 3,407 3,297 30 comprehensive income Changes in fair value of contingent consideration 8,499 – – Revaluation of put option liabilities 5,186 – – Dividend income and asset management gains from 584 610 5 insurance Other (Note) 486 197 2 Total ¥20,302 ¥6,839 $62 (Note)  Other includes finance income arising from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥8 million and ¥6 million ($0 million) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. The breakdown of dividend income is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Financial assets derecognized during the fiscal year ¥101 ¥494 $4 Financial assets held at the end of the fiscal year 3,305 2,802 25 (2) The breakdown of finance expenses for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Interest expense Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost ¥11,366 ¥13,333 $120 Other 156 89 1 Changes in fair value of contingent consideration – 21 0 Revaluation of put option liabilities (Note 1) – 10,723 97 Foreign exchange losses (Note 2) 318 44 0 Other (Note 3) 412 341 3 Total ¥12,254 ¥24,553 $221 (Note1) The Group made changes in estimates regarding the timing of the exercise of put option liabilities related to certain consolidated subsidiaries during the year ended December 31, 2018. As a result, finance expenses increased by ¥11,484 million ($103 million) for the year ended December 31, 2018.. (Note2) Foreign exchange losses include valuation loss on currency derivatives. (Note3)  Other includes finance expenses arising from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥41 million and ¥16 million ($0 million) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. 115 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 32. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Amount arising during the year, reclassification adjustments to profit or loss and income tax effects for each component of other comprehensive income for each fiscal year are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Amount arising during the year ¥32,460 ¥(47,369) $(427) Reclassification adjustments 226 (148) (1) Before tax effects 32,686 (47,518) (428) Tax effects 0 1 0 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations ¥32,687 ¥(47,516) $(428) Effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow hedges Amount arising during the year ¥(5,869) ¥5,062 $46 Reclassification adjustments 4,588 (5,240) (47) Before tax effects (1,280) (178) (2) Tax effects 392 311 3 Effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow ¥(888) ¥133 $1 hedges Net change in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Amount arising during the year ¥96,609 ¥(29,619) $(267) Before tax effects 96,609 (29,619) (267) Tax effects (29,887) 6,345 57 Net change in financial assets measured at fair value through ¥66,721 ¥(23,273) $(210) other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Amount arising during the year ¥16,782 ¥(11,005) $(99) Before tax effects 16,782 (11,005) (99) Tax effects (5,219) 3,472 31 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans ¥11,563 ¥(7,532) $(68) Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method Amount arising during the year ¥396 ¥(545) $(5) Share of other comprehensive income of investments ¥396 ¥(545) $(5) accounted for using the equity method 116 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 33. EARNINGS PER SHARE (1) Basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Basic earnings per share ¥373.11 ¥320.39 $2.89 Diluted earnings per share ¥373.10 ¥320.38 $2.89 (2) Basis of calculating basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Profit for the year used for calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent ¥105,478 ¥90,316 $814 Amounts not attributable to ordinary equity holders of the – – – parent Profit for the year used for calculation of basic earnings per share 105,478 90,316 814 Adjustment Share options issued by associates (1) 0 0 Profit for the year used for calculation of diluted earnings per ¥105,476 ¥90,315 $814 share Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used for the calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used for the calculation of basic earnings per share (Thousands of 282,702 281,897 shares) Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares (Thousands of – – shares) Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used for the calculation of diluted earnings per share (Thousands of 282,702 281,897 shares) 117 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 34. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Certain subsidiaries of the Company adopts cash-settled share-based payment plans for employees, under which the eligible employees receive compensation in the form of cash-settled payments based on the difference between the exercise price and the share price as of the exercise date. Rights to cash-settled share-based payments vest over between three and five years from the grant date and the exercise period is 10 years from the grant date. Expenses recognized in relation to the cash-settled share-based payment plans granted to employees is ¥2,046 million and ¥4,313 million ($39 million) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, and the corresponding liability as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 are ¥8,568 million and ¥12,410 million ($112 million), respectively. The following table provides a summary of the status of cash-settled share-based payment plans. (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Weighted Average Weighted Average Weighted Average Shares Shares Exercise Price Exercise Price Exercise Price Balance at the beginning of the year 771,271 ¥8,821 959,929 ¥10,573 $95.25 Granted 287,606 15,550 81,431 15,162 136.59 Exercised (16,546) 7,011 (33,918) 7,212 64.97 Expired – – (5,269) 13,202 118.94 Forfeited (63,138) 11,408 (30,704) 12,594 113.46 Repurchased (19,264) 6,123 – – – Balance at the end of the year 959,929 10,573 971,469 10,825 97.52 Exercisable at the end of the year 460,375 ¥8,033 621,884 ¥9,305 $83.83 1. The weighted average remaining life of the cash-settled share-based payments plans is 7.8 years and 7.0 years as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. 2. The weighted average share price upon exercise is ¥15,550 and ¥15,162 ($136.59) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. 3. The intrinsic value of the cash-settled share-based payments vested in as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 is ¥7,704 million and ¥11,447 million ($103 million), respectively. The weighted-average fair value at the measurement date of the stock options granted during the year ended December 31, 2018 is ¥12,346 ($111.23). Fair value is measured as follows: (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Valuation method used Black-Scholes model Black-Scholes model Black-Scholes model Key inputs and assumptions: Grant date share price ¥24,006 ¥26,360 $237.48 Exercise price ¥15,550 ¥15,162 $136.59 Expected volatility (Note) 30.0% 29.9% Option life 3.3 years 2.0 years Dividend yield 0% 0% Risk-free interest rate 3% 3% (Note) Volatility of the stock price is calculated based on the performance of the share price for the most recent period depending on the period to maturity. 118 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (1) Capital management The Group's basic policy for capital management aims to enhance capital efficiency by the long-term improvement of its value through business growth, while maintaining a sound financial structure. Indicators for monitoring the capital management include total equity attributable to owners of the parent and underlying ROE (ratio of underlying profit for the year to total equity attributable to owners of the parent). The balances as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent ¥1,093,211 ¥1,047,620 $9,438 Underlying ROE (%) 10.6 9.1 (Note) The underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent), the numerator of underlying ROE, is a KPI used to measure recurring profit attributable to owners of the parent which is calculated as profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) adjusted for adjustment items related to operating profit, revaluation of contingent consideration and put option liabilities, related tax effects, profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests, and other one-off items. Reconciliation from profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) to underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) is stated below. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) ¥105,478 ¥90,316 $814 (Adjustment items) Adjustment items related to operating profit 26,554 41,590 375 Revaluation of contingent consideration and put option liability (13,686) 10,744 97 Gain on sale of investments in associates – (52,127) (470) Tax expenses related to the above items and effects from tax (9,239) 9,612 87 regulation changes Others (1,232) (2,716) (24) Underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of parent) ¥107,874 ¥97,419 $878 (2) Basic policy on risk management associated with financial instruments The Group is exposed to financial risks in the course of its business activities; and it manages risks based on a specific policy in order to avoid or reduce these risks. Derivative transactions for speculative purposes or short-term trading purposes are prohibited and limited to transactions based on actual demands. 119 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (3) Credit risk A. Credit risk management Financial assets measured at amortized cost, including trade receivables, such as notes and accounts receivable, are exposed to customers' credit risk. The Group aims to reduce these risks based on credit management rules and guidelines. The Company conducts review of new counterparties and credit management based on credit management rules and guidelines. Based on accounting rules and guidelines, the relevant controlling departments in each business unit, together with the accounting department, manage due dates and outstanding balances for each counterparty and regularly monitor the status of major counterparties to detect and reduce doubtful receivables due to deteriorating financial conditions or other reasons in a timely manner. Consolidated subsidiaries perform credit management and receivables management and have management systems in place that require reporting and approval for certain significant transaction and events. The Group does not have excess concentration of credit risk in specific counterparties. B. Maximum exposure to credit risk With the exception of guarantee obligations, maximum exposure to the Group's credit risk is as follows. Maximum exposure to credit risk associated with guarantee obligations is the balance of the contingent liabilities described in 37. Contingent liabilities. FY 2017 : As of December 31, 2017 C. Financial assets that are past due The analysis of the age of trade and other receivables that are past due but not impaired as of December 31, 2017 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) FY2017 (As of December 31, 2017) Within 30 days ¥159,987 Over 30 days, within 60 days 51,205 Over 60 days, within 90 days 22,400 Over 90 days 33,619 Total ¥267,212 D. Schedule of allowance for doubtful accounts The schedule of allowance for doubtful account for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) FY2017 (Year ended December 31, 2017) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥18,512 Addition 3,874 Decrease (intended use) (64) Decrease (reversal) (1,145) Other 1,155 Balance at the end of the year ¥22,331 120 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance FY 2018 : As of December 31, 2018 E. Analysis of trade receivables by due date (Millions of Yen) As of December 31, 2018 Financial assets whose Financial assets whose allowance for doubtful accounts is measured at an amount allowance for doubtful equal to lifetime expected credit losses accounts is measured Financial assets whose Total at an amount equal to credit risk has increased Financial assets that are Receivables arising from the 12-month expected significantly since initial credit impaired contracts with customers credit loss recognition None in arrears ¥60,385 – – ¥1,105,308 ¥1,165,694 Within 30 days 4 – – 128,288 128,293 Over 30 days, within 60 days – – – 42,642 42,642 Over 60 days, within 90 days – – – 21,011 21,011 Over 90 days – – 44 61,454 61,498 Total ¥60,390 – ¥44 ¥1,358,705 ¥1,419,140 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) As of December 31, 2018 Financial assets whose Financial assets whose allowance for doubtful accounts is measured at an amount allowance for doubtful equal to lifetime expected credit losses accounts is measured Financial assets whose Total at an amount equal to credit risk has increased Financial assets that are Receivables arising from the 12-month expected significantly since initial credit impaired contracts with customers credit loss recognition None in arrears $544 – – $9,958 $10,502 Within 30 days 0 – – 1,156 1,156 Over 30 days, within 60 days – – – 384 384 Over 60 days, within 90 days – – – 189 189 Over 90 days – – 0 554 554 Total $544 – $0 $12,241 $12,785 121 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 F. Analysis of changes in allowance for doubtful accounts The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts based on a review of the collectability of trade and other receivables considering the credit standing of the counterparties. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts are as follows: Trade receivables amounting to ¥1,090 million($10 million), which were written off directly during the year ended December 31, 2018, remain subject to enforcement activities. (Millions of Yen) FY2018 (Year ended December 31, 2018) Lifetime expected credit losses 12-month expected Financial assets whose credit risk has increased Financial assets that Receivables arising from Total credit losses significantly since initial are credit impaired contracts with customers recognition Balance at the beginning of the year under – – – – ¥22,331 IFRS 9 (2010) Adjustments upon adoption of IFRS 9 (2014) – – – – 5,088 Balance at the beginning of the year under 851 – 15 26,553 27,420 IFRS 9 (2014) Addition 67 – 28 1,099 1,195 Decrease (intended use) (227) – – (2,829) (3,056) Decrease (reversal) (407) – – (1,553) (1,960) Other (19) – – (1,355) (1,375) Balance at the end of the year ¥264 – ¥44 ¥21,914 ¥22,223 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2018 (Year ended December 31, 2018) Lifetime expected credit losses 12-month expected Financial assets whose credit risk has increased Financial assets that Receivables arising from Total credit losses significantly since initial are credit impaired contracts with customers recognition Balance at the beginning of the year under – – – – $201 IFRS 9 (2010) Adjustments upon adoption of IFRS 9 (2014) – – – – 46 Balance at the beginning of the year under 8 – 0 239 247 IFRS 9 (2014) Addition 1 – 0 10 11 Decrease (intended use) (2) – – (25) (28) Decrease (reversal) (4) – – (14) (18) Other (0) – – (12) (12) Balance at the end of the year $2 – $0 $197 $200 (4) Liquidity risk A. Liquidity risk management The Company manages liquidity risk by having the treasury division establish and update a finance plan based on information collected from each division and also by maintaining liquidity based on cash flow status. The Group raises working capital through internal funds, commercial paper and short-term borrowings. The Group has established credit facilities (commitment lines) to ensure liquidity. 122 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance B. Balance of financial liability (including derivative financial instruments) by maturity Balance of financial liability (including derivative financial instruments) by maturity as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 is as follows: FY2017: As of December 31, 2017 (Millions of Yen) Due after 1 year Due after 2 Due after 3 Due after 4 Carrying Contractual Due within Due after through years through years through years through amount cash flow 1 year 5 years 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables ¥1,380,875 ¥1,380,875 ¥1,380,875 ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– Contingent consideration on 61,909 61,909 23,952 10,952 5,886 16,866 4,185 66 acquisition and others Put option liabilities 105,758 105,758 8,931 24,115 13,034 46,360 5,651 7,663 Borrowings 460,512 496,453 99,042 58,381 83,164 37,848 59,928 158,086 Subtotal 2,009,055 2,044,996 1,512,801 93,449 102,085 101,076 69,765 165,816 Derivative liabilities 3,451 3,451 336 736 632 625 988 131 Total ¥2,012,507 ¥2,048,448 ¥1,513,138 ¥94,186 ¥102,718 ¥101,701 ¥70,754 ¥165,948 FY2018: As of December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Due after 1 year Due after 2 Due after 3 Due after 4 Carrying Contractual Due within Due after through years through years through years through amount cash flow 1 year 5 years 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables ¥1,341,461 ¥1,341,461 ¥1,341,461 ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– Contingent consideration on 69,244 69,244 22,694 11,105 17,443 15,432 2,568 – acquisition and others Put option liabilities 120,839 120,839 14,567 5,763 70,212 23,112 925 6,256 Borrowings 459,113 496,904 117,255 83,784 39,180 58,949 39,674 158,060 Bonds 79,746 81,110 192 192 192 192 35,186 45,154 Subtotal 2,070,404 2,109,559 1,496,170 100,846 127,029 97,686 78,355 209,470 Derivative liabilities 2,893 2,893 645 503 500 850 6 385 Total ¥2,073,297 ¥2,112,452 ¥1,496,816 ¥101,349 ¥127,529 ¥98,537 ¥78,361 ¥209,856 FY2018: As of December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Due after 1 year Due after 2 Due after 3 Due after 4 Carrying Contractual Due within Due after through years through years through years through amount cash flow 1 year 5 years 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables $12,085 $12,085 $12,085 $– $– $– $– $– Contingent consideration on 624 624 204 100 157 139 23 – acquisition and others Put option liabilities 1,089 1,089 131 52 633 208 8 56 Borrowings 4,136 4,477 1,056 755 353 531 357 1,424 Bonds 718 731 2 2 2 2 317 407 Subtotal 18,652 19,005 13,479 909 1,144 880 706 1,887 Derivative liabilities 26 26 6 5 5 8 0 3 Total $18,678 $19,031 $13,485 $913 $1,149 $888 $706 $1,891 C. Undrawn committed facilities Undrawn committed facilities amounted to ¥373,857 million and ¥326,732 million ($2,944 million) as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. The undrawn committed facilities include commitment lines of credit, overdraft lines of credit and commercial paper facilities. 123 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (5) Foreign currency risk A. Foreign currency risk management Monetary receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations risks. The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its foreign exchange fluctuation risks identified by each currency and by each month. In addition, forward foreign exchange contracts and others are used to hedge foreign currency transactions that exceed a specified amount in accordance with accounting rules and guidelines. Certain the consolidated subsidiaries use forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant foreign exchange fluctuation risks. B. Foreign currency sensitivity analysis With respect to financial instruments held by the Group, in cases where the functional currency (Yen) increases by 1% in value against the U.S. Dollar or Euro assuming all other variables remain unchanged, the effect on profit before tax as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 is as follows: The impact from the translation of financial instruments denominated in its functional currencies, as well as assets and liabilities of foreign operations into yen is not included. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) U.S. Dollars ¥371 ¥(97) $(1) Euros (52) (50) (0) (6) Interest rate risk A. Interest rate risk management Certain portion of the Group's borrowings is issued with floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk. For interest rate fluctuation risks associated with borrowings, interest expenses are fixed using interest rate swap contracts and others. B. Interest rate sensitivity analysis Regarding the financial instruments held by the Group, the table below presents the effect of 100bps increase in interest rates on profit before tax in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The analysis includes the financial instruments (borrowings) that is subject to exchange rate fluctuation and assumes that all other factors, including exchange rate, are unchanged. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Profit before tax ¥(281) ¥(452) $(4) (7) Hedge accounting Details of derivatives for which hedge accounting is applied are as follows: (Millions of Yen) FY2017 (As of December 31, 2017) Contract amount Over 1 year Fair value Foreign exchange contracts ¥48,230 ¥32,459 ¥11,714 Interest rate swap contracts (including currency interest rate swap contracts) 263,799 200,365 3,645 The foreign currency forward contracts described above are designated as cash flow hedges. In addition, among the above, interest rate swap contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. Currency interest rate swap contracts are designated as either cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. The amount included in or deducted from the initial cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability as a result of execution of a highly probable forecasted transaction in which an acquisition or incurrence of such non-financial asset or non-financial liability is designated as a hedged item are ¥1,953 million (deduction) for the year ended December 31, 2017. 124 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance FY2018: As of December 31, 2018 The notional amounts and average prices of major hedging instruments at the end of the year were as follows: FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) Notional Amount and Over one year Content Within one year Over five years Average Price Within five years Notional Amount (Millions of Yen) – 134,000 – Average fixed rate – 1.21% – Notional Amount (Millions of U.S. Dollars) 96 456 200 Interest rate risk Interest rate swap Average fixed rate 2.25% 1.85% 2.33% Notional Amount (Millions of Stering Pounds) 180 – 250 Average fixed rate 2.11% – 2.10% Cash flow hedge Notional Amount (Millions of U.S. Dollars) 157 276 36 Average exchange rate (¥/USD) 93.52 78.32 83.13 Foreign exchange Foreign exchange risk contracts (buy) Notional Amount (Millions of Stering Pounds) 7 5 – Average exchange rate (¥/GBP) 131.34 138.44 – Notional Amount (Millions of U.S. Dollars) – 144 – Interest rate risk and Cross currency foreign exchange risk interest rate swaps Average fixed rate – 1.14% – Average exchange rate (GBP/USD) – 0.65 – Notional Amount (Millions of Euro) – 110 – Hedge of net investment Cross currency Foreign exchange risk in foreign operations interest rate swaps Average exchange rate (GBP/EUR) – 0.85 – The carrying amounts of hedging instruments of the Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries at the end of the year were as follows: The amount recognized in profit or loss for the ineffective portion of the hedge was immaterial during the year. (Millions of Yen) FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) Item in the consolidated statements Carrying Amount of financial position Assets Liabilities Cash flow hedge Interest rate risk ¥1,121 (¥2,156) (Note) Foreign exchange risk 16,483 (447) (Note) Total-cash flow hedges 17,604 (2,603) Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Foreign exchange risk (960) – (Note) Total-hedge of net investment in foreign operations (960) – Total financial instruments for which hedge accounting is applied ¥16,644 (¥2,603) 125 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2018 (As of December 31, 2018) Item in the consolidated statements Carrying Amount of financial position Assets Liabilities Cash flow hedge Interest rate risk $10 $(19) (Note) Foreign exchange risk 148 (4) (Note) Total-cash flow hedges 159 (23) Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Foreign exchange risk (9) – (Note) Total-hedge of net investment in foreign operations (9) – Total financial instruments for which hedge accounting is applied $150 $(23) (Note) Included in Other financial assets (current), Other financial assets (non-current), Other financial liabilities (current) and Other financial liabilities (non-current). The amount of cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operating activities of the Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries recorded in other comprehensive income in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year (before tax effect) is as follows. (Millions of Yen) FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 Reclassification adjustment Item in the consolidated Amount incurred from other comprehensive statement of income income to net income Cash flow hedge Interest rate risk ¥1,179 ¥602 Finance expenses Foreign exchange risk 3,883 (5,843) Revenue Total-cash flow hedges 5,062 (5,240) Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Foreign exchange risk (21) – – Total-hedge of net investment in foreign operations (¥21) – (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 Reclassification adjustment Item in the consolidated Amount incurred from other comprehensive statement of income income to net income Cash flow hedge Interest rate risk $11 $5 Finance expenses Foreign exchange risk 35 (53) Revenue Total-cash flow hedges 46 (47) Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Foreign exchange risk (0) – – Total-hedge of net investment in foreign operations $(0) – 126 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance The components of changes in the amounts recorded in other components of equity in the consolidated statements of financial position for cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations during the year are as follows: (Millions of Yen) FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 Hedge of net investments in foreign Cash flow hedge operations Interest rate risk Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk Beginning balance (¥1,850) ¥8,082 (¥743) Arising during the year 1,069 3,759 (294) Reclassification adjustments to net income 415 (5,111) – Ending balance (¥364) ¥6,729 (¥1,038) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2018: Year ended December 31, 2018 Hedge of net investments in foreign Cash flow hedge operations Interest rate risk Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk Beginning balance $(17) $73 $(7) Arising during the year 10 34 (3) Reclassification adjustments to net income 4 (46) – Ending balance $(3) $61 $(9) The main reason of the reclassification adjustment to net income was that the hedged item had impacted profit or loss. The amount included in or deducted from the initial cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability as a result of execution of a highly probable forecasted transaction in which an acquisition or incurrence of such non-financial asset or non-financial liability is designated as a hedged item are ¥2,359 million ($21 million) (deduction) for the year ended December 31, 2018. (8) The carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments The breakdown of the carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 is as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost other than long-term borrowings and bonds approximates their carrying amount. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Long-term borrowings ¥419,099 ¥420,572 ¥405,769 ¥404,360 $3,656 $3,643 Bonds – – ¥79,746 ¥80,245 $718 $723 (Note) Current portion that is scheduled for repayment within one year is included. The fair value of long-term borrowings is determined by discounting the total of the principal and interest by the interest rate assumed in a case where the same loan is newly made. The fair value hierarchy of long-term borrowings is categorized as Level 3. The fair value of bonds is determined based on quoted market prices. The fair value hierarchy is categorized as Level 2. 127 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (9) Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments Financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis after initial recognition are categorized into the three levels of the fair value hierarchy according to observability and significance of input used in measurements. The fair value hierarchy is defined as follows: Level 1: Fair value measured at the quoted price in the active market Level 2: Fair value that is measured using the observable price other than categorized in Level 1 directly or indirectly Level 3: Fair value that is measured based on unobservable inputs When multiple inputs are used to measure fair value, fair value levels are determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the entire fair value measurement. Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to have occurred at the beginning of each quarter. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018. The followings table includes put option liabilities. FY2017: As of December 31, 2017 (Millions of Yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivative assets ¥– ¥18,886 ¥– ¥18,886 Equity securities 268,141 – 20,401 288,543 Other 522 2,825 11,780 15,128 Total ¥268,664 ¥21,712 ¥32,181 ¥322,558 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities ¥– ¥3,451 ¥– ¥3,451 Put option liabilities – – 105,758 ¥105,758 Other (mainly contingent consideration) – – 61,909 61,909 Total ¥– ¥3,451 ¥167,667 ¥171,119 FY2018: As of December 31, 2018 (Millions of Yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivative assets ¥– ¥16,792 ¥– ¥16,792 Equity securities 234,375 – 68,011 302,386 Other 513 2,641 13,098 16,254 Total ¥234,889 ¥19,434 ¥81,110 ¥335,433 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities ¥– ¥2,893 ¥– ¥2,893 Put option liabilities – – 120,839 ¥120,839 Other (mainly contingent consideration) – – 69,244 69,244 Total ¥– ¥2,893 ¥190,083 ¥192,977 128 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance FY2018: As of December 31, 2018 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivative assets $– $151 $– $151 Equity securities 2,111 – 613 2,724 Other 5 24 118 146 Total $2,116 $175 $731 $3,022 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities $– $26 $– $26 Put option liabilities – – 1,089 1,089 Other (mainly contingent consideration) – – 624 624 Total $– $26 $1,712 $1,739 The fair values of interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts included in derivative assets and derivative liabilities are categorized within Level 2 as they are valuated using price estimates obtained from financial institutions or observable market data. The fair values of stocks included in equity securities and other (financial assets) for which active markets exist are categorized within Level 1 as they are determined based on market prices. For stocks in which active markets do not exist, the stocks whose fair values are measured using observable market data are categorized within Level 2, while stocks whose fair values are measured based mainly on market approaches(guideline public company method) using unobservable inputs are categorized within Level 3. Significant unobservable inputs mainly include the price/net asset value multiples, and fair value increases (decreases) based on the increase (decrease) of the price/net asset value multiples. The price/net asset value multiples used at December 31, 2017 and 2018, are 0.77 and 0.58, respectively. The fair values, etc. and others of put option liabilities and other (financial liabilities) are categorized within Level 3 as they are valuated based on the discounted cash flow method using unobservable inputs. Significant unobservable inputs are level of future profitability and discount rate. The fair values,etc. increases (decreases) as level of profitability increases (decreases). The discount rate increase (decrease) by 100bps will decrease (increase) the fair values, etc. by ¥3,084 million and ¥2,851 million ($26 million) at December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. The fair values of assets and liabilities categorized within Level 3 are measured using asset and liability valuation methods determined by the department in charge in accordance with fair value measurement valuation policies and procedures. Fair value measurement results are approved by the appropriate personnel in charge. 129 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 The schedule of financial instruments categorized within Level 3 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended Financial assets December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥21,652 ¥32,181 $290 Other comprehensive income (Note 1) 522 (7,899) (71) Purchases or acquisition 11,131 61,743 556 Sales or settlements (324) (1,168) (11) Transfers out of Level 3 (Note 2) (21) (3) (0) Other (778) (3,743) (34) Balance at the end of the year ¥32,181 ¥81,110 $731 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended Financial liabilities December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥173,589 ¥167,667 $1,511 Profit or loss (Note 3) (13,686) 10,744 97 Purchases 32,878 47,879 431 Sales or settlements (25,561) (29,359) (264) Other 447 (6,848) (62) Balance at the end of the year ¥167,667 ¥190,083 $1,712 (Note 1)  Other comprehensive income is associated with financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and included in Net change in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. (Note 2)  Transfers out of Level 3 recognized for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, is due to investees being listed on exchanges. (Note 3)  Profit or loss is associated with financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and included in finance income or expenses. Profit or loss arising from financial instruments held at fiscal year end amounted to finance income of ¥13,686 million and finance expenses of ¥10,744 million ($97 million) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively. (10) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities The amount of financial assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2018, that are against the same counterparty and that are offset in accordance with the criteria for offset, are as follows. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents Total recgonized financial assets ¥87,038 ¥121,466 $1,094 The amount of financial assets and liabilities offset in accordance (51,464) (103,137) (929) with the criteria Net amount recorded in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ¥35,574 ¥18,329 $165 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Borrowings (current) Borrowings (current) Borrowings (current) Total recognized financial liabilities ¥51,708 ¥103,301 $931 The amount of financial assets and liabilities offset in accordance (51,464) (103,137) (929) with the criteria Net amount recorded in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ¥243 ¥163 $1 The amount of financial assets and liabilities that are under enforceable master netting agreements or similar contracts, but are not offset as they do not meet certain or all criteria of offsetting is not material. 130 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance 36. RELATED PARTIES (1) Remuneration for the Company's directors Remuneration for the Company's directors for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (Year ended (Year ended (Year ended December 31, 2017) December 31, 2018) December 31, 2018) Remuneration and bonuses ¥448 ¥527 $5 (2) Major subsidiaries The Company's significant subsidiaries are as follows: Ownership percentage of Company name Location voting rights (%) Dentsu East Japan Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu West Japan Inc. Osaka, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Kyushu Inc. Fukuoka, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Hokkaido Inc. Sapporo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Meitetsu Communications Inc. Nagoya, Japan 50.0 The Goal Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Ad-Gear Inc. Tokyo, Japan 66.7 Dentsu e3 Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Cyber Communications Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Digital Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Live Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Tec Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 DENTSU DIRECT MARKETING INC. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Information Services International-Dentsu, Ltd. Tokyo, Japan 61.8 Dentsu Works Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Dentsu Aegis London Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Aegis International Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Portman Square US Holdings Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Aegis Group Participations Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Aegis Triton Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Aegis GPS Holdings Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Aegis Finance Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 DAN Regents Place Finance Limited London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe Holding GmbH Wiesbaden, Federal Republic of Germany 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe GmbH Wiesbaden, Federal Republic of Germany 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network France SAS Paris, France 100.0 Aegis International Holding Company BV Amsterdam, the Kingdom of the Netherlands 100.0 Dentsu McGarry Bowen,LLC New York, the United States 100.0 360i LLC Atlanta, the United States 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network US Holdings, Inc. New York, the United States 100.0 Merkle Group Inc. Columbia, the United States 74.0 Dentsu Aegis (Shanghai) Investment Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China 100.0 Beijing Dentsu Advertising Co., Ltd. Beijing, China 98.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Australia Holdings Pty Ltd Melbourne, Commonwealth of Australia 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Australia Pt Ltd Melbourne, Commonwealth of Australia 100.0 Consolidated subsidiaries increased by 65, and affiliates accounted for using the equity method increased by 6, during the year ended December 31, 2018. 131 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 37. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 are as follows: Guarantees of loans and other liabilities (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (As of December 31, 2017) (As of December 31, 2018) (As of December 31, 2018) Liabilities on guarantees resulting from a loan scheme for housing ¥207 ¥125 $1 funds for employees Liabilities for guarantees of bank loans and others 1,906 1,837 17 Total ¥2,114 ¥1,963 $18 38. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (Business merger between Cyber Communications Inc., the Group's consolidated subsidiary, and CARTA HOLDINGS, INC. (name changed from VOYAGE GROUP, Inc. on January 1, 2019) Cyber Communications, Inc. ( CCI ), the Group's consolidated subsidiaries, and VOYAGE GROUP, Inc. ( VOYAGE GROUP ), conducted a management integration (the Management Integration ) on January 1, 2019 (the Integration Date ). As of the Integration Date, VOYAGE GROUP conducted a share exchange (the Share Exchange ) in which it acquired all of the outstanding shares of CCI and allotted VOYAGE GROUP common shares to the Company, the parent company of CCI (the Share Exchange ). As a result of the Share Exchange, VOYAGE GROUP became consolidated subsidiary and CCI became a wholly-owned subsidiary of VOYAGE GROUP (sub-subsidiary). In addition, VOYAGE GROUP has caused the Spin-off Preparation Company (hereinafter referred to as the Spin-off Preparation Company ), which was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of VOYAGE GROUP, to be succeeded to the Spin-off Preparation Company through a corporate split, in which VOYAGE GROUP's rights and obligations relating to its business were transferred to Spin-off Preparation Company, and VOYAGE GROUP changed its trade name to CARTA HOLDINGS, INC. upon the transition to a holding company, and the Spin-off Preparation Company changed its trade name to VOYAGE GROUP Inc. (1) The outline of the Business Combination A. Name of the acquired company and its business Name of acquired company: VOYAGE GROUP Inc. (Listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange) Business Description: Ad Platform Business, Point Media Business, Incubation Business B. Reasons for the business combination With the expansion of the smartphone advertising market, the rapid launch of the video advertising market, and an increase in the number of advertisers utilizing data and technology, the business environment in the Internet Advertising (Affiliate) Business has changed dramatically. In this environment, the Group is required to have more sophisticated, specialized technologies and a robust business management system. In this environment, the Group has decided to merge the Advertising (Affiliate) Business to realize further business growth and accelerate development while aiming to expand business results and enhance corporate value by generating synergies by leveraging the strengths of Dentsu, CCI, and VOYAGE GROUP. C. Date of business combination January 1, 2019 D. Legal form of business combination Share exchange in which VOYAGE GROUP becomes the parent company and CCI becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of VOYAGE GROUP. E. Name following business combination CARTA HOLDINGS, Inc. (NOTE) On January 1, 2019,VOYAGE GROUP, INC. changed its name in connection with its transition to a holding company. F. Percentage of voting rights to be acquired 52.9% 132 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance G. Primary basis to determine the acquirer This is because the Company will obtain a majority of the voting rights of VOYAGE GROUP. (2) Matters concerning the calculation of the acquisition consideration, etc. A. Acquisition consideration of the acquiring company and breakdown by type of consideration Acquisition consideration CCI common stock 243,336 shares (Note 1) Fair value of acquisition consideration ¥6,605 million ($60 million) (Note 2) (Note 1) Of the shares of CCI to be issued to VOYAGE GROUP, the number of shares corresponding to the acquisition of VOYAGE GROUP interests is presented. (Note 2) Calculated based on the fair value of VOYAGE GROUP's equity. B. Exchange Ratio and Calculation Method and Number of Shares to be Delivered by Type of Shares (i) Exchange Ratio by Type of Shares 26 common shares of VOYAGE GROUP per common share of CCI (ii) Calculation method The parties decided the share change ratio as above a. taking into factors such as the results of the calculation of the share exchange ratio by several thirdparty calculation organizations, the financial condition of both companies, VOYAGE GROUP share price, and the forecast of future outlook. (iii) Number of shares to be delivered 516,981 common shares of CCI (iv) Number of shares to be acquired 13,441,506 shares of VOYAGE GROUP common shares (allotment of new shares) C. Amount of acquisition-related expenses and account titles The Group has not yet finalized this matter at this time. D. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed The fair values of goodwill, non-controlling interests and assets acquired and liabilities assumed have not been determined at this time. (Corporate Split for Transition to Holding Company Structure) Dentsu Inc. convened a meeting of its Board of Directors at its Head Office in Tokyo on February 19, 2019 and resolved that, by means of a company split, any and all businesses that are being operated by the Company (except for the business pertaining to the governance of the business activities of the companies whose shares are owned by the Company and pertaining to the management of the Dentsu Group; hereinafter referred to as “the Business”) will be succeeded to by its wholly-owned subsidiary DENTSU SUCCESSOR PREPARATORY CORPORATION INC. (incorporated on February 12, 2019, and its trade name is scheduled to be changed to “DENTSU INC.” as of January 1, 2020; hereinafter referred to as the “Successor Company”), and certain absorption-type company split agreement (hereinafter referred to as the “Absorption-type Company Split Agreement”) was executed between the Company and the Successor Company on the same date (hereinafter the company split being referred to as the “Absorption-type Split”). The implementation of the Absorption-type Split and the amendment to the Articles of Incorporation (amendment to the trade name and the business purpose) have been approved at the 170th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 28, 2019. It is being scheduled that, following the Absorption-type Split, effective as of January 1, 2020, the Company’s trade name will be changed to DENTSU GROUP INC., and its business purpose will also be changed in accordance with the business to be conducted subsequent to the shifting to the holding company structure. (1) Objectives of the Absorption-type Split The business and the operating environment of the Company and its Group have been changing radically. In order to respond appropriately and promptly to this series of changes and to achieve the sustainable growth of the Group going forward, there is an urgent need to realize the acquisition and allocation of internal and external management resources on a timely basis from a Group-wide and global perspective, to further promote the management of richly diverse human resources and foster an open organizational culture, and to establish the most appropriate group governance structure. In recognizing the above, the Company has decided to shift to a pure holding company structure in order to drive sustainable growth for the Dentsu Group as a whole, including promotion of business transformation in Japan, and maintenance and further development of the growth momentum of the overseas business headed by its headquarters, Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. 133 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 (2) Summary of the Absorption-type Split A. Timeline of the Absorption-type Split Date of resolution of the Board of Directors on the approval of the Absorption-type Company: February 19, 2019 Split Agreement Date of execution of the Absorption-type Company Split Agreement: February 19, 2019 General meeting of shareholders to approve the Absorption-type Split: March 28, 2019 Effective date of the Absorption-type Split: January 1, 2020 (planned) B. Method of the Absorption-type Split This will be done in the form of an absorption-type company split in which the Company becomes the splitting company and the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, DENTSU SUCCESSOR PREPARATORY CORPORATION INC., becomes the successor company. C. Allocations of shares in respect of the Absorption-type Split Upon the Absorption-type Split, the Successor Company will issue 248,000 ordinary shares, and allocate and deliver all of them to the Company. D. Handling of the share option and the bond with share option issued by the splitting company The Company has not issued any share option or bond with share option. E. The amount of stated capital, etc. to be reduced as a result of the Absorption-type Split There will be no change to the Company’s stated capital. F. The rights and obligations to be assumed by the Successor Company As a result of the Absorption-type Split, the Successor Company will assume, to the extent provided in the Absorption-type Company Split Agreement, the assets, liabilities, employment contracts, and other rights and obligations that pertain to the Business and belong to the Company as of the effective date. The liabilities to be succeeded by the Successor Company shall be jointly and severally assumed by the Company as well. G. Prospects of performance of obligations In light of the fact that, in respect of both of the Company and the Successor Company, no event which may adversely affect performance of the obligations following the Absorption-type Split is, as of today, expected to occur, the Company has determined that there is no issue concerning the prospects of performance of obligations by the Company and the Successor Company following the Absorption-type Split. (3) Outline of the parties to the Absorption-type Split Splitting company Successor company (As of December 31, 2018) (Incorporated on February 12, 2019) DENTSU INC. DENTSU PREPARATION INC. Trade name (Company name to be changed to DENTSU (Company name to be changed to DENTSU GROUP INC. as of January 1, 2020) INC. on January 1, 2020) Advertising and Advertising-Related Businesses Business Advertising and Advertising-Related Businesses (However, the Company will not conduct business until the effective date of the Spin-off.) Incorporation date July 1, 1901 February 12, 2019 Head Office location Tokyo Tokyo Representative Director, President and Chief Representative Representative Director Tadashi Nagae Executive Officer Toshihiro Yamamoto Stated capital ¥74,609 million ¥50 million Number of shares issued 288,410,000 shares 2,000 shares Fiscal year end December 31 December 31 Japan Master Trust Major shareholder and shareholding ratio DENTSU Inc. 100% Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (Trust account) 13.96% 134 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance Financial conditions and business performance of the immediately preceding business year (JGAAP) (Millions of Yen) Fiscal Year ended / as of December 31, 2018 Net assets ¥991,086 Total assets 1,838,638 Sales 1,539,962 Operating income 48,604 Ordinary income 75,414 Net income 94,841 Net income per share (Yen) 336.44 Net assets per share (Yen) 3,515.78 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Fiscal Year ended / as of December 31, 2018 Net assets $8,929 Total assets 16,564 Sales 13,874 Operating income 438 Ordinary income 679 Net income 854 Net income per share (U.S. Dollars) 3.03 Net assets per share (U.S. Dollars) 31.67 (4) Outline of the business of the section to be split off A. Business of the section to be split off Advertising and advertising-related businesses, etc. B. Business performance of the section to be split off (year ended December 31, 2018) (JGAAP) (Millions of Yen) Sales of the business to be split off (a) The Company’s actual sales (b) Ratio (a/b) ¥1,539,962 ¥1,539,962 100% (Millions of Yen) Sales of the business to be split off (a) The Company’s actual sales (b) Ratio (a/b) $13,874 $13,874 100% 135 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 C. Items and amounts of the assets and liabilities to be split off (as of December 31, 2018) (JGAAP) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) Assets Liabilities Item Amount Item Amount Current assets ¥426,517 Current Liabilities ¥450,935 Fixed assets 44,019 Fixed Liabilities 21,723 Total ¥470,537 Total ¥472,659 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Assets Liabilities Item Amount Item Amount Current assets $3,842 Current Liabilities $4,062 Fixed assets 397 Fixed Liabilities 196 Total $4,239 Total $4,258 (Note) Because the items and amounts of the assets and liabilities to be split off pertaining to the above-mentioned business were calculated based on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 and on other current calculation on the same date, and will be determined after adding or deducting the movements recognized until the effective date of the Absorption-type Split, the actual amounts of the assets and liabilities to be split off will be different from above ones. The amount of assets is expected to exceed the amount of liabilities as of December 31, 2019. (5) The Company’s situation after the Absorption-type Split (as of January 1, 2020 (planned)) Splitting Company Successor Company Trade name DENTSU GROUP INC. DENTSU INC. Business Businesses related to group management Advertising and Advertising-Related Businesses Head Office location 1-8-1 Higashi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 1-8-1 Higashi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo Representative Toshihiro Yamamoto, Representative Director Not determined Stated capital ¥74,609 million ¥10,000 million Fiscal year end December 31 December 31 (6) Future outlook The effects of the Absorption-type Split on the Company’s consolidated performance will be immaterial. It is being planned that, as a result of the Absorption-type Split, the Company’s income will be primarily comprised of the dividend income received from the Dentsu Group companies and the income received from rental of real properties, and the Company’s expenses will be primarily comprised of the operating expenses as the holding company and the miscellaneous expenses pertaining to the management of real properties. (Introduction of Performance-Based Stock Compensation Plan) The Company resolved to introduce a performance-based stock compensation plan (hereinafter referred to as the Plan ) for the Company's executive officers (including those who concurrently serve as directors; the same shall apply hereinafter). The Company submitted a proposal for the Plan to the 170th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 28, 2019 (hereinafter referred to as the Shareholders Meeting ) and the plan was approved at the Shareholders Meeting. (1) Background and Purpose of Introduction The Company decided to introduce a new performance-linked stock compensation system as a medium-to long-term bonus for the Company's executive officers, with the aim of further motivating them to implement strategies with a medium-to long-term perspective, which is the mission of our executives. The Company decided to submit a proposal for this system to the General Meeting of Shareholders. Through the introduction of this system, the Company aims to enhance the awareness of the Company's executive officers who contribute to the sustainable growth of the Group and the enhancement of corporate value over the medium to long term by clarifying the linkage between the compensation of the Company's executive officers to business performance and corporate value, and promoting the sharing of interests with the Company's shareholders and other stakeholders. 136 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance (2) Stock-based compensation benefits A. Outline of the Plan The Plan is a performance-based stock compensation plan, which works as follows: Dentsu ordinary shares are acquired through a trust (the trust established pursuant to the Plan, the “Trust”) using the money the Company contributes to the trust. Dentsu ordinary shares and the amount of money equivalent to the value of the Dentsu ordinary shares calculated based on the market value thereof (the market value of a Dentsu ordinary share will be the closing price of such share on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on the day the market value calculation is required (or, if there is no closing price for such day, the immediately preceding closing price); the same applies hereinafter) (such shares and amount of money collectively, the “Dentsu Shares, etc.”) are distributed, as described in (5) below, by the Trust to the Company’s executive officers appointed after the introduction of the Plan (including those who subsequently retired from office; the same applies hereinafter) based on the Company’s business performance in accordance with the Officers Stock Benefit Regulations established by the Company’s Board of Directors. As described in (5) below, as a general rule, the executive officers will actually receive a distribution of Dentsu Shares, etc., after a lapse of three consecutive fiscal years from each first fiscal year for which the distribution is to be made. Introduction of the Plan will further clarify the link between the executive officers’ compensation, on the one hand, and the Company’s business performance and corporate value, on the other hand, and promote the sharing of interests with shareholders and other stakeholders. As a result, the Company will be able to heighten the awareness of the executive officers who are supposed to contribute to sustainable growth and the enhancement of the corporate value of the Dentsu Group over the medium to long term. It should be noted that the Plan will be administered as compensation to the Company’s executive officers and not as compensation to its directors. However, when the Company prescribed a rule at the 167th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 30, 2016 to the effect that the aggregate amount of monetary compensation paid to the directors who are not audit and supervisory committee members would be 1.2 billion yen per annum, the Company obtained the shareholders’ approval on the basis that such aggregate amount of compensation would include the amount of compensation paid for the services performed as executive officers by those who concurrently serve as directors. Therefore, in connection with the administration of the Plan in respect of the executive officers who concurrently serve as directors, the Company has decided to submit to the Shareholders Meeting a proposal for administering the Plan, apart from the above-mentioned monetary compensation, in respect of the executive officers who concurrently serve as directors and also for the framework thereof. B. Subjects of the Plan The Company’s executive officers, including the executive officers who concurrently serve as directors, will be the beneficiaries of the Plan. Executive officers will be entitled to receive a distribution of the Dentsu Shares, etc., on the condition that the executive officer has not been discharged for a legitimate reason and has satisfied all other beneficiary requirements prescribed in the Officers Stock Benefit Regulations. C. Money to be contributed by Dentsu On the condition that the proposal concerning the Plan is approved and passed in its original form at the Shareholders Meeting, the Company will administer the Plan in respect of the fiscal year ending on the last day of December 2019 (the “First Fiscal Year”) and each subsequent fiscal year and thereby distribute the Dentsu Shares, etc., to the executive officers. The Company will contribute money to the Trust as described below in the amount deemed appropriate in the light of the aforementioned objective so that the money will be appropriated as the funds for the Trust to acquire Dentsu ordinary shares for the above purpose. At the time of the creation of the Trust (May 2019 (planned)), regarding the funds necessary in respect of the First Fiscal Year, the Company will contribute up to ¥200 million ($2 million) in total to the Trust as the portion corresponding to the executive officers who concurrently serve as directors, and up to ¥600 million ($5 million) in total as the portion corresponding to all other executive officers. After the First Fiscal Year, so long as the Plan continues to exist, the Company will additionally contribute money to the Trust, for each fiscal year as a general rule, up to ¥900 million ($8 million) in total as the portion corresponding to the executive officers who concurrently serve as directors, and up to ¥2,700 million ($24 million) in total as the portion corresponding to all other executive officers; provided, however, that when Dentsu is to make such additional contribution, if there remains any Dentsu ordinary shares or money in the assets of the Trust (the “Remaining Shares, etc.”), each balance obtained by deducting from the above-mentioned respective maximum amounts the amount of the Remaining Shares, etc., (with regard to a Dentsu ordinary share, the closing price of such Dentsu ordinary share on the Tokyo Stock Exchange for the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year (or, if there is no closing price for such day, the immediately preceding closing price)) corresponding to the executive officers who concurrently serve as directors, and the amount of the Remaining Shares, etc., corresponding to all other executive officers, respectively, be the maximum amount for the additional contribution. During each fiscal year, the Company may contribute money to the Trust on more than one occasion until the aggregate amount contributed within the relevant fiscal year reaches the relevant maximum amounts described above. When the Company has decided to make an additional contribution, it will be disclosed appropriately in a timely manner. 137 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 D. Method of acquiring Dentsu ordinary shares As for the acquisition of Dentsu ordinary shares by the Trust, the Trust will acquire Dentsu ordinary shares with the money contributed, as described in (3) above, by means of either a purchase through the securities exchange or an acceptance of treasury shares disposed of by the company. The Company will not issue new shares to the Trust. Details of the acquisition of Dentsu ordinary shares by the Trust will be disclosed appropriately in a timely manner. E. Distribution of Dentsu Shares, etc., to executive officers In respect of each fiscal year while in office, each executive officer will be granted, on a certain day during the relevant fiscal year (the “Point Grant Day”), the number of points calculated in accordance with the calculation formula prescribed in the Officers Stock Benefit Regulations (the “Basic Points”) as compensation for the performance of the executive officer’s duties during the relevant fiscal year. And by completing the prescribed procedures by a certain date (the “Vesting Date”), after a lapse of three consecutive fiscal years the first fiscal year of which is the fiscal year in which the Point Grant Day falls (such three consecutive fiscal years, the “Business Performance Assessment Period”), the executive officer can acquire, on the Vesting Date, the right to receive a distribution of the Dentsu Shares, etc., from the Trust. At such time, the number of the Basic Points granted to each executive officer in the relevant first fiscal year will be adjusted in accordance with the calculation formula prescribed in the Officers Stock Benefit Regulations based on the business performance during the Business Performance Assessment Period (such adjusted points, the “Finalized Points,” and the Basic Points and the Finalized Points collectively, the “Relevant Points”). Thereafter, the relevant executive officer will be able to receive from the Trust a distribution of the Dentsu Shares, etc., in the amount corresponding to the number of the Finalized Points (as a general rule, the number of Dentsu ordinary shares calculated based on half the number of the Finalized Points, and the amount of money equivalent to the market value, as of the Vesting Date, of the number of Dentsu ordinary shares calculated based on the remaining half of the number of the Finalized Points). The maximum total number of Dentsu ordinary shares to be calculated based on the total number of the Relevant Points granted to the executive officers is 1.44 million shares (approximately 0.5% of our outstanding shares (excluding treasury shares) as of December 31, 2018) for each fiscal year, of which up to 360,000 shares will be allocated to the executive officers who concurrently serve as directors (approximately 0.1%). The said maximum numbers of shares were determined by comprehensively considering such factors as the current level of executive compensation and the trend in the number of executive officers. However, if actions such as a share split, allotment of shares without contribution (kabushiki-musho-wariate), or consolidation of shares are taken in respect of Dentsu ordinary shares, the said maximum numbers of shares will be reasonably adjusted in accordance with the relevant ratio, etc. If any executive officer who expected to receive a distribution of the Dentsu Shares, etc., deceases before the Vesting Date, such executive officer’s surviving family, within certain limitations, may, by completing prescribed procedures, receive an amount of money equivalent to the market value, as of the time of the relevant death, of the number of Dentsu ordinary shares calculated based on the number of the Basic Points granted to such executive officer as of the time of death. In order for the Trust to be able to make a distribution in cash, the Trust may sell any Dentsu ordinary shares it holds as necessary. F. Voting rights pertaining to Dentsu ordinary shares held by the Trust Pursuant to the instruction of the Trust Administrator, who will be independent of Dentsu, the voting rights pertaining to Dentsu ordinary shares held by the Trust will not be exercised at all. Such arrangement is intended to secure neutrality in relation to the company’s management. G. Handling of dividends pertaining to Dentsu ordinary shares held by the Trust Dividends pertaining to Dentsu ordinary shares held by the Trust will be received by the Trust and appropriated for such purposes as the payment of the Dentsu ordinary share acquisition price and the payment of the fee in relation to the Trust. In the event the Trust is to be terminated, money, such as dividends, which remains in the Trust will be donated, in accordance with the provisions of the Officers Stock Benefit Regulations, to charitable organizations that have no interest in the Company or the Company’s executive officers. H. Handling at the time of the termination of the Trust The Trust will be terminated if an event such as the delisting of Dentsu shares or the abolishment of the Officers Stock Benefit Regulations has occurred. It is planned that the Company will acquire free of charge all of the Dentsu ordinary shares existing as residual assets of the Trust at the time of the termination of the Trust and cancel them by a resolution of the Board of Directors. With regard to money existing as a residual asset of the Trust at the time of the termination of the Trust, the balance obtained by deducting the amount to be donated to a charitable organization, as described in (7) above, will be distributed to the company. 138 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Finance I. Other Matters Other details regarding the Plan will be determined by the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company within the boundaries described above. (3) Overview of the Trust · Name: Board Benefit Trust · Trustor: DENTSU INC. · Trustee: Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (Re-Trustee: Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd.) · Beneficiary: Executive officers who satisfy the beneficiary requirements set forth in the Officers Stock Benefit Regulations. · Trust Administrator: Third party with no interest in Dentsu (planned) · Type of trust: Trusts of money other than money trusts(third-party-benefit trust) · Date of conclusion of the Trust agreement: May 31, 2019 (planned) · Date of entrustment of money: May 31, 2019 (planned) · Period of trust: From May 31, 2019 (planned) until termination of the trust (The trust will continue as long as the Plan continues, without stipulating a specific date of termination.) 139 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 140 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Data Subsidiaries and Affiliates Dentsu conducts its business together with its subsidiaries and affiliates. As of December 31, 2018, the Dentsu Group includes 976 consolidated subsidiaries and 74 affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method. ⿟ ⿟Consolidated Subsidiaries Dentsu East Japan Inc. Dentsu Direct Marketing Inc. Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Holding GmbH Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Germany Description of Business: Advertising in the Kanto Description of Business: Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% and Tohoku regions as well as Shizuoka and Niigata Provision of solutions related to direct and digital Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% prefectures marketing Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe GmbH Dentsu West Japan Inc. Information Services International-Dentsu, Geographic Area: Germany Geographic Area: Japan Ltd.*² *³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Description of Business: Advertising in the Chugoku Equity Held by Dentsu: 61.8% Dentsu Aegis Network France SAS*³ region and Shikoku as well as Hyogo, Ishikawa, Equity Held Indirectly: 0.0% Fukui and Toyama prefectures Description of Business: Information systems Geographic Area: France building; software sales and support Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Kyushu Inc. for various business areas Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Works Inc. Aegis International Holding Company BV*³ Description of Business: Advertising in Kyushu Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Netherlands Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Hokkaido Inc. Description of Business: Environment-related Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan consulting, building management, Dentsu McGarry Bowen, LLC*³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% real estate services and business consulting services Description of Business: Advertising in Hokkaido Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd.*³ Geographic Area: U.S.A. Dentsu Meitetsu Communications Inc.*¹ Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% 360i LLC*³ Equity Held by Dentsu: 50.0% Description of Business: Headquarters of the Description of Business: Total advertising services, Dentsu Group’s global business, specializing in promotion and out-of-home media which oversees operations outside of Japan Geographic Area: U.S.A. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% The Goal Inc. Dentsu Aegis London Ltd. Dentsu Aegis Network US Holdings, Inc.*³ Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Fashion and accessories Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: U.S.A. industry advertising Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Aegis International Ltd.*³ Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Dentsu Ad-Gear Inc. Geographic Area: United Kingdom Merkle Group Inc. Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 66.7% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: U.S.A. Description of Business: Advertising firm Equity Held by Dentsu: 74.0% Portman Square US Holdings Ltd.*³ specializing in out-of-home media and store Equity Held Indirectly: 74.0% promotions Geographic Area: United Kingdom Dentsu Aegis (Shanghai) Investment Co., Ltd. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Cyber Communications Inc. Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: China Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Aegis Group Participations Ltd.*¹ Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: United Kingdom Description of Business: Internet-based advertising Beijing Dentsu Advertising Co., Ltd. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% media rep Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: China Equity Held by Dentsu: 98.0% Dentsu Digital Inc. Aegis Toriton Ltd. Dentsu Aegis Network Australia Holdings Pty Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Ltd.*³ Description of business: Consulting, development Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Australia and implementation, management and operation Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% in all digital marketing domains Aegis GPS Holdings Ltd.*³ Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: United Kingdom Dentsu Live Inc. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% and 940 other companies Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Planning and production Aegis Finance Ltd.*³ *1 Although Dentsu’s ownership is 50% or less, the of events, support of operations related to event Geographic Area: United Kingdom Company is considered a subsidiary because spaces, etc. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu exerts effective control. Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% *2 It is a Company which Submits Annual Securities Dentsu Tec Inc. Report. Geographic Area: Japan DAN Regents Place Finance*³ *3 It is a Specified Subsidiary. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: United Kingdom Description of Business: Planning and Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% production for sales promotions, events, Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% commercials, print, etc. 141 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019 ⿟ ⿟Affiliated Companies Accounted for by the Equity Method Video Research Ltd. Septeni Holdings Co., Ltd.*¹ Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 34.2% Equity Held by Dentsu: 21.0% Description of Business: TV audience rating surveys, radio audience rating surveys Description of Business: and other research Internet-based advertising and media Rep D2C Inc. Geographic Area: Japan and 71 additional companies Equity Held by Dentsu: 46.0% Description of Business: Advertising for i-mode and other mobile platforms *1 It is a Company Which Submits Annual Securities Report. Information for Shareholders (As of December 31, 2018) Corporate Headquarters Stock Exchange Listing Transfer Agent 1-8-1, Higashi-shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo Tokyo Stock Exchange, First Section The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking 105-7001, Japan Securities code: 4324 Corporation Phone: +81-3-6216-5111 4-5, Marunouchi 1-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Capital 100-8212, Japan Contact Info 74,609.81 million yen Investor Relations Department, Internet Address Corporate Strategy Division, Total Number of Shares Issued http://www.dentsu.com 1-8-1, Higashi-shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 288,410,000 105-7001, Japan Email: irmail@dentsu.co.jp General Meeting of Shareholders The Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders is held in Tokyo in March each year. Share Information (As of December 31, 2018) Breakdown of Shareholders by Type Major Shareholders (Top 10) Percentage of Percentage of Number of Number of Number of Total Number of Major Shareholders Total Number Shareholders Shares Held Shares Held Shares Issued of Shares Issued Japanese financial 82 103,455,246 35.87 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 39,365,600 13.65 institutions (Trust accounts) Japanese Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 38 6,709,939 2.33 securities firms 22,461,100 7.79 (Trust accounts) Other Japanese 607 77,016,949 26.70 corporations Kyodo News 18,988,800 6.58 Japanese individuals and Jiji Press, Ltd. 16,328,680 5.66 34,721 44,902,744 15.57 others (Including treasury stock) Dentsu Inc. 6,513,459 2.26 Foreign institutions and 668 56,325,122 19.53 individuals Group Employees' Stockholding Association 5,916,491 2.05 Total 36,116 288,410,000 100.00 Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 5,000,000 1.73 Yoshida Hideo Memorial Foundation 4,984,808 1.73 Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. 4,929,900 1.71 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 4,568,300 1.58 (Trust account 5) Note: The percentage of total number of share shows the ratio of shares held by each investor to the total number of issued shares. 142 Dentsu Integrated Report 2019
