UNITED NATIONS – GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress COP OSM Sustainability ReportYear 2018 13 Feb 2018 to 12 Feb 2019 United Nations Global Compact Reporting year: 2018 Member since: 13/02/2017 www.osm.no, OSM Maritime Group Page 1 of 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Statement of continued support of COO / President…………………………………………………………….. 4 2. OSM Maritime Group – Overview………………………………………………………………………………………… 5 3. OSM Mission, Vision and Values …………………………………………………………………………………………… 6 4. OSM systems and definitions………………………………………………………………………………………………… 6 5. OSM and The UN Global Compact Progress………………………………………………………………………….. 7 6. Stakeholders Management, Engagement and Relationship………………………………………………….. 10 7. Governance………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 15 8. The 10 principles………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 19 9. Human Rights………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 19 10. Labour…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 21 11. Environment………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 26 12. Anti-Corruption……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 30 13. Corporate Social Responsibility……………………………………………………………………………………………. 32 14. The Sustainable Development Goals……………………………………………………………………………………. 36 15. Follow the next steps…………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 62 16. Attachments……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 64 Attachment I OSM CSR activities reported – 2018. Attachment II 10 principles of UN Global compact Attachment III: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2018 Page 2 of 58 About the writer: Capt. Bhaskar Sengupta, (B.Sc, AFNI). Environmental Compliance Manager. Proficient strategist to improve the United Nations Global Compact by executing Human rights, Labour, Environmental & Anti-Corruption for sustainability of the maritime industry and OSM Maritime Group. Regulate problem areas and recommend economical, practical, logical solution. Worked on various scopes of maritime environmental issues. Offer advisory and appraisal services to our internal team & external clients and stakeholders. A Science Graduate from University of Kolkata, India and a Master Mariner with 16 years of sailing Experience on Dry and Wet vessels and 14 years of shore experience at various social statuses. TERMS AND DEFINITION CSR Corporate Social Responsibility COP Communication in progress RMQA Risk Management & Quality Assurance SDG Sustainable Development goals SLA Service Level Agreement CYMEPA Cyprus Marine Environment Protection Association SIEM Siem Offshore Australia Pty Ltd. SIRC Seafarers International Research Centre LABORAL EXERCISES Workplace exercise ENKURS Novikontas Maritime College is pleased to open the contest Enkurs for 11 times already! On March 20th was held the first round of the contest Enkurs , in which participated 7 school teams from different cities in Latvia. Team competitions were held using the most interesting and professional equipment of the college simulators of the captain's bridge Full Mission Bridge and Small Mission Bridge, as well as in the firefighting training base, using breathing apparatus, fire extinguishers and special protective clothing. New competitions, encouraging Martim and team spirit made this day truly exciting! Sympathy Award from Novikontas this year went to the team of the Riga 31st School! Congratulations! And of course, we congratulate the winners of the first round of the contest Enkurs Ernsta Glika Alūksnes Valsts ģimnāzija! YME Foundation The YME Foundation. Munkedamsveien 59. 0270 OSLO, Norway. Objectives: To work for an effective utilisation of local resource both natural and human in developing countries. To act as an action-oriented forum, where skilled people form the fields of housing, water and sanitation energy and agriculture can exchange ideas, experiences and information. Page 3 of 58 Page 4 of 58 OSM MARITIME GROUP OVERVIEW The OSM Maritime Group provides complete service solutions to the Offshore and Maritime Industry. These ripostes offer one point of contact and a one-stop shop for: SERVICES TRAINING Technical Ship Management Training Academy Crew Management Catering Academy Cruise & Passenger Management iLearn New Building Management Meet our Faculty Offshore Management AIM Team for on board Training and mentoring OSM People OSERV eCrew Over the years, the OSM Maritime Group has established a strong and beneficial relationship with our clients & stakeholders which lets in both trivial and large companies within the maritime, offshore sector. OSM Crew Management recruits, employees and manage crew and technical personnel such as: MARITIME CREW OFFSHORE CONSTRUCTION CREW CONVENTIONAL VESSEL PERSONNEL VESSEL & CRUISE & FERRY HOSPITALITY CATERING SERVICES OIL & GAS PERSONNEL OSM People By judiciously selecting qualified personnel with the right job openings. We ensure that both our clients as well as our employees remains gratified with our professional services. OSM is ISO 9001:2015 & ISO 14001:2015 accredited company, by DNV, GL. OSM also TRACE certified. In 2018 the OSM Maritime Group joins Baltic and International Maritime Council (BIMCO). OSM Further comply with ISO 45001:2018, 31000:2018, 50001: 2011, 19011:2011, 55001:2016, 13739: 2010, 8217:2017 Page 5 of 58 OSM MISSION, VISION AND VALUES VISION Our vision is to be a long-term partner for our customers, a home for our people and an asset in society. The OSM Maritime Group has a long custom of being a provider of quality service, functional safety and environmental protection in the marine transportation industry. Our goal is to constantly improve our reputation as a premier shipping company and to provide our services with integrity and reliability aiming for zero incidents and zero spills. MISSION To give to our customers' success. At OSM our mission is to go that extra mile to be our customer's first preference to supply dependable, high character and dependable services. We propose to be a key collaborator for our clients, assuring that our services provide momentous value to their job. The OSM Maritime Group is dedicated to conduct its operations in a way which encourages safety, protects human life, the environment and property. Safety, Health, Quality and Environmental responsibilities extend throughout the organization. Everyone is expected to take a personal, proactive and constructive role in our drive for flawless, efficient, competitive and customer focused operations and to participate in our efforts to achieve our targets of zero incidents and zero spills. VALUES As a member of the OSM Maritime Group, all OSM employees live by the values of the Group. The values are at the core of OSM Maritime Group and are a key element of the company’s vision and way of doing business. At OSM our daily operations are guided by our four key values: Being Responsible Being Team Builders Being Always On Being Friendly To learn more about our Values please visit OSM Values. Page 6 of 58 OSM SYSTEMS AND DEFINITIONS MARITIME OPERATIONS CENTRE OSM’s commitment to developing smart solutions, has reached another milestone in the construction of its Maritime Operations Centre. The facility, developed in partnership with a Singapore based analytics company, will allow OSM, to join all its data sources around the world, and convey complex information in a simple graphical interface that will be operational from any device, anywhere in the world. Mariners will be able to access the same information as teams onshore, empowering their decision making, while safety and incident response abilities will be improved through better, 24/7 access to all usable data and full-time monitoring. IRIS – Is the Improvement Reporting and Information System (IRIS), a complete business solution for risk and QHSE management. Is a web-based reporting system that is utilised to register, determine root causes, nonconformities, customer complaints, suggestions for improvement, suggest changes in routines, and deviations from any number in our system or customer requirements emerging from regular process or audits. IRIS enables and encourages all employees to report any non-conformity or complaint regarding the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) and other applicable national, international or internal principles and regulations. It makes possible for our users to meet and comply with industry standards and needs of the TMSA, The ISM code, ISPS code and ISO 9000/14001. E-CREW – is a Crewing Information Management System used across all OSM offices, to make out and store vessels, applicants, and seafarers’ records. It is a web-based application that is built up in-house and integrated with several systems, that eases the processing of e.g. payroll, bank transactions, training, and other third-party services. It also allows the seafarers to transparently check their records, not limited to personal information and planning. Further widened with a mobile application called MyOSM, that can also be used by both seafarers, and new applicants. It operates both in iOS and Android devices for access convenience and portability. In addition, customers are also given access to eCrew for monitoring and viewing purposes. Since privacy is of main concern nowadays, preventive measures are imposed, and constant assessment of vulnerability and security treat is conducted. The application is continuously developed and currently being adjusted, to comply with various data protection laws’ (primary GDPR and DPA) requirements, in this respect. OSM We will refer to the OSM Maritime Group as “OSM” throughout this report. Page 7 of 58 OSM AND THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS 2018 Actions and Status OSM has joined the UN Global Compact on 13 February 2017. This is our 2nd year report. On our last “Communication on progress (COP) report we had set 10 major focus areas for the year 2018. Please find bellow the measurement analysis. 1. Policy: Published 3 new policies and made a revision of last 4 policies, to ascertain compliance with “The United Nations Compact” guidelines for sustainability in our line of work and to meet legal requirements. New policies are: • Global Privacy Policy. • Finance and Accounting policy. • Global Recruitment Policy. Policies reviewed and amended for alignment are: • Quality Policy. • Alcohol and Drug Policy. • Human Resource. • Global Code of Conduct. 2. Accomplishment Expanded “the UN Global compact” project at group levels, including other operational units from OSM Maritime Group and oversee our global CSR initiatives. We had initiated our efforts on expanding our sustainability principles and initiatives to all units of the OSM Maritime Group. The maritime and shipping industry experienced several challenges during the year for which internal restructuring project has been started. To maintain quality service to our customers with reasonable cost our management had concluded to close few non-profit making offices and transferred trained professional at other suitable locations with mutual consent. 3. Customer Feedback Last year we had launched our materiality assessment survey to engage our stakeholders and clearly understand what they care about, Idea to focus further on our client’s needs. We had updated our OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation worksheet and our next stakeholders mapping review will be carried out in the period of 2019. 4. Environmental Management Run out and monitor environmental programs during last period, to understand and evaluate the environmental impact of OSM services and product of our communities and society. This was partially carried out in a few places. OSM has hired an Environmental Compliance Manager to assist the OSM Maritime group in its efforts towards environmental management and compliance. During the next period planned to implement ISO 14001:2015 and Environmental Management System across our total group. 5. Audit Incorporate the 10 principles in our inner and external audit checklist. Efforts extended during the last year to standardize among the entire group. However, management decided to put on hold due some internal restructuring. Planned to enforce during the next period. Page 8 of 58 6. Awareness Conducted awareness campaign for the UN Global compact 10 principles and the selected sustainable Development goals (SDG3, SDG4 and SDG8) to bring awareness to our stakeholders; • SDG3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all historic periods. • SDG4: Ensure inclusive & equitable quality education and encourage lifelong learning opportunities for all. • SDG8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full & productive employment and decent employment for all. We have invested heavily on communication with our internal and external stakeholders to raise the awareness of our initiatives and to properly engage them. Further data on all efforts regarded communication with our stakeholder are presented in the Stakeholders Management, Engagement and Relationship section of this report. 7. Media Implemented internal and external awareness campaigns, including social media, focusing on the success stories of female seafarers working in our fleet and others, in parliamentary procedure to increase the percentage of female seafarers in our seafarer pool. We understand that by increasing the awareness and the entree to information we will be able to increase the representativeness of women. OSM has dedicated the month of October to gender equality and in raising the woman’s of OSM to raise awareness on social media. An internal campaign was also picked up in October, focusing on or own female leaders. Furthermore, various attempts were carried out during 2018, on social media to deepen awareness and encourage more woman to pursue a career within the maritime industry. Last year, 9% of our social media posts was dedicated to gender equality, aiming to bring the awareness to females about a carrier in the marine industry. 8. Scholarships OSMAD Foundation will launch a project of 5 scholarships for school year 2018-2019 to support students from Ifugao community wherein the poverty incidence rate is high, in the Philippines; From July 2018, 7 College scholarship was granted 5 for community scholars, 1 to dependent of seafarer and 1 to OSM employee. Scholarship grant includes: Tuition fee, Monthly allowance, Dormitory, School uniforms and materials and Other school-connected items and actions. 9. Improvements Reviewed SMS Manual to improve our risks and opportunities committee to carry out our sustainable growth target. 10. Initiative Management concluded to bring Sustainability Analysis department under RMQA. This study will be performed by a single resource allocated under the new Risk Management and Quality assurance (RMQA) department of the OSM Maritime Group. Page 9 of 58 OSM AND SUSTAINABILITY IN THE PAST Aligned with the 10 principles of “The UN Global Compact”, Sustainability and CSR has always been a priority for OSM, and this is reflected in Our Vision: “Our vision is to be a long-term partner for our customers, a home for our people and an asset in society.” Although the participation as a member of the UN Global compact is recent, the history of engagement with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability of OSM is not new. Several enterprises have been carried out by OSM Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc in Manila with our strong and extensive Family Welfare Program. Anchored in promoting the benefit of the family through activities catering to health, financial, values and social responsiveness, the Family Welfare program has been brought to greater heights through the creation of the OSM Adonis Donato Foundation. The foundation aims to institutionalize its Family Welfare Program and its Community Service Program. Through this initiative OSM hopes to improve its services to those people in need within the local community. The foundation is run by its Vision of: Family Welfare Program, Education & Scholarship Program used to help the poor members of the community, as considerably as the beneficiaries of OSM’s employees who cannot give a college education. Disaster Response & Rehabilitation Program Foundation focused on Disaster Response in the Philippines. Likewise, the activities developed by the OSM Adonis Donato Foundation, several OSM offices develop locally CSR initiatives to support the development of local residential areas and to reach out too many of our less fortunate community members and empower them to live fuller lives. Today, as members of the UN Global Compact, we purpose to align all initiatives carried out locally in a more integrated fashion, with a worldwide overview. This second report is a clear representation of OSM today and where we plan to be at the time to do. Our objective is to improve our performance and commitment towards the UN Global compact within Crew Management division of the OSM Maritime Group and further expand this project to ensure the entire OSM Maritime Group as well including all operating units soon. Page 10 of 58 STAKEHOLDERS MANAGEMENT, ENGAGEMENT AND RELATIONSHIP In 2017, the OSM Maritime Group has taken its first stakeholder mapping for our worldwide operations. We have decided to reassess our stakeholder mapping every two years. Established on the stakeholder mapped in the exercise made in 2017, we have heavily invested between 2018 on our stakeholder engagement through our materiality assessment survey and social media posts and campaigns. We contrive to keep growing in our stakeholder mapping and its management and relationship. The effects of the first stakeholder mapping are available in the concluding part of this report, on the attachments section. We set up our main stakeholders list, our main synergies and interactions, their expectations, how we managed them and how we plan to proceed win a future for long term relation. OSM recognize their importance and is investing in bettering the relationship with our Stakeholders around the earth. More information to be launch in the Attachment section, in the balance of this report: Attachment III: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2018. Materiality assessment survey OSM has launched its first materiality survey in October of 2018. We determine as “material” the events and topics of higher importance or significance for our clientele and stakeholders. The creation and strategy process involved in its evolution was long and full. Several sections and employees from different levels and uses of OSM were consulted. To determine the issues and topics to be included on it, we have conferred with our risk committee aiming to include all relevant details. All matters included in the materiality assessment survey can be considered as risks and opportunities to OSM. It was designed to cover all principles from the UN Global Compact and detailed information can be found in the Attachment section, at the end on this report identified as Table II 10 principles of UN Global Compact and related topics selected for the OSM Materiality assessment survey. A group of 81 topics has been separated and grouped into 19 themes. We have taken an inclusive strategy for our stakeholder engagement approach, including a wider range of stakeholders. Our materiality assessment was sent by e-mail to our internal stakeholders and it was available to all our stakeholders on social media. The creation process is described below: Page 11 of 58 Step 1 – Topics and Issues identification: A list of sustainability issues and topics deemed to be directly relevant to OSM across our value chain was defined containing 81 topics grouped into 19 issues. The selected issues are risks or opportunities to OSM and were separated in conformity with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. The list was given to key persons in OSM leadership teams for validation and approval. Step 2 – Survey design and strategy definition: We have selected MS forms as the platform to design the survey. The visual graphs were created targeting all OSM stakeholders. For our first materiality assessment survey, OSM selected to deliver an inclusive strategy by answering our survey accessible to all OSM stakeholders. All answers were anonymous in respect of GDPR laws. Step 3 – Tests Groups: Two test groups were set, feedback was gathered, and improvements were made. The acceptance level was off 97%. Step 4 Stakeholder engagement: The survey was sent internally by e-mail, an announcement on OSM internal website and publications on different platforms of OSM social media were made to make the survey available to the largest number of stakeholders. The answers were collected for one month and a half and a total of 95 responses were received. Step 5 Data validation: The materiality matrix was drafted and reviewed. The material Issues were defined. Step 6 Issue prioritization: We assessed the scores of each issue associated with its impact on the business and its importance to our stakeholders. These were plotted along a draft materiality matrix where the answers of the Impact on the business were inserted on the X-axis and the Importance of our stakeholders were introduced along the Y-axis. The events with the highest scores on impact and Importance were defined as the material ones. Step 7 Strategic alignment: The results were presented and aligned with the Risk Management and Quality Assurance (RMQA), the compliance team and the leadership team. The 2019 strategy regarded sustainability was defined, data included in this report and the topics and issues defined as of higher risk/importance presented to the RMQA. Page 12 of 58 The results of our materiality assessment are presented below: OSM Materiality Matrix Safety, Health, and Wellness Respect for Human Rights High Fair Employment and Labour Rights (direct Education and Development of our People and indirect) 8.90 Major Accidents and Non-Conformity with Risk Management applicable laws and industry standards Anti-corruption and Transparency Oil or Chemical Spill Importance to our Stakeholders Waste Management, Recycling, and Conscious Consumption Innovation Towards Sustainability Significant Diversity, Inclusion, and Gender Equality Energy Consumption and Green Energy Sources CO2 Emissions (Greenhouse gas emissions) 8.20 Natural Resource and Water Stewardship Climate Change Supplier Qualification and Development Responsible Marketing and Communication Circular… Business and Economic Growth in Developing Countries Moderate 7.50 7.50 Moderate 8.10 Significant 8.70 High Impact on OSM Human Rights Labour Rights Environmental Protection Anti-corruption The topics selected as Material by our stakeholders are: 1. Safety, Health, and Wellness – Associated with Labour rights; 2. Regard for Human Rights – Associated with Human rights; 3. Education and Development of our People – Associated with Labour rights; and 4. Fair Employment and Labour Rights (direct and indirect) – Associated with Labour rights. Most replies for our materiality assessment were offered by OSM employees, though we also counted replies from Suppliers, Customers, Competitors, Community members, Certification bodies and others. The majority of OSM stakeholders that have responded to our study, identified themselves with the Masculine Gender (59%), 34% identified themselves with the Feminine Gender. 5% choose not to say and 2% identified themselves as Non-Binary (Not exclusively Male or Female). Subsequently the data analysis, we can say that we were able to bring representatively and inclusion of all our stakeholders. We will concentrate on selected material Issues during 2019, embedding them into our scheme and we will concentrate on them while reporting next year. The information gained will also be applied by our risk committee to better manage our risks and chances. Page 13 of 58 SOCIAL MEDIA STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY Across 2018, OSM has invested to a great extent in social media campaigns and communications as part of the stakeholder engagement strategy associated with Sustainability and the UN Global Compact. Today, companies operate under the public eye and we Stakeholders care about our corporate social behaviour. Our marketing and social media in stakeholder management and engagement is designed based on transparency were all risks and opportunities are well evaluated. We see that our company behaviours and actions can induce an immediate impact on our reputation on social media once all content can now be shared. Stakeholders mapping Total of followers of OSM on Social Social Media Total of followers % Media LinkedIn 55758,00 64,8% 1.7% 0.2% Facebook 28723,00 33,4% 33.4% Instagram 1437,00 1,7% 64.8% Twitter 177,00 0,2% Total 86095,00 100,0% LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Twitter In 2018, the majority our posts in social media were on the Facebook platform, representing 3%, followed by Instagram with 31% and LinkedIn with 30%. During 2018 a total of 151 topics was published on social media content associated with: • Labour rights (23%), • Human rights (16%), • Environmental protection (14%) and • Anticorruption (3%). It also covered the Sustainable Development goals: • SDG8 (15%), • SGD4 (11%), • SDG3 (8%), and • Gender equality (9%). Page 14 of 58 RISK MANAGEMENT AND QUALITY ASSURANCE (RMQA) In October of 2018 the Risk management and Quality Assurance team of OSM was established to ensure our 2020 Vision: stable RMQA organization that offers services to the OSM group and its customers, future revenue flow for the OSM group, and common platform for continuous improvement and risk management in the OSM group that will lead to the sustainability of our concern. The RMQA team will work at group level, reporting to the executive team and acting in in the four areas as below: 1. Maritime Standards; 2. Risk advisory; 3. Audits, Investigation and mentoring; and 4. Environmental compliance and Sustainability. First RMQA meeting held in Arendal, Norway in August of 2018. Page 15 of 58 THE 10 PRINCIPLES In this section we describe all practical actions as policies implementation, procedures and activities that OSM has taken to implement the UN Global Compact principles in each of the four targeted areas: • Human rights, • Labour, • Environment and • Anti-corruption. OSM support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and make certain that the Human Rights for its employees are respected and preserved. Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OSM Maritime Group CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY (FCO-POLICY-CSR) reflects the support of Human Rights. • OSM recognizes that governments accept the main obligation to advance and protect human rights. OSM will work with governments and agencies to affirm and value human rights within our field of influence. OSM will not tolerate human rights abuses and will not absorb or be complicit in any bodily process that solicits or encourages human rights abuse. OSM will always endeavour to establish trust, deliver mutual advantage and show respect for human dignity and rights in all relationships it enters, including respect for cultures, customs and values of individuals and groups. In summation, the HUMAN RESOURCES (HR) POLICY (FCO-POLICY-HR) further declare that OSM adopts a non-discriminating practice that strives to guarantee equal treatment in recruitment irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, nationality or faith. In our MANNING POLICY (MAP) we also declare that “no discrimination in any course shall be tolerated by OSM Management with respect to list intended to preclude or deter seafarers from gaining employment for which are qualified, national origin, cultural background, race, gender, faith, disability and age”. The dedication to the Human Rights is once more reinforced by our values: to be RESPONSIBLE, TEAM BUILDERS, FRIENDLY and ALWAYS ON. The OSM Maritime Group has developed its own reporting system called IRIS Improvement Reporting and Information System that enables and encourages all employees to report any non-conformity or complaint regarding the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) and other applicable national, international or internal rules and regulations. With the backing of our management system and of our Business ProcessesGrievance Procedure all crew complaints can be properly welcomed and processed. Page 16 of 58 Another important practice to be mentioned, as part of our management system and of our Business Processes, is the Management Review. At the start of each year the Top Management of OSM carries out a recap of the company’s policy statement, with the assistance of the Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) Global team. Necessary adjustments of the policy will be instructed, whenever applicable. We guarantee the compliance with principles 1 and 2 in our global supplier’s network through a contracted Service Level Agreement (SLA) and through our procurement operations. For 2019, OSM plans to expand this control and partner with OSERV. The compliance level based of our key suppliers will be accessed during audits or, business inspections to be acquitted by our recently formed audit team. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives were described by different OSM offices around the world, some of them covering items 1 and 2. You can get more info about it on the Section Corporate Social Responsibility of this account. OSM have been investigating any potential violation related to principles 1 and 2 covered. During 2018 there was 8 cases were reported on IRIS associated with potential violations, representing 2% of the total of reports, all were investigated, and measures were taken as and when applicable. We are committed to securing that principles 1 and 2 are fully respected in our operations. A whistle blow channel will be established in 2019 and an ethics committee headed by OSM Chief Legal & the Compliance Officer (member of the OSM executive team) will oversee compliance programs and projects. During 2018, 16% of our social media publications and Marketing campaigns were associated with principles 1 and 2. We aim to raise the awareness of OSM stakeholders and share what OSM has been doing towards Human rights. We can ensure the compliance with those two principles, based on our policies, our business processes and the implemented systems. Page 17 of 58 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The basic aims of the MLC, 2006 are: ✓ To ensure comprehensive worldwide protection of the rights of seafarers (the Convention is sometimes called the seafarers’ Bill of Rights); and ✓ To establish a level playing field for countries and shipowners committed to providing decent working and living conditions for seafarers, protecting them from unfair competition on the part of substandard ships.” (ISBN 978-92-2-129758-1) The Maritime Labour Convention governs the minimum requirements for seafarers to work on board of a vessel and the conditions of employment, accommodation, food and catering on board, recreational facilities, health protection, medical care, welfare, social security protection and financial security for the seafarers in case of repatriation or abandoning of a ship. OSM takes Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 seriously and committed to continuously improving the compliance with it. Our HUMAN RESOURCES (HR) POLICY (FCO-POLICY-HR) clearly states that: • OSM respects the rights of its employees to associate freely, join or not join trade unions and/or workers councils, or engage in collective bargaining, in accordance with national law and international conventions. • We do not use or benefit from, forced or involuntary labour. • The acceptable minimum age for full time employees is 18 years. • OSM adopts a non-discriminating practice that strives to ensure equal treatment in recruitment irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, nationality or religion. Our CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY states that “OSM is committed to protecting the health and safety of all individuals affected by our activities, including our employees, contractors and the public. OSM will provide a safe and healthy working environment and will not compromise the health and safety of any individual associated with our business.” Our commitment and respect to principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 is reinforced on our MANNING POLICY: “OSM will always verify that labour conditions on ships where seafarers are placed are in conformity with applicable Page 18 of 58 collective bargain agreements with a representative seafarer’s organization and supply seafarers only to ship owners that offer terms and conditions of employment to seafarers who comply with applicable laws or regulations or collective agreements and Minimum Safe Manning Certificate. With the support of our management system and of our Business Processes, on our Grievance Procedure we clearly define the right of any seafarer to file a complaint arising from an alleged violation of his contract or any other rights. Those complaints, when received, will be registered on our reporting system called IRIS Improvement Reporting and Information System. In 2018 OSM had registered in IRIS 10 Crew complaints, representing 3% of the total of reports. OSM have been investigating any potential violation related to principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 reported. In 2018, 16 cases were reported on IRIS associated with potential violations, representing 5% of the total of reports issued, all were investigated, and measures were taken as and when applicable. We are committed to securing that principle 3,4, 5 and 6 is fully respected in our operations. To develop and promote the Risk-based thinking on OSM, we have established a Risk committee with participants of all operational areas and from different office locations. This risk committee evaluates our risks and opportunities and define actions to manage it. We also have a change management process to proper access and manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities are also submitted to a risk evaluation. In October of 2018 the Risk management and Quality Assurance team of OSM was established to ensure our 2020 Vision: stable RMQA organization that provides services to the OSM group and its customers, future revenue stream for the OSM group, and common platform for continuous improvement and risk management in the OSM group that will contribute to the sustainability of our business. Occupational and operational risks related to OSM are managed in accordance with our Health, Safety and Environment Policy (HSEP) for Crewing services and by our HSEQ POLICY (TQM-05) for technical management services. The effectiveness of our management system is monitored through annual internal and external audits. During the last tenure 23% of our social media publications and Marketing campaigns were associated with principles 3, 4, 5 and 6. We aim to raise the awareness of OSM stakeholders and share what OSM has been doing towards Labour rights. During 2019 we plan to intensify the compliance with Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6, by increasing the compliance level with MLC, 2006 requirements. OSM had implemented some e-learning tools across 2018 as I-learn and LinkedIn learning to increase the knowledge on important and key topics as MLC 2006. It’s possible to observe the percentage of compliance of OSM with MLC, 2006 requirements within the years. Our percentage of compliance with MLC improved 2% from past years. OSM Maritime Group Crew Management: MLC Compliance 100 95 % 90 85 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Page 19 of 58 OSM has 30 offices in different locations worldwide, with a multicultural office staff (35 nationalities). The multicultural work environment adds value to our global operations. Although most of our office employees identify itself with the Female gender (51%), our leadership is mainly constituted by persons of Male gender (from 71 to 88%). Nationality of Offcie Employees (%) 45% 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% Burmese Dutch Guatemalan Hungarian Lithuanian Spanish Sri Lanken Taiwanese Colombian French American Angolan Greek Portuguese Swedish Russian Malaysian Australian Latvian Indonesian Danish British Congolese German Finnish Croatian Ukrainian Chinese Cypriot Polish Brazilian Indian Singaporean Norwegian Fillipino Offcie Employees per Gender Leadership Team per gender (%) (%) 100% 80% Female Male 60% 40% 20% 51% 49% 0% Executive Team Operational Head of countries Leadership Team Male Female Offcie Employees per age group (%) 25% 20% 20% 19% 15% 15% 13% 10% 10% 8% 6% 5% 5% 3% 1% 0% 31-35 36-40 41-45 26-30 46-50 51-55 20-25 56-60 61-65 66+ Page 20 of 58 In 2018, OSM counted with 11.000 (9.594, as per e-crew) seafarers of 57 different nationalities. The multicultural seafarer pool add value to OSM global operations and to our clients. Most nationalities of our seafarers are 55% Philippines, 11% Ukraine, 7% Poland, 4% Norway, 3% Brazil, China, and India each, 2% Croatia and Russia – Each and 10% others. Angola Australia Belarus Seafarers per nationality (%) Brazil Bulgaria Cameroon Canada Chile China 3% 3% 2% Croatia Czech Republic Denmark 11% Estonia Faroe Islands Finland 2% 3% France Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Hong Kong 4% Hungary Iceland India 7% Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Korea South Latvia Lithuania Madagaskar Malaysia Mexico Morocco Myanmar Netherlands New Zealand Nigeria Norway Panama Peru Philippines Poland Portugal 55% Republic of Congo Romania Russia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sweden Turkey Ukraine The majority of our seafarers’ employees still identify itself as Male gender we were able to increase the percentage of female seafarers in 1% (From 3% in 2017 to 4% in 2018). Although women are a minority among our seafarers, OSM presents a higher percentage of women on board than the industry: Statistics from the maritime industry show that women represent only 2% of the world's maritime workforce. (Source: ITF Seafarers) On regards to the percentage of female seafarers in leadership positions we are at the same level as the general Statistics from the maritime industry. In 2018, a total of 231 Catering Trainees studied in our Catering program in Manila, Philippines, 39% of those are Females. We had an increase of 63% in the total of Catering Trainees in comparison with 2017 data. Although the percentage of females in the Seafarers per Gender (%) Seafarers in Leadership position per gender (%) Male Female Female Male 4% 2% 96% 98% Catering trainee program was reduced by 7% in comparison with data from 2017, the absolute number of females enrolled in the has increased in comparison with past year data, going from 65 in 2017 to 89 in 2018. In our Future Leaders program, we have a total of 344 Cadets and 7% of them are women. Although the total of cadets enrolled in our program has decreased from 923 in 2017 to 344 in 2018, the percentage of females has increased from the past year, going from 5% in 2017 to 7% in 2018. We can ensure the compliance with those four principles, based on our policies, our business processes and the implemented systems. Page 21 of 58 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OSM understands the importance of environmental protection and reinforce our commitment on our CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY (FCOPOLICY-CSR): • OSM aims to be a company that builds synergy, supports sustainable growth beneficial to the company and society. • In OSM Maritime Group, we define Corporate Social Responsibility as follows: (…) Protecting the environment and the safety of people (…); • OSM recognizes the importance of protecting all our human, financial, physical, informational, social, environmental, and reputational assets; • All employees are responsible and accountable for contributing to a safe working environment, for fostering safe working attitudes, and for operating in an environmentally responsible manner. Our Health, Safety and Environment Policy (HSEP), applicable to our Crew Management services, has the purpose of eliminate, as far as is reasonably practicable, all health and safety hazards and to protect the environment. This commitment to environmental protection is also reinforced by our HSEQ POLICY (TQM05) applicable to our Technical Management Services. Environmental risks associated with OSM operations are evaluated by a Risk committee with participants of all operational areas and from different office locations. This risk committee evaluates our risks and opportunities and define actions to manage it. We also have a change management process to proper access and manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities are also submitted to a risk evaluation. OSM has hired an Environmental Compliance Manager to assist the OSM Maritime group in its efforts towards environmental management and compliance. More efforts into understanding and measuring the environmental impact of OSM on our communities and in the society will be held in 2019. OSM is engaged to be paperless in our operations. We have heavily invested in innovation and in developing online programs for the management of our operations such as: e-Crew, IRIS, Lanteria, Salesforce, Bizagi, Visma, Eyeshare and others. OSM has developed an app named My OSM, designed for the Seafarers allowing them to manage their active employment experience with us. Soon My OSM app target market will expand and include onshore employees, job seekers looking to join the OSM team, and we will increase its functionality from a client’s perspective. Page 22 of 58 OSM’s commitment to developing smart and environmentally friendly solutions, has reached another milestone in the construction of its Maritime Operations Centre. The facility, developed in partnership with a Singapore based analytics company, allows OSM, to connect all its data sources around the world, and show complex information in a simple graphical interface available from any device, anywhere in the world, accessed by internet, 24/7, allowing full-time monitoring. We have also implemented a Robotics Process Automation (RPA) on our financial process focusing on invoicing and we plan to expand it to other manual finance tasks and areas within OSM where scope exists. All the mentioned programs, apps and initiatives reinforce that OSM is encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies towards its operations. Thus, we understand that we comply with Principle 9. By implementing our CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY (FCO-POLICY-CSR, ) we can evidence the compliance with Principle 8. With our Risk Committee, and risk based thinking all potential risk related to our operations will be managed, supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. With this we can also state compliance with Principle 7. We plan to further develop initiatives for the following year to increase the compliance with principles 7, 8 and 9 such as: Inclusion of environmental items in the supplier’s audit checklist, inclusion of environmental items in the internal audit checklist, implementation of environmental programs as per our SHORE SAFETY EMERGENCY PROCEDURES AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMMES and implementation of Awareness campaigns regarded environmental protection themes. OSM keep investing in training and qualifying Seafarers regarded environmental protection. One of the topics covered by the training department is the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), to increase environmental protection on their daily operations. The absolute total of training has reduced from 171 in 2017 to 111 in 2018. In 2017 102 officers have done the training against 38 in 2018. We can see an increase in the Ratings going from 69 in 2017 to 73 in 2018. In partnership with our travel agents, OSM has Total of MARPOL Trainnings started to monitor the CO2 emissions related to 80 73 shore staff and seafarers travel since past year. 70 When comparing the data from 2017 with 2018 60 we had observed an increase of 47% in the KM 50 total and of 29% in our CO2 indirect emissions 38 40 related to air travel. Once we had more KM 30 travelled in 2018 in comparison with 2017, is 20 natural to have a higher CO2 emission level – 10 Important to point that the increase in the CO2 0 Officer Ratings emission was lower proportionally to the one of the KM. Data from (01.01.2018 31.12.2018) Airlines emission Office staff + Seafarers KM Total Kg CO2 380 549 995 46 879 763,06 In 2018, our environmental risk level was off 16.3% and our target is to remain under 20%. OSM has hired an Environmental Compliance Manager to assist the OSM Maritime group in its efforts towards environmental Page 23 of 58 management and compliance. More efforts into understanding and measuring the environmental impact of OSM on our communities and in the society will be held in 2019. In 2018, 14% of our social media publications and Marketing campaigns were associated with principles 7, 8 and 9. We aim to raise the awareness of OSM stakeholders and share what OSM has been doing towards environmental protection and compliance. The month of march of 2018 was dedicated to a series of environmental protection posts in social media with special focus on the Earth Hour on March 24th. We have shared eight editions of the HSEQ tips with topics related to Environmental protection, aiming to raise the awareness of it among our employees and stakeholders. Those were the topics covered this year: • Reduce Reuse Recycle; • Plastic… Boon and Bane of Our Times; • Let Nature Shine (Earth Hour); • Let's Help Save Mother Earth; • Things You Can Do for Trash Free Seas; • Change Starts with You (Plastic Pollution); • Water Scarcity, Every Drop Counts; and • World Soil Day. We can ensure the compliance with the three principles under environment, based on our policies, our business processes and the implemented systems. Page 24 of 58 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OSM is highly averse to any form of corruption such as fraud, extortion and bribery. We are committed to act in line with all relevant rules and regulations. This commitment is clearly stated on our BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY (FCO-POLICY-BE), thus our policy covers the following topics: • Anti-Bribery/Corruption; • Conflicts of Interest; • Inside Information; • Integrity Due Diligence; • Bribes; • Gifts; • Facilitation payments; • Political contributions; and • Charitable contributions. It is our policy to conduct all our business in an honest, ethical and transparent manner. We take a zerotolerance approach to bribery and corruption. We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. Our Business Policy (BUP) applicable to our Crew management services also states that “All our employees shall always exercise good judgement by: Observing the prevailing business and ethical standards of the cultures involved and Acting in compliance with the laws of the country (…). We take Principle 10, very seriously and we are committed to continually improving our compliance. By applying our policies, we can state that we are following it. In addition, for bribery, high risk countries such Congo, Angola, Ukraine and Brazil we have a TRACE certification/Due diligence report. To have a TRACE certificate means that our company have completed a comprehensive due diligence process administered by TRACE, the world’s leading anti-bribery standard setting organization and that we have successfully demonstrated our commitment to commercial transparency. Corruption risks associated with OSM are evaluated by a Risk committee with participants of all operational areas and from different office locations. We also have a change management process to proper access and manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities are also submitted to a risk evaluation. OSM have been investigating any potential violation related to principle 10 reported. During 2018, 10 cases were reported on IRIS associated with potential violations, representing 3% of the total of reports, all were investigated, and quantities were taken as and when applicable. We are committed to securing that principle Page 25 of 58 10 is fully respected in our operations. A whistle blow channel will be established in 2019 and an ethics committee headed by OSM Chief Legal & the Compliance Officer (member of the OSM executive team) will oversee compliance programs and projects. During 2018, 3% of our social media publications and Marketing campaigns were associated with principle 10. We aim to raise the awareness of OSM stakeholders and share what OSM has been doing towards anticorruption. OSM invested heavily into cyber-attacks prevention and protection for the Ships we operate and for our customers. Launched in April 2018, Seawall was the first cyber security solution for the maritime industry, combining five crucial elements of cyber protection – technical, operational, IT backup, legal and media crisis management. It was developed by OSM business unit OSERV specialized in services as SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONAL OPTIMIZATION, DRY DOCK MANAGEMENT, DAMAGE REPAIRS and CYBER SECURITY. Our cyber security solution is the reason why OSM is one of the shortlisted nominees for the 2019 Smart4Sea Awards. We can assure the submission with the Anti-corruption principle based on our policies, our business operations and the implemented systems. Page 26 of 58 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2018, we had communicated each OSM office around the globe to assemble data and update our local CSR activities. 42.1% of our offices reported to be engaged in CSR activities a reduction of 21% in comparison of the past twelvemonths. Although the total of OSM offices engaged in CSR activities is concentrated in comparison to past year report, the total of CSR activities carried out this year has increased by 17%. Reported CSR activities developed by OSM By Focus area (2018) Education Health Charity event Environment Disaster management Other Water Child care/development 3% 3% 3% 3% 6% 31% 6% 5% 14% 26% The focus areas of the reported CSR activities developed by OSM offices are: • Education (31%), • Health (26%) and • Charity Events (14%). Comparison with 2017 results, in 2018 OSM has increased the number of activities by 11% more in education and in health projects and invested 6% less in charity events. In 2018, we carried out more CSR activities, then in 2017, but those were focused in a few positions. It is significant to note that the 11% increase in education and in health-related projects directly tied with our focus areas of the Sustainable Development Goals: 3 Good Health and Well-being and 4 – Quality education. Page 27 of 58 You can read more about the Sustainable Development Goals and OSM initiatives in a dedicated section of this report. OSM offices located in Brazil, Cyprus, Latvia, and the Philippines have reported 11 CSR activities associated with Education being developed with the local community, their employees and their households. OSM offices located in Australia, Brazil, Croatia, Cyprus, Latvia and Russia have reported 9 CSR activities associated with Health being developed with the local community, their employees and their households. OSM offices located in Brazil, Croatia and Cyprus have reported 5 CSR activities associated with Charity Events being developed with the local community, NGO`s and local industry affiliations. Portion of the reported CSR initiative upholds by different OSM offices around the globe are represented at a lower place. More information regarded the local initiatives reported by our global offices, is available end of this report in the Attachments section, mentioned as “Attachment I OSM CSR activities report – 2018”. OSM Brazil – Food donation collected from vessels that concluded a contract, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil When the contract period of some vessels was concluded, OSM Brazil donated the food to two institutions in Brazil: • Creche Bezerra de Menezes Taking care of small children of families in need in Niterói, RJ, Brazil. • Abrigo do Cristo redentor do Estado do Rio de Janeiro – Taking care of elderdly people in need in São Gonçalo, RJ, Brazil. OSM Latvia – Support and organization of the Enkurs Competition, in Riga, Latvia Image source: http://www.latja.lv/fotogalerija/nggallery/fotogalerijas/E nkurs-2018-finals OSM in partnership with the Latvian Maritime Administration, Seafarer’s Union, Latvian Crewing Companies Association and maritime educational institutions has supported the competition “Enkurs” organized for secondary school students aiming to attract them to a seaman’s profession. OSM Limassol – Beach Cleaning event, in Limassol, Cyprus Association together with CYMEPA and the Commissioner for the Environment in celebration to the World Maritime Day. Page 28 of 58 OSM Philippines The OSM-Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc. (OSM-ADFoundation), in Manila, Philippines OSM employees has joined the Beach Cleaning event in Limassol Cyprus, organized by the Cyprus Master Mariners from July 2018, 7 College scholarship were granted 5 for community scholars, 1 to dependent of seafarer and 1 to OSM employee. Scholarship grant includes: Tuition fee, Monthly allowance, Dormitory, School uniforms and materials and Other school-related items and activities. Moment in which the scholars receive their certificate of scholarship in Banaue Ifugao, Philippines. Maculabo Elementary School Maculabo Island, Paracale, Camarines Norte, Philippines. Maculabo Elementary School: Distribution of solar lanterns as there is no electricity in the island, school supplies, bags, art materials, volleyball set, chess boards, board games, children’s books and bookshelf. The teachers also received life vests. Comatin Elementary School – Two-day sports and arts workshop for the children. Distribution of canvass sheets, paint colours & brushes, volleyballs, chess tables, badminton rackets and Eco bags. Comatin Elementary School Javier, Leyte, Philippines Page 29 of 58 THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2017, OSM has organized a two days seminar where key internal stakeholders were involved to evaluate the impacts of OSM on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals with the assistance of an external consultant Thore-Andre Thorsen from YME Foundation. After evaluating each one of the Sustainable Development Goals we conclude that our business has a positive, direct or indirect, impact in all of them. OSM had selected three SDG`s for the year 2018: SDG 3 – Good Health and Well-Being; SDG 4 Quality Education; and SDG 5 – Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING. Aim: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. OSM is committed to Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all ages. We see that ensuring healthy lives and promoting the welfare of our employees and of the community is all important to sustainable growth. OSM proposes to our employees’ health insurance and medical concern. Our seafarers pass periodically by medical evaluations. We provide medical coverage to our seafarers when they are on board. This coverage can be expanded when they are on leave, under certain circumstances additional coverage can be, optionally, extended to family members. In our office in Manila, a health committee was organized to plan programs and actions associated with the health and welfare of employees; some of the implemented actions are: • Healthy food choices being provided in the local canteen; • Yoga classes once a week; and • Daily breaks for stretching exercises, with a guide that pops up from their computer screen Our new OSM medical clinic in Philippines, a mandatory health and wellness training for seafarers to improve health and well-being on board has been introduced. OSM works in close cooperation with our customers to communicate the Health Safety and Environmental requirements onboard the vessel(s) to all crew before Page 30 of 58 signing on the vessel, by supplying the seafarer with necessary documentation and information provided by the customer such as Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy. Some of the actions to ensure the health and the welfare of our seafarers on board: • Drug and Alcohol Declaration (D&A) provided by the customer or OSM Crew Management to be signed by all crew members; • Pre-departure medical examination of all seafarers including, but not limited to, Drug and Alcohol test; • Additional medical help in ports available to seafarers; • Secure the provision of necessary protective clothing on board the vessels on Crew Management; • Encourage and motivate seafarers to use Personal Protective Equipment (PPE); • Encourage a healthy and hygienic working environment; • Recruit catering staff knowledgeable in food preparation to provide a balanced diet and healthy nutrition for the crew and; • Train catering personnel on their contributing role in care of cleanliness, order and proper housekeeping on board; • Identify knowledge gaps of all catering personnel then reinforced occupational competence by additional training or upgrading courses; and • Register, investigate and follow up of any incident such as accidents and crew behaviour resulting in a Customer Complaint together with the customer in our Improvement Reporting and Information System (IRIS). In 2018, 9% of our social media publications and Marketing campaigns were associated with SDG3. We aim to raise the awareness of OSM stakeholders and share what OSM has been doing towards Good Health and Well-Being. We have shared eight editions of the HSEQ tips with topics related to health and wellbeing, aiming to raise the awareness of it among our employees and stakeholders. These are the topics covered: 1. Prevention is Better Than Cure Annual medical check-up; 2. Healthy Habits Lower Your Cancer Risks; 3. Women's Health; 4. Ergonomics Makeover; 5. Hypertension; 6. Support Seafarers Wellbeing; 7. Recovering the Cure Starts with Awareness (Diabetes); and 8. AIDS/HIV Awareness. Section bellow explains how OSM is supporting each of the targets related to SDG3: Good Health and WellBeing. The components of this section were based along the report Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets elaborated by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), shared on 04th. of December of 2018. We describe our relevant business actions to achieve each object. Page 31 of 58 Target 3.1 By 2030, reduce the global maternal mortality ratio to less than 70 per 100,000 live births. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Paying fair share of taxes to help finance national health organizations; • Ensuring that company policies and practices respect reproductive rights; and • Paying a living wage at a minimum, providing maternity or paternity leave (in a few locations), offering the facilities necessary for early years’ care such as flexible working hours. Target 3.2 By 2030, end preventable deaths of new-borns and children under 5 years of age, with all countries aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to as low as 12 per 1,000 live births and under-five mortality to as low as 25 per 1,000 live births. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Paying fair share of taxes to help finance national health organizations; • Promoting healthy lifestyles and providing adequate working conditions which enable parents to discharge their roles as caregivers, such as providing healthcare, paying at the minimum the living wage, providing maternity and paternity leave, and providing facilities necessary for early years care (such as flexible working hours) and access to affordable nutritious food for all employees in the workplace; and • Developing the workforce on healthy lifestyles. Target 3.3 By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable diseases. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Having standards in place to assure the safety of employees and to prevent contraction of communicable diseases where the occupation or function of employees makes them susceptible or at risk of contracting said diseases. Embedding practical measures in standard operating procedures and training staff on these diseases and their prevention and treatment; • Disclosing industrial accidents; and • Providing information about sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS. Target 3.4 Buy 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-transmissible diseases through prevention and handling and encourage mental health and wellbeing. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Encouraging secure and healthy surroundings around facilities and sites, promoting active mobility and sports; and • Sustaining access to mental health care and to 24/7 help lines. Target 3.5 Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and harmful usage of alcohol. OSM relevant business activity to help attain this target is: • Training employees on the effects of narcotics, drugs and alcohol, including the effects of substance misuse. Throwing a corporate policy prohibiting the use of alcohol and drugs while on board and putting up information so that employees are adequately trained to realize what these sums are, their legal implications, health implications, and the consequences of eating them – specifically in the context of their role as an employee. Target 3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. OSM relevant business activity to help attain this target is: • Providing training or information on road safety to employees, such as training on driving laws, cycling and pedestrian safety. Putting adequate internal policies in place where road use is a function Page 32 of 58 of business operations or supply chain – such as movement of employees. These include ensuring that drivers are fit to force back, take the correct legally required training and qualifications, and that they have regular training and checks on their operation. Target 3.7 By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for family planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programs. OSM relevant business activity to help attain this target is: • Bear out to families in OSM Manila Free seminars and workshops on financial literacy, health & wellness and family & relationship are offered to family members of our seamen. Target 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health care services and access to safe, efficient, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. OSM relevant business activity to help attain this target is: • In some of our offices: Providing accessible and affordable health care options, including insurance, to employees and their families, as complements to rather than substitutes for government activity. This also includes health related benefits such as life insurance and disability and invalidity coverage. Target 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Implementing adequate occupational health and safety procedures to ensure that employees and anyone at or near business operations and in the supply, chain are not harmed or affected by risky, non-hazardous and transported, imported, exported, or processed waste. • Thriving for the precautionary approach to foreseeable environmental, wellness and safety-related impacts of operations; conducting environmental assessments when significant environmental, wellness or safety impacts are found. • Adhering to relevant water quality laws and standards through business operations and monitoring and producing more efficient water discharge and exercise, especially in the vessels that we run. • Using international best practices in case national laws and regulations vary. The commitment of OSM with the Health and Well-Being of our employees, their families and the community are reflected in the CSR initiatives reported by OSM offices around the globe 9 initiatives were listed: 1. OSM Australia, hosted the Healthy Marine Minds workshop for Healthy Marine Minds and our client SIEM Offshore. Healthy Marine Minds provides on-board mental fitness awareness training tailored to seafarer’s unique work environment and life style. This information session covered issues including mental fitness and how to improve it, how to aid someone in distress and the support services available to Seafarers and their households. A team from Healthy Marine Minds boarded the SIEM Time vessel for a three-day sea ride to deliver a more comprehensive Mental Health Awareness workshop with the gang; 2. OSM Brazil organized the Laboral exercises supported by a professional, twice a week for 15 minutes; 3. The Sao Silvestre 2018 Project is held in OSM Brazil for preparing the participants for the “São Silvestre Run” of 15 KM; 4. OSM Brazil aims to bring awareness to Cancer prevention and support, develop campaigns that are sent to seafarers and clients this Year; 5. OSM Croatia invest in annual medical check-up for its employees; 6. OSM Cyprus organizes blood donation among employees and join sports events held in Cyprus; Page 33 of 58 7. OSM Latvia organizes officer seminars with the presence of a doctor from RigaBrain® social enterprise founded in 2008 aiming to inform, promote and use innovative methods for improving brain performance and speaking about the ways to enhance mental performance and avoid fatigue onboard; 8. OSM Russia runs a voluntary medical insurance OSM pays a yearly fee to an insurance company, and in case of sickness or injuries the insurance company will pay all expenses directly to the hospital; and 9. OSM Russia offers a sport benefit: were employees can buy sport equipment/ yearly ticket to fitness club for the amount not exceeding 500 USD. OSM reimburses 435 USD. 1 2 Image 1 OSM Brasil – Sao Silvestre Project, in Rio de Janeiro, Brasil and Image 2 OSM Cyprus – OPAP Limassol Marathon GSO, in Limassol, Cyprus Targeting the creation of shared values, OSM has further put in health and wellbeing projects during 2018. A few of those opportunities are described below: Page 34 of 58 MENTAL HEALTH CAMPAIGN TARGETED TOWARDS SUPPORTING SEAFARER WELLBEING. OSM has chosen “The Day of the Seafarer” to launch a global campaign aimed at safeguarding and improving the mental health of its 11,000 crewmembers. The yearlong initiative christened “How Healthy is Your Mind”: An OSM Seafarers’ Guide to Positive Mental Health, will be pushed out across the 500 plus vessels managed by the business, addressing an increasingly pressing, but often overlooked, industry issue. This campaign started in 2018 and is expected to be finished in 2019. According to a recent report carried out by Sailors’ Society and Yale University, 26% of seafarers have regular feelings of being “down, depressed or hopeless”, while studies by the Seafarers International Research Centre (SIRC) suggest that some key conditions for good mental health at sea (such as sleep quality/fatigue) appear to be in decline. In our campaigns material we have included helplines contacts were our seafarers can help 24/7 and in their own language. We require to get rid of the stigma attached to talking about topics that impact upon mental health and address any areas where we could better our operation. SIEM OFFSHORE & OSM MARITIME PARTNER TO FORCE MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS. OSM Australia hosted the Healthy Marine Minds workshop for Healthy Marine Minds and our client Siem Offshore. Healthy Marine Minds provides onboard mental fitness awareness training tailored to seafarer’s unique work environment and lifestyle. This information session covered topics including mental fitness and how to improve it, how to help someone in distress and the support services available to Seafarers and their families. A team from Healthy Marine Minds boarded the Siem Thiima vessel for a three-day sea ride to deliver a more comprehensive Mental Health Awareness workshop with the crew. A sound brain is an important requirement for healthy crew and sound operations. Page 35 of 58 SDG4 QUALITY EDUCATION Aim: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and encourage lifelong learning opportunities for all. Our work is truly global, and we train people from all over the globe. We endeavour to offer a complete learning experience through our hands-on learning approach in our internal facilities and collaborators about the world. OSM’s commitment to building more substantial and more dependable inspection and repairs for our customers goes hand in hand with our dedication to the masses who make this possible. At OSM we invest in the maturation of our people, to fit them with the technical and soft skills to perform their chores and insure they experience a fulfilling, long term career. We also offer Competence Enhancement programs. Competence is defined as knowledge, understanding, skilled / proficient and attitude needed to execute a job safely and successfully to a determined criterion. Reinforcing our commitment to Quality education, we receive further built up our office staff training and competence matrix management by implementing LANTERIA in 2017, that is a personalized HR software based on SharePoint and Office 365. 2018, we have further implemented LANTERIA into our operations and we had invested in online training platforms as e-learning and LinkedIn Learning, available to all our employees. OTHER INITIATIVES CARRIED OUT BY OSM IN PHILIPPINES ARE: Training Academy Started its activities in 2010 with bridge, DP and engine simulators, instrumentation, refrigeration and hydraulics liquid cargo, TECDIS, and annual subscriptions to maritime accrediting bodies. Since then, many other programs have been implemented to meet market developments and customer requirements. Catering Academy Established in 2014, offering training and education programs in the catering department that goes beyond industry standards. Future Leaders Program A cadet program for sea dogs to make grow the future leaders on-board our vessels. Page 36 of 58 OSM bridging program Skill and knowledge of Seafarers coming from offshore vessels are aligned with cruise ship job requirements; free trainings and seminars enabling offshore crew to transfer to passenger ships. 2018, 11% of our social media publications and Marketing campaigns were associated with SDG4. We aim to raise the awareness of OSM stakeholders and share what OSM has been doing towards Quality education. Section bellow describes more about how OSM is supporting each of the objects related to SDG4 Quality education. The components of this section were based along the report Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets elaborated by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), shared on 04th of December of 2018. We describe our relevant business actions to help achieve each one of the objects. Target 4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality primary and secondary education leading to relevant and effective learning outcomes. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Respecting the universal right to education; • Defending children’s right to teaching and facilitating education beyond what may be supplied free of charge by governments through paying at a minimum living wage to employees. • Enforcing zero-tolerance child labour policies within own operations, and influencing child labour policies within the supply range of mountains, employing methods such as robust age-verification methods within the recruitment procedure; • Seeing the context and definition of child labour in each state of operation, as laws may take issue. Adhering to international criteria and embracing best practice where laws in countries of operation are lower than in company policy, or in other operating controls; and • Paying fair share of taxes to help finance national educational services. Target 4.2 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys have access to quality early childhood development, care and pre-primary education so that they are ready for primary education. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Complementing rather than substituting government and public-sector action by paying at a minimum living wage and paying fair share of taxes that enable the public sector to supply or to subsidise these services in nations where this is the norm; and • Offering practical support through respecting working time, offering flexible working hours, offering the possibility of full-time contracts when possible. Target 4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Supporting vocational training and preparation programs offered by governments through providing access to internship programs, scholarships or grants for projects linked to business strategy or funding for educational computer programmes to employees as complements to rather than substitutes for government actions (in a few of our locations); • Guaranteeing equal access to all companies-supported education and training programs, including literacy classes, vocational and information technology training; and Page 37 of 58 • Providing these educational and internship opportunities to young adults or those targeted through school recruitment efforts and upholding equality of opportunity and treatment. Target 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Respecting the universal right to work, which lets in the right of everyone to have the chance to reach his or her livelihood by work which he or she freely chooses or accepts and taking appropriate steps to safeguard this right; and • Engaging with educational establishments to build up or support programs for vocational training, employment skills and educational development, and improving teaching technical skills through offering advanced solutions – complementing rather than substituting government and public-sector activity. Target 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Respecting the universal right to work, which lets in the right for a person to receive the chance to reach his or her livelihood by work which he or she freely chooses or accepts. Working for the equal right of men and women to access training and vocational preparation; • Providing non-discriminatory and open admission to employees to training, internship programs and further education; and • Guaranteeing equal access to all companies-supported teaching and breeding plans. Target 4.6 By 2030, ensure that all youth and a substantial proportion of adults, both men and women, achieve literacy and numeracy OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Supporting Students and Schools of Poor Communities in Philippines; and • Bear out to families in OSM Manila Free seminars and workshops on financial literacy are offered to family members of our seamen. Target 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Including information on human rights, gender equality and sustainable growth in national policies, such as employee and supplier codes of behaviour, and increasing awareness and practice by ensuring that these policies are thoroughly shared and realized by all employees including those in the supply chain; • Providing additional training on specific topics, such as water use and human rights; and • Encouraging sustainable growth by demonstrating the business’ own commitment through implementing sustainability actions such as the ones noted in this document, and by establishing and communicating these effectively to employees, suppliers and all stakeholders. Page 38 of 58 The commitment of OSM with the Quality education our employees and the community are reflected in the CSR initiatives reported by our OSM offices around the globe 11 initiatives were listed: 1. OSM Latvia is Supporting a local event called “Enkurs” that purports to promote maritime industry and to encourage youngsters to get together the maritime academy and colleges after graduating school; 2. OSM Brazil invests in Awareness campaigns on several issues and organized an Annual seminar; 3. OSM Cyprus is creating a partnership with local and international universities offering internship positions 3 trainees were accepted in 2018; 4. OSM Philippines are supporting the Maculabo Elementary School located in Maculabo Island, Paracale, Camarines Norte: with the distribution of solar lanterns as there is no electricity on the island, school supplies, purses, art materials, volleyball set, chess tables, table games, children’s books and bookshelf. The teachers also received life vests. 5. OSM Philippines are supporting the Comatin Elementary School located in Javier, Leyte: with a twoday sports and arts workshop for the kids. Distribution of canvass sheets, paint colours & brushes, volleyballs, chess tables, badminton rackets and Eco bags. 6. OSM Philippines are supporting the Makiling Elementary School located in Calamba, Laguna: there was a Ceremony after a decade-long intervention of OSM in the schoolhouse. 7. OSM Philippines are supporting the Gohan National High School, located in Banaue, Ifugao: with the donation of reference books, computer, printing machine and electric fans to the schoolhouse. 8. OSM Philippines are supporting the Banaue National High School, located in Banaue, Ifugao: with the donation of reference books, computer, printing machine and electric fans to the schoolhouse. 9. OSM Philippines are supporting the General Assembly of OSM Scholars at Silang, Cavite. The 2018 Theme was: Nurturing Relationships, Fostering Positive Change. Soft skills workshops were carried out on: Communication & Public Speaking Training, and Financial Literacy Training. Other activities were also carried out as: Orientation on Self-Regulated & Empowerment Strategy (SRES), Review of Scholarship Program and Processes and Training of Trainers and Facilitators. 10. OSM Philippines are supporting the College Scholarship including: Tuition fee, Monthly allowance, Dormitory, School uniforms and materials and Other school-connected items and actions. 7 College Scholarships were granted in total: 1 to Seafarer’s dependent, 1 to OSM employee, 5 to Community Scholars from Banaue, Ifugao. 11. OSM Philippines have provided orientation to the Scholars of the Scholarship Program in Banaue, Ifugao. Targeting the creation of shared values, OSM has further placed in education projects during 2018. Listed below are a few of those reports: OSM INTRODUCES CLOUD-BASED TRAINING SOLUTION ILEARN Through iLearn, OSM seafarers can download learnings moving at their own pace through content, learn from others in the OSM Learning Community, engage with teammates in Virtual Classrooms, and gain easy access to the support tools they require. Page 39 of 58 In 2018, a total of 1269 courses were completed and a total of 105.119 courses was viewed in learn. The tracks with higher degree of completion were: 1. Pre-Employment Orientation Seminar / Human Relations; 2. Anti-Piracy Preparedness and Response; 3. Work Attitude Values Enhancement (WAVE); 4. Pre-Employment Orientation Seminar/ Induction Course Lauritzen Kosan; 5. Marine Refrigeration; 6. Instrumentation and Process Control Engineering; 7. Introduction to General Data Protection Regulation and Data Privacy Act of 2012; 8. Electro-Hydraulic and Pneumatic for Marine Application; 9. Marine Electro-Technology; 10. Engine Room Basics; OSM LOOKS TO BOOST MOZAMBIQUE MARITIME EDUCATION OSM has signed a MOU to re-launch the Mozambican Higher School of Nautical Sciences. OSM observed that there’s a demand for skilled seafarers in Mozambique, but there is also a ‘competence gap’ with regards to the local workforce. The developing coastal shipping network, fishing sector and the logistical needs of the offshore hydrocarbon industry have created real opportunity for Mozambicans, but they need the required competence. Picture source: club of Mozambique. Page 40 of 58 OSM PARTNERS WITH LINKEDIN LEARNING – NOW AVAILABLE TO ALL OSM EMPLOYEES In August 2018, OSM has officially announced a collaboration with LinkedIn Learning. It granted access to all OSM employees to over 10000 Courses. The LinkedIn training tool can be accessed online and offline and some of the courses will produce a certificate that will be uploaded and stored in LANTERIA, were the competence of our shore employees are managed. In November, we have achieved the mark of 76% active users in LinkedIn Learning – which is one of the highest in the E-Learning Industry. By December the total of courses viewed was of 2,681 and the total of hours of viewing/ training was of 1,117 – More data can be found on the image bellow. In 2018, the higher selected topics and trainings on LinkedIn Learning were: 1. Key Account Management; 2. Successful Goal Setting; 3. Excel Tips Weekly; 4. Critical Thinking; 5. Communication with Confidence; 6. How to Develop Your Career Plan; 7. Negotiation Skills 8. 2 – Minute Tips for Senior Leaders 9. Excel Essential Training (Office 365); 10. 5 Personal Finance Tips SDG 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Aim: Promote Sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent employment for all. OSM is committed to Ensure Decent work to our global network of employees and Economic Growth to our industry segment in all lands and office positions. We infer that the Sustainable growth that we aim can only be achieved with Decent work and Economic Growth of our residential areas. OSM is an MLC certified or accredited company. With our annual internal and outside audits, OSM can ensure the submission with the labour rights of our seamen. Our HSEQ team and HSE policy are in place to secure the health and safety of our employees on shore and offshore. Page 41 of 58 “The MLC, 2006 sets out seafarers’ rights to decent conditions of study and serves to produce conditions of reasonable competition for ship owners. It is destined to be globally applicable, easily understandable, readily adaptable and uniformly enforced (ILO)” According to ILO website, by the end of 2017, a total of 84 countries had ratified the MLC 2006 convention and 91% of the world’s shipping fleet being regulated (ILO). Although the Convention has not been signed by all states at this time, the effect has been spread worldwide once vessels from non-signatory nations that try to enter the ports of signatory countries may face penalties for non-compliance. With a world-wide presence, with 30 offices in different countries, and managing 11.000 seafarers we understand that we are creating decent jobs worldwide and creating a difference for the local residential areas and local economies, supporting this way the SDG8. We too are extremely averse to whatever course of depravity such as fraud, extortion and graft. We are trusted to act in line with all relevant principles and rules and our BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY (FCO-POLICY-BE) reinforce this commitment. The OSM offices are also TRACE certified, as expressed in the first place in this report. 2018, 15% of our social media publications and Marketing campaigns were associated with SDG8. We aim to raise the awareness of OSM stakeholders and share what OSM has been doing towards Decent work and Economic Growth. We have shared eight editions of the HSEQ tips with topics related to Safety and Quality, aiming to advance the awareness of it among our employees and stakeholders. Those were the topics covered this year: Quality: • Workplace Harassment • OSM Sustainability Report on UNGC • IRIS Lesson Learned • Manage Change • Reporting Events in IRIS • Root Cause Analysis • OSM Core Values • Setting Goals Safety: • Getting Ready for Safety • Workplace Hazards Every Employee Should Know • Accidents Avoid or Reduce • Accidental Injury can be Avoided • Safety Do's and Don'ts • Positive Safety Culture • Chemical Safety • Safety Holiday Tips Section bellow explains more about how OSM is supporting each of the objects related to SDG 8: Decent work and Economic Growth. The components of this section were based along the report Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets elaborated by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), shared on 04th of December of 2018. We describe our relevant business actions to help achieve each one of the objects. Page 42 of 58 Target 8.1 Sustain per capita economic growth in accordance with national circumstances and, in particular, at least 7 per cent gross domestic product growth per annum in the least developed nations. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Getting added value in the domestic economy through enhancing own productive capacity (e.g. Through skills development of workers). • Paying fair share of tax timely and responsibly; at a minimum, complying with the tax laws and regulations in the states in which they operate; and • Prevent using tax avoidance mechanisms, including transfer pricing and the habit of secrecy jurisdictions or so-called “tax havens”. Engaging in responsible tax practices from tax planning and public transparency to undertake impact assessments of corporate taxation policy and practice. Target 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Increasing economic productivity through co-developing technology with startups and investing in invention and technology which reacts to local demands; • Helping to promote technology and stimulate innovation in producing countries through (among others) promoting technological learning and invention; • Evaluating the impact along the business and on the workforce related to transformational technology. Addressing negative impacts on the workforce because of automation; and • Fostering full and productive local employment through supporting vocational education, joboriented training programs, and building alliances with educational establishments to produce a pipeline for skilled workers. Target 8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and invention, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, modestand medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Ensuring responsible employment strategies, providing decent work27 and productive activities for all employees in their own operations and implementing the same in the supply chain; and • Establishing fair policies for selection of providers and stimulating economic inclusion throughout the provision chain. • Not doing business with companies which are not lawfully recorded; Target 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in use and production and endeavour to decouple economic development from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and output, with developing countries carrying the hint. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Assessing and mitigating environmental impacts of products and services through tracking, reporting and reducing resource use. Target 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Paying at a minimum the living wage. Paying wages adequate to meet the basic demands of actors and their families and maintaining regular payment of reward. Offering the best possible wages, benefits and working conditions within the fabric of government policies and through the operation of collective bargaining; Page 43 of 58 • Protecting basic labour rights including freedom of speech, collective bargaining and industrial relations, limiting hours of work and providing adequate rest periods, ensuring job security and a safe and healthy working environment and supporting employment promotion and employment stability through developing and implementing policies and procedures complementing public policies and in line with local economic development priorities and, consequently, being developed through meaningful dialogue with stakeholders including national workers’ and employers’ organizations in the developing countries in which the business operates. • Embedding the principle of equality in policies and processes for employees, including recruitment, training, promotion, and development reviews; • Establishing a zero-tolerance policy towards all forms of violence in the workplace and preventing sexual harassment; • Working together with collective institutions such as trade unions; providing relevant information for meaningful negotiations on conditions of employment. Establishing policies, procedures, grievance mechanisms and support structures for employees or suppliers to anonymously report incidences or suspected incidences of violence, exploitation or harassment. • Ensuring non-discrimination in recruitment, remuneration and working status. • Establishing policies, procedures, grievance mechanisms and support structures for employees to anonymously report incidences or suspected incidences of adverse human rights impacts. Target 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training. OSM relevant business actions to help achieve this target are: • Strengthening the links between business and education and promoting the rights at work of young people; and Implementing appropriate workplace training programs. Target 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms. OSM relevant business actions to help achieve this target are: • Committing to the elimination and abolition of forced labour, modern slavery and human trafficking and child labour. In this context, ensuring that adults under the age of 18 are not recruited by implementing enforcing mechanisms such as age verification methods and labour inspection to prevent and identify child labour and any adverse impacts on children’s right in operations and in the supply chain; • Conducting audits on suppliers or recruiters to secure that these exercises are not happening within the provision range of mountains. Ensuring that auditors are proficient in local/sectoral insights and terminology. Making audit results accessible to actors; • Monitoring worker’s well-being; • Promoting awareness among employees about what constitutes exploitation, forced labour, modern, and providing training on how to ensure it does not happen, and what to practise when it executes; • Developing policies and processes to address incidences or suspected incidences throughout business activities, and incorporating these in the codes of conduct around acceptable employee behaviour and the recruitment and procurement process; and • Joining sectoral and national employers’ organizations and participating in industry or multistakeholder initiatives supporting labour rights through respect for fundamental principles and rights at work, freedom of association. Page 44 of 58 Target 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and safe working environments for all actors, including migrant workers, women migrants, and those in unstable employment. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Respecting and protecting labour rights and providing dependable, safe and healthy working environments for all employees; • Implementing policies committing to freedom of association and collective bargaining, health and safety, no discrimination, combating workplace violence and rights consciousness among the workforce. Aligning these policies with the highest industry/local/international standards. Taking in these policies publicly available and communicating them both internally and outwardly to all employees, suppliers and other stakeholders; • Monitoring and accounting on the conformity of these fundamental labour rights principles and patterns; • Introducing operational health and safety (OHS) management systems based on internationally agreed principles to protect workers’ health and safety and to reduce possible hazards and risks for productivity; and • Joining sectoral and national employers’ organizations and participating in industry or multistakeholder initiatives supporting labour rights through respect for fundamental principles and rights at work, freedom of association. Target 8.9 By 2030, devise and implement policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates jobs and promotes local culture and products. OSM relevant business activity to help attain this target is: • Partner with companies focused on sustainable tourism. Hurtigruten has chosen OSM as its crew recruitment partner. Hurtigruten is the world’s largest expedition cruise line, and the greenest cruise line in the world, with environmental projects as: ✓ Dead fish as fuel Hurtigruten will power their ships with liquefied biogas (LBG), fossil-free, renewable fuel made from dead fish and other organic waste. ✓ War on plastic: Banned single-use plastic as the first cruise line in the Earth (2018). The goal is to get the world’s first plastic free shipping company. ✓ Living green – up to nine Hurtigruten ships to be converted to operate on battery power, in combination with natural gas (LNG) and biogas (LBG). Please see Hurtigruten.com/sustainability for more info Target 8.10 Strengthen the capability of domestic financial institutions to encourage and extend access to banking, insurance and financial services for all. OSM relevant business actions to help reach this target area: • Easing access to financial services, including indemnity, by providing schemes for employees, for example, as part of their employment contract; and • Offering financial advice, training to employees and their households. The commitment of OSM with the Decent work and Economic Growth in the combination of CSR initiatives previously mentioned and presented – All of them combined, support and reinforce SDG8. Targeting the creation of shared values, OSM has further placed in projects related to SGD8 on 2018. A few of those are listed below: Page 45 of 58 OSM People – With the launch of their new digital platform, OSM People are quick to create professional connections As a reflection of OSM investments in innovation and technology to the recruitment and selection process and in diversifying its business portfolio, OSM People recruitment platform was created in 2018. The new platform was designed to facilitate a professional rendezvous between personnel and clients. OSM People aims at creating flexible HR solutions for customers within the maritime industry; including segments like oil and gas, offshore wind, ship building, aquaculture and services to ports and terminals. My OSM – OSM names their Seafarer App as My OSM. With My OSM, our seafarers can easily check their personal data, previous or next service, keep track of their seafarer documentation and certificates and have pay slips close at hand. Soon, more functionality will be added to the mobile app to provide our seafarers with continuous flexibility and transparency designed specifically for their needs Interview tips by Linda our recruiting expert for OSM People team in Norway In November, OSM has published in its social media channels some tips on how to prepare and to rock the interview. This content was designed to help with 5 basic tips to better prepare our future employees during the interview process. We know that the interview process can be an excited and frighten process at the same time and to have the best performance on the interview we Urge you to: 1 – Prepare, 2 – Get specific, 3 – Plan your arrival, 4 – Be profession and 5 – Relax. A good extra tip is to silence your mobile during the consultation. Good luck to all! Page 46 of 58 2018 OSM received a few prizes as a realization of our efforts related to SDG 8 Decent work and Economic Growth, as: OSM Cyprus – Young CorporatioAward, 201818 (YCA) On November 2018, OSM received the Young Corporation Award 2018 at the YoungShip flagship conference ShipCon, in Limassol, Cyprus. The Young Corporation Award was setup in 2012 to promote the best employers, acknowledge the effort taken and, encourage companies to strengthen their focus on talent and development of young individuals. The shortlist Criteria was: 1Promoting young leaders internationally; 2 Driving forward young talent; 3 Devoting time & money on building the competence of young people in the organization; 4 Having clear defined trainee programs and/or other competence enhancing programs; and 5 Supporting initiatives within the maritime community. OSM Philippines – CrewConnect Global 2018 Innovation and Adoption of Technology Award – OSM was awarded for demonstrating a significant contribution to moving the maritime industry along the digital technology track to positively impact crews in any of the following areas: Marine Training and Education / Seafarer welfare /Seafarer recruitment or engagement /Professional advancement. Blue Philippines Partner Recognition the POEA and Government of the Philippines recognized OSM for Its continuing contribution to the overall growth and success of the manning industry. Young Person of the Year Award Nina Sue M. Da Silva, Branch Manager at OSM’s Cebu office and the first female licensed Chief Engineer in the Philippines, was the one awarded. This award is presented to a marine HR professional under 40 who has made an outstanding contribution to the industry. OSM Philippines – NordCham Philippines Awards Night OSM was awarded Outstanding Employer of the Year. The NordCham Philippines Awards Night recognize prominent Nordic-affiliated companies who have significantly contributed to economic growth, employment generation, investment, and corporate social responsibility in the Philippines. Page 47 of 58 OSM Singapore – QualShips21 Status. OSM Singapore continues to lead the way for 21st century quality shipping. Eight vessels in the PCTC fleet have received QualShip21 status from the United States Coast Guard in 2018. Receiving the QualShip21 status for 10 vessels of our fleet (2 other vessels were listed in 2016 and 2017, respectively), demonstrates to the owner’s and potential customers that OSM manage quality vessels that are recognized and rewarded by stringent organizations such as the USCG. In 2018 our Total Recordable Cases Frequency was about 2.14, higher than our goal of 2.00. Our HSEQ and operational teams had carried out prevention awareness campaigns and lessons learned during 2018 to reduce it. In November of 2018 an officers' conference was carried out in Arendal, Norway where the line “I am safety” was the base of it. The seminar concentrated on safety awareness, especially on the prevention of drop objects where emphasis was laid on the individual’s obligation to work on identifying malfunctions or mistakes. In 2019, we aim to include two other SDG`s as our focus countries: • SGD 5 – Gender Equality; and • SDG 14 – Life bellow Water. We also aim in 2019 to implement further KPI`s related to the SDG`s. OSM has taken in some advancement during 2018 towards SGD 5 – Gender Equality. In our Singapore office as a first step we are given opportunities and recruiting qualified female ex-sea dogs for a shore position such as Marine Superintendent and OSM Operations Centre Officer. OSM has dedicated the month of October to raise awareness of the career opportunities for women’s in the maritime industry on our social media. Shipping has historically been male dominated, but women play an increasingly significant part. IMO announced Empowering Women in the Maritime Community as the theme for World Maritime Day for 2019, which brings even more idle to this important issue. Page 48 of 58 A series of spots and inspiring histories were shared with our stakeholders to inspire women worldwide. A few models can be observed below. OSM has evaluated the Gender GAP by using the WEPs tool developed in Partnership with the United nations and our score has placed us as Beginner. We are excited in starting this journey towards gender equality in the shipping industry. In 2018, 9% of our social media publications were related to gender equality aiming to raise the awareness for the topic and to increase the representativeness of women in the shipping and maritime industry. OSM has taken in some advancement on 2018 towards 14 – Life bellow Water. OSM has Hired an Environmental Compliance Manager dedicated to our Technical Management & Services to improve our environmental compliance and safeguard life bellow water. OSM applies industry know-how to scrubber retrofits As pressure mounts to comply with the fast-approaching IMO 2020 Sulphur cap, OSM is now offering its customers assistance in every step of the exhaust gas scrubber retrofit process, building on decades of holistic ship management experience. The IMO Sulphur requirement targets fuel composition, but compliant fuels are either not widely available yet or quite costly. Scrubbing technology offers an option to comply by post-processing exhaust emissions using seawater to neutralize the emissions and clean them of Sulphur oxides. OSM’s perspective is that the primary advantage of using scrubbers as a compliance method is the continuous utilization of widely available and economical fuels instead of the compliant ones. Page 49 of 58 Some of our social media publications and Marketing campaigns were associated with SDG 14 – Life bellow Water. Page 50 of 58 NEXT STEPS COMPILED 2018 for OSM has been a year with a focus on functional performance, people and technology. We have established OSM Operation Centre in Singapore that will enable us to pull out and consolidate information from diverse databases to provide the vessels and the shore organization with information for improved decision making. The Centre will initially focus on observing and supporting technical management, but the methodology can also be utilized to support crewing and all other services offered by OSM. OSM's Digitalization strategy is about applying technology to share, provide and support high quality core services using computers for what they are best at: Processing large amounts of information. We, the people, should focus on using the information and ensuring that we get to the best possible decisions based on the data available. The digitalisation strategy will also permit us to share data with our customers more seamlessly than we perform today. Greater transparency is a tendency that we experience in the guild at large including the shipping industry. Focal point on our operational execution Thither is a continued focus on our operational performance and the new RMQA (Risk Management & Quality Assurance) group is now fully functional. The aim of the group is to delineate and implement groupwide company standards in addition to mentoring and training onshore and vessel personnel. The shipping industry is, like the rest of the club, getting increasingly complicated with more rules and regulations that we ask to adjoin and are expected to play. This is a challenge for the industry, but a competitive advantage for companies that own so much competence as we do in OSM. Knowledgeable people: A year for learning Knowledge means power, and knowledgeable people can build a hefty difference. Let's get to 2019 a year for learning, a year where we challenge ourselves and evolve our skills to cater even more dependable services to our clients. Flexibility to change: Doing right things right It's difficult to call the future and the outlook in the 2019 crystal ball is potential to differ depending on who's counting – but there's one thing that we can be sure of and that's the fact that matters will alter. Alteration is the new normal in this era of disruption, innovation and technological evolution. Living with change instead of struggling against it is essential, but at the same time we need to recollect what has built our success possible since OSM saw the brightness of day back in 1989: We are committed, and we do the right things right. Growth is important as well, but if we can assure uniform delivery of high-quality services or products over time, growth will take after. Quality as a driver for success It's also important to emphasize that success is not about the number of people in your company; It's about the quality of the great unwashed, the quality of operations and the quality of services. And above all, success is about us being perceived as the best supplier of maritime services. To accomplish that it is indispensable that all individuals are pulling in the same direction because they share the same belief in what we are getting along. After analysing the results of 2018, including strategy and our materiality survey results, as well as surveying the achievements towards the focus areas defined in 2017 we were able to demonstrate the focus regions for 2019 to improve our sustainability performance. Page 51 of 58 OSM and the UN Global Compact – Focus areas on 2019: • Go through new policies and updates the existing ones to increase the degree of compliance with the 10 principles of the UN global compact, specially regarded Anti-corruption and Human Rights; • Development and implementation of ethics committee and a whistle blow channel; • Further invest in shared value projects and partner with our customers and local offices to produce synergies and promote the selected sustainable development goals; • Incorporate two other SGD`s SGD 5 – Gender Equality and SDG 14 – Life bellow Water into our business strategy and further improvement in these societal goals; • Further implement and incorporate the 10 principles into all our business units; • Continue to produce a selling scheme to promote awareness towards the 10 principles and the selected sustainable development goals for 2019; • Further advance into our environmental compliance, focusing the vessels managed by OSM and expanding it to our business units. • Further advance into harassment and bullying prevention in alignment with the new amendments expected to be implemented by 09/01/2019. Attachments 1. Attachment I OSM CSR activities reported – 2018. 2. Attachment II 10 principles of ON Global compact and related topics selected to the OSM Materiality assessment survey 3. Attachment III: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2018. Page 52 of 58 Attachment I OSM CSR activities reported 2018 Focus Area CSR activity reported Location Hosted the Healthy Marine Minds workshop for Healthy Marine Minds and our client Siem Offshore. Australia Laboral exercises are held by a professional twice a week for 15 minutes. Brazil Sao Silvestre 2018 Project preparing the participants for the “São Silvestre Run” of 15KM. Brazil Cancer prevention and support develop campaigns. Brazil Health Annual medical check-up for its employees. Croatia Organizes blood donation among employees and join sports events. Cyprus Officer seminars with the mien of a doctor from RigaBrain®. Latvia Voluntary medical insurance ensures better medical treatment. Russia Sport benefit. Russia Plumping for the “Enkurs” event to promote the maritime industry to youngsters. Latvia Awareness takes the field on several issues organizes an Annual seminar. Brazil Partnering with local and international universities offering internship placements. Cyprus Supporting Maculabo Elementary School (Maculabo Island, Paracale, Camarines Norte): Distribution of solar lanterns as there is no electricity on the island, school supplies, purses, art materials, Philippines volleyball set, chess tables, table games, children’s books and bookshelf. The teachers also received life vests. Supporting Comatin Elementary School (Javier, Leyte): two-day sports and arts workshop for the children. Distribution of canvass sheets, paint colours & brushes, volleyballs, chess tables, Philippines badminton rackets and Eco bags. Education Supporting Makiling Elementary School (Calamba, Laguna): Ceremony for decade-long intervention Philippines in the schoolhouse. OSM Philippines are supporting the Gohan National High School, located in Banaue, Ifugao: with the Philippines donation of reference books, computer, printing machine and electric fans to the schoolhouse. Supporting Banaue National High School (Banaue, Ifugao): donation of reference books, computer, Philippines printing machine and electric fans to the schoolhouse. General Assembly of OSM Scholars at Silang, Cavite. Soft skills workshops and Other activities were Philippines carried. College Scholarship including: 7 College Scholarships were granted in total. Philippines Orientation to the Scholars of the Scholarship Program in Banaue, Ifugao. Philippines Water Decrease in consumption program and monitoring for water. Brazil Awareness campaigns sent during the Year + Annual seminar. Brazil Environment Waste segregation and recycling + joining beach cleaning events promoted by local authorities. Cyprus Cancer prevention Donation to cancer, supporting institutions such as Red Cross. Cyprus And support Child care/ In cooperation with the Norwegian Chamber of Commerce in Latvia we’ve participated in a Latvia development charitable event supporting the Latvian Foster Family Association. Donation box: A donation box was installed in the local office, collecting donations from employees Cyprus Other that are distributed among local NGOs. Financial Wellness Seminars for Employees, Seafarers and Families. Philippines Winter clothing donation drive. Brazil Contribution of food piled up on a vessel that concluded a contract to an orphanage. Brazil Donation to people over 18 that are orphans and need funding. Croatia Charity event Joining local marathons and volleyball attorneys promoted by local agencies concerned to the Cyprus maritime industry. Supporting local charity events organised by local foundations and NGO`s. Cyprus Disaster Disaster Response Policy. Drafted two disaster response policies (DRP) for the Community and for Philippines recovery our Crew and Family. management Financial Assistance to be five (5) families of seafarers affected by Typhoon Ompong. Philippines HIV-AIDS prevention and HIV-AIDS prevention and support Awareness campaigns sent during the Year + Annual seminar. Brazil documentation Page 53 of 58 Attachment II 10 principles of ON Global compact and related topics selected to the OSM Materiality assessment survey 10 principles of UNGC Issues Topics major areas 1 Equality in opportunity and treatment; 2 Gender Diversity/ Discrimination/ Inclusion; 3 Another form of Diversity/ Discrimination/ Diversity, inclusion and gender Inclusion; 4 Racial diversity/ discrimination; 5 Sexual orientation diversity/ equality discrimination/ inclusion; 6 Gender diversity at Board level; and 7 Gender payment gap. Human rights Our respect for human rights and 1 Child Labour; 2 Forced labour; 3 Modern slavery; 4 Migrant workers freedoms and traffic of people. Business and Economic Growth in 1 -Economic inequalities among countries; 2 Emerging market strategy; 3 Developing nations Fair trade; and 4 Socially inclusive business model. 1 Health and well-being; 2 Mental health; and 3 Occupational health and Safety, Health, and Wellness prophylactic. 1 Freedom of association and collective bargaining; 2 Labour management Fair employment and labour rights relations; 3 Working Hours; 4 Fair compensation; 5 Pay difference among (direct and collateral) employees; 6 Employment culture, and 7 Pensions and social protection. labour rights 1 Disaster Management; 2 Cyber security; 3 Data privacy; 4 Compliance Risk Management with legal/costumer/ industry requirements; and 5 Change management. Major Accidents and Nonconformity 1 Process safety; 2 Human factor management and prevention; and with applicable laws and industry 3 Lessons learned. standards Education and Development of our 1 Succession planning; 2 Training and education; 3 – Governance; 5 People Talent attraction and retention; and 6 Training and education. Natural Resource and Water 1 Wildlife Preservation and Protection. Stewardship 1 Blue economy; 2 Cradle to cradle; 3 -Systems thinking and Social; and 4 Circular Economy Environmental and Economic impact. Waste Management, Recycling, and 1 Minimized waste, emission, and energy leakage; and 2 Narrowing Conscious Consumption energy and material loops. Environmental protection Climate Change 1 Greenhouse effect; 2 Global Warming; and 3 Reduced Biodiversity. Energy Consumption and Green 1 Indirect/Direct environmental impact; 2 Alternative energy sources; and Energy Sources 3 Clean and green energy sources. CO2 Emissions (Greenhouse gas 1 Air pollution; and 2 Greenhouse gases. emissions) 1 Chemical safety; 2 Environmental disasters; 3 Water pollution; and 4 Petroleum or Chemical Spill Ocean pollution. 1 – Values; 2 Anti-counterfeiting; 3 antitrust/anti-competitive behaviour; 4 Bribery and corruption; 5 – Compliance; 6 Audit conflict of interests; 7 Anti-corruption and Transparency Internal organisation and accountability; 8 Ethical business practices; 9 Tax transparency; 10 Tax contributions; and 11 Economic value added. Responsible Marketing and 1 Responsible marketing practices; 2 Gender and other stereotyping; 3 Communication Accountability to stakeholders; and 4 Transparency and reporting. Anticorruption 1 Informal labour in the value chain; 2 Extended producer responsibility; 3 Supplier Qualification and Child Labour in the value chain; 4 Forced labour in the value chain; 5 Development Modern slavery in the value chain; and 6 Migrant workers and traffic of people in the value string. 1 Sustainability Certification; 2 Employee engagement in sustainability; Innovation Towards Sustainability and 3 New technologies, Page 54 of 58 Attachment II: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2018 Stakeholder Identity Expectations from Synergy/Interaction Interaction and Management 2018 Next steps (from 2019 on) Stakeholders ISO 9001OSM offices around the globe were audited in 2018 being accredited or reDNV-GL Contract Maintaining our corporate certificate of ISO -Transparent, consistent and accredited BV External audits 9001:2015 Certification precise coverage TRACE certification in key locations was TRACE Certificates emission Keeping MLC certification/ accreditation bodies Access to management maintained Lloyd's Register Communication on Social Expand the ISO 14001 and others across other OSM Responsibility and dependability ISO 14001 certification was maintained in Local authorities media maritime group offices key locations Stakeholder engagement survey We encourage participation in professional associations Building up business strategies at long and short term and seminars Attending events on the oil and gas/crewing Other Crew Keep assessing the market and anticipating its trends Fair business Participations in events industries Competitors management Conducting risk assessment and defining mitigation Business Ethics linked to Oil and Market assessment and valuation companies actions focusing on business continuity and Gas/Crewing industry Stakeholder engagement survey sustainability Mapping the market and discovering trends Responsibility and Annual meetings MLC certified and authorized Go on the MLC certification and authorisation dependability Employees Unions Signed agreements (CBA) Participation in the yearly meeting Keep Participating in the annual meetings Fair business Unions Seafarers Communication on Social Signed agreements and CBA`s for 2018 Keep signing agreements and CBA`s Business Ethics associations media Stakeholder engagement survey Enclose the relationship with the brotherhoods Transparency Responsibility and dependability Business development Fair business team Management of new customers by Customers Business Ethics Contracts Salesforce Increasing Business development team License holders Transparency Feedback forms Contracts set with support of the legal Expansion of geographical region Oil and gas Continuous improvement OSM website department External agencies project extractors Activity records and evidences Participation of events Customer satisfaction from Data analysis Increase shared content in social media External Shipping Easy access to information related to Oil and Gas Contact numbers available at OSM website CSR and sustainability awareness campaigns Customers companies Customer service /Crewing industry Publicity material published on OSM website Sharing our Communication on Progress report Shipowners Employment opportunities Social media (LinkedIn, Participation in events worldwide Keep the participation in events (customers) Qualified staff (office and onFacebook, Instagram and Sharing material and positions on social Keep improving our customer satisfaction survey Seafarers (not yet board) others) media Developing business strategies at long and short term used) Compliance with sector Communication on Social Stakeholder engagement survey standards media High quality services Page 55 of 58 Stakeholder Identity Expectations from Synergy/Interaction Interaction and Management 2018 Next steps (from 2019 on) Stakeholders Employees (Office, onResponsibility and reliability Daily management on Ee-Crew access to all employees by app on the cell board/Shore and Fair business crew phone Seafarers) Business Ethics Periodic Appraisals MLC certified and authorized Management of career development of onshore staff Families of Transparency Annual Employee survey Career development and fair reward by Lanteria Seafarers Continuous improvement Onboard Magazine BiSafety, health and friendly work environment Promoting OSM values through campaigns and OSM Owners Activity records and evidences annual Ethical work environment training -Seafarers Easy access to information Annual seminars Non-discriminatory policy and diversity Development of our own medical clinic in Philippines Internal Existing OSM Appraisal and constant Training for onshore and Trainings in house for seafarers Annual Management review meetings Customers Seafarers feedback onboard staff Holding events with seafarer’s families and Implementation of the risk committee -Top Ethical work environment and Support to seafarer’s trainings Development of more training centres around the Management/Boar fair reward families Management review meetings globe d Members/ Crew Career development Management review Quarterly Management review meetings Keep up the training centre in Manila Management Compliance with sector meetings Stakeholders engagement survey Further investments in Cadet programs Leader Team standards Communication on Social Keep investing in the support of seafarers' families Executive High quality services media such as events and trainings Management Creditors: Financial relationship (not utilised today) Responsibility and reliability Fair business Bank: Improved monitoring of foreign exchange risk Creditors Bank: Custodian and Bank: Daily use of bank system; transaction Business Ethics and liquidity risk Financial Banks transaction processing; processing Transparency Also, bank relationships to be reviewed in light of institutions Potential Market potentially borrowing facility Custodian of OSM money Continuous improvement bank's credit risk investors (not today) Activity records and evidences Creditors / Potential market investors: Not Easy access to information Creditors / Potential market investors: Not expected Potential market investors: explored to be explored Investing in business in anticipation of return Legal department has been the responsible Complying with local and by the interface with local and international international requirements Keep legal department as the responsible for the requirements Government Responsibility and reliability Complying with industry interface with local and international requirements Public and HSEQ has provided support to the company Laws and Fair business standards Expand the support from HSEQ regarded industry Government in complying with industry standards Regulations Business Ethics Monitoring changes in rules standards agencies HSEQ has sent a monthly circular with Regulatory bodies Transparency and regulations Keep sending monthly updates on laws and updates in rules and regulations, with the Communication on Social regulations support of the legal department media Stakeholder engagement survey Page 56 of 58 Stakeholder Identity Expectations from Synergy/Interaction Interaction and Management 2018 Next steps (from 2019 on) Stakeholders Associations on Oil and gas industryMaritime community National Flag States Philippine Overseas Employment Administration Meeting via industry groups (POEA) Compliance related International Implementing the applicable industry communications Implementing environmental programs and KPI`s; Labour Fair businessBusiness standards in our operations; Monitoring any updates, Implementing the General Data Protection Regulation Industry Organization (ILO) EthicsTransparency Constantly working to increase the quality of upcoming from industry (GDPR); Organizations International Continuous improvement our operations aligned with health and safety organizations Start working with the Amendments of 2016 to the Maritime Employment opportunities industry standards; Analysing market trends MLC 2006. Organization (IMO) Stakeholder engagement survey Communication on Social Norwegian media Shipowners Association (NSA) International Association of Independent -Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO) International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF) OSM Foundation: Adonis Increase employment opportunities, promotion by Promoting employment opportunities Donato Foundation, Inc. expanding operations and increasing business volume Responsible operations respecting legal CSR initiatives undertaken Continue with our responsible operations, respecting Responsibility and reliability requirements and industry standards by several OSM offices legal requirements and industry standards Communities by Fair business Promoting CSR initiatives in several OSM worldwide Keep promoting CSR initiatives in several OSM Office our office’s Business Ethics Offices locations 42% of OSM offices Local Compliance with local legal locations increase the percentage of OSM offices locations Transparency worldwide engaged in such activities communities requirements worldwide engaged in CSR initiatives worldwide and Continuous improvement Promoting CSR initiatives in Manila with OSM Offices site worldwide and Keep promoting CSR initiatives in Manila with OSM other facilities Employment opportunities Foundation: Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc. local contact numbers Foundation: Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc. Support and development Promoting education and training with cadet Local employees Keep promoting education and training with cadet programs and training centres Communication on Social programs and expand training centres in other Stakeholder engagement survey media geographical locations Page 57 of 58 Stakeholder Identity Expectations from Synergy/Interaction Interaction and Management 2018 Next steps (from 2019 on) Stakeholders Marketing department in OSM Constant shared content in social media Keep sharing content in social media Media Responsibility and reliability Periodic publications of On-board magazine semi-annual publications Improve the content of the OSM Onboard magazine Media, NGO`s, Social media Business Ethics content in social media Media sharing at OSM website Keep up media sharing on OSM website Social Media International Transparency Onboard magazine periodic UN global compact 10 principles, mapping Publishing the Communication on Progress report on organizations Easy access to information publications Stakeholder mapping OSM website Member of UN global Stakeholder engagement survey Compact External lawyers Internet provider Logistic companies (Gtravel, Constant correspondence GriffInstone) with GARD Travel agents Contract with suppliers Other systems and Power of attorney with Keep up the good communication with GARD IT providers external agents (POA) Daily correspondence with GARD Keep up the supplier contract management (EyeShare, Visma, Responsibility and reliability Price policy with travel Suppliers contract management Develop the supplier audit and implement annual TeleComputing, eFair business agents and logistics Procurement procedures being used business review for critical suppliers Crew, IRIS, and Business Ethics companies Suppliers Audit schedule Implement supplier quality evaluation, verification others) Transparency Suppliers evaluation and Invoice team working with the invoice Develop selection criteria and supplier development Training and Financial resources to meet audit management program education financial obligations Supplier personnel in Stakeholders engagement survey Developing new services inside OMS and reduce institutions constant contact with supplier service volume, where possible Medical clinics supplier portfolio External agencies Invoice management Training centres & Communication on Social providers media External recruitment agencies GARD P&I Page 58 of 58
