CSR Report 2019 Contents (Cover: Thai Udonthani Power Co., Ltd.) Bringing new value to society 3 7 Message from Top Management Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan − An Overview with +TAKUMA 10 Company Outline 11 Business Summary 13 Introduction to Group Company Businesses 15 History 17 Feature 01. Biomass Power Plant Construction/O&M Project in Kasaoka Founder Tsunekichi Takuma invented the first boiler 02. Biomass Power Plant Construction Project to be produced entirely in Japan by bringing expertise in Thailand and technology to a product that had to be imported 25 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 1. Environmental Plant Business until that time. 2. Energy Plant Business By passing down this philosophy over time and 3. Overseas Business augmenting it with Takumaʼs technology, we continue 39 CSR Activities for the Future 41 Corporate Governance to create products with new value today. Corporate Governance Going forward, we will provide that value to Internal Control / Compliance & CSR Promotion Structure customers through plants that take advantage of the Risk Management Structure proprietary technologies we have developed since our Business Continuity Plan (BCP) / IR Activities founding in areas such as combustion, waste Directors and Executive Officers Message from a New Outside Director treatment, and water treatment. 47 Human Rights and Labor Practices Respect for Human Rights and the Abolition of Discrimination / Working with Our Employees Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health 53 The Environment Basic Environmental Policy / Environmental Management Takumaʼs CO2 Emission Reduction Technologies Environmental Reporting 57 Fair Business Practices Compliance & CSR Promotion Education / Compliance Measures CSR Awareness Survey / Internal Reporting System / Material Procurement Policy 59 Consumer Issues Activities Involving Product Quality 61 Participation in the Community 62 Contribution to Society 63 Financial Data 73 Outside Expert Opinion Outside Expert Opinion Response to the Outside Expert Opinion / Takuma CSR Report 2018 Questionnaire Survey Results / Editorial Policy 1 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 2 Message from Top Management Contributing to Assessing change in the business Through endless effort to provide new value after conducting ourselves in line with the dictates of legal environment and boosting our ability compliance, impartiality, ethical values, and social mores to grow while ensuring transparency in decision-making and the sustainable fulfilling the obligations of accountability, we must build and Message from Top Management Iʼm Hiroaki Nanjo, and I became President and CEO of maintain good relationships; only then will society Takuma in April. acknowledge the value of Takumaʼs continued existence. I The Takuma Group, which has adopted the goals of believe that management is founded on corporate development of society “aiming to maintain our role of being an indispensable presence in society as a leading company in the ﬁeld of governance, compliance, and risk management. Second, I embrace the practice of seeing things from both renewable energy utilization and environmental protection” a short-term and a medium-/long-term perspective. As the and of achieving ordinary proﬁt of JPY 10 billion in FY2020, by providing new value business environment continues to undergo significant has embraced a vision of building structures capable of change, we are called upon to deal with those changes in an consistently earning an ordinary profit of at least JPY 10 appropriate manner and to generate results as we do so. billion even as the business environment undergoes a Additionally, as a publicly held company, we are required to the world needs process of significant change. As the final stage in our direct increase management efficiency and to improve our to achieve that vision, we are working to implement the 12th performance. However, merely pursuing short-term profits in Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2018 to FY2020). That the context of an effort to achieve long-term development of effort includes a variety of business activities undertaken as the business while satisfying all stakeholders is unlikely to part of the Plan, which outlines a three-year period during lead to sustained growth. We must cultivate a mediumand which we have sought to boost our corporate capabilities to long-term perspective and incorporate it into our facilitate the achievement of our vision and consistent management while reliably dealing with the immediate growth afterwards based on a sure assessment of how the opportunities and issues that present themselves to us. In business environment is likely to change in the future. particular, the Groupʼs products̶Energy from Waste plants, water treatment plants, and energy plants̶are key parts of societyʼs underlying infrastructure, and as such they operate for 20 to 30 years after being delivered to the customer. We Continuing to be a company that plays will continue to work to manufacture optimal products an essential role in society through careful attention to all phases of the life cycle, from design to construction and maintenance, in order to ensure Iʼd like to take advantage of this opportunity to describe that customers can utilize these facilities for as long, and in my basic approach to management as I take on these new as effective a manner, as possible. At the same time, ESG responsibilities. investment is attracting attention as a means of boosting First, I believe in the importance of respecting our corporate value over the long term. We will contribute to Management Principles. The Takuma and Takuma Group society by focusing even more closely on developing and Management Principles state, “Takuma will strive for social supplying products and services that make contributions to contribution, corporate value enhancement, long-term the environmental priorities of reducing environmental corporate development and the satisfaction of all impacts and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. stakeholders by providing goods and services that are Third, I am committed to carrying on a good corporate needed and recognized as valuable in society.” That impetus culture that allows all employees to pursue their jobs with can also be found in our founding spirit of “Service to the enthusiasm and ambition while enjoying personal growth. nation through boiler manufacturing*,” and it means Takuma has created a culture that encourages such growth contributing to the world through the goods and services by allowing relatively inexperienced employees to take on that we create. It also informs corporate social responsibility job responsibilities so that they can gain motivation and (CSR), which we have currently embraced as a key issue in experience a sense of accomplishment while being mentored the companyʼs management. Companies must build and by supervisors and older colleagues. I look forward to maintain good relationships with a variety of stakeholders, continuing to develop an environment that allows each including customers, business partners, employees, Takuma employee to approach his or her job with a desire to shareholders, and investors. Such relationships cannot be improve, to take full advantage of his or her skills and realized in a day. The first step is for the company to conduct abilities, to grow through the companyʼs activities, and to itself in a way that inspires trust on the part of stakeholders. enjoy a sense of motivation and happiness. 3 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 4 Message from Value Technology, Value People, Value the Earth Top Management Takuma will strive for social contribution, corporate value enhancement, long-term corporate development and the satisfaction of all stakeholders by providing goods and services that are needed and recognized as valuable in society. The founding spirit of Takuma was “Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing,” which in present-day language means “contribution to society by supplying goods and services that we yield.” This spirit can also be applied to the concept of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) that in recent years has become a vital issue for corporate management. The management principles of the Takuma group companies are all based on the said founding spirit. Message from Top Management Accommodating customersʼ diversifying Helping solve social issues from Takuma and the Takuma Group companies believe that it is essential for the sound development of the group needs through new initiatives such as the worldʼs standard perspective that all of the directors and employees remain aware of our social responsibilities and the circumstances the O&M* business surrounding us as well as act in response to social ethics complying with applicable related laws and ordinances. Takuma has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Bearing the above in mind, we have established and will promote this ethics charter as our code of conduct, aiming Compact* since 2006, and we support its 10 fundamental Currently, Takumaʼs principal businesses include the Solid to realize our management principles. Waste Treatment Plant Business; the Energy Plant Business, principles in the 4 areas of human rights, labour, which includes our Package Boiler Business; and the Water environment, and anti-corruption. We will work to develop 1. We shall strive for proactive social contribution while establishing a harmonious coexistence with the global environment as Treatment Plant Business. These three core areas of our business while understanding and respecting these good corporate citizens. operations have grown thanks to continuous effort over globally shared principles. In addition, concerning the 2. We shall act in good faith in accordance with sound business custom, while complying with applicable laws and regulations implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and committing ourselves to fair, transparent and free competition, as well as conducting lawful business activities. many years, and by cultivating trusting relationships with (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations and the provisions of 3. We shall never have any relationship with antisocial forces or organizations, which may pose a threat to the social order and customers, they have earned us excellent market share. We the Paris Agreement adopted at COP21, the Group is helping security of civil society. are now embarking on a new initiative that will seek to resolve social issues with technologies for reducing 4. We shall respect fundamental human rights and never practice discrimination. develop an O&M business for energy plants, an area that emissions of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide through 5. We shall strive to provide high quality products and services, based on our advanced technologies, to attain high acclaim and shares our focus on maintenance, into a robust contributor such means as high-efficiency generation of electricity using confidence from our customers. to Takumaʼs bottom line by taking advantage of the 6. We shall strive to disclose corporate information to shareholders and investors through investor relations (IR) and other experience weʼve gained in solid waste treatment plants. waste and biomass. activities on a timely and equitable basis. Continuous action will be needed in the future in order to 7. We shall strive to protect corporate properties as well as information, while never using either for improprieties or any accommodate customersʼ diversifying needs so that we can In closing, in compiling this CSR Report we have sought unjustifiable purpose other than normal business operations. continue to grow. Through the creative efforts of all not only to provide a resource by means of which a broad employees, we will show the way forward for each business range of stakeholders could learn more about the Takuma so that we can achieve the goals of the 12th Medium-Term Groupʼs activities, but also to help each and every Group Management Plan and realize our mediumand long-term employee think carefully about CSR and bring that vision for the next stage in our history. perspective to bear in his or her work. We at the Takuma Group encourage readers to offer their candid views and Harmony with society Practice of customer satisfaction advice, which we will carefully review in order that we 1. Coexistence with the global environment 12. Safety of products and services as well as might better resolve social issues and contribute to the 2. Coexistence with international society ensuring reliability sustainable development of society. 3. Practice of social contribution activities 13. Policies concerning advertising Practice of compliance with laws and ordinances as well Making appropriate disclosure of information July 2019 as sound economic activities 14. Transmission of corporate information Hiroaki Nanjo 4. Free competition and fair trade 15. Ensuring reliability of financial reporting President and CEO 5. Relationship with politics and public 16. Prohibition of insider trading Takuma Co., Ltd. administration 6. Policies concerning business entertainment and Protection of corporate properties and information gift-giving 17. Management and proper use of corporate * Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing: * United Nations Global Compact: 7. Prohibition of involvement in anti-social activities properties It was the Company Motto of Takuma, then Takuma Boiler The Takuma Group has joined the United Nations 8. Appropriate export and import transactions 18. Handling of confidential information 19. Intellectual property protection Manufacturing Co., Ltd., founded by Mr. Tsunekichi Takuma, Global Compact (UNGC), which is a voluntary effort Respect for basic human rights one of the ten great inventors of Japan during the Meiji and to create a global framework for implementing 9. Prohibition of discriminatory actions Taisho periods (1868-1926). sustainable growth by having companies and groups 10. Respect for individuality, personal quality, and exercise responsible and creative leadership while privacy * O&M: Operation & Maintenance acting as good members of society. 11. Safe work environment 5 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 6 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan An Overview (FY 2018 to 2020) 1.Positioning of the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan 3.Financial Target 500 (Billion JPY) 50 ● The plan represents the final stage of the current mediumand long-term vision (corporate vision), for which FY2020 is the target year. ● During its three years, we will achieve the vision and boost our corporate capabilities to prepare for steady growth in the future in response to future changes that are forecasted to occur in the business environment. 400 40 Previous medium-and Current mediumand long-term vision Next mediumand The 12 Medium-Term Management Plan, which represents the th final stage of our current mediumand long-term vision, establishes 300 30 long-term vision (corporate vision) long-term vision the above targets to guide our achievement of the visionʼs goal of Aim to maintain our role of being an indispensable presence in society as a leading company in the field of renewable consistently earning ordinary profit of JPY 10 billion while 200 20 energy utilization and environmental protection. simultaneously directing the company to utilize all its resources to build a robust business and Order value (left scale) 100 10 Ordinary profit of JPY 10 billion in FY2020 (Build structures capable of consistently earning ordinary profit of at least JPY 10 billion even as the management foundation in response to future Sales (left scale) business environment undergoes major changes.) changes in the business environment. Ordinary profit (right scale) 0 0 10th Plan 11th Plan 12th Plan Consistently secure annual (Billion JPY) Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan An Overview 12th Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2018 to FY2020) ordinary profit of at least 10 Medium-Term th 11 Medium-Term th 12 Medium-Term th JPY 10 billion. Management Plan results Management Plan results Management Plan 11th Medium-Term Management Plan Strengthening of corporate capability (FY2015 to FY2017) to facilitate steady growth 2012 to 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total 2018 FY2018 to FY2020 10 Medium-Term Management Plan th Steady expansion in terms of both Order value 371.0 99.9 191.0 177.1 468.0 179.8 JPY 400 billion (approx.) (FY2012 to FY2014) quantity and quality Cumulative ordinary profit target (3-year cumulative total; 9th Medium-Term Management Plan Reinforcement of business foundation JPY 33.0 billion Sales 296.5 113.0 116.3 118.1 347.5 121.9 reference value) (FY2009 to FY2011) for stability and proﬁtability Cumulative ordinary profit results Target: JPY 33 billion Ordinary profit 25.7 9.6 11.6 10.6 31.9 12.3 Proﬁtability through selection and JPY 31.9 billion (3-year cumulative total) concentration of resources Cumulative ordinary profit results JPY 25.7 billion 4.Core Business Units and Emphasis of Future Activities 2.Policies of the 12 Medium-Term Management Plan th ❶Strengthening and expanding our revenue aging of Japanʼs population and the emergence of more foundation advanced and diverse customer needs as well as social issues. We will strive to improve productivity, make effective use of ● As facilities age, there is ongoing robust demand for renewal and ● There is growing demand for sludge incineration plants that Many of the Groupʼs products are used for a long period of human resources, and further increase the level of value we service life elongation. conserve and create energy. time, for example for 20 or 30 years from the time of delivery. ● Volume is growing for DBO projects as well as O&M services for ● There is increasing use of PPP/PFI arrangements in the sewer provide by fundamentally reviewing and rebuilding business Offering high-quality after-sales service in an ongoing manner existing facilities. business. processes that have become increasingly complex in order to so that customers can use those products more effectively and accommodate these changes while focusing on businesses with over a longer period of time contributes to both customersʼ and ● Strengthen the profitability of our plant operation business. ● Strengthen the competitiveness of our sludge-fueled power system. higher added value (which will help us create and provide value). the Groupʼs profits, helping to create a foundation for stable, ● Further strengthen initiatives to prolong the service life of ● Scale our waste management expertise horizontally to other long-term earnings. facilities. businesses. We will work to further strengthen and expand our revenue ❹Using human resources effectively foundation by continuing to provide high-quality solutions We will work to hire and train the diverse workforce that will throughout the plant and product life cycle as we meet be essential as we develop the Groupʼs businesses going customersʼ diversifying needs in an individualized manner. forward. At the same time, we will strive to create an environment that keeps individual employees engaged in their ● FIT demand remains robust. ● Demand for biomass power plants in Southeast Asia remains work and able to make full use of their skills and abilities (by The number of plants targeted for maintenance is increasing as robust. ❷Achieving sustained growth ● facilities are completed and transferred to customers. ● Our flagship bagasse-fired boiler plants continue to experience Over the 80 years since the Groupʼs founding, we have built a cultivating a healthy workplace culture, reforming individual ● There is growing demand for plant operational management and intense competition. reputation as an essential part of society by providing products awareness, and facilitating fulfilling workstyles). O&M. that are recognized for their value utilizing our technologies which are the core part of our company. ❺Continuing to pursue compliance management ● Capture new orders for FIT biomass plants. ● Capture orders continually by creating competitive advantages. We will create customer value by continually developing unique The Group considers compliance to be a key foundation of its ● Strengthen our maintenance structures. ● Strengthen the ability of our local subsidiary (SIAM TAKUMA) to technologies, services, and business models based on Takumaʼs corporate activities, and weʼve worked to spread awareness and ● Scale our waste management expertise horizontally to other carry out its business operations. strengths such as the technologies, track record, experience, and foster adoption of good practices by including compliance as a businesses. expertise that weʼve accumulated through our business activities policy in the last several Medium-Term Management Plans. to date. In addition, we will work to secure sustained growth by Awareness of the importance of compliance has steadily taken securing and creating competitive advantages as we respond root among our employees thanks to ongoing awareness-raising quickly to changes in the business environment, such as evolving and educational activities, and we will continue to pursue such customer needs and emerging social issues. initiatives to ensure that the trust weʼve built up in our quality ● There is a growing need for proper waste management and ● We are continuing to see a certain level of demand in Japan, and integrity remains unshakable. In addition, we will work to energy utilization against a backdrop of growing urbanization, particularly in terms of renewal demand. increase of waste volume, and diversification of waste ● The need for energy-conserving boilers is increasing overseas, further spread and improve compliance awareness throughout ❸Increasing productivity, for example by characteristics. particularly in developing nations. the Group by effectively implementing and utilizing mechanisms reforming business processes such as our internal reporting system and CSR awareness survey. The nature of the Groupʼs businesses is undergoing major ● Build structures to facilitate collaboration with partner companies. ● Maintain and expand our domestic business. evolution as the business environment changes, for example ● Build schemes for entering new markets. ● Expand our overseas business. due to changes in social structure such as the shrinking and * DBO: Design Build Operate / PPP: Public Private Partnership / PFI: Private Finance Initiative / FIT: Feed-in Tariff 7 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 8 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan An Overview (FY 2018 to 2020) 5.Progress in Implementing the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan Company Outline Name: TAKUMA CO., LTD. In this section, members of Takumaʼs management team present progress in implementing the goals of Head office location: 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806, Japan the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, which began in FY2018. TEL +81-6-6483-2609 FAX +81-6-6483-2751 (operator) 1 Head Office (Amagasaki, Hyogo) Representative Director: Hiroaki Nanjo, President and CEO The central theme of this Medium-Term Management Plan is Established: June 10, 1938 2 Osaka Office (Osaka) strengthening our corporate capability to facilitate steady growth. Capital: JPY 13,367,457,968 (as of March 31, 2019) 3 Tokyo Branch (Minato-ku, Tokyo) During FY2018, we worked to do just that in an effort to not only Main business areas: The design, construction and superintendence of a wide 4 Hokkaido Branch (Sapporo, Hokkaido) boost profitability, but also better earn the trust of a wide range of variety of boilers, plant machinery, pollution prevention 5 Tohoku Branch (Sendai, Miyagi) plants, environmental equipment plants, and heating and customers and other stakeholders, including by offering 6 Chubu Branch (Nagoya, Aichi) cooling equipment and feed-water / drainage sanitation high-quality solutions that help resolve a variety of todayʼs social equipment and facilities 7 Kyushu Branch (Fukuoka) issues. I think it was a good start for the first year of the Plan. The design, construction and superintendence of civil, 8 Okinawa Branch (Ginowan, Okinawa) In FY2019 and beyond, we will continue to help build a architecture and other works 9 Harima Factory (Takasago, Hyogo) Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan An Overview sustainable society by strengthening our corporate capabilities Number of employees (non-consolidated): 852 (as of March 31, 2019) 10 Taipei Branch (Taipei, Taiwan) Number of employees (consolidated): 3,619 (as of March 31, 2019) through operations including our environmental plant, energy plant, and other businesses and by maintaining our role of being an indispensable presence in society as a leading company in the Kengo Numata ﬁeld of renewable energy utilization and environmental protection. (As of June 26, 2019; see Takumaʼs website for details.) Director & Executive Vice President Takumaʼs business offices Group companies in Japan Overseas group companies Executive Manager, Corporate Planning & Administration Division Group companies in Japan 12 Nagaizumi High Trust Co., Ltd. 17 Takuma Energy Co., Ltd. 1 Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. 13 Fujisawa High Trust Co., Ltd. 18 Kurume High Trust Co., Ltd. The Japanese Solid Waste Treatment Plant and Boiler Plant 2 Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. 14 Iwate-Kenpoku Clean Co., Ltd. 19 Hokutan High Trust Co., Ltd. Businesses performed well during the first year of the Plan. Orders, 3 Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd. 15 Hitachinaka-Tokai High Trust Co., Ltd. 20 Suwako High Trust Co., Ltd. sales, and operating income all exceeded the initial planned values as 4 Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd. 16 Anan High Trust Co., Ltd. 21 Imabari High Trust Co., Ltd. we enjoyed a smooth start in terms of quantitative performance. 5 Sun Plant Co., Ltd. 22 Energy Mate Co., Ltd. Looking at the business environment, the transition in the 6 Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd. 23 Kashihara High Trust Co., Ltd. Japanese market from manufacturing alone to a service business that 7 Takuma System Control Co., Ltd. 9 24 Tochigi High Trust Co., Ltd. uses products as tools is accelerating, and there is demand in the 8 Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. 25 Ecos Yonezawa Co., Ltd. overseas market for products and services that can accommodate 9 Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd. individual countriesʼ different situations and needs. 4 3 4 10 Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd. In order to achieve steady growth, it is necessary for companies to 11 Takuma Plant Service Co., Ltd. bolster their capabilities to ensure they can adapt to changes in the 24 tenor of the times. One of the key themes for this plan is strengthening and expanding the Japanese plant operation business and bringing new Tsuyohito Nishiyama 14 Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer 5 15 creativity to its development overseas. Our goal is to enhance our Executive Manager, Corporate Marketing Group 8 2 5 adaptability and create a foundation that will enable us to secure stable 25 8 1 profits in the future by actively developing more appropriate structures 7 13 based on revamped resource allocation, accumulating more skills, and 12 20 offering a selection of products that meet the needs of the times. 3 18 6 21 19 In order to build a society in which the global environment and natural environment are protected and conserved in an appropriate manner into the future, it will be necessary to utilize waste effectively as a resource and to expand production of renewable energy. 9 10 Our mission is to maintain our role of being an indispensable presence in society as a leading company in the ﬁeld of renewable 10 1 Overseas group companies energy utilization and environmental protection. In keeping with 1 Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd. 2 that mission, our Engineering Group will continue to help build a 2 Siam Takuma Co., Ltd. 1 6 7 11 17 22 sustainable society by providing plants that make significant inroads 2 23 in the drive to protect the environment, develop a recycling-based society, and reduce CO2 emissions through pioneering solid waste treatment that helps reduce environmental impacts, Energy from Hideki Takeguchi Waste projects that generate power from municipal waste and 16 Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer Executive Manager, Engineering Group sewage sludge, and carbon-neutral biomass power generation. 9 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 10 Business Summary ■ Municipal solid waste treatment plants ■ Industrial waste treatment plants ■ General-purpose boilers ■ Air-conditioning equipment and clean systems We support the realization of a recycling-oriented society Using advanced incineration technologies, we can even As the convergence of Takumaʼs combustion technologies, We provide comfortable, clean environments to customers using advanced waste treatment technologies that meet treat toxic substances suitably and we are supporting the our boilers are a reliable brand that has earned the in the semiconductor industry as well as many locations the needs of local communities. environmental protection efforts of industry. support of a wide range of industries. such as universities, research institutions, and hospitals. ● Energy from Waste plant ● Waste to solid fuel conversion ● Industrial waste treatment plant ● Pyrolysis gasification and plant ● Steam Boilers (EQOS, Super EQOS) ● Building equipment ● Clean room melting plant ● Transition and intermediate ● Vacuum-type Water Heaters (Vacotin Heater) ● Air-conditioning equipment ● Clean devices ● Resource recycling and ● Package Water-tube Boilers ● Cleaning and drying devices ● Chemical filters processing plant ● Flue and Smoke Tube Boilers (RE Boiler) collection plant ● Raw fuel (biogas) recovery plant ● Heat Medium Oil Boilers (Thermoheater) Business Summary ● Bulky garbage crushing plant ● Various types of pollution ● Incineration ash and fly ash ● Radiation Heating Equipment (Strip Heater) prevention equipment Industrial waste melting plant treatment plant Energy from Waste plant Vacotin Heater Thermoheater Super EQOS RE Boiler Chemical filters Clean oven Clean booths Note: These products are handled by Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., which is one of our group companies. Plant that generates power Bulky garbage from industrial waste and crushing plant provides heat to a plantation ■ Overview of financial results ■ Net sales composition ratios (FY2018) Consolidated Non-consolidated Domestic Environment and Energy Business (Million JPY) 【Net sales】 Overseas Environment and Energy Business 7.2% 150,000 ■ Energy plants ■ Water treatment plants Package Boiler Business 118,198 121,950 Equipment and Systems Business 120,000 113,088 116,309 Takumaʼs core technologies are utilized in various types of We are working to purify wastewater with a holistic boilers, starting with biomass boilers, as well as total systems. perspective through a “dialogue with water.” 103,874 13.8% 90,000 2.5% Biomass boiler Waste heat boiler ● Sewage and wastewater ● Sludge treatment plant 76.5% ● ● ● Fossil fuel boiler ● Power plant treatment plant ● Sewage sludge-fueled power plant 72,445 73,327 74,238 60,000 71,479 ● Various types of advanced ● Plant to process water that 64,288 sewage treatment plant infiltrates final disposal sites 30,000 Biomass power Upflow moving-bed generation boiler filtration system 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) ■ Number of employees (as of March 31, 2019) Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated (Million JPY) 【Ordinary profit】 (Employees) 15,000 4,000 3,609 3,619 3,366 3,447 12,334 3,266 12,000 11,605 10,669 3,000 Waste heat boiler Sewage sludge-fueled 9,646 power plant 9,116 9,000 9,732 8,937 7,891 2,000 8,022 7,406 6,000 1,000 3,000 806 815 824 837 852 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 11 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 12 Introduction to Group Company Businesses (Related SDGs) (Related SDGs) Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. NIPPON THERMOENER CO., LTD. Established August 1, 1961 Established September 27, 1967 Representative Masahiko Izumi Representative Kazunori Tsuji, President President and Representative Director Employees 1,721 (as of March 31, 2019) Employees 431 (as of March 31, 2019) Introduction to Group Company Businesses Business Profile: Nippon Thermoner Business Profile: Takuma Technos As a company that manufactures and sells general-purpose boilers and hot-water heaters in the Takuma Group, we strive to Our company, which maintains 63 sites and offices nationwide, operates and manages plants including waste incineration contribute to society through our activities in the field of package boilers in keeping with the founding spirit of “Service to the facilities, bulk waste treatment facilities, and recycling facilities. Our approach to those operations has been changing, and nation through boiler manufacturing.” And as a manufacturer specializing in heat source equipment, we meet a diverse range recently weʼre involved with more DBO and O&M projects with Takuma. of needs for customers in Japan and overseas with a broad array of products and services along with an integrated system that Because we offer what is in effect a type of government service, our business activities are intimately connected to the lives encompasses sales, installation, and maintenance for products and related equipment. of local residents. Consequently, we see our mission as ensuring safety, stability, and peace of mind at each facility we operate, and we are confident that by doing so in a reliable manner we can boost our corporate value. Our executives and employees work closely together to ensure everyone involved with our company is satisfied. We strive to ■ Manufacturing and sales do our part in developing a recycling-based society while boosting compliance and CSR awareness. ● Boilers and associated equipment ● Energy-saving heat source equipment ■ Businesses ● Maintenance, management and operation of waste treatment facilities, water treatment facilities and other facilities ● Design, installation and management of various types of boilers, environmental equipment and other equipment Vacuum-type Water Heaters Steam Boilers Heat Medium Oil Boilers Flue and Smoke Tube Boilers Vacotin Heater EQOS Series Thermoheater RE Boiler FⅡ Series Increasing our corporate value Heat sources, which are generally required by industrial and commercial facilities, ■ Principal customers can be classified based on their use of either steam, which is needed for heating and sterilization, or hot water, which is used for bathing and cleaning. In addition to JR; Ground, Maritime and Air general-purpose boilers such as EQOS Series steam boilers and Vacotin Heater Self-Defense Forces; vacuum-type water heaters, which deliver some of the best performance of any models manufacturing plants in various in their respective industries, we offer a selection of special-purpose boilers including industries; hospitals; hotels; flue and smoke tube boilers, water-tube boilers, and heat medium oil boilers. Our goal cleaning companies and linen is to select and combine heat-source equipment that suits customersʼ applications and plants; social welfare facilities; Entering new business domains requirements based on deep knowledge of their businesses. Going forward, we will public baths; golf courses; etc. In April 2019, we joined Takuma in launching the Groupʼs Weʼve seen a surge of initiatives related to power continue to help create a clean global environment by supplying high-efficiency, first O&M business for biomass power-generating businesses that use biomass fuel since the launch of Japanʼs high-performance products that take advantage of technological capabilities developed equipment owned by a private-sector company. Customers feed-in tariff program for renewable energy, and going over many years so that we can accommodate the changing needs and environment of outsource operation, management, and maintenance of forward we will work with Takuma to increase orders. our times. This commitment is evident in accomplishments such as our becoming the equipment for 20 years after the start of operation to us, so first company in the industry to introduce hybrid hot water systems that combine heat weʼre dedicated to keeping those facilities running and pumps, which deliver excellent energy-saving benefits, with hot water heaters. supplying power in a stable manner. 13 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 14 History Sales (Billion JPY) Founder Tsunekichi Takuma established our philosophy of “Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing.” 150 The goal of becoming a technologically driven company FY2018 Sales based on that belief has been the basis of Takumaʼs JPY 121.9 operations throughout its 80 years of history. billion 1912 to 1950 1951 to 1971 Tsunekichi began shipping Takuma boilers in Takuma established itself as a manufacturer not 1912, and in 1938 he founded Takuma Boiler only of boilers, but also environmental and History Manufacturing Co., Ltd., with the philosophy sanitary equipment, for example by developing 100 of “Service to the nation through boiler waste heat recovery boilers that use waste heat manufacturing.” The corporate stance and from manufacturing plants, developing modern philosophy that form the foundation of Takuma technology for incinerating solid waste, and developed during this period. entering the water treatment market. 1972 to 1999 2000 and beyond In 1972, the company changed its name to Takuma continues to provide technology for Takuma Co., Ltd., which remains its name to this utilizing and rendering harmless a variety of day. During this period, Takuma worked to waste products and biomass energy sources develop technologies to accommodate a variety through its businesses in the renewable energy of customer needs, including demand for energy and environmental protection ﬁelds. The savings in industry, the growing volume and company has established local subsidiaries 50 diversity of municipal solid waste, and the need overseas and continues to bring its technologies for improvements in water quality by means of to customers not only in Japan, but also water treatment equipment. worldwide, particularly in Asia. 1938 Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd. founded *Consolidated accounting introduced in FY1990 1938 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2018 (FY) The ﬁrst “Takuma Amagasaki Head Takumaʼs ﬁrst “Environmental Energy from Waste Company listed on the Osaka and Company renamed 1912 boiler” introduced by 1949 Tokyo stock exchanges 1972 Takuma Co., Ltd. 1995 Ofﬁce Building 2004 Report” issued 2010 plant delivered in our founder, Tsunekichi completed The “Takuma Group Code of Europe (U.K.) Takuma Conduct” instituted Lakeside EfW Plant Amagasaki Head Ofﬁce Building Tsunekichi Takuma Tsunekichi Takuma Bulk production began on Takuma Hanyokikai Co., Ltd., a Feed-in tariff (FIT) program Head Ofﬁce moved to subsidiary involved in the 1930 commended as one of the ten 1953 Osakaʼs Kita-ku District 1975 “Vacotin Heater” the 1997 ISO9001 certiﬁcation obtained 2005 2012 2012年 launched to facilitate ﬁxed-cost great inventors of Japan worldʼs ﬁrst vacuum-type manufacture and sale of small purchases of renewable energy during the Meiji and Taisho hot water heater boilers, and Ebara Boiler Co., Ltd. periods (1868‒1926) merged and renamed Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. Former head ofﬁce (Dojimahama) Vacotin Heater Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd. founded Business expanded into the Japanʼs largest Energy from Waste The “Takuma Environmental Policy” Operation of the Company Motto instituted: environmental facility sectors, The ﬁrst overseas delivery of a waste 1938 1958 1986 treatment facility completed 1998 plant delivered 2005 instituted 2013 Takuma Solar Power “Service to the nation through boiler manufacturing” including waste incineration and (Tokyo Shinkoto Waste Treatment The “Personal Information Plant began water treatment plants Plant Capacity: 1,800 tons per day) Protection Policy” instituted Takuma Solar Power Plant Amagasaki Factory The “Compliance Declaration” Japanʼs ﬁrst waste New Company Motto instituted: Operation began at ISO14001 certiﬁcation obtained for instituted Order received for a 74,950 kW biomass 1942 Harima Factory 1963 incineration plant 1992 “Value Technology, Value People, 1999 Harima Factory 2006 The “Takuma Group Ethics Charter” 2019 power plant (FIT-approved facility) delivered Value the Earth” instituted Sewerage treatment Takuma participated in the UN Global facility delivered Japanʼs ﬁrst waste Compact incineration plant Harima Factory under construction Bagasse-ﬁred boiler, the ﬁrst Waste Management and Public Act on Special Measures against 1949 product of its kind in the industry, 1970年 1970 Cleansing Act and Water Pollution 1993年 1993 Basic Environment Act enacted 1999年 1999 Dioxins enacted 2007 Takumaʼs ﬁrst “CSR Report” issued Control Act enacted Biomass Power Plant exported 15 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 16 Supporting innovation in agricultural technologies for Related SDGs a new era by making sustainable facility operation a reality Energy Plant Business: Biomass Power Plant Construction/O&M Project in Kasaoka SARA Inc. Construction site Kasaoka (Okayama Prefecture) Okayama Located in southwest Okayama Prefecture near Hiroshima Prefecture, Kasaoka City is home to the Feature Kasaoka Bay Reclamation Site, one of four largest reclamation sites in Japan. As a company dedicated to “Taking Agriculture in Asia into the Future,” plant customer SARA Inc. is dedicated to offering a stable supply of delicious vegetables that can be consumed with peace of mind throughout the year and to achieving reasonable, sustainable relationships with producers, sellers, and consumers. At an enormous reclamation site on Kasaoka Bay in Okayama Prefecture, SARA operates one of the worldʼs most advanced protected horticulture businesses that combines vegetable cultivation in a 13-hectare semi-enclosed greenhouse which is one of the largest structures of its kind in Japan and a biomass power plant. Here the company grows and ships safe, delicious, and fresh salad tomatoes, paprika, and leaf lettuce that can be enjoyed with peace of mind. Biomass power Greenhouse plant Facility overview 17 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 18 Supporting innovation in agricultural technologies for a new era by making sustainable facility operation a reality Interview Energy Plant Business: Biomass Power Plant Construction/O&M Project in Kasaoka We spoke to CEO Takenobu Kobayashi of SARA Inc., who played a central role in this SARA Inc. project, about how he ﬁrst encountered Takuma and his subsequent experiences. Mr. Takenobu Kobayashi CEO SARA Inc. Impressed by Takumaʼs frontier spirit and Proposal capability and human ability that conﬁdent of its ability to overcome led to a relationship of trust challenges together Numerous people from different departments participated in the process of gaining an understanding of our concept and In the run-up to the establishment of our company in developing a variety of proposals to make it a reality, and all of January 2014, we were hard at work planning to build a them approached their task with an extremely high level of large-scale vegetable farm at a reclamation site in the city of enthusiasm. It was truly a project that tapped the entire Kasaoka, Okayama Prefecture, which we considered a company. Each employee was appealing in his or her own way, promising site. Our concept included using a biomass power and after each meeting I was left with a strong impression that plant to supply the three types of energy needed by the farm, Takuma is a trustworthy manufacturer. speciﬁcally electricity, heat, and carbon dioxide. We met with One of the reasons we asked Takuma to build the plant was Feature several plant manufacturers as part of that process and spoke that I knew based on that impression that the company would to them about the concept, but only one company indicated an continue to do its utmost in a spirit of good faith in design, understanding of our intentions and a willingness to embrace construction, and after-sales service after we entered into a the challenges they posed together. I have a strong impression contract. of that companyʼs frontier spirit, which inspired it to boldly take on a tri-generation project in an unknown area of operations. That impression remains unchanged today. The power of group collaboration to achieve sustainable facility operation A relationship that facilitates new value In this project, the Takuma Group came together to help Takuma and Takuma Technos will provide operational creation and application through continued achieve an innovative initiative being undertaken by management and maintenance of the facility for 20 years exchanges SARA Inc. after the start of operation. By deploying the ,a During the design and construction phase after we entered The biomass power plant and combustion gas puriﬁcation proprietary operational support system, and applying into a contract, each coordinator and site manager offered system installed in this project use lumber from nearby expertise from DBO, O&M, and other projects involving service in a spirit of good faith, and Takuma was able to deliver regions and imported wood products such as palm kernel municipal waste incineration facilities, it is possible to the plant on time without major incident. The facility shells (PKS) as fuel in a biomass tri-generation plant that achieve higher-quality, efﬁcient operation and maintenance continues to operate smoothly today. supplies three types of energy necessary for facility management. Following the delivery of the plant, we entered into a operation: electricity, heat for heating and cooling use, and Group company Takuma Energy will purchase enough long-term operational and maintenance management (O&M) carbon dioxide for promoting vegetable growth. In this way, surplus electricity from the facility to fulﬁll the annual power contract with Takuma Group company Takuma Technos. The the facility can be operated in a sustainable manner. needs of about 20,000 households, and some of that facility has only just begun to operate, but I trust that we will electricity will be supplied to local kindergartens, daycare be able work together to maximize proﬁts from power centers, middle schools, and other facilities to encourage generation while minimizing running costs. local consumption of locally produced power. Additionally, through the power sales business operated by Feeling the appeal of a track record in extended Takuma Energy, weʼre able to give something back to the local Greenhouse Biomass power plant／ operation that promised stable business proﬁts community together with Takuma, including by supplying Customer SARA Inc. Combustion gas puriﬁcation system power to local facilities. I look forward in the future to joining Power I knew that Takuma had a long and successful track record Project name SARA Power Plant together to create and apply new value through business EPC in biomass plant construction projects, but as we learned more Generating capacity 10, 000 kW initiatives and continued exchanges. about Takumaʼs conceptual and proposal capabilities in the 80 million kWh annually rgy T thoroughgoing use of surplus heat and supply of CO2 from (Enough to power about ne a Takuma 20,000 households) um combustion gas puriﬁcation, which were new business ak E domains, the company earned our trust and made us conﬁdent Principal fuel Imported wood products that our concept would in fact be viable and proﬁtable. In this such as PKS and lumber CO2 Heat way, a process that included numerous discussions ultimately Completion date March 2019 Power T O&M Biomass sales a k u os led to a facility that provided both economy and stability. I will O&M contract dates April 1, 2019, to March 31, tri-generation m a Te c h n never forget how we completed the worldʼs ﬁrst system to 2039 (tentative) supply high-quality CO2 by purifying combustion gases *EPC: Engineering Procurement Construction through a joint demonstration project. 19 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 20 Contributing to the development of the sugar industry by helping lead Related SDGs the way to success in the form of stable production and power sales Overseas business: Biomass Power Plant Construction Project in Thailand Contribution of energy supply in Thailand Thailand is the worldʼs leading producer of sugar and the Fea t ure second-largest exporter of the commodity in the world. Since our establishment in 1974, we have become one of Thailandʼs premier sugar manufacturers. Recently, in addition to the sugar business, we are committed to becoming a producer of electricity using the renewable fuel bagasse (ﬁber remaining after sugarcane is crushed). We have used bagasse-ﬁred boilers from Takuma since our companyʼs founding. More recently, we installed four more Takuma boilers to obtain a stable supply of steam and electric power in our new plant in Udonthani. Thailand needs a growing energy supply, and we look forward to contributing to the sugar business here by supplying clean energy from Takuma biomass-fueled boilers. It is our hope that Takuma and Siam Takuma will continue to provide plants engineered to facilitate environmental conservation and industrial development. Construction site Bangkok Udonthani (Thailand) Located about 550 kilometers north-northeast of the capital Bangkok, Udonthani means Mr. Jetsada Wongwatanasin “northern town” in Sanskrit. Managing Director Thai Udonthani Power Co., Ltd. (TSM Group) 21 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 22 Contributing to the development of the sugar industry by helping lead the way to success in the form of stable production and power sales Overseas business: Biomass Power Plant Construction Project in Thailand Siam Takuma procured materials and equipment needed for the project and This feature introduces the thoughts of the engineering coordinator Plant construction process carried out construction and commissioning work with a focus on staying on from Takuma and the construction coordinator from Siam Takuma schedule and ensuring worker safety. Feature (Takumaʼs Thai subsidiary) on the delivered systems. Boiler plant construction starts with the construction of the boiler Takuma focuses on getting work done safely while taking steps building and then proceeds with the installation of machinery, to ensure that materials and equipment are delivered on time and piping, electrical equipment, and other components. Once those in line with the schedule and that all parties, including steps are complete, the entire facility undergoes adjustment and subcontractors, are able to communicate smoothly and effectively. commissioning processes, and performance is veriﬁed before it is In such construction projects, it is extremely important to work The customer for this project is an energy company in As part of the project, we delivered a new two-boiler transferred to the customer. We carried out these tasks in line with a closely with the customer while building a trusting relationship Thailand that operates a power boiler plant fueled by ﬁber power plant in order to supply additional energy (in the form construction schedule and work procedures that had been carefully during the construction process, which can take a long time. remaining after sugarcane is crushed, which is known as of steam and electricity) needed as a result of an expansion formulated based on our extensive experience. bagasse. of the customerʼs sugar plant. Sugarcane harvested in the area is pressed at the adjacent We had previously delivered the facilityʼs existing sugar mill to produce sugar. By using the bagasse generated two-boiler power plant. Going forward, our four-boiler during that process to generate steam and electricity, the bagasse-fueled power boiler plant will contribute to the customer is able to use those products to power the plant customerʼs ability to produce sugar in a stable and consistent and to sell surplus power back to the grid. manner while efﬁciently selling surplus power to the grid. Electricity Customer Thai Udonthani Power Co., Ltd. (TSM Group) Steam Project name N-6500H Bagasse Fired Boiler Fuel Bagasse Biomass Water Steam conditions 170 tons per hour 4.2 MPaG 450 C 2 boilers (delivered in January 2019) Gas (Existing plant) Customer TSM Power Co., Ltd. Air Message from the construction coordinator Project name N-5000H Bagasse Fired Boiler Steam conditions 150 tons per hour 4.2 MPaG 450 C 2 boilers At Siam Takuma, I am in charge of construction and commissioning work for Takuma (delivered in November 2012) Ash Ash boilers, and also responsible for safety and quality control management at construction sites and subcontractor factories. I also handle correspondence with Takuma to conﬁrm speciﬁcations and requirements. Message from the engineering coordinator In this project, we installed two bagasse-ﬁred boilers at Thai Udonthani Power Co., Ltd., which was already operating two Takuma boilers. Challenges included integrating the new Atsushi Nishina systems into the existing plant, which was operating at the time, and keeping to a tight Section 3, Energy Engineering Department 2 Project Center construction schedule. Thanks to the cooperation of the customer and Takumaʼs Head Ofﬁce, we were able to In this project, the customer already had experience operating a pair of Takuma boilers that had ﬁnish the construction and commissioning work generally on schedule. I was relieved and been delivered in the past. In light of the companyʼs favorable evaluation of our boiler plantʼs Teekatat operational track record and technological reliability, we were eager to plan and design a system so proud as I watched the row of four boilers begin operating together. that we could deliver a high-quality product that would meet the customerʼs expectations. Promsungyang Takuma boilers are famous in the sugar industry in Thailand, where customers expect us to I look forward in the future to planning and designing even better plants that take into account Manager, Construction Section contribute to the supply of renewable energy in a country where biomass fuels are plentiful. Takumaʼs record of success in Japan and overseas and to working closely with Siam Takumaʼs highly Siam Takuma Co., Ltd. experienced staff so that we can supply high-quality plants that satisfy customersʼ requirements. (Shown at right) 23 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 24 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 1.Environmental Plant Business ■ Receiving the Japan Resilience Award (Resilience Grand Prize) 2019 Grand Prix The Imabari City Waste Management Center, which received the Japan Resilience Award (Resilience Grand Prize) 2019, incinerates solid waste from about 160,000 residents of the city of Imabari and uses the resulting thermal energy to generate electricity. The plant is the first solid waste treatment facility in Japan to adopt the “Phase Free” concept, allowing it to function as a place where residents can gather and enjoy interaction with other members of the community during times of normal operation and as a designated evacuation center where residents can seek refuge in times of disaster. The facility has incorporated procedures such as disaster prevention training and evacuation center operation into its operation in order to ensure it can serve as a space where residents can evacuate with peace of mind in the immediate aftermath of a disaster. The plant received the Grand Prix in recognition of these advanced and extensive disaster prevention initiatives. * Japan Resilience Awards The Japan Resilience Awards recognize advanced companies and organizations that have undertaken activities, At the award ceremony technology or product development programs, or other initiatives to help make their country, region, people, or industry more resilient in an effort to build a next-generation society that is resistant to the effects of disasters. Imabari City Waste Management Center Phase Free initiative Normal operation Strengthening our value chain and ＋ supplying facilities that create new value Solid waste Power treatment generation Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Hidetoshi Tomita Executive Officer Executive Manager, Environmental Plant Division Always (normal operation) In times of emergency (natural disasters) ● Waste treatment ● Environment awareness-raising activities ● Continuation of waste treatment ● Disaster waste treatment ● Events ● Supply of power to the community ● Resident activities ● Evacuation center ● Supply of power to evacuation centers ● Communication of facility information ● Provision of space for evacuees ● Communication of disaster information Business. Our products excel particularly in advanced wastewater We receive orders for a broad range of treatment technologies, and weʼve delivered numerous upflow services, from construction to maintenance. moving-bed filtration systems (Uniflow Sand Filter). During FY2018, we received orders for sand filtration systems Since constructing Japanʼs first fully continuous mechanical and other products, and order volume is generally in line with Energy from Waste plant in 1963, Takuma has delivered Energy our goals for the first year of the current Medium-Term from Waste plants for more than half a century as a leading Management Plan. company in its industry. To date, weʼve delivered more than The facility supports evacuation center The facilityʼs gym is used for resident activities. The facility supports events by local NPOs. The gym can be used as an evacuation center. 360 plants in Japan, including Energy from Waste plants with operation by local NPOs. some of the largest processing capacities in Japan (at 1,800 Weʼre helping build a sustainable society. Equipment-focused initiatives (Resilient facilities and equipment) Organizational initiatives (Personnel support and community development) tons per day) and methane gasification facilities. Noteworthy accomplishments during FY2018 included During FY2018, we received two orders for new municipal solid receipt of the Grand Prix, the most prestigious award at the waste treatment plants, one for the Osaka City・Yao City・ Association for Resilience Japanʼs Japan Resilience Award ■ Opening Solution Lab, a next-generation facility that utilizes ICT Matsubara City Environment Facilities Association (located in (Resilience Grand Prize) 2019, together with Imabari City Since opening in 2004, Takumaʼs Comprehensive Operation Support Center has provided Osaka Prefecture), and one for the Ariake Living Environment (Ehime Prefecture), NPO Imabari Center, and Imabari High remote monitoring and operational support for municipal solid waste treatment facilities. In Facilities Association (located in Fukuoka Prefecture). We also Trust Co., Ltd. The accolade recognized advanced and extensive 2019, we opened the Solution Lab with the goal of further enhancing the Centerʼs functionality received a total of four orders for primary equipment disaster prevention initiatives carried out by the four partners by augmenting the expertise itʼs accumulated to date with use of operational and maintenance improvement work and equipment renovation work for customers at the Imabari City Waste Management Center, a facility that management data obtained by means of the latest information and communications including the Oshima District Cooperative of Municipal Solid we delivered in FY2017. technologies (IoT, “Big Data,” and AI). As a result, it is able to offer optimal, high-quality Waste Management (located in Hokkaido Prefecture) and the City In this way, we will continue to supply safe facilities that operational support services in partnership with group company Takuma Technos. of Hitachiota (located in Ibaraki Prefecture). We also received inspire peace of mind and comfort on the part of local The Solution Lab will move to the sixth floor of the tentatively named Takuma Building New orders for overhaul work, regular adjustment, and maintenance residents, enhance operations and service, and strengthen our Wing (Training Center)*, which is being built at our Head Office campus. inspections from local governments, and weʼre working hard to value chain in areas such as plant maintenance and operation. maintain plant performance and stable operation. * The Takuma Building New Wing, which is scheduled to be completed in October 2020, is a six-story, The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals were next-generation wood structure built using cross-laminated timber (CLT) and fireproof laminated adopted in 2015, and the Paris Agreement came into force in wood. The structure was selected as part of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Weʼre seeing steady growth in orders for 2016. Going forward, Takuma will work to help build a Tourismʼs FY2018 Sustainable Building Leading Program (Leading Wood Structures). sustainable society by striving to reduce its environmental filtration systems. Three roles of the Solution Lab impacts. Takuma also has more than 50 years of experience in water Operation and Customer issue resolution Human resources development treatment, another key aspect of the Environmental Plant maintenance support and research and technology training 25 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 26 1.Environmental Plant Business (Related SDGs) Municipal solid waste treatment plants built recently are required to offer far-reaching performance and functionality, including ■ Primary equipment improvements increased generating efﬁciency and recycling rates, reduced greenhouse gas emissions, enhanced facility resilience, and longer service lives. Municipal solid waste treatment plants must operate for extended periods of time, but their equipment must be updated once 20 or more years To meet precisely these demands from society and customers, Takuma delivers safe facilities that inspire peace of mind by taking have passed since the start of operation. In addition, changes to applicable laws and social conditions may necessitate large-scale modiﬁcations. maximum advantage of the advanced technologies and expertise that have been fostered by its extensive track record of projects. Takuma draws on the sophisticated heat utilization technologies and energy-saving technologies it has accumulated as a boiler and environmental plant manufacturer to carry out high-value-added and large-scale renovation projects. In this way, we are able to help extend facilitiesʼ service life while lowering CO2 emissions. ■ Plant construction Example of a primary equipment improvement project ● Stoker-type incinerators Measures to recover energy Measures to save energy Energy from Waste plants must process waste in a safe and stable manner. Takuma stoker-type incinerators, which are one of our ﬂagship products, excel at safe, stable combustion and generate lower CO2 emissions than other designs that require auxiliary fuel. By combining a stoker-type incinerator with other technologies such as high-efﬁciency power generation and advanced exhaust gas Improvement of Enhancement of Improvement of heat recovery steam turbine capacity combustion equipment efﬁciency Control changes Raising efﬁciency treatment, weʼre helping municipalities around Japan solve their solid waste treatment issues. ・Installing boilers on Improving generating Improving stable combustion by Introducing inverters Raising the efﬁciency of water-injection furnaces capacity by increasing changing furnace shape and for speed and airﬂow electric machinery and A Circulation of ﬂy ash B Exhaust gas recirculation Steam ・Expanding boilersʼ steam intake capacity and stabilizing the volume of steam control other components 2 Technology for circulating ﬂy ash collected by a ﬁlter-type dust Exhaust gas recirculation technology heating surface optimizing design features generation and power generation collector reduces the amount of ﬂy ash requiring ﬁnal disposal. limits the generation of toxic substances. Steam turbine generator Exhaust gas 3 Boiler Economizer Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Incinerator Catalyzer Filter-type dust collector ■ Maintenance A Annual maintenance is essential in order to ensure stable operation of municipal solid waste treatment plants. Maintenance demands both 1 Stoker B sophisticated technological capabilities and experience, both because Stack waste treatment plants draw on a range of expertise and because the manner in which their equipment deteriorates over time varies with the 1 Incineration of solid waste 2 Use of steam 3 Processing of exhaust gas properties of the waste they process. Takuma takes maximum advantage of ・Solid waste introduced into the ・Heat produced during the incineration process is recovered by the ・Toxic substances in exhaust gas ﬂowing its accumulated expertise to contribute to stable waste treatment and incinerator burns at a temperature of boiler and economizer and used to produce steam, which ﬂows out of the boiler and economizer are long-term facility operation by developing long-term repair plans, carrying 850 C or higher as it moves on the through a steam turbine generator to generate electricity. removed by a ﬁlter-type dust collector out elaborate site investigations, and then performing maintenance that Repairing an incineratorʼs refractory Maintaining a conveyor stoker (a step grate stoker system). ・Steam also serves as a heat source for hot water, heating, cooling, and and catalyzer so that they do not remain has been optimized in terms of both timing and content. other uses in the plant and nearby facilities. in smoke generated by the plant. ■ Long-term turnkey operation business ● Methane recovery plants The long-term turnkey operation business, in which customers enter into contracts covering both operation and maintenance management for Recently the Ministry of the Environment has been encouraging the introduction of methane recovery plants for use with municipal solid a term of 10 to 20 years, has become the most common approach in the industry in recent years, for example in the form of DBO projects. The Takuma Group operates many facilities using this approach. waste. This is an area where Takuma is helping further lower CO2 emissions with a combined system of methane fermentation and incineration Weʼve been introducing , a comprehensive operation, maintenance, and management support system that we developed in for municipal solid waste to recover the maximum amount of energy from the waste treatment and utilize it in high-efﬁciency power FY2016, to these facilities in an effort to improve our operation and maintenance management services. Furthermore, weʼre offering additional generation. (The system received the New Energy Foundationʼs Chairman Award at the FY2014 New Energy Awards.) support for operation while helping customers resolve issues by using data collected from facilities we operate by the Solution Lab (see page 26). We will continue to meet the needs of customers and society by making maximum use of the Takuma Groupʼs technologies and expertise, Combustible waste including maintenance management expertise accumulated by Takuma and operational management expertise accumulated by Group company Methane gas Takuma Technos. Garbage Electricity Wet paper generation Methane fermentation tank Gas-powered Electric power Operating data Aggregation generator company of data Steam Fermentation Electricity Inspection data residue generation Operated facility Takuma, Takuma Technos Plastics, etc. Steam turbine generator Maintenance data Utilization of system integrated server Exhaust gas Increasing the quality of our operation, functionality and New Energy Central management and Solution Lab Awards maintenance, and management services provision of Sorting system accumulation of a range of data types ・Implementation of safe and sophisticated operation technical support New Energy ・Statistical analysis of data and machine learning Exhaust gas Foundationʼs ・Streamlining of maintenance and management Stack ・Evaluation of equipment performance and failure prediction treatment system Chairman ・Optimization of utility use and power Incinerator and boiler Award income/expenditures ・Visualization of service level and study of reductions etc. 27 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 28 1.Environmental Plant Business (Related SDGs) Takuma has delivered numerous systems utilizing advanced technologies, particularly for treating wastewater, in an effort to help ● Advanced treatment facility 【Principal equipment】・Upflow moving-bed filtration (Uniflow Sand Filter) conserve the aquatic environment. Measures undertaken to improve the quality of public water have delivered more than 2,700 units in Japan. A design that The recent trend is for plants to be called upon not only to purify water, but also to reduce power use by treatment equipment and sources and the need to reuse treated sewage are spurring demand combines filtration treatment with continuous backwashing of the create energy from sewage sludge. In an effort to meet these requirements, Takuma has been focused on developing a step grate stoker for more advanced water treatment. Upflow moving-bed filtration filtration sand ensures stable operation and exceptional furnace sewage sludge power generation system and commercializing technologies that use waste heat from the incineration process to systems (Uniflow Sand Filter), which eliminate suspended solids maintainability. generate electricity. (SSs) from water, are used in a variety of fields, including in final The product line includes high-speed models with double or triple processing at sewage treatment plants and in pre-processing to the filtration speed of the standard model as well as denitrifying and Going forward, we will continue to help conserve the aquatic environment by supplying products that meet the needs of our times. remove solids at water plants. This particular model is a long-selling dephosphorizing variants that add functionality for eliminating product featuring proven water purification technology of which we nitrogen and phosphorus to standard SS elimination functionality. ■ Water Treatment Plants Incoming Incoming Water treatment plant equipment flow water path water pipe Purification air Filter sand washing cycle Catchment Filtered Catchment trough trough water Source Reaction tank facilities Advanced treatment Primary wash Sewage intake water Treated water Sand is moved toward the top of the filter while 【Principal equipment】 facilities being vigorously stirred inside the air-lift pump. ・Aeration systems ・Low power agitator (Bio Blade Mix) Sand Purified washer Pre-processing wastewater equipment Secondary wash Initial settling pond Final settling pond Sand filter Sand is washed by counter-flowing filtered Filter layer water as it falls inside the sand washer. Discharge Air-lift pump The sand returns to the filter layer surface Disinfection Filter layer Anaerobic Anoxic Anoxic Aerobic Filter and slowly falls while capturing SSs. tank Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses tank tank tank tank bed surface Air-lift pump Aeration panel Crude sludge Excess sludge Aerobic tank ● Sludge incinerator 【Principal equipment】・Step grate stoker furnace sewage sludge power generation system (step grate stoker furnace and innovative step grate stoker furnace) Drawn-off sludge Because it contains a large amount of energy, sludge generated during the sewage treatment process has been attracting attention in recent years as a biomass resource. We are taking advantage of our core incineration and boiler technologies to make effective use of the energy Incinerator contained in sludge by using it as a fuel to generate electricity. Following the systemʼs selection for inclusion in the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourismʼs Breakthrough by Dynamic Approach in Sewage High Technology Project (B-DASH) in FY2013, we have Digester tanks Sludge treatment received orders for the system from the cities of Tokyo and Sapporo. Steam generator Generating equipment Binary generator Steam from a steam generator Steam produced by the boiler Generator is used to dry dehydrated sludge. is used to generate electricity. * Steam Dehydrated Process water sludge Process steam Sludge treatment facility Sludge incinerator Boiler water supply system Dryer Exhaust gas ● Sludge treatment facility 【Principal equipment】・Rotating drum-type concentrator A rotating drum-type concentrator consists of a Dust collector Cleaning nozzle Heat produced by incinerating sludge Waste heat boiler Process drum-shaped screen consisting of metal wedge wire Incoming is recovered and used to produce steam. water (*) that separates and concentrates solid and liquid sludge components from coagulated sludge as the drum Drum screen rotates. Following solid-liquid separation, sludge is Combustion air transported to the exit side of the system as it is Induction fan concentrated and pushed by spiral-shaped vanes on the Flue gas Dehydrated inside of the rotating drum. Thanks to a simple design Combustion air fan Step grate stoker furnace Ash bunker treatment stack liquid whose operation hinges on a slowly rotating drum Concentrated N2O, a gas whose greenhouse screen, the system uses less power than its conventional sludge effect is 298 times more counterparts, yielding high energy savings. pronounced than that of CO2, is After exhaust gas is cooled with water mist, toxic broken down by high-temperature Dust is removed from substances such as sulfur oxide are removed, combustion at 900 C to 1,100 C. Combustion Photograph taken exhaust gas. and the gas is released into the atmosphere. inside the furnace 29 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 30 1.Environmental Plant Business ■ Water Treatment Plant Business Main Recent Projects The following are the main plants supplied by Takuma during FY2018. Takasu Sewage Treatment Plant Project name ■ Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant Business Urado Bay Eastern Basin Takasu Sewage Treatment Plant Sludge Treatment System Construction Part 12 ● New construction Capacity Type: Pressurized screw press dehydrator Treatment capacity: 225 kg-DS per hour Location Kochi Prefecture Matsubara Preprocessing Plant Project name FY2017 Matsubara Preprocessing Plant Automatic Coarse Dust Eliminator Renovation Project Capacity Type: Intermittent front-surface mixing-type screen Speciﬁcations: 3,500 (W) 1,100 (D) mm Project name FY2018 Matsubara Preprocessing Plant No. 2 Concentration Tank Sludge Scraper Update Project Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Capacity Type: Sludge scraper (center-drive vertical type) Environmental Forest Center, Kizugawa Speciﬁcations: ∅17.9 m 1 unit Project name Capacity Location Location Clean Center Facility Incineration facility: Kyoto Prefecture Hyogo Prefecture Maintenance Project 94 tons per day (47 tons per 24 hours 2 units) Power output: 1,220 kW ● Primary equipment improvements Kasai Water Reclamation Center Project name Kasai Water Reclamation Center Sludge Concentration Tank No. 1 Machinery and Equipment Improvement Project Capacity Type: Sludge scraper (center-drive post type) Speciﬁcations: ∅28 m 1 unit Location Tokyo Prefecture Iizaka Clean Site Kumagaya Sanitation Center No. 1 Plant The Inariyama Environmental Center Project name Project name Project name Iizaka Clean Site Phase 2 Final Treatment Plant Seepage Water Treatment Kumagaya Sanitation Center No. 1 Plant Primary Equipment Improvement Project, Plant Construction Project (No. 2 Area) Primary Equipment Improvement Project The Inariyama Environmental Center, Sayama City Capacity Capacity Capacity Type: Contact oxidation-type nitriﬁcation denitriﬁcation system Incineration facility: Incineration facility: Speciﬁcations: 110 m3 per day 140 tons per day (70 tons per 24 hours 2 units) 165 tons per day (55 tons per 24 hours 3 units) Type: Centrifugal dehydrator Power output: 264 kW Speciﬁcations: 515 kg-DS per hour Location Saitama Prefecture Location Location Saitama Prefecture Fukushima Prefecture 31 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 32 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 2.Energy Plant Business (Related SDGs) Weʼre helping realize a sustainable society while working to resolve customersʼ issues as well as social problems through our business activities. Preserving the environment in the form Promoting renewable energy of water, air, and mountain forests Weʼre helping promote renewable energy by Weʼre helping preserve the global environment by supplying biomass power plants. supplying plants that utilize appropriate technologies and systems to protect the environment. Making effective use of Reducing CO2 emissions unutilized resources Contributing to local communities and Weʼre helping realize a recycling-based society by Weʼre helping realize a low-carbon society by the renewable energy industry supplying plants that can efficiently burn fuels and waste products that have gone underutilized in the past. supplying high-efficiency power plants. with plants of the highest possible level of quality Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Mitsuaki Adachi Managing Executive Officer Executive Manager, Energy Plant Division Value provided by Takumaʼs Energy Plant Business Meeting growing demand with Biomass power as a solution for １．Plant engineering ２．After-sales service a sure track record social problems We supply plants that can burn a variety of fuels We offer service designed to ensure that plants can Our Energy Plant Business traces its roots back to the We recently received our first O&M order for a biomass and waste products in a stable manner over operate in a stable manner over the long term founding of Takuma in 1938 by Tsunekichi Takuma, who power plant that will be delivered to a private-sector extended periods of time based on our extensive based on our advanced technologies and extensive developed Japanʼs first high-performance boiler. Since that company. Going forward, we will strive to ensure we can track record of deliveries. experience. time, weʼve enhanced technologies for using a variety of contribute to customersʼ businesses in a comprehensive way fuels including biomass and solid waste and delivered by offering a range of proposals, including for O&M projects. Biomass power plants Maintenance numerous boilers to customers (more than 600 in Japan and Under the FIT program, biomass power is treated as a We supply power plants that can utilize a variety of We offer proposals for, and carry out, plans for overseas; a total of more than 3,220 boilers including units source of power that strives to facilitate mediumand biomass fuels to operate in a stable manner over periodic inspections and maintenance, functional that burn oil, gas, and wood). long-term autonomy while coexisting with local extended periods of time, including unused lumber, improvements, and preventive maintenance in Demand for wood-fueled biomass power plants has been communities, and it is a business that can contribute lumber waste, construction waste, PKS, pellets, order to maintain high plant performance and growing since Japanʼs introduction of a feed-in tariff (FIT) directly to the resolution of social issues in the form of livestock waste, bagasse, and papermaking sludge. prevent unplanned stoppages. program for renewable energy in 2012, and we have unused lumber left on mountains and local employment. delivered such facilities to many customers that have Consequently, we look forward to helping facilitate the Facilities that incinerate industrial waste to O&M praised our long-running track record. I am grateful for this sustainable development of local communities and of the generate power We accept orders for operation, maintenance, and achievement and recognize that it is the result of our renewable energy industry by making a broad contribution We supply facilities that can recover heat in a highly management over 20-year terms to reduce stakeholdersʼ support. We take pride in marshalling all of to customer businesses based on technologies and efficient manner, including by using it to generate workload and life cycle costs so that customers our capabilities to fill orders by supplying plants of the comprehensive capabilities developed over many years, electricity, after burning even difficult-to-treat waste can maximize the profitability of their businesses. highest possible level of quality. even as we keep tabs on factors such as discussions of an products in an appropriate manner. expected future review of the FIT program. 33 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 34 2.Energy Plant Business The following are the main plants supplied by Takuma during FY2018. ■ Energy plants KOBE BUSSAN CO., LTD. Daisen Biomass Power Generation Co., Ltd. Project name Project name Biomass Power Plant Construction Project Biomass Power Plant Construction Project Capacity Capacity Fuel: Wood fuel Fuel: Wood fuel Steam conditions (normal operation): Steam conditions (normal operation): 28 tons per hour 5.98 MPaG 425 C 28 tons per hour 5.98 MPaG 480 C Power output: 6,250 kW Power output: 7,050 kW Location Location Hokkaido Prefecture Akita Prefecture Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Ariake Co., Ltd., No. 2 Power Plant Chugoku Mokuzai Co., Ltd., Hyuga factory Project name Project name Arao No. 2 Biomass Power Plant Chugoku Mokuzai Wood-fueled Boiler (No. 2) New Construction Project Construction Project Capacity Capacity Fuel: Wood fuel Fuel: Wood fuel Steam conditions (normal operation): Steam conditions (normal operation): 29.2 tons per hour 6.0 MPaG 425 C 24 tons per hour 1.3 MPaG 195 C Power output: 6,250 kW Location Location Miyazaki Prefecture Kumamoto Prefecture Mogami Biomass Power Co., Ltd. SARA Inc. Project name Project name Mogami Wood Biomass Power Plant SARA Power Plant Construction Project Generating System Construction Project Capacity Capacity Fuel: Wood fuel, PKS Fuel: Wood fuel Steam conditions (normal operation): Steam conditions (normal operation): 50 tons per hour 6.0 MPa 425 C 28 tons per hour 5.98 MPaG 465 C Power output: 10,000 kW Power output: 6,800 kW Location Location Yamagata Prefecture Okayama Prefecture 35 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 36 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 3.Overseas Business (Related SDGs) Overseas boiler plant business The sugar business has been booming in Thailand, where Takuma has a local subsidiary. We have supported the industry for many years and have an extensive track record of supplying boilers that burn bagasse (ﬁber remaining after sugarcane is crushed) since our ﬁrst delivery in 1959. Going forward, we will continue to tap sure technology and ﬁne-grained service based on our experience to date to help realize the biomass-derived, Earth-friendly supply of power in not only Thailand, but also in Indonesia, Vietnam, and other Southeast Asian countries. *For more information on facilities delivered during FY2018, please see Feature 02, “Biomass Power Plant Construction Project in Thailand,” on page 21. Overseas waste treatment plant business As emerging nations develop, they experience population growth and urbanization, causing waste-related issues to manifest themselves. Their environmental regulations and legal systems are also in a state of development, and inadequacies in information about waste and technologies for treating it mean these countries have high expectations for Energy from Waste technologies. We pursue sales activities, for example by studying information such as local systems and waste composition, so that we can meet those expectations by delivering waste treatment plants that satisfy customers. As one example, during FY2018 we conducted a viability study of a project in the Indian state of Telangana by taking advantage Assessing changes in global trends in the overseas market of a Ministry of the Environment program. The results of the study, which we carried out along with local governments in Japan as part of a government-industry partnership and to ensure we can continue to contribute to with the cooperation of local stakeholders in India, were reported jointly to the local government. By making effective use of a cooperative framework that brought together the development of industry in countries worldwide Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses the Japanese and Indian governments, we were able to build a good relationship with the local government while discovering important information about local needs. Takuma will continue to work to realize solutions to environmental problems by Takashi Manabe Managing Executive Officer Executive Manager, International Division delivering waste treatment plants. Waste composition study in Telangana Main Recent Project (Waste treatment plant) This section introduces one of the main projects that Takuma has delivered to date. Resolving issues by accommodating Weʼve also delivered dozens of waste treatment plants a diversifying array of needs overseas. In recent years, the appropriate treatment of waste Lutsao Refuse Incineration Plant has become a particularly urgent issue in developing nations. The International Division is responsible for sales of While environmental awareness, governmental programs, Capacity Location boiler plants and waste treatment plants in overseas budgets, and other considerations vary from country to Incineration facility: Chiayi, Taiwan markets. We take pride in the fact that promoting those country, weʼre making preparations to ensure success in a 900 tons per day (450 tons per day 2 units) businesses, which reduce greenhouse gases by making careful and steady manner based on these and related Power output: 28,000 kW effective use of non-fossil fuels while contributing to the developments, for example by formulating optimal schemes resolution of environmental issues through the appropriate by which to pursue potential orders and develop projects. treatment of waste, will help achieve the Sustainable Message Development Goals (SDGs) that Takuma is pursuing. Bringing necessary, valuable products to Weʼve already delivered close to 400 biomass boilers to overseas customers. Nowhere is the viability of this business the international community Naoya Akasaki more apparent than in Thailand, where Takuma has a local There is no doubt that plants that generate electricity Sales Section 2, International Department International Division subsidiary and where we have been supporting the sugar using Takumaʼs core technologies to burn biomass and industry as well as other sectors of the economy for over 60 waste are earning recognition as both necessary and Waste issue offers challenges to all countries, but speciﬁc needs and conditions vary from country to years. In the past, biomass boilers were used to provide heat valuable in a society thatʼs working to achieve the SDGs in a country. In Asia, there has been a trend away from waste disposal, which has centered on landﬁll until and power for equipment at industrial plants, but today concerted manner. Although the business environment will now, and we believe that this constitutes a ﬁeld in which Takumaʼs Energy from Waste technologies their role is diversifying as a recent global trend toward remain intensely competitive, we will continue to contribute and experience can make a contribution. Continuous, stable operation is key to facilities that treat converting to renewable energy drives expectations that to the international community by developing latent waste such as Energy from Waste plants, for example, as one type of local and environmental they will function as true power plants by taking on some customer demand in a ﬁne-grained manner and supplying infrastructure. To that end, we will continue to work to ensure we can help resolve challenges in this responsibility for ensuring societyʼs supply of electricity. solutions that meet those needs. ﬁeld while deepening our understanding and pursuing cooperation with an array of local entities, companies, and other stakeholders from the “glocal” (think globally, act locally) perspective. 37 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 38 CSR Activities for the Future Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Takuma is working to further progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through its business activities. To become a sustainable company while fostering and Going forward, we plan to implement CSR activities using expanding a broader range of CSR activities, we began techniques that we consider appropriate while relying on compiling a CSR activity roadmap in FY2011, which we have guidance and advice from outside experts as we choose key subsequently implemented over time. In FY2012, we chose a issues and develop CSR issues and action programs. number of key issues based on international guidelines on The global business environment that characterizes the corporate sustainability reporting published by the Global environmental and energy fields in which Takumaʼs Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as ISO 26000, an business operates grows increasingly diverse day by day, international standard on organizational social responsibility. and that environment remains one of intensifying ■ Topics SDGs Initiatives We are currently working to resolve those issues. competition. Our technological capabilities in the As part of a larger effort to address the Sustainable Development Goals environmental and energy fields, which we have refined (SDGs) by supplying environmental plants and energy plants as over many years of experience, form the basis of our CSR environmental products to customers, Takuma has launched a series of management as well as our greatest strength as we look to voluntary internal workshops that cut across organizational boundaries to make a broad contribution to society. We will continue to facilitate discussions about how it can contribute to the SDGs through its Each department discussed CSR issues in line with those key draw on this strength in our activities going forward. business activities and in areas outside its businesses. issues and developed its own action program. At the end of the We look forward to pursuing the SDGs so that we can help build a year, those departments then conducted self-evaluations to sustainable society while assessing how Takumaʼs activities can make an assess how well they had implemented their programs. (The even more significant contribution to the SDGs. table below outlines some of the results of that process.) ISO 26000 FY2018 action program Key issue CSR issue Department core subjects Action plan Self-evaluation of results Support for measures to increase the Planning Conduct a questionnaire targeting directors in order to increase the We conducted a questionnaire targeting directors and held interviews, evaluated Corporate governance effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Evaluate, analyze, and report on effectiveness of the Board of Directors Division the results to facilitate useful discussions at Board of Directors meetings. and analyzed the results, and reported them to the Board of Directors. CSR Share formulations of Takumaʼs basic approach, for example Management We highlighted the Management Principles, the Takuma Group Ethics Charter, and Compliance Cultivation of a robust corporate culture Principles, the Takuma Group Ethics Charter, and the Takuma Group Code of the Takuma Group Code of Conduct in the CSR Report and in internal education Division Conduct, and work to ensure that they permeate the organization and take hold. and worked to ensure that they permeate the organization and take hold. Organizational General Raise awareness among all employees of how to deal with actual We carried out drills involving Takumaʼs safety confirmation system in Risk management Risk management in times of disaster Affairs governance Division disasters through drills involving Takumaʼs safety confirmation system. August 2018 and January 2019, achieving a response rate in excess of 95%. CSR Activities for the Future Promotion of understanding (awareness) of social responsibility Marketing Have employees discuss what it means to take the initiative to found We held internal readings of the Takuma Group Ethics Charter and the Takuma Employee training on social responsibility and recommendations of how employees can take the initiative to their behavior on an awareness of social responsibility internally in Group Code of Conduct, worked to raise awareness of social responsibility, and found their behavior on an awareness of social responsibility Division their own department in order to facilitate such conduct. sought to promote conduct that accords with ethical principles. Development of trusting relationships with Marketing Meet customer requirements in an appropriate manner by working to Results of the customer satisfaction survey conducted during the previous fiscal Stakeholder engagement streamline communication with customers and among internal year were reported internally at the beginning of the fiscal year and relayed to customers Division departments. the QM Committee. Evaluations of our coordinators exceeded targets. Design of facilities that satisfy customers Engineering Utilize review lists and checklists, and carry out performance We made use of reviews and checklists in the design process and verified verifications during plant commissioning in order to achieve stable that stable operation is possible during a performance verification carried through safe, stable operation Division operation of facilities after handover. out during the commissioning process prior to plant handover. Consumer Although we conducted at least one site construction management status check every month, Safety and quality of products and services Work to improve construction quality by carrying out voluntary issues Construction additional work was added after the facility was handed over to the customer. In each case, Improvement of construction quality inspections in the field and strengthening checks of the status of we identified the cause and resolved it by taking steps to address it. While the number of such Division construction management in the field by internal coordinators. incidents increased compared to the previous fiscal year, all additional work was minor in nature, and we believe that we were able to effectively improve construction quality. We offered training on the provisions of the Antimonopoly Act and worked to ensure that Fair operating Offer training on the Antimonopoly Act and continue to implement Assurance of understanding of, and compliance Marketing employees understand the “Regulations Concerning Management of the Pledge of practices Compliance with the Antimonopoly Act the Regulations Concerning Management of the Pledge of Antimonopoly Act Compliance” and the “Regulations on Managing Contact with with, the Antimonopoly Act Division Antimonopoly Act Compliance. Competitorsʼ Sales Departments” and that they will comply with those and other regulations. Prevent accidents requiring leaves of more than 30 days by worksite A site employee responsible for marshalling traffic twisted his ankle on a grade Safety Enhancement and monitoring of health and employees by conducting safety patrols along with construction difference at a worksite and broke a bone. It will be necessary to ensure Appropriate employment relationships Control departments, site officials, and partner companies and thoroughly employees exercise caution in the future regarding grade differences involving safety initiatives at worksites Division implementing health and safety activities such as safety inspection planning. temporary equipment and the installation of suitable lighting. Labour and labor conditions (including safety practices and and health, social dialog, etc.) Engineering Improve work-life balance by encouraging employees to use Despite being busy, we were able to foster awareness of the need to Improvement of work-life balance human rights Division alternative time off and annual leave time. improve work-life balance and meet our targets in that area. Employee skill development Engineering Work to improve employee knowledge by sharing information about We worked to improve awareness by sharing information internally Training and skill development for employees cases in which design defects have been caused by insufficient about examples of defects, their causes, and corrective measures, and (skill enhancement) Division knowledge or experience at departmental and other meetings. applying that information to checklists and other tools. Implementation of initiatives to reduce Engineering Formulate and propose plans for new technologies and businesses that would allow us to help reduce environmental impacts in the environmental and energy Although we achieved our goal, we will work to develop plans that will Contributions to resolving environmental impacts Division fields while differentiating ourselves from competitors in the same industry. enable us to make a greater contribution to the environment. Environment Actively contribute to the resolution of environmental problems by environmental problems Initiatives to save energy and reduce CO2 Engineering We actively proposed improvements incorporating measures to save pursuing measures to save energy and reduce CO2 emissions at plants emissions Division during the planning stage. energy and reduce CO2 emissions. Community Work to further beautify the neighborhoods in which worksites are Employees have a high level of awareness of the importance of Contribution to the communities around our Engineering involvement and Contribution to society located by encouraging employees to participate in local clean-up participating in volunteer clean-up activities, and many employees development worksites Division activities. actively participated in such initiatives. 39 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 40 Corporate Governance Takuma has adopted a Basic Policy for Establishment of an according to that Code. When the unexpected occurs, Internal Control System (the full text is available on our emergency headquarters are established with the company website) in accordance with the Companies Act. We continue president as the director in charge of risk management, and to review and improve this policy in response to changing an organization is put in place in order to minimize and ● Basic policy on corporate governance out appropriately and that officers carry out their operational circumstances. prevent further damage through prompt action. In order to safeguard and steadily increase Takumaʼs responsibilities by means of a process that is clear, rational, Working towards thorough compliance, Takuma built a Internal control, constructed and evaluated in order to report corporate value over the long term, it is essential not only to efficient, and legally compliant. For that reason, we believe compliance promotion organization in FY2006 in order to on and prevent misstatements in our financial reporting, is ensure the development of the companyʼs businesses, but also that understanding the Corporate Governance Code and continuously implement enlightenment and educational based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. This to clearly define governance in corporate operations̶that is, putting it into practice in an autonomous and systematic activities that make corporate ethics, related laws and internal control on financial reporting for the Group has resulted to ensure that shareholdersʼ oversight of operations is carried manner are top-priority management issues. ordinances, and internal rules fully understood. To control in reports that indicate this system has been effective. the danger of loss, we have also prepared a “Risk In this way, we will continue to work in the future to ensure Management Code” that determines the person in charge of thorough compliance while carrying out business properly ● Board of Directors ● Audit & Supervisory Committee each risk, and we set up our risk management organization and efficiently while also deepening risk management. As of June 26, 2019, the Board of Directors was comprised of An Audit & Supervisory Committee that consists of five members, six directors (excluding directors who are members of the Audit of whom four are outside directors, is responsible for accounting & Supervisory Committee) and five directors (of whom four were and operational audits. Members of the committee attend outside directors). The Board of Directors meets regularly once a important meetings, including those of the Board of Directors and month as a rule and whenever else it is necessary to make the Committee of Executive Officers, and they strive to understand decisions about important issues related to business and observe the status of business execution in a timely and ● Basic approach ● Regular meetings management and issues established by law and ordinances, as appropriate manner. Drawing on their professional background and Led by the department in charge of compliance and CSR Regular meetings are held once a year. The person in well as to oversee the execution of the directorsʼ duties. experience, they express their opinions as necessary from an promotion (CSR Department), Takuma aims at encouraging charge of promotion receives reports on the status of objective perspective, and they conduct strict auditing of the that activity through the Compliance & CSR Promotion compliance and CSR promotion company-wide, as well as on business execution performed by the directors. To facilitate the Organization that was installed for the purpose of enabling the status of the implementation of compliance and CSR Directors Including the following outside directors: effectiveness of audits carried out by the Audit & Supervisory compliance and CSR to concretely permeate company-wide promotion education for the past year, etc., and participants 11 (10 men and 1 woman) 4 (3 men and 1 woman) Committee, the representative director holds regular meetings with through an in-house organization. deliberate on a promotion plan for the current fiscal year. committee members to ensure good communication. This organization is composed of a chairman (the Executive Manager of the Compliance & CSR Promotion ● Departmental meetings ● Executive Officers ● Audit & Supervisory Committeeʼs Office Division), a secretariat (positioned in the CSR Department), Promotion members convene departmental meetings once In order to accelerate management decision-making and clarify Takuma has established an Audit & Supervisory Committeeʼs and an executing organization in each division, center, and a quarter, with educational training aiming at the permeation where management responsibilities are placed, we have adopted an Office to help carry out the committeeʼs work. department. As the person in charge of promoting of compliance and CSR in each department. After executive officer system in which we appoint executive officers who compliance and CSR in his or her division, each division or departmental meetings, promotion members implement are entrusted with the responsibility of executing our business ● Human Resources & Remuneration Advisory Committee center manager is appointed as a Compliance and CSR compliance and CSR promotion education in their respective activities. As of June 26, 2019, there were 15 executive officers Promotion Administrator. As persons who implement departments using training materials or in-house educational To augment the above structures, we have established a Human (including those who also serve as directors). Moreover, we have awareness and education in compliance and CSR in their materials and report the result to the Secretariat. Resources & Remuneration Advisory Committee comprised of Corporate Governance also established a Committee of Executive Officers, which is chaired respective departments, department managers are appointed independent officers, representative directors, and the officer in ● Takuma Group Coordinating Committee for by the president/chief executive officer, as an organization that as Compliance and CSR Promoters. The meetings conducted charge of human resources. The purpose of the committee, a deliberates matters that are brought up at meetings of the Board of within this mechanism include regular meetings and Compliance & CSR Promotion majority of whose membership consists of independent outside Directors and other important issues related to the execution of our departmental meetings. We are pursuing awareness-raising and educational directors, is to increase transparency and objectivity in the selection business activities. This committee communicates and provides activities targeting group companies through our Takuma of candidates for director and executive officer positions and in the direction about items decided by the Board of Directors and other Group Coordinating Committee for Compliance & CSR determination of the compensation and other terms so as to important items related to the execution of our business activities Promotion to ensure thorough compliance and risk enhance the oversight function of the Board of Directors. appropriately to the divisions that are to execute them. management throughout the Group. During FY2018, we invited representatives of group companies to participate in two meetings of the committee. Reporting Auditing of accounts Education, instructions, and reporting Appointment Various Board of Directors and removal Accounting committees Reporting Auditors Compliance & Observing and guidance President Committee of Executive Officers Audit & CSR Promotion Reporting Supervisory Division Reporting Cooperation Committeeʼs Assistance Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization Ofﬁce Reporting Reporting General Reporting and Takuma Group statement of views Internal auditing Chairman (Executive Manager of the Compliance & CSR Promotion Division) Meeting Audit & Auditing Divisions Coordinating Committee for of Supervisory and Secretariat (CSR Department) Compliance & CSR Promotion ShareCommittee Cooperation Internal Audit Internal auditing centers holders Appointment Each division and center and removal Human Reporting Department Auditing and Resources & Compliance & CSR Promotion Administrator (division or center manager) supervision Remuneration Recommendations Advisory Committee of Discussion of and reporting Each department Committee Representative Executive Ofﬁcers on important matters Advice Director (Deliberation of Execution of Compliance & CSR Promoters (department manager) Board of Discussion and reporting important matters) Issuance of instructions and Executive responsibilities Reporting Directors communication of information Ofﬁcers Enlightenment/education Selection, dismissal, and supervision Staff members Appointment Appointment and removal and removal Corporate governance structure (As of June 26, 2019) Compliance & CSR promotion structure 41 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 42 Corporate Governance Takuma has formulated a “Business Continuity Plan” based on the following policies to ensure proper and appropriate continuity of business operations in the event of a large-scale disaster, pandemic, or other emergency: １ ．In addition to implementing disaster-related measures to secure the safety of corporate officers and employees, Takuma follows a “Risk Management Policy” that connects We are also building a risk management organization and maintain structures so as to enable continuity of business operations while minimizing damage in an emergency. company-wide risks and separately classifies them into constructing a system of risk management and promoting “project risks” related to our core business, i.e., plant the strengthening of management for group companies as ２ ．Strive to respond to customer needs and recover from damage quickly by working closely with suppliers and construction; “DBO project risks” and “DBO project operation, well through our Takuma Group Coordinating Committee partner companies to continue business operations. maintenance and management risks” related to our DBO for Compliance and CSR Promotion. ３．Earn the trust of numerous stakeholders, including employees, their families, shareholders, and nearby residents, business; and “potential risks,” “actualized risks,” and “financial and fulfill social needs by continuing business operations. reporting risks” related to other corporate business activities. 【Disaster rule system diagram】 Risk Management Policy Risk Management Policy [Basic purpose of risk management] Risk Management Code Risk refers to all phenomena that interfere with the Groupʼs ability to achieve its business objectives or cause losses or harm to the interests of stakeholders. Crisis Management Code The Takuma Group practices risk management with the goal of increasing its corporate value by working to maximize returns while minimizing the negative impacts of risk. Overseas Risk Management Code [Risk management action guidelines] Disaster Prevention Management Code １．The president and CEO is responsible for risk management at Takuma. ２．All officers and employees participate in risk management activities. Fire Prevention Plan * Based on Fire Service Act ３．Risk management activities are carried out in accordance with applicable guidelines such as the Risk Enforcement Regulations Management Rules. Earthquake Countermeasure Manual BCP ４．Risk management activities are carried out in line with the Medium-Term Management Plan and annual plan, activation and we work to make improvements on an ongoing basis. Storm and Flood Damage Countermeasure Manual ５．When risk manifests itself, we respond by taking responsible action quickly to minimize any damage and Business Continuity creating provisional organizational entities as necessary. Novel Influenza Countermeasure Manual Plan (BCP) ６．Group companies carry out risk management activities in accordance with their own policies and plans, with support from Takuma. Safety Confirmation System Administration Rules Corporate Governance Risk Management Code, Crisis Management Code Project Risk Management Code DBO Project Risk Management Code In keeping with the “Takuma Group Code of Conduct,” we provide our shareholders and investors with accurate corporate Risk Management Code for DBO Project Operation, information in a timely and fair manner. As a part of this, we provide notifications on the convening of General Meetings of Maintenance and Management Request for decision/ Shareholders, balance sheet information, timely disclosure information, marketable securities reports, shareholders reports, Reporting reporting Project risk Board of President annual reports in English and other business information, all on our website. Committee of DBO Project risk Risks Directors Executive Officers concerning DBO Project operation, maintenance [Takuma website > IR information] corporate and management risk activities https://www.takuma.co.jp/english/investor/index.html Request for decision/ Evaluation reporting Actualized risk Treasury stock: Individuals, others: Report on Reporting Reporting Planning/ Each 0.1% 8.7% internal control reporting division Risk Management Potential risk evaluation Department concerning Corporations financial in Japan: Evaluation Financial reporting Internal Audit 15.5% reporting Department risks Evaluation Group companies Foreign Financial institutions Takuma Group individuals: Coordinating Committee for and stock brokerages: 28.3% Compliance & CSR Promotion 47.4% (including risk matters) Risk management structure Shareholders Report Composition of shareholders (as of March 31, 2019) 43 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 44 Corporate Governance Directors Executive Officers Takashi Manabe Ryoji Tani Norito Uchiyama Mitsuaki Adachi Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Akira Taguchi Hidetoshi Tomita Norio Maeda Kunio Hamada Keiji Nakamura Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Corporate Governance Message from a New Outside Director Tomomi Fujita Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Iʼve been involved with corporate legal affairs for about 15 years as an attorney. During that time, an especially large proportion of my work has centered on legal work involving manufacturing companies (including consultations, negotiations, and lawsuits involving intellectual property rights and various domestic and international transactions). In addition to (Back row, from the left) teaching a weekly class through a semester at Kyoto University Law School as a lecturer, I serve as a director of the Licensing Executives Society Japan, whose membership includes top corporate management and leaders, businesspeople, attorneys, patent attorneys, and scholars. Minoru Murata Osamu Iwahashi Tomomi Fujita Hiromichi Satake Yasushi Enomoto Iʼm looking forward to taking advantage of my experience and legal knowledge to contribute to Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Director the growth of Takuma, Japanʼs leading plant and boiler manufacturer. (Audit & Supervisory (Audit & Supervisory (Audit & Supervisory (Audit & Supervisory (Audit & Supervisory Takuma has integrated many objectives related to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals Committee Member) Committee Member) Committee Member) Committee Member) Committee Member) (SDGs) that were adopted at a United Nations summit in 2015 into its businesses, particularly clean water and sanitation (Goal 6), affordable and clean energy (Goal 7), and protection of the Hideki Takeguchi Kengo Numata Takaaki Kato Hiroaki Nanjo Tsuyohito Nishiyama Koji Tanaka natural environment (Goals 14 and 15). Takumaʼs business, and the role it plays in society, will Director Director Director Representative Director Director Director likely become increasingly important going forward. It is a great honor for me to be chosen to Senior Managing Executive Vice President Chairman President and Senior Managing Executive Officer serve as an outside director (specifically, as a member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee) at Executive Officer Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Executive Officer Takuma in a new era such as the one we face today, and I will do my best to fulfill my role. Other SDGs include gender equality (Goal 5) and economic growth and productive employment (Goal 8). As a female outside officer, I hope that I will be able to further improve Takumaʼs corporate value by helping to tap the potential of a diverse workforce that includes woman and boosting productivity. 45 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 46 Human Rights and Labor Practices Respect for Human Rights and the Abolition of Discrimination ■ Initiatives to promote the participation of female employees in the workplace Weʼre working to deepen womenʼs understanding of Takuma 20, which would be double the corresponding number as of while boosting the number of female applicants and hires March 31, 2016, by putting in place a workplace environment Our company sets out its respect for basic human rights through such means as including content speciﬁcally for female that facilitates ﬂexible workstyles and continued employment. ● Takuma Group Ethics Charter (excerpt) college students on our website and hosting information and prohibition of discriminatory acts in the Takuma Group 4. We shall respect fundamental human rights meetings just for female students. Ethics Charter, Takuma Group Code of Conduct and labor and never practice discrimination. In addition, weʼre working to increase the number of female regulations. In addition, we also support respect for human ● Takuma Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) employees in management positions and the number of female rights, without contributing to human rights violations, 【Respect for basic human rights】 employees on the main career track (including individuals who elimination of forced labor/child labor and the abolition of 9. Prohibition of discriminatory actions have been tentatively offered positions) as of March 31, 2021, to discrimination through participation in the UN Global 10. Respect of individuality, personal quality Compact. We are also working to promote employment of and privacy ● Number of newly hired graduates over the last 5 years 11. Safe work environment by gender (main career track) disabled and elderly individuals. FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Men 19 18 19 17 16 Women 1 1 2 2 2 Working with Our Employees Total 20 19 21 19 18 The 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, which began Employee data ■ Child-raising and nursing care support measures in FY2018, sets forth a series of measures to address our We offer the following work programs as measures to help employees balance work demands with their child-raising and 852 workforce, which is an essential resource and the Number of employees nursing care responsibilities. (including 784 men and 68 women) foundation of all efforts to advance our businesses. Top Nursing care leave Child-raising and nursing-care leave Reduced working hours program Flex time program Telework program Average age 43.3 ● ● ● ● ● priority is given to pursuing hiring and training, and to Average years of service 15.4 creating an environment in which to ensure each and every Impressions from an employee who has taken advantage of Takumaʼs child-raising leave (male, 20s, engineering position) employee enjoys an engaging and motivating work Attrition rate 6.3% (past 3 years) Because our ﬁrst child still requires a lot of care at age 3, I took child-raising leave for about 11 months starting one experience while giving full play to all of his or her abilities *As of March 31, 2019 month after our second child was born so that my wife could go back to work. I consulted with my supervisor before over the long term. returning to my position, and now Iʼm working in the same department as I was before I took the leave. Thanks to the support of my supervisor, colleagues, and the company, Iʼve been able to participate in the same work as I did before taking the leave. Takuma is involved in a variety of employee retention programs to ensure employees remain at Takuma over the long term. ■ Employee health initiatives In addition to stress checks and examinations to assess the risk facilitating employeesʼ physical and emotional health. of adult-onset diseases, our annual health checkups include We encourage employees with excessive working hours to meet ■ Workstyle reform initiatives cancer and gastric checks for employees who wish to have them. with an occupational physician for guidance. The Human Resources We also hold health consultations by an occupational Department also interviews such employees and their supervisors ● Initiatives to boost productivity physician (once a month) and counseling sessions by a clinical so that we can study and implement corrective measures after the In addition to working to review business processes and streamline and improve operations in individual departments, weʼre psychologist (twice a month) as part of our commitment to cause of the excessive hours has been pinpointed. working to boost productivity by deploying a videoconferencing system and automating work by means of RPA. Human Rights and Labor Practices Using RPA tools to streamline operations Environmental Engineering Department 1 is responsible for planning municipal solid waste treatment plants. The process of planning optimal Weʼre working to enhance employee ability, technological skills, and management capability by offering grade-speciﬁc plants that align perfectly with customersʼ needs requires an extremely educational programs, from new hires to management candidates. large number of complex calculations that span multiple ﬁles. Among those calculations are operations in which input parameters must be Technical Thesis varied little by little in an effort to search for the optimal system, with NewPresentation presentation discussion Mid-career Management the result that the process has many, simple steps. To reduce the employee by 10-year by 2-year by 5-year training training training employees amount of time taken up by these calculations, we have deployed employees employees robotic process automation (RPA) tools, and we succeeded in saving about 1,000 hours by means of that approach during FY2018. We hold several technical training sessions a year in order To support employee skill development, we reimburse ● Putting in place an environment that encourages employees to take annual leave to increase employeesʼ technical knowledge, including employees for the cost of acquiring various licenses and offer As a way to promote mutual understanding and cooperation, employees announce their plans in advance for ﬁve of their lectures by university professors and outside researchers and incentives for earning professional certiﬁcations. annual paid time off days to their counterparts in the workplace. This initiative is conceived to allow employees to take presentations by Takuma engineering employees about their advantage of paid time off in a well-planned manner. work responsibilities and research themes. To improve employeesʼ language skills, we host the TOEIC test twice a year and offer incentives to employees who earn a high score. 47 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 48 Human Rights and Labor Practices Working with Our Employees Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health Since FY2006, we have introduced TK-COHSMS based on an in work stoppages (of four or more days); for branches, pursuing ■ Objective management and ■ In-house commendation system occupational safety and health management system for the a thorough program of safety and health education, ensuring construction industry and worked actively and independently to adherence to safety inspection guidelines, and implementing the human resources evaluation system Each year on June 10, we hold an awards ceremony to improve our safety and health activities. We believe that among branch safety patrol plan; and for the Safety and Health At the beginning of each fiscal year, operational goals are commemorate the anniversary of the companyʼs founding. these efforts, the manner in which (1) safety inspections, (2) Cooperative Association, strengthening collaboration with determined based on departmental policies and individual mandatory safety and health education (education for partner companies. We will work to revitalize safety and health ● Takuma Prize: construction site representatives), and (3) creation of pre-work activities throughout the company by carrying out that role. employeesʼ work issues and expected roles. A mid-year Employees who have helped improve operations or who safety procedure checklists known as SSAs have been steadily Rather than contenting ourselves with the status quo, we will interview in September and annual review interview the have exceptional achievements in community service adopted by all departments and used to consistently improve the pursue new safety and health initiatives to foster a deep following March offer opportunities for supervisors to offer ● Invention and idea commendations: level of knowledge about Takumaʼs safety and health is awareness of the concept that underlies our safety and health feedback to their subordinates by evaluating their job particularly noteworthy. policy ̶ “understanding the need for respecting people and Employees who have earned patents or other intellectual performance and to receive advice and requests from We have adopted the following safety and health objectives for giving top priority to safety and health” ̶ on the part of property rights employees. In this way we strive to foster subordinatesʼ FY2019: for construction sites, eliminating accidents that result everyone whoʼs involved in our operations. ● Safety and Health Award in Construction Division: abilities and improve their motivation through Foremen at sites without accidents or damage communication between supervisors and their subordinates. ● Takuma Technical Review Outstanding Paper Award ■ Self-reporting system Qualifications acquisition commendations ● Length-of-Service Award ■ Safety inspection system ● We have introduced a self-reporting system that allows (every 5 years of service after 20 years) employees to communicate their thoughts on topics such as We maintain a system where any construction or ● FY2018 their future career path directly to the company every three installation work starts only after the safety and health Number of safety years. Through this system we are working to assess manager or other responsible official in each department inspections done: 163 employeesʼ awareness, needs, and issues and to apply that conducts a successful safety inspection based on safety and (Initial inspection pass rate: information to human resources measures. health plans for the construction or installation work as 95%) prepared by our primary partner companies. ■ Work group transfer system We strive to ensure a safe work environment at all construction sites by eliminating potential hazards and risk A safety inspection meeting We have created a work group transfer system to facilitate factors identified by those inspections before work begins. movement from clerical and labor positions to the main career track so that motivated and skilled employees can make use of their abilities. We also provide opportunities for ■ Safety patrols and safety talks employees to be promoted to management positions. Based on an annual plan, safety patrols are carried out at ● Number of safety patrols implemented in FY2018 worksites by the Safety and Health Committee (comprised of By Safety and Health Committee (members, advisors) : 47 committee members and advisors), Safety Control By Safety Control Department : 267 Department, and construction division along with safety By construction division : 334 talks in a precisely targeted and efficient manner. Human Rights and Labor Practices Safety patrols focus on identifying and eliminating risks as ● Number of reemployed individuals over the past 5 years early as possible, while safety talks are conceived to prevent We have put in place programs to FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 occupational accidents and raise employeesʼ safety offer employees who have left the awareness by offering an opportunity to hand out and company after reaching retirement age Number of employees reaching retirement age 12 11 3 5 11 explain materials such as examples of accidents. Both reemployment at Takuma and group Number of employees desiring reemployment 10 10 2 5 10 programs help ensure safety at worksites in the field. companies up to age 65. Number of reemployed employees 10 10 2 5 10 Safety patrols Safety talks ■ Safety and health education (education for construction site representatives) We continuously provide specialized safety and health ● April, 2004 to March, 2019 education at branches and worksites to increase the levels of Cumulative number of trainees : 34,078 We have introduced a number of social welfare programs designed to meet a diverse array of employee needs. safety awareness and knowledge of our employees and Number of trainees passing the completion exam : 17,621 partner companies. ● Cafeteria plan: As indicated at right, more than 17,500 trainees have Employees receive a fixed “benefits budget” from the company to spend by choosing from a menu of options including support passed the completion exam. We are involved in a variety of for self-study, child-raising and nursing care, healthy living, and asset-building. initiatives to put in place mechanisms for preventing ● Employee Shareholder Association: accidents, including by assigning workers with extensive Employees can combine contributions that are automatically deducted from their salaries and bonuses provided by knowledge in areas such as safety-related laws and the company to purchase Takuma shares. ordinances to individual construction sites. Head Office venue Tokyo Branch venue 49 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 50 Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health Takuma holds a Safety and Health Meeting to bring workers talk by a guest lecturer entitled “Health and Safety Activities Weʼre a general manufacturer of industrial cranes. Our goal is to supply products that meet with safetyand health-related responsibilities together to Incumbent upon Managers: Considering Risk Assessment and customer needs with an integrated system that encompasses design, manufacture, and improve and share their safety and health awareness with the Human Error.” In addition, safety and health partner after-sales service, and weʼve been responsible for manufacturing and providing after-sales goal of ensuring worker safety and health and promoting the companies gave presentations on their safety and health service for the ceiling-mounted waste feed cranes in Takumaʼs Energy from Waste plants for development of a pleasant work environment. policies and goals, and all participants closed the meeting by many years. During FY2018, we recognized subcontractors that helped chanting the FY2018 slogan and pledging to continue to work achieve our zero-accident record at worksites, held a lecture toward thorough safety and health management by utilizing Recently, from August through October 2018 we replaced the traveling rails of the waste entitled “Key Revisions to Safety Belt Standards,” and hosted a TK-COHSMS. feed cranes and the fall prevention safety net at the Shinkoto Waste Treatment Plant operated by the Clean Authority of Tokyo. As their name suggests, ceiling-mounted traveling cranes are installed near the ceiling, making construction potentially hazardous due to the need to work at a height. Consequently, construction guidelines that value safety are critically important. For this project, we reduced the risk of falls by holding study group meetings before work started with partner Mr. Yuichi Nakayama subcontractors, installing a temporary handrail and multiple safety ropes on the runway, General Manager installing two man lifts on the hopper floor, and ensuring that all workers used two safety belts. Tobu Crane Service Center The work we carried out required great care and compliance with safety standards based on Hitachi Plant Mechanics Co., Ltd. Takumaʼs safety inspection program, and we were able to complete it without incident or accident thanks to Takumaʼs guidance, which the company offered in the form of daily meetings, joint safety patrols, and other means. Presentation of a zero-accident record award Pointing and chanting of the slogan by all participants We look forward to working to ensure safety in a way that meets Takumaʼs expectations in the future based on our safety slogan: “Build an uncompromising safety culture that does not accept unsafe conditions based on thoughtfulness toward coworkersʼ safety.” In 2018, the total number of worked hours fell by about addition to enhancing our safety and health management 64% compared to 2017. In addition, the total number of structures in order to halt this trend, we will work to ensure occupational accidents and accidents leading to missed even more thorough risk management through a unified workdays fell about 60% of the 2017 level. However, the total effort by all involved so that we can redouble our resolve to number of occupational accidents held constant in the eliminate occupational accidents. Hitachi Plant Mechanics Co., Ltd., supplies products including waste cranes, which are a key two-digit range for the five-year period starting in 2014. In component at our waste incineration plants. Weʼre deeply grateful for the companyʼs excellent 3.93 record of cooperation with our health and safety activities at construction sites, including new 15 4.0 Accident Accident * Accident frequency rate installations as well as overhauls and other work. Year frequency rate severity rate Indicates the frequency with which Work involving cranes at waste incineration facilities is associated with an extremely high accidents occur as the number of fatalities 3.00 3.0 Takumaʼs 2014 0.91 0.07 caused by occupational accidents per 1 level of risk due to the fact that the work must be carried out in constricted areas and at a Human Rights and Labor Practices 10 9 million actual working hours. Number of accident height. The magnitude of this risk is borne out by the accident record, and we require 2.03 Number of casualties casualties 12 1.76 frequency 2015 0.92 0.21 1,000,000 subcontractors to take a rigorous approach to safety management at sites. In asking Hitachi (persons) 2.0 rate Total actual working hours and * Accident severity rate Plant Mechanics to handle replacing the traveling rails for the waste feed cranes and the fall 5 1.13 0.79 severity 2016 0.64 0.11 1.76 5 Indicates the seriousness of accidents as prevention safety net at the Shinkoto Waste Treatment Plant last year, we imposed numerous 1.0 rate the number of work-days lost per 1,000 3 2017 0.81 0.18 actual working hours. requirements at a worksite where worker tension was aggravated by the effects of an accident 3 0.02 0.03 0.06 Total work-days lost 1,000 that had occurred the previous year. The company took those requests seriously and complied 0 0.0 2018 1.09 0.30 Total actual working hours 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018(Year) Shinobu Takahashi appropriately. The sequence of work required by the project was completed without accident thanks to an Takumaʼs safety results Reference: Nationwide accident frequency and severity rates Associate Director for the construction industry (general construction) approach that included a variety of measures, for example applying the characteristics of the Purchasing Department site as assessed in advance surveys into safe work procedures. Iʼm confident that Hitachi Plant Takuma Co., Ltd. Mechanics developed a shared understanding of Takumaʼs approach to health and safety. ■ Topics Takuma receives Outstanding Construction Contractor Award and Outstanding Engineer Award Going forward, I hope that Hitachi Plant Mechanics will join Takuma in working to continue In November 2018, Takuma was recognized as an Outstanding Construction Contractor for our zero-accident record by cooperating to implement thorough risk management at all sites the Imabari New Waste Treatment Facility Maintenance and Operation Project/Imabari City where the two companies work together and by further deepening our shared awareness of New Waste Treatment Facility Construction Project, which was completed in FY2017. In health and safety. addition, Takumaʼs site manager for the work was recognized as an Outstanding Engineer. The pair of awards, which the City of Imabari offers to recognize outstanding construction contractors and engineers that serve as a model for others in construction technology, site superintendence, and other areas of their performance in construction work ordered by the City, are conceived to help ensure construction projects are carried out in an appropriate manner and Conferment of the awards by Mr. Ryoji Kan, to improve associated technologies. Mayor, Imabari City 51 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 52 The Environment Takumaʼs CO2 Emission Reduction Technologies Basic Environmental Policy We convert waste/biomass into energy and reduce CO2 emissions! Our company has established the “Basic Environmental Policy” as follows, aiming to ensure employees contribute to global environmental conservation. This basic policy applies to the activities of all company departments. In 1 year, Takuma products Environmental Philosophy cut about 5 million tons! Takuma is committed to preserving the environment and realizing an affluent society through business activities Equivalent to the CO2 absorbed by about 350 million Japanese cedar trees*: Assuming one Japanese cedar tree absorbs 14 kg of CO2 per year. under the Company Motto: “Value Technology, Value People, Value the Earth.” (*Equivalent to a cedar forest the size of 7,500 Tokyo Domes, assuming each tree takes up about 1 square meter of space.) ■ Reducing CO2 emission with biomass power plants In 1 year, Operational Guidelines The sugar industry is an example of an industry that generates power using down about 4 million tons! biomass. Factories that make sugar produce large quantities of residue from 1. All Takuma Group companies will recognize the importance of maintaining a balance between preservation of the sugarcane, the raw material used to make sugar. Sugarcane is crushed into a pulp, environment and business activities. and sugar is extracted in a mill. The remaining fiber is called bagasse and can be 2. Continuously develop activities to preserve the environment that comply with applicable environmental laws and used as plant fuel. The steam and electricity generated by the plant are used as ordinances, and ensure environmental control and assessment systems conform to international environmental sources of heat for the milling process and of power for plant operations, while CO2 emission reduction achieved by standards. surplus power is sold back to a power company. The amount of power generated Takumaʼs biomass power plants 3. Promote development of improved technologies and products for society that preserve the environment. at sugar factories has grown greatly, with examples of single plants that generate 50,000 kW. (as of end of FY2018) 4. Address resource conservation, energy efficiency, recycling, and minimization of waste generated by all business activities. 5. Improve employee awareness and understanding about the importance of preserving the environment through ● What is biomass? Wood environmental education and internal promotional activities. chips Biomass is any recyclable organic material derived from a living Energy 6. Provide the community with information on the activities of Takuma to preserve the environment. Palm organism, but does not include fossil fuels, such as oil and coal. For Bagasse kernel example, even though CO2 is emitted if wood chips are incinerated, shells when trees grow again, they absorb CO2 to offset the emissions from incineration, so there is no increase in CO2 in the atmosphere. Biomass power generation helps reduce the amount of electricity Environmental Management generated from fossil resources, helping lower CO2 emissions. ● The situation concerning the acquisition of ISO 14001 Biomass power plant The Environment Our Harima Factory has acquired ISO 14001 certification and has been implementing environmental management activities based on an environmental ■ CO2 emission reduction from waste incineration plants management system established to comply with international standards. Garbage, or waste, is an important source of energy. About 500 kW** of power Our group companies Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., can be generated from one ton of garbage. In Europe and the Americas, waste In 1 year, Takuma Technos Co., Ltd., Hokkaido Sanitary incineration plants are often called Energy from Waste (EfW) plants, and Maintenance Co., Ltd., and Dan-Takuma Technologies recovering energy from garbage has become the norm. Waste must be seen as a down about 1 million tons! Inc. have also acquired ISO 14001 certification. “resource,” so Takuma is seeking to be the best in the world with our technologies to convert waste into energy and reduce CO2 emissions. ** Presumes waste with a calorific value of 8,800 kJ per kg and a power generation efficiency of 20% CO2 emission reduction achieved by Takumaʼs municipal solid waste incineration plants About (as of end of FY2018) Harima Factory 1 ton of Waste 500 kW of garbage combustion power generated 53 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 54 The Environment ■ Environmental accounting Environmental accounting is the process by which companies facilitate sustainable development. In FY2006, we introduced and and other entities recognize the cost of environmental disclosed our own environmental accounting system based on the conservation in their business activities as well as the effects of “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005” issued by the Environmental Reporting those activities and measure and communicate them in as Ministry of the Environment. As our business activities mainly quantitative a manner as possible (either in terms of monetary involve environmental conservation plants and their equipment, Takuma reports the environmental impact of its business activities as well as the manner in which it takes environmental amounts or amounts of materials) with the goal of pursuing Takuma Group employees have a significant awareness of the need considerations into account in accordance with the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (issued by the Ministry of the Environment). environmental conservation initiatives in an efficient and effective for environmental conservation, and we have been implementing This environmental reporting program includes not only environmental information extracted from our overall business activities manner while maintaining a good relationship with society so as to approaches toward such issues within the Takuma Group. from an environmental standpoint, but also information about related economic and social aspects of those activities. ● Environmental conservation cost ■ Environmental data (non-consolidated) According to the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines,” environmental conservation costs measure on a monetary basis investments and expenditures on preventing, controlling, or avoiding Scope of data collected ● Total energy consumption ● Greenhouse gas emissions environmental impacts, eliminating their effects, recovering from 90,000 4,500 associated damage, and initiatives to aid in the same. ● Period covered: April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2019 (Tons-CO2 per year) Investment Costs ● Companies targeted: Item (thousand JPY) (thousand JPY) (GJ per year) 60,000 3,000 Business area costs 12 domestic companies Pollution prevention costs 2,655 21,035 Global environmental conservation costs 16,003 20,271 ● Takuma Co., Ltd. (Head Office, other offices 30,000 1,500 Resource recycling costs ― 13,479 including overseas sites and the Harima Factory) Management activity costs ― 41,584 ● NIPPON THERMOENER CO., LTD. 0 0 Research and development costs 38,598 1,478,605 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Social activity costs ― 11,808 ● Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. Total 57,256 1,586,782 Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd. The total energy consumption of the fuel and the The greenhouse gas emissions created by our company ● electricity consumed at Takuma during FY2018 fell slightly are limited to carbon dioxide (CO2). The amount of CO2 ● Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd. compared to FY2017 levels. We will continue to promote emissions in FY2018 fell slightly compared to FY2017 levels. ● Environmental conservation effect ● SUNPLANT Co., Ltd. energy savings from here on out. We will continue striving to reduce CO2 emissions. According to the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines,” environmental conservation effects measure on a material basis the ● Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd. effects of preventing, controlling, or avoiding environmental impacts, Takuma System Control Co., Ltd. Waste generation Water usage ● ● ● eliminating their effects, recovering from associated damage, and initiatives to aid in the same. ● Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. 900 60,000 Waste generation Item FY2017 FY2018 ● Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd. Recycling (Tons per year) Final disposal treatment (1) Environmental conservation effect concerning resources input Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd. (m3 per year) ● 600 40,000 for business activities Total energy input (GJ) 97,416 95,047 ● Takuma Plant Service Co., Ltd. Water resources input (m3) 45,460 48,034 300 20,000 (2) Environmental conservation effect concerning environmental loads 2 overseas subsidiaries and wastes created by business activities Greenhouse gas emission volume (tons-CO2) 4,131 3,977 ● Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd. 0 0 Waste generation (tons) 1,028 934 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) ● Siam Takuma Co., Ltd. Final disposal volume (tons) 131 150 The Environment Our company sells recyclables and reusables from the waste Water consumption during FY2018 rose slightly compared Total drainage volume (m3) 45,460 48,034 BOD emissions (kg) 2,448 2,565 generated through its business activities to scrap dealers, while to FY2017. Going forward, we will work to lower our water COD emissions (kg) 2,613 2,747 outsourcing the treatment of non-recyclables and non-reusables use. T-N emissions (kg) 645 693 to haulers, processors and final disposal dealers, in accordance T-P emissions (kg) 111 121 with the Industrial Waste Control Manifest system. ■ Environmental efficiency ● The Takuma Groupʼs definition of ■ PRTR target substance emissions Even as total environmental impacts must be reduced, it is necessary environmental efficiency from a business management standpoint to pursue environmental Consolidated net sales (million JPY) Although our business activities do not involve a wide variety of chemical substances on a massive scale, we use a few initiatives that are characterized by a high degree of economic efficiency. Greenhouse gas emissions (tons-CO2) designated chemical substances. Consequently, we report and register such chemical substances designated under the Pollutant We report environmental efficiency using an index calculated in Release and Transfer Register (PRTR), in accordance with relevant laws and ordinances, with the local government. accordance with examples provided by the Ministry of the Environment in ● Environmental efficiency its Environmental Performance Indicators Guidelines for Organizations. 40 ● Dichloromethane (CAS No. 75-09-2) ● Toluene (CAS No. 108-88-3) At the Takuma Group, we calculate environmental efficiency as the ratio of consolidated net sales to greenhouse gas emissions. In FY2018, this 29.12 30.66 FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 30 26.82 28.61 value improved slightly compared to FY2017. 24.42 Emissions (tons per year) 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.3 Emissions (tons per year) 0.08 0.26 0.09 0.07 0.06 20 ● Xylene (CAS No. 1330-20-7) 10 FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 These materials are used for antirust painting of boiler Emissions (tons per year) 3.4 2.2 2.9 1.2 1.1 structures and so on. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 55 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 56 Fair Business Practices As a means of understanding the level of awareness of example by offering additional education in areas that compliance and CSR and the level of permeation of received lower scores than in the previous survey. In education that promotes these priorities, and employing FY2018, responses indicated that 921 (of 942) employees that data as reference for the integrated activities carried are conducting themselves in accordance with standards Takuma offers compliance and CSR promotion education through the Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization (see page out during each fiscal year and for the following fiscal yearʼs such as the companyʼs Management Principles and the 42), which was established in order to spread awareness of compliance and CSR issues among employees. During FY2018, we action plan, we have conducted the “CSR Awareness Takuma Group Code of Conduct, indicating that awareness implemented education focusing on compliance and CSR promotion in four separate stages (see below) in keeping with our Survey” every year since FY2008 with the end goal of of the importance of compliance and CSR have spread policy of pursuing a sustained and thorough program of spreading and improving compliance and CSR awareness and risk utilizing that information for future compliance and CSR widely among employees. management. This effort, through which we sought to live up to societyʼs requirements and expectations, while taking into promotion activities. The survey has included group We will continue to offer this survey and use its results to account internal circumstances and the characteristics of group companies, was based on the Compliance & CSR Promotion companies since FY2013. improve compliance and CSR promotion education on an Divisionʼs medium-term policy of continuing to practice compliance-focused management in accordance with the 12th We actively use survey results in our activities, for ongoing basis. Medium-Term Management Plan. ● 1st term: Effect of Japanese-style plea bargaining on corporate operations ● 2nd term: Corporate disaster prevention and mitigation, SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals), Takumaʼs CSR comprehension test Takuma has been operating an internal reporting system ● 3rd term: Corporate scandals, security export control Persons seeking consultation or making reports since FY2006, with the aim of promoting compliance ● 4th term: Compliance and internal reporting system (lecture), management by uncovering illegal or unfair acts as early as forward-looking CSR activities: CSR issues and an action program Consultation possible and undertaking corrective measures. Response or report Reporting contacts are set up at our Compliance & CSR 4th term lecture Promotion Division and at an outside law office, as well as a Outside report contact (Speaker: Mr. Kiyoshi Endo, Attorney at Law, Endo Kiyoshi Law Office) (Including via anonymous Law office dedicated outside report contact for anonymous e-mail e-mail if so desired) reporting. Our “Internal Reporting Code” and the Takuma Sessions: 4 per year (May, August, November, and January) Group Code of Conduct further declare that no informant Number of participating departments: 45 shall be subjected to disadvantageous treatment simply due to his or her having filed a report. Total number of attendees: 4,026 Compliance & CSR Promotion Division Furthermore, in order for this system to be correctly (Investigation and response) understood and utilized, we distribute a card to all ■ CSR lectures for management-level employees employees with information on the reporting contacts and Internal reporting process regularly publicize the system. Although awareness of this In September 2018, attorney Yusaku Kurahashi of the law firm Nakamura, Tsunoda & system exceeded 90% according to the results of the FY2018 Matsumoto gave a talk for managers entitled “Risk Management in Ordinary Times CSR awareness survey, some respondents indicated that they and in Times of Emergency.” were unaware of the system or uninterested in utilizing it, In the talk, Mr. Kurahashi addressed the job responsibilities and operational suggesting that issues remain for the reporting system. response of executives from the standpoint of risk management in ordinary times and in emergencies. The lecture offered a valuable opportunity to think anew about conventional risks as well as special risks that are more likely to go unnoticed. Fair Business Practices Our Purchasing Department carries out procurement activity in accordance with its Material Procurement Policy. 【Material Procurement Policy】 ● Initiatives to ensure compliance with ● Holding training sessions about the Antimonopoly Act We provide fair opportunities for all suppliers, irrespective the Antimonopoly Act We hold regular training sessions about the Antimonopoly 1. Treat all candidates fairly when selecting a of nationality, company size, or transaction history. Suppliers Towards ensuring permanent compliance with the Act to deepen participantsʼ understanding of the act and to supplier. are selected based on our comprehensive evaluation of their Antimonopoly Act, Takuma enacted “Regulations ascertain the latest information about it. 2. Strive to discover new manufacturers. reliability and safeness in terms of quality, price, delivery, Concerning Management of the Pledge of Antimonopoly Act 3. Strictly control confidential information. etc., as well as their abilities in technological development Compliance,” which provides for the submission of a written ● Introducing a Legislation Information Service 4. Strive to acquire new and pertinent information. and supply capabilities. oath in regard to observing the Antimonopoly Act. In order to allow its employees to gain a continuous grasp of 5. Promote green procurement. Long-term stable transactions with dependable suppliers “Rules on Controlling Contact with Competitorsʼ Sales the latest changes to laws and ordinances, Takuma introduced result in improved product reliability and greater corporate 6. Comply with laws and ordinances related to Departments, Etc.,” defines the procedure for an employee to a Legislation Information Service. In this system, legislation value. We, therefore, seek to establish relationships of business dealings. contact the sales department, etc., of a competitor and alerts highlighting revisions to, and abolition of, laws and mutual trust and mutual development with our suppliers. 7. Always keep VA and VE in mind. specifies that an application should be made to and an ordinances are sent by e-mail in advance to employees, who While also respecting relevant laws and regulations as well 8. Strive for self-development. approval should be obtained from the affiliated division or can also review detailed information about the corresponding as social norms, we strictly control and maintain any center manager in advance to ensure fair business contact. law or ordinance on the systemʼs website as needed. confidential information that we obtain through our In addition to current laws and ordinances, the system lets business transactions. users search for legal precedents and public comments to More information about the procurement procedures used by our Purchasing Department is available on the following website: facilitate an even greater understanding of relevant laws and [Takuma website > Material Procurement] https://www.takuma.co.jp/procurement/ (content in Japanese) ordinances. 57 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 58 Consumer Issues Activities Involving Product Quality We carry out the following quality improvement initiatives: The amount of attention paid by consumers (stakeholders) transition to ISO 9001:2015, the latest edition of that (1) Conducting a customer satisfaction survey every year since Customer satisfaction survey process to quality in a wide range of fields, including manufacturing standard. In addition to working to improve the quality of our FY2007 and services, has been growing in recent years. This section products in accordance with our Quality Policy and quality (2) Applying customer feedback with regard to delivered Decide where to conduct the questionnaire survey introduces Takuma initiatives that are designed to provide management system, we are pursuing activities that products and Takuma employees to quality and service safe, confidence-inspiring products and plants. emphasize customer satisfaction. The figure to the right illustrates how the survey is administered. Takumaʼs Head Office, branch companies, and other In order to produce products and plants that customers First, we administer questionnaires targeting customers who Conduct the questionnaire survey business offices have earned certification under the ISO 9001 truly appreciate, it is necessary not only to boost the quality of had construction work done by asking them to assess the overall international standard on quality management systems, and the product itself, but also to improve the operations and experience after the work is completed, including the nature of the the Harima Factory has earned certification under the ISO quality as well as each individualʼs ability to create a good work performed, suitability of delivered equipment, and the level 9001 and ISO 14001 international standards on quality plant in each process from planning up to delivery (sales, Investigate the questionnaire results of service provided by Takuma staff. management systems and environmental management planning, design, procurement, manufacture, construction, Next, the QM Committee calculates a score for each item based Analyze problem factors and investigate systems, respectively. In December 2017, we completed a and management). on the survey results as well as a report and explanation from the recurrence prevention countermeasures (if results are lower than our standard) responsible department. The committee then analyzes the resulting data. Analyze praiseworthy factors (particularly for praiseworthy aspects) If we find a problem, for example an item receiving an evaluation score of less than 70 out of 100 or a score of 1 Takuma Co., Ltd. has adopted the following Quality Policy in order to provide satisfying products that meet customer (dissatisfied) or 2 (rather dissatisfied) on a 4-point scale, the QM expectations and earn a high level of trust while continuously improving the effectiveness of its quality management system. Committee analyzes the cause of the problem and studies Apply recurrence prevention measures and measures to prevent recurrence based on interviews with the praiseworthy factors across the organization Quality Policy department in question. We also evaluate aspects of our products and services that receive especially high praise from customers “Manufacturing products that result in customer satisfaction” and work to further enhance customer satisfaction by combining Follow up with recurrence prevention measures Based on that Quality Policy and the three priority items described below, Takuma is working to improve the quality of its problem areas and praiseworthy areas and applying them Follow up on results products and services through a variety of initiatives that address every process, including in sales, planning, design, procurement, horizontally across involved departments at the company. manufacture, construction, and management. For customers targeted for problem analysis and consideration of preventive measures based on the survey results, we also conduct a follow-up survey to discern whether those measures were reliably implemented and whether their level of satisfaction has indeed improved. With scores averaging higher than 80 points every year since its second year, the questionnaire demonstrates the effectiveness ● Creating value to earn customer satisfaction (ascertaining customer needs and making improvements based on past experience) ● Carrying out risk management (addressing changes in the business environment and human error) of our initiatives. ● Implementing human resources management (implementing human resources development and ensuring skills are passed In this way, we work to improve product and plant quality so that all customers are satisfied. down to younger employees) ● Head Office, branch offices and other business offices (Points) Number of surveys Average score (Surveys) Construction license (Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Consumer Issues ● Organizational initiatives for improving quality knowledge about ISO 9001 to specific methods for 100 40 Tourism license, Special 27-6129, Special 29-6129) As an organizational initiative thatʼs designed to boost conducting internal audits. 37 Construction consultant registration (Minister of Land, Infrastructure, product quality, we have each department establish quality Transport and Tourism registration, Construction 26-10202) targets at the beginning of the year and then provide regular ● Improving the employeesʼ individual operational skills 90 88.2 87.7 86.8 First-class architect office registration (01A02903) reports (twice a year) on progress towards achieving those goals To improve employeesʼ individual operational skills, we 85.5 85.9 85.8 85.6 86.3 30 ISO 9001 quality management system certification 83.5 at QM Committee meetings (quality management reviews). have created an operational skill achievement checklist that 82.3 As part of the transition to ISO 9001:2015, weʼre working to identifies the skills required by personnel in each process for 80.2 27 27 27 28 ● Harima Factory 80 26 further improve quality by identifying an effort to clarify and use in regular assessments, and we are reviewing the targets 25 ISO 9001 quality management system certification address risks and opportunities as a key quality goal and we have chosen. 73.4 23 ISO 14001 environmental management systems certification 20 evaluating the effectiveness of that effort. Manufacture of thermal equipment for power generation (Ministry 70 19 of Economy, Trade and Industry) ● Quality control and process reviews 18 18 ● Internal quality audits 16 Permission to manufacture boilers and pressure vessels, permission Quality control is an important measure that allows us to to manufacture cranes (Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) In addition to increasing the precision of operations by provide exceptional products and plants. 60 10 Manufacture of specific high-pressure gas facilities (Ministry of standardizing operating procedures in each departmentʼs We take action (improvement measures) as outlined by a 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Economy, Trade and Industry) processes, we are improving operations as necessary by manual (standard) in the event a non-conforming product is Questionnaire average score (out of 100 possible points) Manufacture of refrigerators (Governor of Hyogo Prefecture) carrying out an internal quality audit of each department to discovered, but even if an issue doesnʼt lead to a verify the status of quality management system operation. non-conforming product, we conduct a review as a JQA-1952 ISO 9001 certification Internal quality audits are carried out regularly by preventive measure if there are processes that could have Head Office, Osaka employees who have been certified as internal auditors after caused the issue. Office, Tokyo Branch, completing internal quality auditor training seminars offered Furthermore, we actively offer training to new business Chubu Branch, Kyushu JQA-EM0313 Branch, Hokkaido ISO 14001 by instructors from an outside organization. At the training partners and retraining (instruction) for existing business ISO 9001 Branch and Harima ISO 14001 certification seminars, employees master content ranging from basic partners to prevent defects in the products we purchase. Factory Harima Factory 59 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 60 Participation in the Community Contribution to Society Reflecting their dedication to providing safe, reliable facilities that inspire peace of mind on the part of local residents, This page introduces some examples of Takumaʼs community service activities. Takuma and its ｇroup companies work actively to disclose information in an appropriate manner, keep the areas around plants clean, participate in regional activities, and engage in exchanges with local residents. This section introduces some of those efforts. The Takuma Group orchestrates coordinated clean-up activities in the areas around its worksites each year as a way for volunteers to beautify the environment and contribute to society. During FY2018, a total of 570 employees participated in two such activities. The Imabari High Trust is a special-purpose company that was established to operate and activities provided an opportunity for employees to think afresh about waste-related issues maintain Imabari City Waste Management Center (known as “Bari Clean”), which was and their connection to the community. Going forward, the Takuma Group will continue this constructed to connect residents, their community, and the future through safe operation initiative. that inspires peace of mind. The company has promoted exchanges with residents through a variety of events every month since it began operating in April 2018. The facility is able to serve as an evacuation center in the event of a natural disaster, and it has enough space and emergency supplies to accommodate 320 people for one week. It In November 2018, volunteers from Operation & Maintenance Services Department 2 can also generate electricity for use in such scenarios. In September 2018, the facility participated in the “Osaka Marathon ʻCleanupʼ Campaign,” a cleanup activity that is held joined local residents and the city in conducting an evacuation center drill. every year as part of the Osaka Marathon. The activity brought together organizational, group, and individual volunteers to beautify public spaces throughout the city. Work to open the evacuation center In December 2018, the facility held the Imabari Environmental Takuma supports blood donation activities through the Japanese Red Cross Society. Festival to prompt exchanges with local residents and environmental During FY2018, a total of 122 donors participated in blood drives at the Head Office and education. Numerous residents attended the event, which was Harima Factory. Donors can simultaneously register as bone marrow donors at the Head cosponsored by Imabari High Trust, and enjoyed activities including a Office, and this year eight employees did so. We plan to continue this activity in the future. flea market, environmental learning booths, and tours of the waste treatment facility. The company will continue to operate the facility in an appropriate Takuma serves on the Board of Trustees of the Japan Association for the World Food manner so that it can earn the understanding of residents in ordinary Programme, the official supporting partner of the World Food Programme in Japan. Each Before the festival venue doors opened times as well as in times of emergency as a facility that treats waste in a year, we display WFP posters at the entrances to company buildings and in cafeterias during safe, stable manner in line with the Imabari Model (a model for a campaign that lasts from June through August. The campaign serves both to increase 21st-century waste treatment facilities) while earning a place in the employee interest in the worldʼs food problems and to collect donations to address them. hearts of local residents and safeguarding the community, and as a place that offers environmental awareness-raising and hands-on learning opportunities while communicating related information. Contributions to NPOs Flea market A tour of the waste treatment facility calendars at a charity calendar market sponsored by the NPO Participation in the Community/Contribution to Society Nippon Volunteer Network Active in Disasters are used to Takuma purchases UNICEF Christmas cards. A portion of provide aid for victims of natural disasters and other crises. the proceeds is used to fund UNICEF in their work to help We also donate calendars to the NPO Community Support In August 2018, Takuma and group companies Takuma Energy and Fujisawa High children around the world. Center Kobeʼs Gift On Heart Calendar project for delivery to Trust manned a joint booth at the Recycle Plaza Fujisawa Fair, an event that is held local residentsʼ associations and other groups, elderly every year in the city of Fujisawa to promote and raise awareness of issues such as 3R residents, and individuals with disabilities. initiatives and use of renewable energy. This year, we promoted local production and consumption of surplus electricity from Energy from Waste plants. Numerous local Each year, Takuma donates unused calendars to a residents, especially families, visited Takumaʼs bicycle-driven hands-on power non-profit organization. The proceeds from selling the generation area, which attracted crowds for the duration of the event. Bicycle-driven hands-on power generation area Publications Takumaʼs Harima Factory has registered as an eco classroom as part of its ongoing sponsorship of environmental learning in the city of Takasago. In October 2018, a coordinator from one of Takumaʼs engineering departments visited Takasago We publish the Takuma Technical Review twice a year to introduce technologies that Takuma has developed. Municipal Amida Elementary School to teach an environmental learning class entitled Contents in FY2018 included an explanation of how power can be locally produced and consumed “Thinking about Waste.” The instructor used slides and other learning materials to based on examples from Takuma Energy, operational reports on plant equipment, observations from visits explain topics such as waste generation, sorting, treatment, and recycling in an to overseas facilities, and profiles of delivered projects. Abstracts are available on Takumaʼs website. easy-to-understand manner to a group of about 90 third-graders. The children listened [Takuma top page > Technical Information > Technical Review] with interest as the teacher happily answered their questions. Eco classroom https://www.takuma.co.jp/english/gijutu/gihou.html 61 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 62 Financial Data Trend in Principal Management Indicators and Other Financial Data Business Performance During the Fiscal Year Under Review 110th 111th 112th 113th 114th 115th 115th Demand for products such as Energy from Waste As growth in sales was augmented by improved Fiscal year ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen ) ( Millions of yen )( Thousands of U.S. dollars ) plants and biomass power plants remained robust proﬁtability thanks to progress in efforts to cut costs, during the ﬁscal year under review as growth in operating income rose 1,574 million yen to 11,604 End of ﬁscal year March 2014 March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 March 2018 March 2019 March 2019 orders for construction and operation of such million yen, ordinary proﬁt rose 1,664 million yen to facilities led to order volume of 179,829 million yen, 12,334 million yen, and proﬁt attributable to owners Net sales ¥ 96,334 ¥ 103,875 ¥ 113,088 ¥ 116,309 ¥ 118,199 ¥ 121,951 $ 1,098,753 up 2,713 million yen from the previous year. In of parent rose 1,007 million yen to 8,854 million yen. addition, smooth progress in the construction of Operating income ¥ 8,424 ¥ 8,223 ¥ 9,189 ¥ 10,974 ¥ 10,030 ¥ 11,604 $ 104,551 ordered plants led to sales of 121,951 million yen, an increase of 3,752 million yen. As a result, the backlog Ordinary proﬁt ¥ 9,449 ¥ 9,116 ¥ 9,646 ¥ 11,606 ¥ 10,670 ¥ 12,334 $ 111,128 rose 57,879 million yen to 330,939 million yen. Proﬁt attributable to ¥ 8,835 ¥ 8,030 ¥ 7,817 ¥ 8,551 ¥ 7,847 ¥ 8,854 $ 79,772 owners of parent Comprehensive income ¥ 9,935 ¥ 9,398 ¥ 7,149 ¥ 9,937 ¥ 10,177 ¥ 7,325 $ 66,000 Performance by segment was as follows: (Millions of yen) Net assets ¥ 43,889 ¥ 52,516 ¥ 58,809 ¥ 67,727 ¥ 76,726 ¥ 83,088 $ 748,603 Segment Orders received Sales amount Operating income Backlog Total assets ¥ 108,520 ¥ 123,127 ¥ 132,614 ¥ 140,201 ¥ 151,489 ¥ 155,989 $ 1,405,431 Domestic Environment and 153,628 93,724 12,405 322,292 Energy Business Net assets per share ¥ 527.50 ¥ 631.53 ¥ 708.18 ¥ 815.77 ¥ 924.25 ¥ 1,000.34 $ 9.01 （JPY or USD） Overseas Environment and 799 3,057 163 525 Energy Business Net income per share ¥ 106.86 ¥ 97.12 ¥ 94.55 ¥ 103.43 ¥ 94.93 ¥ 107.10 $ 0.96 （JPY or USD） Package Boiler Business 17,476 16,955 904 3,872 Diluted net income per share （JPY or USD） Equipment and Systems Business 8,567 8,836 361 4,502 Capital adequacy ratio (%) 40.2 42.4 44.1 48.1 50.4 53.0 53.0 Sub-total 180,472 122,572 13,835 331,192 Return on equity(%) 22.7 16.8 14.1 13.6 10.9 11.1 11.1 Adjustment (642) (621) (2,231) (252) Price-to-earnings ratio 6.9 9.7 10.7 10.5 12.3 12.3 12.3 Total 179,829 121,951 11,604 330,939 Cash ﬂows from ¥ 8,270 ¥ 21,727 ¥ 6,728 ¥ 9,590 ¥ 5,141 ¥ 10,817 $ 97,460 operating activities Cash ﬂows from ¥ (1,430) ¥ (160) ¥ (445) ¥ 143 ¥ (328) ¥ (1,382) $ (12,453) investing activities Financial Data Cash ﬂows from ¥ (5,867) ¥ (3,707) ¥ (2,900) ¥ (1,787) ¥ (1,670) ¥ (9,120) $ (82,164) ﬁnancing activities End-of-year balance of ¥ 27,030 ¥ 45,008 ¥ 48,335 ¥ 57,132 ¥ 60,283 ¥ 61,027 $ 549,844 cash and cash equivalents Number of employees 3,315 3,266 3,366 3,447 3,609 3,619 3,619 Note: 1. U.S. dollar amounts are shown solely for the convenience of readers and are translated at the rate of ¥110.99 to U.S.$1.00, the exchange rate prevailing at March 31, 2019. 2. Ordinary proﬁt is a measure of accounting proﬁt that equals operating income plus other income minus other expenses, except for extraordinary items under Japanese GAAP. 63 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 64 Financial Data Consolidated Balance Sheets TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars ASSETS 2019 2018 2019 LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2019 2018 2019 Current assets: Current liabilities: Cash and time deposits ¥ 61,769 ¥ 60,864 $ 556,529 Short-term loans payable ¥ 645 ¥ 7,675 $ 5,811 Notes and accounts receivable: Current portion of long-term debt 117 470 1,052 Trade 49,046 50,049 441,899 Notes and accounts payable: Unconsolidated subsidiaries Trade 37,587 34,913 338,651 and afﬁliated companies 764 380 6,884 Unconsolidated subsidiaries Other 281 381 2,526 and afﬁliated companies 334 234 3,006 Less allowance for doubtful accounts (28) (38) (252) Other 1,227 979 11,057 Total 50,063 50,772 451,057 Total 39,148 36,126 352,714 Inventories 4,356 4,307 39,246 Accrued income taxes 3,628 281 32,690 Other 1,732 1,372 15,606 Advances received 9,798 13,592 88,276 Total current assets 117,920 117,315 1,062,438 Allowance for guarantees on completed work 149 86 1,344 Allowance for losses on sales contracts 1,739 373 15,672 Property, plant and equipment: Provision for loss on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates 999 9,001 Land 3,013 3,011 27,145 Other 6,023 5,709 54,265 Buildings and structures 11,905 12,287 107,267 Total current liabilities 62,246 64,312 560,825 Machinery, equipment, ｌease assets and construction in progress 8,969 10,653 80,805 23,887 25,951 215,217 Long-term liabilities: Less accumulated depreciation (15,593) (17,450) (140,491) Long-term debt 342 459 3,083 Total property, plant and equipment 8,294 8,501 74,726 Allowance for directorsʼ and executive ofﬁcersʼ retirement beneﬁts 185 183 1,664 Net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 9,746 9,406 87,808 Investments and other assets: Other 382 403 3,448 Investment securities 15,138 16,885 136,387 Total long-term liabilities 10,655 10,451 96,003 Investments in: Total liabilities 72,901 74,763 656,828 Unconsolidated subsidiaries Contingent liabilities and afﬁliated companies 4,163 5,015 37,506 Other 5,460 1,823 49,201 Net assets: Less allowance for doubtful accounts (109) (471) (986) Common stock 13,367 13,367 120,438 Total 9,514 6,367 85,721 Authorized: 321,840,000 shares Deferred tax assets 4,810 2,081 43,335 Issued: 83,000,000 shares Other 313 340 2,824 Capital surplus 3,768 3,768 33,951 Total investments and other assets 29,775 25,673 268,267 Retained earnings 60,866 52,949 548,390 Treasury stock, at cost (235) (235) (2,122) Financial Data 331,644 shares in 2019 and 331,385 shares in 2018 Total assets ¥ 155,989 ¥ 151,489 $ 1,405,431 Total shareholders' equity 77,766 69,849 700,657 Unrealized gains on securities 5,390 7,161 48,558 Deferred gains and losses on hedges 8 (46) 75 Foreign currency translation adjustments (4) 2 (37) Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans (463) (559) (4,170) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 4,931 6,558 44,426 Non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries 391 319 3,520 Total net assets 83,088 76,726 748,603 Total liabilities and net assets ¥ 155,989 ¥ 151,489 $ 1,405,431 65 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 66 Financial Data Consolidated Statements of Operations Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For tｈe years ended Marcｈ 31, 2019 and 2018 For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2018 2019 2019 2018 2019 Net sales ¥ 121,951 ¥ 118,199 $ 1,098,753 Proﬁt ¥ 8,952 ¥ 7,878 $ 80,654 Cost of sales 94,491 93,372 851,340 Other comprehensive income： Gross proﬁt 27,460 24,827 247,413 Unrealized gains (losses) on securities (1,772) 2,275 (15,966) Selling, general and administrative expenses 15,856 14,797 142,862 Deferred gains and losses on hedges 58 (3) 519 Operating income 11,604 10,030 104,551 Foreign currency translation adjustments (9) (4) (77) Other income (expenses): Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 96 31 870 Interest and dividend income 419 367 3,776 Total other comprehensive income (1,627) 2,299 (14,654) Interest expense (59) (66) (535) Comprehensive income ¥ 7,325 ¥ 10,177 $ 66,000 Foreign currency exchange loss (57) (157) (509) Comprehensive income attributed to: Gain on sales of investment securities 111 Owners of the parent ¥ 7,227 ¥ 10,125 $ 65,114 Gain on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates 90 Non-controlling interests 98 52 886 Provision for loss on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates (999) (9,001) Loss on valuation of investment securities (155) (60) (1,396) Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (58) (44) (527) Provision for doubtful accounts (49) (446) Equity in earnings of afﬁliated companies 473 461 4,265 Other, net 21 79 189 Other income (expenses), net (464) 781 (4,184) Income before income taxes 11,140 10,811 100,367 Income taxes: Current 4,179 1,352 37,649 Deferred (1,991) 1,581 (17,936) Total income taxes 2,188 2,933 19,713 Proﬁt 8,952 7,878 80,654 Proﬁt attributable to non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries 98 31 882 Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent ¥ 8,854 ¥ 7,847 $ 79,772 Per share: Yen U.S. dollars Financial Data Net income ¥ 107.10 ¥ 94.93 $ 0.96 Diluted net income Cash dividends applicable to the year 22.00 16.00 0.20 67 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 68 Financial Data Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Foreign Total Noncurrency Remeasureaccumulated controlling Treasury Total Unrealized Deferred translation ments of other interests in Common Capital Retained stock, shareholders' gains on gains and losses adjustdeﬁned comprehensive consolidated Total stock surplus earnings at cost equity securities on hedges ments beneﬁt plans income subsidiaries net assets For the year ended March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Millions of yen Balance at the beginning of current period ¥ 13,367 ¥ 3,768 ¥ 52,949 ¥ (235) ¥ 69,849 ¥ 7,161 ¥ (46) ¥ 2 ¥ (559) ¥ 6,558 ¥ 319 ¥ 76,726 Cash dividends (¥19.00 per share) (1,571) (1,571) (1,571) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 8,854 8,854 8,854 Change in scope of consolidation 657 657 657 Change in scope of equity method (23) (23) (23) Purchase of treasury stock (0) (0) (0) Other changes during the year, net (1,771) 54 (6) 96 (1,627) 72 (1,555) Balance at the end of current period ¥ 13,367 ¥ 3,768 ¥ 60,866 ¥ (235) ¥ 77,766 ¥ 5,390 ¥ 8 ¥ (4) ¥ (463) ¥ 4,931 ¥ 391 ¥ 83,088 For the year ended March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Millions of yen Balance at the beginning of current period ¥ 13,367 ¥ 3,768 ¥ 46,258 ¥ (234) ¥ 63,159 ¥ 4,886 ¥ (21) ¥ 6 ¥ (591) ¥ 4,280 ¥ 288 ¥ 67,727 Cash dividends (¥14.00 per share) (1,156) (1,156) (1,156) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 7,847 7,847 7,847 Purchase of treasury stock (1) (1) (1) Other changes during the year, net 2,275 (25) (4) 32 2,278 31 2,309 Balance at the end of current period ¥ 13,367 ¥ 3,768 ¥ 52,949 ¥ (235) ¥ 69,849 ¥ 7,161 ¥ (46) ¥ 2 ¥ (559) ¥ 6,558 ¥ 319 ¥ 76,726 For the year ended March 31, 2019 Thousands of U.S. dollars Thousands of U.S. dollars Balance at the beginning of current period $ 120,438 $ 33,951 $ 477,057 $ (2,119) $ 629,327 $ 64,523 $ (419) $ 21 $ (5,040) $ 59,085 $ 2,874 $ 691,286 Cash dividends ($0.17 per share) (14,152) (14,152) (14,152) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 79,772 79,772 79,772 Change in scope of consolidation 5,919 5,919 5,919 Change in scope of equity method (206) (206) (206) Purchase of treasury stock (3) (3) (3) Other changes during the year, net (15,965) 494 (58) 870 (14,659) 646 (14,013) Balance at the end of current period $ 120,438 $ 33,951 $ 548,390 $ (2,122) $ 700,657 $ 48,558 $ 75 $ (37) $ (4,170) $ 44,426 $ 3,520 $ 748,603 Financial Data 69 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 70 Financial Data Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2018 2019 2019 2018 2019 Cash ﬂows from operating activities: Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities: Income before income taxes ¥ 11,140 ¥ 10,811 $ 100,367 Net increase (decrease) in short-term bank loans (7,030) (63,339) Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes Payment of long-term debt (470) (468) (4,233) to net cash provided by operating activities: Purchase of treasury stock (0) (1) (3) Depreciation 798 790 7,187 Payment of cash dividends (1,571) (1,157) (14,152) Impairment loss 40 364 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (28) (21) (250) Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities 7 (111) 67 Other (21) (23) (187) Loss (gain) on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates (90) Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (9,120) (1,670) (82,164) Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 155 60 1,396 Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts (5) 20 (45) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (11) 8 (103) Increase (decrease) in allowance for bonuses 4 307 33 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 304 3,151 2,740 Increase (decrease) in allowance for losses on sales contracts 1,367 (3,205) 12,315 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 60,283 57,132 543,141 Increase (decrease) in provision for loss on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates 999 9,001 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from change in scope of consolidation 440 3,963 Increase (decrease) in net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 470 441 4,235 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥ 61,027 ¥ 60,283 $ 549,844 Interest and dividend income (419) (367) (3,776) Interest expense 59 66 535 Equity in losses (earnings) of afﬁliated companies (473) (461) (4,265) Net decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable and advances received (2,229) 200 (20,083) Decrease (increase) in inventories 3 (387) 25 Decrease (increase) in other current assets (27) (305) (243) Net increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable and advance money 1,865 1,959 16,801 Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities 431 (426) 3,888 Other (3,192) (798) (28,761) Subtotal 10,993 8,504 99,040 Interest and dividend received 647 456 5,832 Interest paid (60) (66) (541) Income taxes received (paid) (763) (3,753) (6,871) Net cash provided by operating activities 10,817 5,141 97,460 Cash ﬂows from investing activities: Net decrease (increase) in time deposits (14) 4 (126) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (482) (343) (4,347) Purchase of intangible ﬁxed assets (51) (125) (462) Financial Data Purchase of investment securities (802) (561) (7,221) Sale of investment securities 105 230 944 Disbursement for loans receivable (151) Collection of loans receivable 112 550 1,011 Other (250) 68 (2,252) Net cash used in investing activities (1,382) (328) (12,453) 71 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 72 Outside Expert Opinion Outside Expert Opinion Response to the Outside Expert Opinion Takuma CSR Report 2018 Questionnaire Survey Results Survey period: July 2018 to June 2019 Number of respondents: 976 Q1 Did you understand the activities of our company? I couldnʼt understand very well. 0.3% / I couldnʼt understand. 0% Koji Tanaka Kazuhiko Takano Director & Executive Officer I basically understood. I understood. Executive Manager 43% Professor, Ph.D. in Law (LL.D.) 57% Compliance & CSR Promotion Division Graduate School and Faculty of Safety Science, Kansai University & Corporate Services Division Senior Director Japan Society for Business Ethics Study Q2 What is your level of satisfaction regarding this Report? Senior Researcher Business Ethics Research Center I would like to thank Professor Takano of Kansai (1) Volume of information (2) Design Somewhat insufficient 1% / Entirely insufficient 0% Poor 0.9% / Very bad 0% University for offering his valuable insights on the CSR Too much 2% Report 2019. Somewhat Average In compiling this report, we have worked to offer excessive 21% 25% Satisfied １．Characteristics of the Takuma CSR Report the SDGs. In a topic entitled “SDGs Initiatives,” this yearʼs CSR stakeholders an easy-to-understand introduction to a Satisfied Mostly 48% Report describes how the company launched a series of variety of activities carried out by the Takuma Group with 72% satisfied and differences with last yearʼs edition voluntary workshops that cut across departmental lines, and I 30% the goal of resolving social issues and increasing corporate There is no question that the Takuma Group is one of look forward to seeing how that effort develops in the future. value by achieving sustainable growth as well as to the (3) Quality of information (4) Readability Japanʼs leading plant engineering companies. In last yearʼs In this way, I am pleased to see that the Takuma CSR Groupʼs 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, and we Somewhat unsatisfactory 0.8% / Unsatisfactory 0% Difficult to read 0.1% Somewhat difficult Outside Expert Opinion, I noted that the group is pursuing Report 2019 demonstrates the continued evolution of the have focused on inviting involved parties to express their Average to read 2% excellent initiatives in the areas of corporate governance, companyʼs programs. 13% Average thoughts on related subjects in their own words. risk management, and compliance. 21% Satisfied In “1. Characteristics of the Takuma CSR Report and Mostly Satisfied 41% A review of this yearʼs edition of the CSR Report reveals satisfied 48% Mostly differences with last yearʼs edition,” Professor Takano 38% satisfied three key differences from last yearʼs edition. 2. Areas where Takuma can do more noted the importance of the penetration of Management 36% The first difference centers on penetration of the Principles, along with his expectations concerning gender Management Principles. Newly appointed President and CEO The Takuma Group is already pursuing CSR activities on a Q3 Which items were you interested in? (Select up to 3.) equality and SDGs initiatives. Iʼm grateful that he offered Nanjo mentions them in his “Message from Top sophisticated level, but I believe that it could take its Feature: The King of Boilers his views on the direction of future initiatives. We will Tsunekichi Takuma and His Company 56% Management” while describing his approach to initiatives to a new level in two ways. Message from Top Management 42% move forward with those initiatives in order to meet the Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term management, which respects those principles even as he The first lies in initiatives to improve the companyʼs Management Plan ̶ An Overview 37% expectations and requirements of our stakeholders and to Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 36% returns to the idea of “Service to the nation through boiler resilience. Takumaʼs risk management structures are robust. 12th Medium-Term Management Plan achieve sustainable growth of the group going forward. and CSR Topics 28% manufacturing,” the motto espoused by founder Tsunekichi It seems to me that by conducting regular drills to simulate CSR Activities for the Future 10% In “2. Areas where Takuma can do more,” Professor Takuma at the time of the companyʼs founding. Some a complex, wide-area disaster such as a large earthquake or The Environment 6% storm and flood damage with an associated large-scale Takano described measures with the potential to increase 6% research findings suggest that a shared understanding of Human Rights and Labor Practices management principles and values on the part of managers power outage, the company could boost the validity of its corporate value and facilitate continued growth. We will Corporate Information 5% History 5% and employees is a characteristic of companies that endure business continuity plan (BCP). work to strengthen our ability to deal with change by Group Company CSR Topics 5% over long periods of time. I believe that President Nanjoʼs The second lies in carrying out specific measures to share improving resilience and ensuring that Management Outside Expert Opinion 4% Principles and values are shared. The Takuma Group Network 3% approach to management will be important for Takuma as a Management Principles and values. Many companies create Financial Data 3% company whose plant engineering business has opportunities for dialog between management and We value Professor Takanoʼs observations and take Contribution to Society 3% underpinned the very foundations of Japanese industry and employees with the goal of sharing such principles and them seriously, and I would request stakeholdersʼ Participation in the Community 3% Fair Business Practices 2% whose continued existence is considered essential by society. values while creating a corporate culture that fosters good continued support and encouragement as we work to Consumer Issues 2% The second difference lies in gender equality. While the communication. I think it would be productive for Takuma practice CSR management and enhance our CSR Report. Corporate Governance 1% nature of the plant engineering business means that it to consider how it can create opportunities for dialog 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% would difficult to characterize Takuma has having a large between management and employees, for example through number of female employees, the CSR Report includes traveling CSR “caravans,” under its new leadership. information about gender equality initiatives, indicating In his “Message from Top Management,” President Nanjo how the company is working toward the goal of increasing described the importance of ESG initiatives from the ●Editorial Policy ● Data Collection Period Outside Expert Opinion standpoint of increasing corporate value over the long term. We have prepared this document as a CSR From April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2019, in principle. the number of female employees in key management and Report that details our CSR activities. In addition, some activities in FY2019 are included. main career track positions. Takuma welcomed a female ESG investment in Japan has been rapidly growing since 2014, and such investment can help increase corporate Publisher and Contact for Inquiries ●Coverage outside director this fiscal year, and I think we can expect ● CSR Department, Compliance & CSR This report applies to Takuma Co., Ltd. and its affiliates in principle. that change to lead to further pursuit of those initiatives. value over the long term by driving up evaluations of a Promotion Division ●Time of Issue The third difference involves initiatives addressing the companyʼs CSR. I expect to see Takumaʼs corporate value TEL: +81-6-6483-2673 Current issue: July 2019 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With its core grow even further and for the company to enjoy continued FAX: +81-6-6483-2620 Next issue: Scheduled for July 2020 businesses of waste treatment plants, water treatment plants, growth as it works to improve its resilience and ensure that Last issue: July 2018 and energy plants, Takuma has a high level of affinity with its Management Principles and values are shared. 73 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 TAKUMA CSR Report 2019 74 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806, Japan Website: https://www.takuma.co.jp/english/ This publication features an environmentally friendly, universal design that is made possible by the following initiatives and programs: ■Printing ■Paper ■Fonts MIX Paper from responsible sources C020841 Printed using “waterless Printed using environmentally Printed on FSC -certified paper TM Printed on paper made with wood This publication uses universal printing,” which does not friendly vegetable oil ink. (made from trees from from forest thinning. “Morino design fonts that are easy to read. generate hazardous waste. responsibly managed forests). Chonai-Kai” (Forest Neighborhood Association)Supporting sound forest management.
