Year in Brief YEAR IN BRIEF While many stakeholders in the pharma industry are campaigning for a ‘soft’ exit from the EU, there is a risk that the complexity of the regulatory landscape will increase dramatically if a ‘hard’ Brexit takes place. Consequently, we are preparing for all eventualities. – Thomas Beck, Senior Vice President, Quality Management at Recipharm Recipharm maintains leadership as serialisation Recipharm completes acquisition of inhalation becomes a requirement in Europe contract manufacturing business Throughout 2018 Recipharm continued to take a Recipharm completed the acquisition of Sanofi’s proactive approach to its serialisation preparations. inhalation contract manufacturing business in We successfully connected to the European Hub, Holmes Chapel, UK. This includes development and delivered our first serialised batch to Europe ahead manufacturing capabilities for novel respiratory of the EU Falsified Medicines Directive (FMD) products, complements the inhalation development enforcement deadline and enrolled our customers expertise offered by the Recipharm team in Research on its platform. Triangle Park, North Carolina. 2 Recipharm Annual Report 2018 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report OnDosis and Recipharm partner to advance ADHD treatment We entered an agreement with Swedish life science company, OnDosis for the formulation development of a novel ADHD treatment regime for the US market. The treatment will leverage OnDosis’ proprietary technology which integrates micro-units of oral drugs and individualised dosing in a handheld device. Recipharm invests in Brexit End-to-end development offering preparations During the year, we have reorganised our Recipharm established a dedicated global Development Services business with taskforce to effectively manage the Brexit Centres of Excellence in Europe, the US transition and ensure minimal impact and India. The new organisation enables us on our operations. We are recruiting to better combine resources and identify additional laboratory and regulatory staff value-creating synergies to manage to meet potential increased requirements complex development projects for our for analytical work and release testing customers throughout the value chain. and are now well positioned to overcome any challenges associated with the UK’s departure from the EU. Recipharm to prepare the closing of the Recipharm completes Kaysersberg Ashton-under-Lyne facility expansion The decision to close was taken following a Following an EUR 18 million investment at strategic review of the operation which has the beginning of the year we announced that not been profitable for several years. the new blow-fill-seal line was operational ahead of schedule in Kaysersberg, France. The new equipment increases our manufacturing capacity by 200 million unidoses per year which can be expanded to 800 million. KEY FIGURES SALES SPLIT PER EBITDA PER SEGMENT 2018 SEGMENT 2018 2018 2017 Net sales 6,374 5,332 EBITDA 987 730 Operating profit, adjusted 425 231 Net profit 159.9 -160.0 Sales growth 20% 14.0% EBITDA margin 15.5% 13.7% Operating margin, adjusted 6.7% 4.3% Dividend per share 1.25 0 Net debt to equity 0.7 0.7 Steriles & Inhalation 41% Steriles & Inhalation 45% Earning per share, adjusted 2.43 1.10 Solids & Others 44% Solids & Others 36% Employees (FTE) 4,822 4,575 Development & Technology 15% Development & Technology 19% Recipharm Annual Report 2018 3 CEO statement HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL YEAR DELIVERS ON OUR PROMISES It is pleasing to report on a very positive FDA-approved for the US market. Such a sales focus would involve lower risk than establishing new capayear for Recipharm. We benefited from bilities in the US. our major expansion investments in Acquisitions and supply arrangements previous years and achieved positive During the year, we acquired a UK commercial scale developments throughout the business inhalation contract manufacturing business and facility from Sanofi with over 450 specialist employto deliver on our promises. In summary ees. The acquisition complements our existing US – Recipharm created substantial development capabilities in the area to ensure a full-service inhalation development and manufaceconomic value for its shareholders, turing offering. This is an excellent combination that customers and employees. draws on niche technological capabilities to offer customers novel respiratory products. In 2018, we fully implemented the supply arrangement with Roche that began at the end of 2017. The arrangement is a model for how to seamlessly Our financial performance implement and integrate such agreements into our By all accounts, 2018 was a great year – with every business. The associated facility in Spain is now a quarter setting new records in terms of sales and profitable independent unit and an important part of EBITDA. Our net sales increased by 20 per cent to the Group in terms of our capabilities. SEK 6.4 billion, which puts our revenue target of at I think we can expect to enter into more convenleast SEK 8 billion by 2020 within reach. Organic tional acquisitions and customer supply arrangements growth of 11.6% per cent, an EBITDA margin of in the future – to add new technologies and unique 15.5% per cent and a strengthening of our balance offerings based on customer need. There are plenty sheet creates a sound platform for continued of good opportunities out there and we intend to profitable growth. I am particularly pleased with our continue to be a consolidator in the CDMO industry. double-digit organic growth, which is fantastic in the tough CDMO market. Streamlining our operations Recipharm’s strong financial position is due to We continued to streamline our operations, as we improved profitability and cash flow, and reduced increasingly draw on our global presence and valuedebt. Our position opens up new and exciting creating synergies. This includes initiatives aimed opportunities going forward. at efficiency and continuous improvement, such as Operational Excellence as well as initiatives designed Positive developments around the world to extend compliance or promote sustainability. We saw strong growth in India during the year as we We took the difficult decision to close our facility in overcame market volatility and focused on integrating Ashton-under-Lyne in the UK at the end of the year. our latest acquisition from 2017. We continued to Despite our best efforts to make the unit profitaincrease the use of our Indian development and ble in recent years, it was still under-performing analytical services for the benefit of European which left us with no other option than closure. The and US customers and are well on the way to fully decision is obviously regrettable, particularly for the consolidating our Indian operations into the rest of 140 employees affected, but we will do what we can our business. to find good solutions for the affected employees, In Europe, our material expansion in the Steriles including opportunities at other Recipharm compa& Inhalation segment with new lyophilisation and nies or elsewhere. An unexpected positive developblow-fill-seal capacities in Germany, France and Italy, ment was the reversal of our decision to close the were completed, and commercial deliveries began in Höganäs facility during the year following increased all three countries. customer demand for specific services provided The US remains a huge potential market for us. We by the unit. I wish to express my gratitude for the are still interested in the right kind of acquisitions commitment our Höganäs employees have shown but are increasingly looking at expanding our sales during this period. It is excellent news that we can presence in the country by drawing on our existing retain the facility’s highly skilled employees within capacities in India and Europe, which are already the company. 4 Recipharm Annual Report 2018 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report A global Development Services offering During the year, we have reorganised our global development business with Centres of Excellences. Our new development organisation is enabling us to better combine our resources in Europe, the US, India and Israel, identifying value-creating synergies to manage complex development projects for our customers. This is a clear example of how Recipharm draws on its position as a leading global CDMO to strengthen its business and unique customer offering. We still have work to do, but our team has made great progress during the year and the work will be completed in 2019. Importantly, I expect our development business to provide an increasing stream of new business to our manufacturing services. Continuing to develop our sustainability work A number of our facilities were certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management system during the year – including our facilities in Brescia and Masate in Italy as well as in Uppsala, Sweden. Our aim is to certify all operations within two years of being acquired. A notable sustainability achievement included securing a 100 per cent renewable energy supply for our operations in Bengaluru, India. Half of the unit’s energy is now sourced from off-site solar power and half from an on-site biomass boiler that is fuelled by waste rice husks. I believe that Bengaluru can be a sustainability role model for our other facilities to show how we can mitigate our environmental impacts and exceed stakeholder expectations. We continued to enhance our sustainability reporting during the year, which is reflected in the greater detail we provide in this Annual Report. I see this as an ongoing process as sustainability continues to become an increasingly natural part of our work at all levels – from top management and throughout Recipharm. The principles of the UN Global Compact continue to be the foundation of our sustainability work, and we have been active in the Swedish UN Global Compact committee during the year. The sustainability challenges we face include applying the same standards to our units around the world. Looking forward to further success in 2019 interest from customers and I believe this area will Recipharm is in a very strong position and I see provide significant new opportunities going forward. many exciting opportunities to further develop as we Of course, there are challenges ahead in the form of continue the same strategic course. We will further uncertainty surrounding Brexit and international trade benefit from growth in India and our new capacities in wars. But I believe we are well-positioned to support Europe, and we will continue to refine our operations our customers and cope with such challenges. and evaluate acquisition opportunities. Our new endOur current situation is quite a turnaround from last to-end inhalation service offering has already attracted year following improvements throughout the business. I greatly appreciate the contributions of our individual employees and I am incredibly proud of the dedication and hard work that has been shown throughout the Group. This really highlights the importance of our strategy to ‘Employ excellent people’ as our employees are fundamental to Recipharm’s success. I look forward to continuing our success together. Recipharm is in a very strong position and I see many exciting opportunities to further develop. Thomas Eldered, CEO Recipharm Annual Report 2018 5 Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY Recipharm takes a responsible approach to all Continued focus on sustainable business practices In 2016, we committed to i­mproving 2 The second focus area is supplier assessment and monitoring. Good relations with suppliers and other aspects of our operations. our sustainability work, this led to business partners are important for Recipharm’s first sustainability report in Recipharm to be able to operate sucWe continuously aim to 2017. This year we continue to develop cessfully. As part of this, it is important mitigate our impact and our reporting to ensure that we give a that we work closely with companies to detailed overview of the activities within ensure sustainable and ethical conduct. take advantage of any the Recipharm Group. The report covers opportunities to make improvements. At Recipharm all operating companies within the Group, except where explicitly stated. As a result of the growth in our operations 3 The third focus area is economic value. Good corporate governance means that the company is managed in we believe that high ethical and the resulting scope of our responaccordance with the owners' intersibility, some indicators in the report ests, but also that Recipharm delivers standards, accountability and have changed significantly between value for other stakeholders. Effective good stakeholder relations 2017 and 2018. management and control mechanisms In 2016 we conducted our sustain­ encourage external confidence in the create long-term benefits. ability materiality analysis, including company and ultimately its ability to This approach should be stakeholder dialogues, and identified deliver good results. three focus areas going forward: a guiding principle for all Recipharm has assigned to United our decisions, policies and activities. 1 Long-term success requires Recipharm to use natural resources in a sustainable manner and to conNations Global Compact and acknowledges the ten principles concerning human rights, anti-corruption, labour tinuously find ways to reduce our and environment. The ten principles environ­mental impact. Our first focus in UN Global Compact also serve as area is therefore to reduce greenhouse basis for identifying areas for further gas emissions by targeting energy improvement. ­consumption and transport. FOCUS AREAS We have identified three focus areas going forward. More information about the rationale behind our priorities is included in our GRI Appendix. REDUCED GREENHOUSE SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT ECONOMIC VALUE GAS EMISSIONS AND MONITORING Long-term success requires Recipharm To be able to operate success­f ully, it is imporGood corporate governance in to use natural resources in a sustainable tant that Recipharm have good relations with accordance with the owners' interests manner and continuously reduce our business partners and ensure sustainable and and delivering value to our stake­holders, environmental impact. ethical conduct among suppliers. such as customers and employees. 20 Recipharm Annual Report 2018 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report About the sustainability report Objective 2019: The long-term aim is OBJECTIVES 2019 Recipharm’s 2018 sustainability report to reduce our environmental impact and has been prepared in accordance show continuous year-on-year improve-3% with the Swedish legal requirements ments as a result of the actions we take. including the Annual Accounts Act. The The new target for 2019 is to reduce Statutory Sustainability report and the amount of greenhouse gas emiss­ Recipharm’s Sustainable Report can be ions per employee by at least 3 per found on pages 20-31. cent. The second target is to continue REDUCE RECIPHARM'S Recipharm also reports sustainability to implement environmental manageENVIRONMENTAL information in accordance with the Global ment systems according to ISO 14001 IMPACT Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards at Recipharm’s manufacturing facilities and this report has been prepared in in India and all other units that are To reduce the amount of green­house accordance with the GRI Standards: not ­currently certified according to gas emissions per employee by at least 3 per cent. To achieve ISO Core option. This report also serves as ISO 14001. 14001 certification at Recipharm’s Recipharm's Communication on Progress manufact­uring operations in Report to the UN Global Compact. All of Recipharm’s GRI Appendix with GRI-index and associated reporting 2 Supplier management This year the target was to conduct 40 additional on-site supplier reviews Uppsala, Masate and Brescia and start working on ISO 14001 for remaining operations in Italy and the activities in India. information is available on Recipharm's in accordance with the Supplier Code of website www.recipharm.com/ Conduct. With the aim of to improve our sustainability/ monitoring of suppliers’ compliance, in 2018, a total of 71 suppliers have been Objectives and results 2018 audited in connection to quality audits During 2016, we carried out stakeholder which is an increase of 11 per cent. In dialogues on sustainability with some of addition, almost 800 suppliers have our main shareholders, customers and acknowledged the Supplier Code of employees. Together with a materiality Conduct in writing. analysis, these discussions were used Objective 2019: Recipharm’s longSUPPLIER as the basis for setting our objectives term goal for managing the sustainabiland priorities. These will remain our key ity of our suppliers is to establish a clear MANAGEMENT focus areas for 2019. overview of all their operations in relaTo have conducted 40 additional tion to the Supplier Code of Conduct. on-site reviews at suppliers in scope 1 for the Supplier Code of Conduct. Reduce Recipharm’s The target for 2019 is to conduct 40 environmental impact additional on-site reviews at suppliers. The overall objective was to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions per employee by at least 4 per cent. The total greenhouse gas emissions 3 Develop internal governance Recipharm’s internal control and business conduct guidelines have been increased throughout the year due to developed to guide our processes for our growth, specifically the addition of review, communication and training. emissions from our new plant in Leganes, The objective for 2018 was to further Spain. However, the relative amount develop our governance policies and DEVELOP INTERNAL of greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 to strengthen procedures to prevent GOVERNANCE amounted to 14.3 tonnes per employee, corruption. Some progress has been a reduction of 2 per cent. The reduction achieved in 2018, but there are still Guidelines will be further developed around processes for review, comhas been driven by energy efficiency further improvements to be made. A munication and training. Procedures improvements. Initiatives to reduce the project team was formed in the second for prevention of corruption will be CO2 emissions have been taken at sevhalf of 2018 to drive this forward and strengthened. Work to develop intereral locations, read more on page 26. tangible actions are expected in 2019. nal processes to align with A second objective for the year was Objective 2019: Guidelines will be UN Global Compact will continue. to continue developing Recipharm's further developed around processes for environmental management system to review, communication and training. gradually certify all operating compaProcedures for prevention of corrupnies according to ISO 14001. The goal tion will be strengthened and work to As a summary, the objectives for 2018 have largely been met. The was to achieve ISO 14001 certification develop internal processes to align with ­priority areas remain the same at Recipharm’s manufacturing facilities the UN Global Compact will continue. also for 2019. Tangible improvein Uppsala, Masate and Brescia. This ment targets for the sustainability has been achieved with all three sites As a summary, while some progress has ­performance regarding Environment now being certified according to been made toward the objectives for and Supplier Management have been set for 2019. ISO 14001. 2018 there is still more to do. The priority areas remain the same also for 2019. Recipharm Annual Report 2018 21 Sustainability OUR COMPANY CULTURE As a decentralised company with relatively small Group-level functions, Recipharm’s company-wide culture is reflected through its entrepreneurial spirit, local accountability and its management model. Entrepreneurial spirit ­ nancial reporting, financial audits, purchasing and fi and local accountability our Code of Conduct. This allows General Managers Entrepreneurship is the value that differentiates within our operating companies to work with a high our company culture from other companies in the degree of managerial freedom within a clearly defined industry. We promote entrepreneurship by creating a framework. culture of local autonomy and accountability, as well Internal compliance to the Global Policy and the as allowing decentralised decision making through Code of Conduct is reviewed on an annual basis. flat managerial structures in many of our operating companies. Strengthening our culture through synergies Management model We are increasingly drawing on synergies between Our Global Policy document sets out a clear manageour growing number of operating companies around ment model and guidelines for operating companies, the world. This helps us to implement common ways whilst appreciating that one size does not fit all. This of working that add value throughout the company allows our operating companies to work in the way and contribute toward a shared company culture. that best suits their needs and market conditions. For example, we have established a company-wide The Global Policy includes Recipharm’s vision, network in areas such as procurement and lean manmission and long-term objectives, as well as the ufacturing to promote cooperation, share knowledge ­governing principles for operating companies, and spread best practices throughout the Group. We including the delegation of authorities. It also comalso promote cross-unit employment opportunities by prises a framework for other Group policies, such as advertising internally as well as externally. 22 Recipharm Annual Report 2018 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Employee competence and commitment is crucial to OUR EMPLOYEES Recipharm's future success. We value the knowledge and ­collective industry experience of our employees, and we encourage personal develop­ment and initiatives for information sharing. At Recipharm, the exchange of professional skills and knowledge is similar to that of a small company, but within an international 27 network and brand. Strategic competencies, positions and special areas critical for Recipharm's success are identified. Employee development is therefore in line with the role and needs of the company. 2017: 26 Individual performance and development reviews should generally be carried out on an annual basis and adequate training and development of people is ensured at a local level. NUMBER OF Acquisitions – transferring culture FACILITIES Newly acquired companies are quickly integrated into our business by working on three key areas – reporting, policy and management. In addition, helping the new employees to understand and embrace the Recipharm culture is a natural phase of integrating new companies. Maintaining our culture As we grow and become increasingly global, maintaining 6,806 2017: 5,630 our c­ ulture of entrepreneurship, local accountability and our decentralised management model continues to be an ongoing challenge – but remains important. In a competitive industry increasingly focused on cost, our culture is what differentiates TOTAL NUMBER us, helps us to attract and retain employees, and ultimately promotes the success of our local operating companies and the OF EMPLOYEES Group as a whole. Employees health and safety Recipharm is a safe and pleasant workplace. All our c ­ ompanies have detailed employee and safety manuals to ensure we 42% comply with all the relevant labour and safety requirements and ensure staff are working in accordance with these. These are locally adopted to fit with applicable legislation and prac2017: 41% tices in the country of operation. All employees have the right to join trade unions, and we work actively with unions on health and safety issues where they are active. 55 (61) per cent of Recipharm’s employees are also currently covered by collective bargaining agreements. WOMEN Recipharm's facilities normally have an occupational health and safety system certified according to OHSAS 18001 or similar standard. Today, 18 (10) operating companies out of 26 repre­ senting 69% (38%) have this in place. This certification will gradually be moved to the new ISO 45001 standard. The occu58% pational health and safety systems govern methods and procedures for risk management, reporting of hazards, incidents and accidents and the management of health and safety matters. Safety is a key priority in Recipharm. Employees are 2017: 59% instructed to interrupt operations or to leave work situations when health and safety hazards are detected. Recipharm also provides additional health initiatives. In some countries, ­wellness grants (i.e. for physical exercise) are available. MEN The majority of operating companies also provide access to occupational healthcare. Methods vary according to local practices and can be based on site or provided through an external service provider. 44 (56) per cent of the total workforce is represented by formal joint management – worker health and safety commitRecipharm operates in a competitive tees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and environment, and we need talented people. It is vital to attract, develop and safety programs. These committees are chaired by the General retain excellent individuals. Manager or other Senior Managers of the respective operating Diversity and equality are essential to companies. Meetings are normally held quarterly but can differ our business behaviours. depending on company operations. Recipharm Annual Report 2018 23 Sustainability During the year, a total of 150 (182) work-related Equality and diversity accidents were reported. Most involved minor injuTo treat all employees, job applicants, customers ries among manufacturing facility employees. The and others equally is a prerequisite for our business accident rate (number of accidents in relation to total behaviours. Recipharm's Code of Conduct states that number of scheduled working hours per 500 employdiscrimination based on gender, gender identity or ees) in 2018 was 1.01 which is considered to be low. expression, ethnicity, religion or belief, disability, When introducing new equipment, manufactursexual orientation, or age must not occur. In recruiting processes and new chemical compounds, a risk ment and succession planning, we look for a mixture ­assessment is mandatory. Based on this assessment, of the best qualifications, experience and perspective. relevant procedures, instructions and protective At the same time, we also consider diversity to ensure measures are put in place. Employees are also properly a good mix of backgrounds. trained for the operations they conduct. All operating Of Recipharm’s 6,806 employees, 42 (41) per cent companies have reporting systems for employees to are women and 58 (59) per cent men. actively monitor work-related incidents and accidents and take corrective actions in the event incidents Number of employees 2018 2017 and/or accidents occur. This is communicated to all Permanent 5,633 4,589 ­employees concerned. Recipharm's management Temporary 1,173 1,041 approach for health and safety also applies to workers who are not employees but whose work or workplace is controlled by the organisation such as, contractors, self-employed personnel and agency workers. We promote entrepreneurship by creating a culture of local autonomy and accountability allowing decentralised decision making. 24 Recipharm Annual Report 2018 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report CASE STUDY: INTERVIEWS WITH EMPLOYEES Mikaela Winter Manuel San Mauro Group Manager at Recipharm in Uppsala, Sweden QC Section Head at Recipharm in Leganés, Spain Tell us about working at Recipharm Why did you choose to work for Recipharm? Working at Recipharm is an inspiring career with lots of When Roche announced plans to exit our manufacturing site opportunities to progress and grow. As part of the team in Leganés, not only my job but all my working possibilities at Recipharm in Uppsala, I have worked with lean tools seemed to hit rock bottom. Since Recipharm took over for a number of years with good results. We implement the site, they have given me the chance to continue my a flow line management concept which focuses on the professional career and take on new challenges within the customer and ensure we have common goals throughout pharmaceutical industry, always with a positive attitude and the organisation from manufacturing to shipping. This refreshed business perspective… For that, I’m very grateful. then leads to increased robustness and delivery. Have you been able to grow at Recipharm? I started my career at Recipharm as an Operator and then became a Quality Coordinator. When the company Recipharm’s global network helps started to implement lean production methods I found me to keep up to date with the latest my calling and was given the opportunity to gain more science and provide harmonised experience with new tools across different areas. Today I work as a group manager and I am part of the solutions to customers. LEAN OPEX network at Recipharm. The network gives me the opportunity to continue to develop by sharing What does a typical day look like? experiences with other sites. By setting goals and We are new arrivals to the “CDMO” space, so we are adapting discussing challenges we can continue to develop the use our daily routine and taking on new activities. We face a of lean tools. very demanding environment where multiple tasks need to be handled at the same time, hence the high tech-science What characterises the Recipharm culture? aptitude and the knowledge of a truly experienced team We care about each other, help each other and support become essential. It is challenging, but it is also extremely each other when it comes to prioritising work. The thing rewarding from a professional perspective. A sense of I like most about the Recipharm Uppsala team is that team spirit can be felt throughout the plant, with our team we are committed and interested in both our work and exhibiting versatility and a positive approach to challenges. the rest of the team. I am very grateful for my time at Recipharm and look forward to many more years as an Have you been able to grow at Recipharm? employee. It’s been less than two years since we joined the company, but it is clear to me that Recipharm values my contribution to the business. From the very beginning they have acknowledged my background as a Microbiology PhD and I am able to exchange my knowledge with other colleagues around the world. This collaborative way of working and Working at Recipharm is an inspiring Recipharm’s global network helps me to keep up to date career with lots of opportunities to with the latest science and provide harmonised solutions to progress and grow. customers. Recipharm also trusted my talent and has given me additional responsibility due to the way I have overcome challenges. I now lead the Quality Control department within my team and have an oversight of all laboratory activities. My role is not only a matter of microbiology today, but also physical-chemistry and materials. Recipharm Annual Report 2018 25 Sustainability ENVIRONMENT Energy and greenhouse gas emissions Recipharm's greatest environmental Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas impact is a result of energy (GHG) emissions are Recipharm's most important environmental objectives. We report our GHG emissions consumption, emissions and waste and how we manage our environmental impact in the at its manufacturing and laboratory annual CDP Climate Change questionnaire. Responding to CDP supports further improvements in our environfacilities. Emissions from transport mental and climate work and provides us with feedand travel also contribute to the back on our climate reporting and actions. Recipharm’s CDP reporting in 2018 was graded at level C. The CDP company's environmental impact. data for 2019 will be submitted in May 2019. In 2018, Recipharm's direct and indirect carbon emissions amounted to 68,989 (66,495) tonnes. This is equivalent to 14.3 (14.5) tonnes per employee, a reduction Environmental management system of 2 per cent. Direct emissions are primarily a result of Recipharm's facilities have the relevant environmental heating of our manufacturing and development facilpermits required by law in each country. All faciliities and from company owned vehicles. Our indirect ties are actively monitored, and no deviations were emissions are a result of energy use in our manunoted in 2018. We are committed to ensuring that all facturing and development facilities, which mostly our operating companies have environmental manrelates to electricity consumption. Indirect GHG emisagement systems certified to ISO 14001 standards. sions also include transport emissions related to our Our goal is to certify newly acquired facilities to ISO suppliers and intercompany transportation. 14001 within two years of them being incorporated The increase in total GHG emissions in 2018 was into the Group. In 2018, certification was achieved in primarily a result of the company’s growth. Still, the Masate and Brescia in Italy, as well as in Uppsala in emissions per employee reduced. This is primarily Sweden. In 2019, initial work for the Indian operabecause of more efficient energy use in the manufactions in Bengaluru, Karnal and Paonta Sahib will also turing plants. One key initiative has been to change to be conducted with the aim of being well progressed solar energy for electricity generation at our manuin implementing environmental management system facturing plant in Bengaluru, India. Long-term, our according to ISO14001. most important measures to reduce GHG emissions will be related to energy consumption in our facilities. Projects to reduce energy use have also been introduced in several operating companies. WATER AND WASTE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2018 2017 70,000 14 Water 1,751,790 m3 1,949,297 m3 60,000 12 Tonnes CO2/SEKm sales Of which own sources 1,142,648 m3 1,233,896 m3 50,000 10 Tonnes CO2e The water used is municipal water and ground water from own 40,000 8 sources. Most of the consumption is used in production processes in one specific facility in Italy. 30,000 6 20,000 4 2018 2017 10,000 2 Waste 10,293 tonnes 7,468 tonnes 0 0 Of which hazardous waste 5,463 tonnes 5,245 tonnes 2016 2017 2018 Total emissions Emissions per SEKm sales The table shows total amount of waste generated and waste The table shows Recipharm's total amount of green­house defined as hazardous. gas emissions and emissions per SEKm of sales. 26 Recipharm Annual Report 2018 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Social engagement Recipharm has been working closely with employees at Bengaluru to deliver education and skills workshops in mathematics, science and computer science in local schools. The organisation has also established an academic excellence awards programme for its employees’ children. In 2018, Recipharm also supported the community in Bengaluru by working with local government schools to provide basic amenities and healthcare. Projects funded by Recipharm’s donations include: • Construction of toilets and hand wash facilities • Construction of a government school kitchen as part of a free mid-day meal scheme provided by local state government • Distribution of school desks, computers and uniforms CASE • Organisation of a health awareness camp for local residents in Teppada Begur village CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN INDIA • Promoting study and education with financial incentives for local villages Recipharm builds on commitment to eliminating environmental issues and whose schools have excelled in public prioritising social engagement in India Recipharm is actively working to create a examinations sustainable energy profile and boost community engagement in Bengaluru, India. Recipharm will continue to support the Recipharm has signed a 10-year remaining energy usage, achieved via the development of amenities and facilities, while agreement for solar energy at the combustion of biomass pellets. The use of working to instigate long-term, sustainable Bengaluru plant. In combination with the biofuels in boiler operation has eliminated change in the Bengaluru community. use of hydro power sources, 12,000,000 the use of fossil fuels in the region of 940 kWh per annum of power are now being metric tons and has reduced 2,900 tons of Skill development programme secured through these means. In 2018, CO2 emissions per year. As part of the Skill India Initiative, the plant reduced its CO2 emissions by The Bengaluru plant works on a concept Recipharm has recruited students from approximately 10,800 metric tonnes, with of zero discharge. The facility has in-house rural areas onto a development scheme to these changes expected to take full effect waste water treatment capabilities, with deliver training in areas of pharmaceutical during 2019. Electricity currently accounts treated water being used for internal site manufacturing, packing, engineering and for approximately half of Bengaluru’s gardening. warehousing. Established in 2016, the threeenergy use, primarily for the ventilation As part of its green initiatives, year programme will see successful students systems required to control the facility’s Recipharm has also planted over 4,000 awarded a BVoc (Bachelor of Vocational indoor environments. Heat generation for trees in the local community and in the Education) degree in pharmaceutical manufacturing processes accounts for the areas surrounding nearby schools. manufacturing. Water and waste In 2016, we began to compile water and waste data Where organic solvents are being used, emissions for all our manufacturing and development faciliundergo pre-treatment. Consequently, the direct emisties. Our process wastewater is predominantly from sions of organic solvents are small. All units comply cleaning equipment. The quantity of drug residues in with their respective environmental permits by a wide our wastewater is small and all Recipharm facilities margin. Solvent emissions in 2018 amounted to 1,733 are authorised to release wastewater into normal (1,625) tonnes, with plants in Uppsala and Paderno sewage systems for processing in treatment plants. Dugnano accounting for most of the emissions. The exception is in India, where we operate our own local water treatment plants and recirculate the water Acquisitions by using it for irrigation. Environmental due diligence is one of the most imporThe availability of fresh water is generally good in tant activities when Recipharm is considering acquithe locations where Recipharm operates. The excepsition candidates. Due diligence reviews are primarily tion is again India, where the availability of fresh conducted through reviews of material provided by the water varies year on year. In India, Recipharm uses seller, but when required more information is collected ground water which is pre-treated on sites before use through on-site investigations including sampling of in manufacturing, thus impacting the municipal fresh soil, water and other areas as relevant. Recipharm water as little as possible. uses external expertise for these investigations. Recipharm Annual Report 2018 27 Sustainability RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Recipharm understands its operations can affect people's lives and health. This means that, in addition to complying with laws and regulations, our business must also be conducted in a responsible and ethical manner. Governance and business ethics Recipharm’s Supplier Code of Conduct was launched Our business ethics are managed by our ethical in 2016, covering business ethics, labour practices, guidelines – our Code of Conduct. The guidelines anti-corruption, human rights and environmental cover all aspects of business ethics and relations with ­management. We strive to ensure that suppliers ­employees, customers, suppliers, authorities, comactively endorse the requirements of the Supplier petitors and other stakeholders. The Code of Conduct Code of Conduct, and we began the communication and also covers Recipharm’s policies on anti-corruption ­follow-up of the Code in 2016. and human rights. Our guidelines explicitly prohibit For direct materials, Recipharm has more than any interference that aims to create undue advantage 700 different suppliers. The larger proportion of these for Recipharm, or for individual employees. suppliers are located in Europe, but the supplier base During the year, deviation from the Code of Conduct in total is global. Suppliers to the pharmaceutical was reported from one of the operating companies in industry work under well-defined quality criteria and Sweden. Appropriate corrective measures have been many are covered by the pharmaceutical industry's taken. None of Recipharm’s other operating compaquality system, Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). nies reported deviations from the Code of Conduct. As part of our 2019 sustainability objectives, we will continue to develop the model for how we monitor our Code of Conduct. The focus will be on implementation, monitoring and employee training. We also DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE follow ongoing developments concerning anti-corruption legislation and will continue to strengthen the GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED organisation and our competence to ensure necessary adaptation. One example is to further develop our internal process for whistleblowing. UN Global Compact Recipharm assigned to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2016. This means that Recipharm is committed to promoting the UNGC's ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our commitment includes support for all internationally recognised principles on human rights, ILO core conventions, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption and we conOperating costs 53% Employee wages and benefits 35% tinue to develop our work around these principles. Payments to providers of capital 2% Payments to government 3% Supplier requirements Economic value retained 7% Our suppliers provide active ingredients, raw materials and packaging materials, as well as machine and laboratory equipment. We also have agreements Net sales in 2018 totalled SEKm 6,374 (5,332). with service providers. To enable us to maintain our The diagram shows how much was reinvested and distributed to Recipharm's stakeholders. commitments to customers and other stakeholders, we place prominence on safety, quality, price, performance and the ability to deliver. 28 Recipharm Annual Report 2018 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Operations are normally automated with low labour intensity. During 2018 there has been no significant change in the supply chain. There are legal requirements for us to make regular quality audits of our suppliers to verify their compliance with GMP requirements. In connection with these audits, compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is reviewed. If necessary, specific audits focusing on sustainability matters will be conducted. The Code has been communicated to 1,611 suppliers, whereof 777 have accepted the code. There have not been any specific sustainability audits in 2018, but 71 number of suppliers have been reviewed in connection to quality audits. Through our Supplier Code of Conduct Recipharm requires that suppliers provide a safe working environment, including any company-provided living quarters, protecting employees from overexposure to chemical, biological and physical hazards and having programs in place to prevent or mitigate catastrophic releases of chemicals and other identified major risks. Recipharm also requires that suppliers i­dentify and assess emergency situations and minimize their impact by implementing emergency plans and response procedures. Safety information regarding hazardous materials should be available to educate, train and protect workers from hazards. OUR VALUES RELIABILITY PROFESSIONALISM ENTREPRENEURSHIP TENACITY • We create trust by always • We maintain a high level of com• We are innovative and creative • We show commitment in delivering on promises petence to deliver a return on in finding ways to develop and everything we do • We deliver with quality and investment to our stakeholders improve our business • We are committed to reaching in time • We are flexible, service minded • We are open to change but respect our goals • We are honest and always follow and always looking for the best that it can take time to achieve • We are persistent and we will not our Code of Conduct solutions • We have a “can do” attitude and give up easily • We learn from our mistakes always take on challenges with a • If we encounter an obstacle, we • We show respect – to customers, mindset that nothing is too difficult try harder to find a solution peers, partners and managers Recipharm Annual Report 2018 29 Sustainability Dr. Bryan Brooks We are delighted to present the 2018 award to Bryan Brooks. This research will help to build a greater understanding of the impact of certain contaminants on the environment and could potentially provide invaluable guidance on how to reduce any negative effects – Lars Backsell, Chairman of the Board of Recipharm RECIPHARM’S ELEVENTH INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD WINNER About Recipharm’s International Environmental Award Since Recipharm was founded in 1995, our environmental agenda has been a central Recipharm grants its 2018 International organization, particularly in ­rapidly part of the way we do business. It is our Environmental Award to Dr. Bryan Brooks, urbanizing regions. His current research belief that transparency, cooperation and Distinguished Professor in Environmental with students focuses on water quality encouragement are necessary if we are to Science and Biomedical Studies at Baylor and water reuse, comparative toxicology achieve sustainable development. In order University in Waco, Texas. and pharmacology, sustainable molecular to promote this belief, we introduced an international environmental award in 2008 Dr. Brooks' transdisciplinary research design, environmental public health, and for the best environmental practice or includes understanding and managing the ecology and toxicology of harmful algal innovation within the pharmacy and health human activities and environmental blooms. care industries or academia. stressors across levels of b ­ iological Our role in society Risk analysis Recipharm engages in social initiatives relevant to our Recipharm’s management of environmental, human operations and in response to local priorities within rights and anti-corruption risk is continuously developed the surrounding communities of our facilities. Our in accordance with new regulations on sustainability internal guidelines for ethical behaviour – the Code of reporting. Conduct – govern which activities local companies can A risk analysis of sustainability has been carried out engage in. We take responsibility and operate within to supplement the materiality analysis conducted in the framework of competition law in all our activities. 2016. Sustainability related risks present both financial The Recipharm Code of Conduct complements this and repu­t ational risks to the company and need to be legislation and prohibits partnerships or agreements managed. Most risks are believed to be in the manufacwith competitors regarding price, terms or other ture and supply of products, where manufacturing interareas. We operate in a strictly regulated market, ruptions may impact delivery performance and supply where all our products and services are subject to reliability. Manufacturing and development operations regulation and requirements regarding ingredients, are also associated with environmental impact and the preparation and quality control. risk of accidents. Recipharm takes advantage of funding opportuniRecipharm's operations are subject to regulatory ties from local authorities in the countries in which it approvals in several areas. According to legislation, all operates. Since 2017 Recipharm, in collaboration with factories must have a manufacturing license to produce Business France, runs an internship program, which pharmaceuticals and the corresponding conditions are in 2018 has provided four French graduates with yearrequired for development laboratories depending on the long internships, including two in Sweden, one in India extent of the development work being carried out. The and one in the UK. operation also requires local environmental permits the extent of these varies depending on the business and legislation in each country. Finally, all products require the necessary regulatory approvals in the countries in which they are to be sold. It is the Market Authorisation Holder (MAH), our customer, that has the responsibility for this but Recipharm must comply with the terms of the registrations. 30 Recipharm Annual Report 2018 Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Recipharm actively works with quality systems within the framework of GMP and maintains e ­ nvironmental management systems at the facilities. In October 2018, following a routine audit, the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) restricted the manufacturing licence for five ­non-critical highly potent products supplied from the Recipharm facility located in Ashton, UK. This was due to deficiencies in certain manufacturing procedures which represented a potential cross contamination risk. Remediation plans have been endorsed by the MHRA and are being executed. The issue is expected to be resolved during the first half of 2019. ­R isks associated with business ethics are also ­identified in the risk analysis. Additionally, suppliers present risks, both in terms of supply reliability and business ethics. Recipharm's responsibility in relation to stakeholders such as customers, owners and employees requires the company to manage its risks correctly. The risks vary between different geographies. As Recipharm continues to expand, the need for new knowledge and monitoring activities increases. Recipharm’s mitigation of sustainability risks includes the following: • Recipharm continuously evaluates supply interruption risks in the operating companies. In several cases, mitigation plans are also requested by and presented to customers • Risks for environment and work safety are addressed within the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 systems • Suppliers are managed within the framework of the Supplier Code of Conduct and quality audits. The scope of these reviews is continuously developed • Risks regarding business ethics are addressed through adequate routines for communication, follow-up and control to ensure the correct implementation of, and compliance with, the company's Code of Conduct. THE AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of Recipharm AB (publ.), corporate, identity number 556498-8425 Engagement and responsibility conducted in accordance with International Standards The Board of Directors is responsible for the statuon Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards tory sustainability report for 2018 as defined above, in Sweden. We believe that the examination has proand that it has been prepared in accordance with the vided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Opinion Our examination of the statutory sustainability A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. report has been conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s report on the Stockholm, April 8, 2019 ­statutory sustainability report. This means that our Ernst & Young AB examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit Jennifer Rock-Baley Recipharm Annual Report 2018 31 RECIPHARM GRI APPENDIX 2018 Recipharm’s sustainability report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standard (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines, level Core. Our sustainability report is presented yearly as part of our annual report, and this document supplements the information provided in the annual report. No third party has audited the sustainability report and we will evaluate the need for external review. In this document, we present our GRI-index, describe our stakeholder dialogue and how we have selected our most material sustainability aspects. We also outline the underlying methods and assumptions used for the sustainability data. / 1 / GRI INDEX The following list references the GRI indicators that Recipharm has decided to report on. AR = Annual Report; GRI = GRI Appendix. General disclosures GRI 102: 2016 Description Reference 102-1 Name of the organisation AR 33 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR 16-18 102-3 Location of headquarters AR 1 102-4 Location of operations AR 1 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 94-95 102-6 Markets served AR 0-1 102-7 Scale of the organisation AR 1, 41, 59 102-8 Information on employees and other workers GRI 4 102-9 Supply chain AR 6-8, 28-29 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain AR 2-3 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach GRI 3 102-12 External initiatives AR 20 102-13 Membership of associations GRI 3 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker AR 4-5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour AR 10-11, 14, 28-29 102-18 Governance structure AR 37-39 102-40 List of stakeholder groups GRI 3 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements AR 23 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders GRI 3 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement GRI 3 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised GRI 3 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 63-64, GRI 3 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries AR 20-21, GRI 3 102-47 List of material topics GRI 4 102-48 Restatements of information AR 20 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI 3 102-50 Reporting period GRI 1 102-51 Date of most recent report April 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI 1 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report GRI 3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 1 102-55 GRI content index GRI 2 102-56 External assurance GRI 1 GRI 201: 2016 Economic Performance 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 10-12, 28 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 28 GRI 305: 2016 Emissions 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 20-21, 26-27 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) GRI 4 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) GRI 4 GRI 308: 2016 Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 20-21, 28-29, GRI 3 308-1 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 3 GRI 403: 2018 Occupational Health and Safety 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 20-21, 23-24, GRI 3 403-1 403-7 Management approach AR 23-24 403-9 Work-related injuries GRI 4 GRI 414: 2016 Supplier Social Assessment 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 20-21, 28-29, GRI 3 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 3 Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2018 / 2 / STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Recipharm has identified employees, customers, owners, investors, analysts, suppliers and government agencies as key stakeholders. The company has an ongoing dialogue with all relevant stakeholders regarding important business topics, including sustainability. As part of preparing priorities and reporting, Recipharm has had specific meetings with the four largest institutional owners, carried out a survey with employees and conducted two workshops within the Group Management Team. Recipharm’s key stakeholders Forum for dialogue Key topics and Recipharm’s response Owners, investors • Regular meetings • Scope and objectives and analysts • Ongoing contact • Prioritised areas • Capital Market Day • Current performance • Annual general meeting • Planned activities • Annual Report Employees • Regular dialogue • Performance reviews • Performance reviews • Personal and team contribution to sustainability • Conferences • Wider input survey open for all employees Customers • Ongoing contact • Customer meetings addressing sustainability • Responding to several customers’ • Customers’ sustainability requirements sustainability surveys • Recipharm’s performance regarding sustainability Suppliers • Procurement requirements • Start of implementation of Recipharm’s Supplier Code of Conduct • Ongoing contact • Sustainability assessments included in supplier quality audits • Supplier audits Government agencies • Ongoing contact • No specific topics raised in 2018 The table shows Recipharm’s key stakeholders, the forum for dialogues and Some of the aspects have impacts beyond Recipharm’s organisational their key topics and Recipharm’s response. Recipharm is also responding to boundaries, such as assessment and monitoring of suppliers. In the the key topics and concerns in the annual report and this GRI Appendix. sustainability report, we continuously describe the impact of each sustainability aspect, both within and outside the company. MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Recipharm conducted a materiality analysis during 2016. The analysis GOVERNANCE was based on Recipharm’s strategy, sustainability context and stakeholder expectations. Recipharm’s management team made the priorAs a company listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Mid Cap Recipharm folitising of the most material sustainability topics. The table below lists lows Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Recipharm has developed the sustainability topics that have been defined as the most material to a number of governing documents, such as the Code of Conduct and Recipharm. Internal Control Standards. Auditing and monitoring are achieved with the help of external resources and through self-evaluation. Self-evaluation includes monitoring of local companies’ compliance with Recipharm’s Code of Conduct, Internal Control Standards and other rules Material GRI Standard aspects and guidelines through a Letter of Assurance process. • Economic Performance Targets are monitored regularly and Recipharm’s operating companies are responsible for implementation and management. Overall • Emissions control is carried out at the group with direct feedback to the CEO • Supplier Social Assessment and the Board. • Occupational Health and Safety Recipharm applies an ISO 14001 certified environmental management system and a management system for health and safety, certified accordThe table shows Recipharm’s material sustainability aspects. ing to OSHAS 18001, across the majority of operating companies. Internal governing document Global Policy was introduced 2005 and compleRecipharm’s sustainability report focus on the material topics but also mented in 2008 with Recipharm’s Code of Conduct. Recipharm became addresses other aspects of sustainability when relevant. Recipharm will members of the UN Global Compact in 2016, a commitment develop the sustainability work gradually and have an active dialogue to support the ten principles regarding human rights, anti-corruption, with stakeholders for input on Recipharm’s priorities and improvements. labour and environment. Recipharm is taking the precautionary approach into account in the company’s risk management processes. Boundaries Work methods and processes are constantly adapted to external Recipharm’s sustainability report covers the entire Group, unless other expectations, requirements and legislation relevant to Recipharm. is stated. The material sustainability aspects have impacts on our own Recipharm is a member of the Swedish Life Science Industry Organizabusiness and our employees. tion, SwedenBIO. Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2018 / 3 / BACKGROUND DATA FOR GHG CALCULATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS All calculations are made according to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. This section contains data on disclosures that are not fully reported in Direct GHG emissions in Scope 1 includes combustion of natural gas and the annual report. oil for our factories and premises and fuel for company vehicles. Energy indirect GHG emissions in Scope 2 include consumption of electricity, Greenhouse gas emissions 2018 2017 2016 district heating, cooling and steam. Emissions of other indirect GHGs Scope 1 (Use of natural gas and oil in in Scope 3 include business travel by train and airplane. premises, and fuel in company vehicles) 19,224 16,328 15,379 Scope 2 (Electricity, district heating, cooling and steam) 49,144 49,233 24,807 Calculation of Scope 3 (Business travel by train and GHG emissions Source of data airplane) 621 934 671 Combustion of natural Conversion factor for natural gas and oil Total 68,989 66,495 40,857 gas and oil from Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The table shows the total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the reported sources. Fuel from business Statistics on fuel consumed or distance travel in company travelled gathered from employee expenvehicles ses. Assumptions of gasoline cars when unknown and conversion factors from Number of Share of Share of Share of Greenhouse gas protocol. employees 2018 women 2017 women 2016 women Electricity Country by country data for converTotal number sion factors from “Reliable Disclosure of employees 6,806 42% 5,630 41% 3,537 49 % Systems for Europe – Phase II” (RE-DISS Permanent II) project, which was supported by the contract 5,633 41% 4,589 41% 3,207 49 % European Commission through the Intelligent Energy Europe (IEE). When specific Full time 4,813 38% 4,350 38% 2,979 46 % agreement for 100 % renewable energy, Part time 820 64% 239 92% 228 91 % zero emissions assumed. Temporary contract 1,173 42% 1,041 42% 330 52 % District heating, cooling Statistics from suppliers. and steam The table shows the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. Business travel Data on emissions from travel agencies when possible, conversion factors from Greenhouse gas protocol when only distance travelled is known. Work-related injuries 2018 Recordable work-related injuries 150 Rate of recordable work-related injuries 15.20 High-consequence work-related injuries 10 Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries 1.01 Fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 Rate of fatalities as result of work-related injury 0 The table shows the rate of recordable work related injuries, and high-­ consequence work related injuries for our own employees. No work-related fatalities in the reporting period. No information on independent contractors. The rate has been calculated based on 1,000,000 hours worked. Total working hours for Recipharm were 9,867,177.4. Economic value generated and distributed 2018 2017 2016 Revenues 6,374 5,332 4,678 Operating costs -3,360 -3,011 -2,459 Employee wages and benefits -2,229 -1,909 -1,551 Payments to providers of capital -134 -200 -119 Payments to government -197 -168 -200 Economic value retained 454 44 350 The table shows the direct economic value generated and distributed. Contact For questions regarding our sustainability report, contact Erik Haeffler, Head of Sustainability, erik.haeffler@recipharm.com. Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2018 / 4 /
