2018 CSR REPORT Table of Contents A letter from our founders 2 2018 Highlights 4 About this report 5 Company Profile 9 Our External Commitment 14 Our Values, Principles, and Standards 20 Our Employees 28 A Healthy Social Dialogue 33 Professional Growth 33 Protecting the Environment 37 Our supply Chain 43 Corporate citizenship 44 Our contribution towards a sustainable future (indirect impacts on the society) 49 Contributing Team 50 Appendix: 51 Global Compact 10 Principles 55 The 17 Sustainable Development Goals 56 1 A letter from our founders Since our founding in 2007, Ecovadis’ mission has been to drive sustainability intelligence through business decisions and encourage companies to rethink their environmental and social responsibilities. Ecovadis is proud to have become a globally operating company with more than a decade of expertise and sustainable engagement. By the end of 2018, we have helped more than 55 000 businesses action their sustainability potential. We do not only perceive sustainability as a source of revenue but most importantly as an obligation to set a universal trend. Sustainability Strategies and Performance Driven by our own internal sustainability commitments, we adhered to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative in 2008 and pledge to build our own business models based on a robust sustainable framework. As a sustainability rating company we have the duty to lead by example. To do so we have implemented environmental, health and safety, labour and ethical policies and procedures that are communicated to all our employees. We have created a holistic management system that promotes transparent and efficient decision making, empowers bottom-up expertise and ensures the monitoring of our resource expenditures as well as our internal non-financial key performance indicators (KPIs). Through our materiality assessment, we have identified employees’ well being as our most important focus area. We are committed to nurturing a workplace that is diverse and inclusive where each and every employee feels valued and respected. An important validation of our efforts comes from the fact that no major health and safety incident has occurred in 2018 and that 54 employees have been able to benefit from our office exchange program allowing them to taste and dive into new cultures. Our genuine concern to reduce our environmental footprint can also be translated into our carbon offset investments. We have been collaborating with Climate Care to offset all of our business travel emissions and have compensated more than 840 tonnes of CO2 since 2016. At the end of 2018, our total energy consumption increased by 15.5 percent. However, the opening of our new offices in Australia and Japan together with the 14 percent increase in our global experts pool, account for this change. In fact, our energy consumption has increased by a negligible 1 percent per FTE. 2 Looking ahead From our workspaces to our value chain, we have the confidence that our operational excellence and partnership with our clients and employees are the way forward in meeting our mission. We will continue to reach out and engage with relevant stakeholders to strengthen our support to sustainable business models as we are well aware that we have a bigger impact when working with partners. We will keep on fine-tuning our internal CSR Management system based on 2018 learnings and ensure that our material topics are addressed and adjusted to changing internal and external developments. Thank you for your interest in our sustainability performance and the progress we have made in 2018. Pierre François Thaler Frederic Trinel 3 2018 Highlights Net sales (EUR) (recognized revenue): 26,458K 558employees 52 nationalities 8 offices 30% female on Board of 100% employees trained on skills Directors development 840 tons of CO offset since No. of scorecards published 55 000+ 0 reported cases on ethics 2 2016 48.9 kg waste recycled in Paris Office 4 About this report All companies, across all industries, consider sustainability an important strategy in their business. While sometimes challenging even after more than a decade of engagement to sustainability, Ecovadis is still dedicated to being one of the leaders in sustainable business. Now in a world where development, technology and corporate responsibility prevail, We are working towards making our CSR activities more accessible to all our stakeholders. Ecovadis is making its policies more robust in order to ensure that it is paving the way to a cleaner and greener future. In this era of faster connections and change for the better, we believe that transparent communication is fundamental. Hence, we have published this CSR report to provide better insight into our CSR performance. General Disclosures on Reporting Our CSR Report, used as our Communication on Progress to endorse our engagement to the UNGC principles, goes over a reporting period from January 2018 to December 2018. Our previous report was published in 2018 and covered the reporting period of January 2017 to December 2017. This reporting cycle has thus been followed since.Select disclosures are included according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework and are summarized in the appendix. Contents of the Report We hereby present our external commitments, policies, measures and reporting with respect to our CSR strategy for all our offices throughout the world. This report contains details about our human rights and labour practices, i.e., what is done to ensure that our employees work in a healthy, safe, discrimination-free and harassment-free environment and what we do to continuously strive for an improved work atmosphere. Our commitments to ethics and fair business practices as well as the measures in place to ensure good corporate citizenship is also described in this report. Ecovadis, as an intellectual services provider, has offices with a small impact in terms of carbon or waste emissions. Regardless of our minimal impact, we are devoted to minimizing the effect of our business activities in the best way possible. This report provides detailed insight into the actions in place to ensure transparency and sustainable practices throughout our own supply chain and contributions towards a more sustainable future. See below for more information on our material topics. Defining Report content and topic boundaries We have carried out a materiality assessment for this report based on the support tool we use for our clients which allows us to have a better understanding of the CSR-related risks associated with their purchasing categories. This category profile tool provides assistance to companies to develop the right corrective action plans according to their operations. In order to list out the topics that affect Ecovadis’ CSR management system, both internal and external sources have been used. 5 Towards the end of 2018, we started reviewing our Materiality Assessment based on the category profile tool developed by Ecovadis internally. List of material topics, its explanation and its boundary This report covers the material topics related to Ecovadis’ sustainability performance as illustrated in the table below. Ecovadis Material Topics The main sources of energy consumption mainly used in our office are lighting systems, space heating and Energy space cooling. Thus, the use of these natural resources Consumption Important leads to the generation of carbon dioxide and methane and GHGs (both of which are greenhouse gases). Air travel, which is a very recurrent activity in Ecovadis since it is a global company, is another source of such emissions. ENVIRONMENT The waste we generate in our daily operations is mainly composed of organic and electronic wastes. Since our Waste Important policy encompasses being a paperless company, we Management aspire to reduce our material consumption and promote recycling. This reduces our overall waste generation. Promotion of Sustainable consumption is an integral part of our main Sustainable Important business activity. We are hence committed to Consumption promoting sustainable consumption to our customers and their supply chains. 6 We believe that providing the best working conditions for our employees will reflect on both our business’ reputation and its profitability. We try, to the best of our ability to help our employees avoid repetitive strain Employee Very injury, work-related stress, and fatigue. We also offer Health & Important managerial support to our employees that focuses on Safety reducing or inhibiting any kind of issues that affect their health and safety through formalized policies, communication with employees, feedback about their daily tasks, and seeking advice from experts in the sector about preventive and protective measures. Working As a fast-growing company, we have a high workload and Conditions we do not want this to negatively impact our employees. Important We strive for an improved work-life balance, flexi-time and other benefits that would attract and retain our employees. To bridge the gap between management and employees, surveys are sent to better understand employees’ needs. Social dialogue is an important part of a company, especially in the context of a high-skilled workforce like Ecovadis. Employee representatives are selected based on a defined SOCIAL Social Important process of selection and these people help achieve a Dialogue strong two-way dialogue between the management and the employees. This channel strongly facilitates the understanding of the management with regards to issues and concerns pertaining to employees, while at the same time, allowing disclosure of company management plans. Career Our forte lies in our strong workforce. For us to fulfill our Management commitment, Ecovadis consistently offers its employees & Training Important various types of training for skill and productivity enhancement. We do not tolerate any forms of discrimination and are strongly committed to a harassment-free environment. Discrimination Important This is applicable to all employees of Ecovadis and our & Harassment commitment is reinforced by anti-discrimination awareness training. We aim at making every office a welcoming environment for people of all races, creeds, gender and lifestyles. 7 Our identity and management of our business Corruption Important operations are defined, both internally and externally, by our unfailing integrity, fairness and honesty. ETHICS The protection of both our customers’ and Responsible employees’ data is fundamental to our scheme of Information Important work, as confidential information is constantly being Management processed daily. Robust policies and actions have been put in place to protect data from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and destruction. Sustainability in the supply chain is naturally of SUSTAINABLE particular importance to us. We strive to procure all PROCUREMENT Important of our products and services from sources that are ecologically and socially sustainable. We as a corporate company, have a responsibility to give back to the community in which we operate. CORPORATE Engaging in community activities not only builds up CITIZENSHIP Important relationships and brand awareness, but it also helps to improve employee engagement. Contact Point for questions regarding the report If you have any questions regarding this report, contact Yograz Alluck, Global CSR Coordinator, at yalluck@Ecovadis.com. 8 Company Profile Ecovadis SAS is a global sustainability rating agency that delivers CSR assessments, thus helping companies improve their practices, manage risks, and increase transparency in relations with their business partners. Ecovadis is headquartered in Paris, France, and has subsidiaries across the globe: in the USA, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, Mauritius, Poland, and Tunisia. As of November we have a new office in Japan and have started operations in Australia. Offices in France, the USA, Canada, Hong Kong, Mauritius and Poland deliver a full scope of operations (CSR evaluation service, customer management, and customer support service). Offices in the U.K., Australia and Germany look after Sales, and Customer management, while Tunisia provides mainly IT development and production operations. Ecovadis is committed to driving improvements in sustainable supply chain management through continuous collaboration between business partners, suppliers and their customers. Its core tool is an online collaborative platform that allows companies to get assessed on their sustainability practices and share these results with their business partners. Below is Ecovadis’ organization structure showing the different subsidiaries it has. Included in this report is also the opening date of each office as well as their respective number of employees on December 31, 2018. 9 Ownership & Legal Form, Markets, Scale Ecovadis is a privately held company. Legal Entity Country Ecovadis SAS France Ecovadis Inc. USA Ecovadis Canada Limited Canada Ecovadis Hong Kong Limited Hong-Kong Ecovadis (Mauritius) Ltd. Mauritius Ecovadis Tunisia Sarl Tunisia Ecovadis Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland Ecovadis Japan K.K. Japan CyberVadis SAS France Ecovadis’ CSR evaluation service and CSR performance monitoring platform are accessible to companies worldwide. By the end of 2018, the Ecovadis database included more than 55000 companies worldwide. We have worked with companies located in 150 countries and belonging to 190 business sectors, and these figures continue to evolve. Ecovadis’ business model connects business partners around CSR excellence. Ecovadis was initially created to allow procurement organizations to assess their suppliers. With the growing importance of CSR issues in business, the initial model of “buyer-supplier” relationships evolved into providing businesses with a tool to assess their business partners’ sustainability performance. Geographically and in terms of business activity, Ecovadis serves companies in the following markets: 10 Top-5 Procurement organizations industries: 1Chemical 2Manufacturing 3Telecommunications 4Food & Beverage 5Pharmaceuticals Top 5 country locations for companies undergoing the Ecovadis assessment (# surveys answering): 1France (1575) 2USA (1184) 3China (975) 4Germany (896) 5Italy (583) 11 Ecovadis Performance: Reporting year: January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 Total number of employees: 558 Number of Scorecards Published: 55,000 Financial debt (loan) (EUR): 3,759K Debts (vendor & social and fiscal debts) (EUR): 4,688K Net sales (EUR) (recognized revenue): 26,458K 12 Executive Committee 13 Our External Commitment Guided by our core values in sustainability, we continue to support various external CSR charters and organizations that share similar values. By participating in these initiatives, we hope to continually improve our social, environmental and economic performance. Membership of Associations and Charters United Nations Global Compact Ecovadis has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2008. The UNGC is a non-binding policy initiative that encourages businesses worldwide to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. La Charte de la diversité (French Diversity Charter) The Diversity Charter is a written commitment that fights against discrimination in the workplace and encourages companies to put in place a diversity approach to enhance inclusiveness. Ecovadis has been a signatory of the French Diversity Charter since 2013. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Community Member GRI is an independent international organization that has pioneered sustainability reporting since 1997. Ecovadis is a GRI Community member, where it forms part of a global network of companies to exchange best practices and knowledge sharing in sustainability reporting. 14 Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council (SPLC) The SPLC is a leadership community made up of and funded by member organizations to support and recognize purchasing leadership that accelerates the transition to a sustainable future. It convenes buyers, suppliers, and public interest advocates to develop programs that simplify and standardize sustainable purchasing efforts by large organizations. Ecovadis has been a member of SPLC since 2013. Observatoire des Achats Responsables (ObsAR) ObsAR (Observatory of sustainable purchases) is an association created to encourage the exchange of information and knowledge and to develop good practices on sustainable purchasing. Ecovadis joined the ObsAR in 2018 and is one of the founding members of the Programme Action Achats et Économie Circulaire (Purchasing and Circular Economy Action Program) which is a joint initiative to make the circular economy a key parameter of choice in companies’ purchasing policy. 15 Sector Initiatives Leveraging our clients from different sectors, we have established or participated in sector initiatives that promote the CSR performance of their supply chain. These sector initiatives provide a platform for companies from the same industries to collaborate and facilitate information exchange and encourage more sustainable practices along their supply chain. Established Initiative Name Sector Details Year 2010 The Joint Audit Information and JAC is an association of telecom operators aiming Cooperation Communication to verify, assess and develop CSR implementation (JAC) Technology across the manufacturing centers of important multinational suppliers of the Information Communication Technology (ICT) industry. Ecovadis helps JAC to provide a collaborative platform that enables telecom companies to manage all manufacturers’ corrective actions to address the issues brought to light during the JAC on-site audits. 2011 Together for Chemicals TfS, formed under the joint efforts of chemical Sustainability companies, aims to build the industry’s sustainable (TfS) supply chain standard, and has established a standardized approach for evaluating and improving the sustainability performance of suppliers within the chemical industry. TfS assessments and audits are conducted to a predefined set of criteria and the results were shared across TfS members, improving efficiency for all involved. Ecovadis’s assessment has been adopted by TfS as the major supplier sustainability assessment process since 2012. 2013 Ecovadis ICT Information and An initiative for ICT companies to adopt a joint Sector Initiative Communication assessment and monitoring approach regarding their Technology trading partners’ CSR performance to identify supply chain risk and drive continuous improvement. 16 2014 Railsponsible Railway Railsponsible is a sector initiative powered by Ecovadis that aims to continuously improve sustainability practices throughout the railway industry supply chain. The initiative is open to all railway operators and companies across the railway industry value chain, along with key industry associations, that share its vision, mission and commitments. Ecovadis’s assessment has been adopted by Railsponsible as the preferred supplier sustainability assessment system since 2015. 2017 Responsible Beauty RBI, established in 2017, is an industry initiative Beauty Initiative powered by Ecovadis that aims to improve (RBI) sustainability throughout the entire beauty supply chain, through sharing best practices and processes, driving a common understanding across the industry, using and sharing common tools and thereby creating higher efficiency. Ecovadis is RBI’s official partner to evaluate the CSR practices of their supplier network. Through this joint effort, members will engage suppliers more effectively and contribute to a more responsible beauty industry supply chain. AIM-PROGRESS Fast Moving AIM-PROGRESS is a forum of leading Fast Consumer Goods Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) manufacturers and common suppliers, assembled to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable supply chains. It is a global initiative supported and sponsored by AIM in Europe and GMA in North America. The goal of AIMPROGRESS is to positively impact people's lives through the combined leadership of robust responsible sourcing practices throughout supply chains. A number of AIM-PROGRESS member companies have joined forces to leverage Ecovadis to support this mission by streamlining the process and minimizing supplier fatigue. 17 2018 Responsible Pharmaceutical, The RHI aims at creating synergies between Health Initiative Biotechnology, companies who are active in the healthcare and (RHI) and Healthcare pharmaceutical sector to improve sustainability and CSR performance across the supply chain. The 4 founding members are AstraZeneca, GSK, Takeda and Teva. This initiative is powered by Ecovadis to enhance the efficiency in sharing the sustainability performance of the business partners of RHI members with all the member companies Partnership We see positive synergy in working together with other CSR related organizations. Over the years, Ecovadis formed partnerships with different organizations and working groups that promote corporate sustainability and support their work in different ways. The Foundation for the Global Compact The Foundation is a non-profit entity authorized to fundraise in support of the Global Compact initiative. Ecovadis has partnered with the Foundation to provide pro-bono services for a number of UN entities as well as joining together to promote CSR and business that align with the sustainable development goals (SDGs) in May 2018. Clean Cargo Working Group The Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) is a global, business-to-business initiative dedicated to improving the environmental performance of marine container transport. CCWG members create and use practical tools for measuring, evaluating, and reporting the environmental impacts of global goods transportation. Ecovadis is a knowledge partner of CCWG to provide information on supply chain sustainability assessment. 18 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) CDP runs the global disclosure system that enables companies, cities, states and regions to measure and manage their environmental impacts. Ecovadis and CDP have been in a partnership since 2012 to offer an enhanced service to both Ecovadis and CDP Supply Chain customers, as well as to reduce the requests for companies in the supply chains of large purchasing corporations to report on how they are managing carbon. L’Observatoire de la RSE (CSR Observatory) (L’ORSE) L’ORSE is a multi-stakeholder organization, which supports the implementation of CSR strategies in companies. L'ORSE works together with the main actors of CSR in Europe and in the world. Ecovadis is a partner of L’ORSE that collaborate on good practice guides and professional events to L’ORSE’s members. 19 Our Values, Principles, and Standards As our company continues to grow, transparency and trust between stakeholders remain Ecovadis’ core value which, we believe, drives innovation and collaboration. Our vision for the future is defined by these principles and we shape our company culture and everyday actions around them. Our company was founded with the ambition of facilitating a global business environment where companies operate and grow ethically and responsibly, minimising their impact and maximising the shared value. We hope to see business success as a function of a company’s corporate responsibility and sustainability, not only its financial performance. Ecovadis applies the same principle to every employee and encourages them to engage in high ethics standards in every step of their journey with Ecovadis. Our Values As a CSR ranking company, we understand and appreciate the importance of holding ourselves to the highest standard of ethical behaviour. The focus of our business ethics program allows us to deliver fair and objective ratings to our customers to base their important business decisions on. Our Core Values: Committed Customer Driven Brave Ethical Kind Fun Following the Code Our ethical principles are communicated to our employees through the Ecovadis Code of Ethics. It introduces the principles by which we operate to all new and existing employees, covering such issues as quality, transparency, and integrity of the CSR ratings we provide, corruption and bribery, conflict of interest, anti-competitive practices, diversity, discrimination, and harassment, intellectual property, confidentiality, and information security, as well as management of stakeholder relations. The Ecovadis Code of Ethics is published on the Ecovadis website and is readily available through our internal employee network. We have a dedicated Ethics Team and appointed local Ethics Referents at different offices globally. These Referents champion our Code of Ethics and promptly support our colleagues with any ethics-related concerns. The Ethics Team is also responsible for training all newcomers on Ecovadis values and organizing regular refresher courses. 20 All new Ecovadis employees are trained by the Ethics Team on our Values and the Code of Ethics. We organize regular refresher courses for those employed with us to ensure that everyone is up to date and well familiar with our Code of Ethics. All employees are asked to acknowledge their understanding and consent with the Code of Ethics in the beginning of their career at Ecovadis and twice a year during the bi-annual performance appraisal. Raising any Ethical issue We embrace an open door principle and employees are encouraged to voice any concerns or issues they come across. We guarantee confidentiality and discretion in handling all complaints made in good faith. No employee raising a genuine concern will be penalized according to our strong non-retaliation policy. Employees can approach their Team Leaders directly with any ethics concerns. If they are not comfortable speaking with their Team Leaders directly, they can either reach out to the local Ethics Referent or the global Ethics Officer directly, or send an email to ethics@Ecovadis.com. Only the Ethics Officer has access to this email account, which ensures confidentiality of the raised complaint. In 2018 we had 0 ethics-related concerns raised by our employees through any of the available channels. Managing Conflicts of Interest A conflict of interest arises when employees’ personal interests or activities interfere with their ability to act in the best interests of the company. Our policy is that personal relationships must not result in preferential treatment for suppliers, clients or any other external stakeholders. While we do recognize that our employees may have personal relationships with suppliers, clients, and other external stakeholders, we have also implemented measures to prevent potential conflict of interest arising from these relationships. Any relationship that has a potential for a conflict of interest must be disclosed by the employee to their business unit managers. ● Business ethics training for all employees. ● A hiring process that recognizes that relationships can influence the judgment of merit. ● Employee remuneration structure that enables the independency of supplier analysis. We recognise that our analysts in particular are exposed to this risk, so we have implemented the Integrity Guideline for Analysts whereby they are responsible for opting out of a supplier assessment whenever their integrity and/or independence are potentially compromised. Such circumstances include, but are not limited to: ● Personal relations with the company being assessed, e.g. family members, friends etc. who currently work for the company or have worked for the company within the 12 months prior to the evaluation. ● Personal interests in the company assessed e.g. holding stocks. 21 ● Professional relations with the company assessed e.g. has worked for, or provided consulting services for, within the 12 months prior to the evaluation. If circumstances similar to those listed above are identified by an analyst, they are required to contact the Vice President of Research. Anti-corruption and Bribery Guidelines To foster open and independent relationships with our stakeholders and prevent any perception of corruption, we have developed a Gifts & Entertainment Policy and Procedure for reporting sensitive transactions. Having this policy in place allows us to ensure that our key employees know the boundaries for which gifts and entertainment can be given or accepted. It is important to note that as a global company, we operate in a diverse environment, where certain activities are an expression of politeness or a reflection of societal and cultural practices. We respect cultural norms to the extent possible under the local laws and regulations by which we are governed, but any activities violating our Code of Ethics will not be tolerated. Allowed Items Prohibited Items Promotional items Cash, loans, stock or stock options, gift (pens, mugs, memo pads, etc.) certificates or any cash equivalent Meal Gifts given in the form of services or other non-cash benefits (e.g. the promise of employment or favorable CSR ratings) Items prohibited by law (e.g. illegal substances) Gifts prohibited by the gift giver’s organization Any gift that can damage Ecovadis reputation Due to the nature of their everyday work, the Executive Committee members, Customer Success Managers and Sales and Marketing departments are allowed to receive gifts below the specified value. Members of all other departments are not permitted to give or receive any sort of gifts which could give the appearance of or lead to a conflict of interest. All gifts received or given by Ecovadis employees have to be disclosed and reported to the Ethics Team via a dedicated reporting form if they exceed the set value thresholds which are as follows: Paris EUR 50 Mauritius MUR 1000 Hong Kong HKD 500 New York USD 50 22 Training Our Team on Ethics To make sure EcoVadians are guided by the best standards of ethical behaviour in their work and to keep everyone on the same page, we systematically train all newcomers on the Code of Conduct across all our offices and business units. Everyone else has to attend the refresher training regularly conducted by the Ethics Team. In 2018, our Ethics Team delivered 7 training sessions on the Ecovadis Code of Ethics to new employees across all our offices. 84 out of 175 new hires (48 percent) received the induction training on Ethics. Our Ethics Team is currently working on an update of the Ecovadis ethics program and is planning a global internal training across all offices for start of 2020. We did not perform a corruption risk assessment in 2018, but the Ecovadis Ethics Team partnered with our CSR Team to work on a materiality assessment in 2018 to identify material ethics issues for Ecovadis. In 2018 there was no corruption-related concern raised by our employees or reported incidents. Ecovadis does not have any ethics-related legal proceedings in 2018 and did not incur any fines in 2018. 23 Fair Play for a Healthy Competitive Environment Price-fixing and antitrust practices were considered to be a risk factor and the following measures have been implemented to manage it: ● All of our employees are trained on our antitrust practices during their Code of Conduct training. Our Sales team receive a more focused antitrust training as their responsibilities expose them to more risk when it comes to anti-competitive practices. ● Allow price adjustments only as a result of a committee which meets to ensure that the decisionmaking process that all due diligence is carried out to uphold the highest standards of ethical behaviour. We were not subject to any legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust and monopoly practices for 2018. Quality Control and Client Feedback Mechanism The Ecovadis platform and its related products are the main services we offer to our valued customers. To ensure consistency and reliability in our services, we follow a robust quality management process and have been ISO9001 certified since 2017. Ecovadis Teams of Experts analyse the inflow of data from our stakeholders and transform them into meaningful information to be displayed on the Ecovadis platform. All of this is conducted through a streamlined process, with built-in precautions to ensure the highest level of quality possible. In addition to the protocols established to meet the highest quality level, Ecovadis has also put in place a Corrective and Preventive Action system to cater for potential as well as actual deviance from our quality standards. As part of the corrective aspect of the system, we developed a complaint procedure that allows our clients to express their concerns through dedicated channels. All complaints are handled by a team of professionals and the solutions proposed to the complainant are always comprehensive and practical. The complaint process ensures that the information pathway between the registration of the complaint to its resolution is as streamlined as possible. The Trust Centre provides our stakeholders with an overview of the existing mechanisms set to ensure the quality and security of all our processes. 24 We firmly believe that prevention is better than cure. Limiting quality issues upstream of the production chain ensures that our scorecards always reflect the facts of the situation at hand. Our Quality Check Forms (QCF) system warrants that our downstream analysts identify and record quality issues at the earliest stages of the analysis process. Once spotted, these issues are immediately tackled. Focus training sessions are systematically offered to all analysts so they constantly sharpen their quality skills. The main metrics for measuring quality levels are as follows: ● An analyst debrief is a quality mechanism which ensures that feedback is provided to new analysts in training. This tool provides them with the opportunity to increase their quality levels during data analysis; ● Supplier debriefs are private sessions led by our CSR experts at the request of suppliers. These debriefs focus on providing explanation on the Ecovadis assessment methodology to a higher level of detail and to provide clarification if needed of the supplier's allocated score on an aspect of their CSR management system; ● Supplier inquiries are instances when suppliers need additional help or information on specific issues related to their onboarding and assessment process. ● All suppliers debriefs and inquiries are personalised sessions where specific issues are discussed and resolved as per our clients’ needs. We have set an annual quality target of less than 1 percent revision rate on our scorecards and strive to achieve it year after year. We are proud to note that there was a negligible increase in supplier inquiries in 2018 compared to 2017 and that we have again met our quality target. This clearly demonstrates the effectiveness of our Trust Centre and solidity of our Quality Management System as well as the clarity of our processes. 2018 Product Quality KPIs Analyst Debriefs Supplier Inquiries Supplier Debriefs Overall Quality level 1179 (1800 in 2017) 694 (700 in 2017) 118 (80 in 2017) 99.29% (99.2% in 2017) 25 Information Integrity and Security The nature of our activities demands that we operate within the strictest degree of integrity when it comes to information security. All information supplied to Ecovadis is kept safe and confidential. Ensuring the confidentiality and privacy of the data issued to us by our customers is an intrinsic aspect of our corporate culture. For complete transparency, our Data Privacy Policy is available on our website to all our stakeholders. Furthermore, our strong commitment to information security was materialised through the implementation of ISO/IEC 27001 certification since mid-2016. We expanded the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certification to more sites in 2018 thereby covering most of our business scope. The certification of CyberVadis SAS will be completed in 2019. Site Name Country Certification(s) Ecovadis SAS France ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013 Ecovadis Polska Sp. z o.o Poland ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013 Ecovadis Inc USA ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013 Ecovadis (Mauritius) Ltd Mauritius ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013 Ecovadis Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013 Ecovadis Canada Limited Canada ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013 Ecovadis Tunisia Sarl Tunisia ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013 CyberVadis SAS Paris Ecovadis still adheres to the Data Protection Principles developed by Commission Nationale de L’Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL) under the French Data Protection Act. Our Information Security Management system is founded on extensive sets of policies and procedures, as well as our administrative controls which effectively provides the assurance that information provided to us is protected from unauthorized access and disclosure. Our ISMS system works in tandem with our certified QMS system to form an integrated system which maintains the availability, integrity, confidentiality and traceability of information at all times. 26 As with all systems, the most probable risk factor is human error. All employees are provided with regular ISMS training sessions to make sure they fully understand the concepts and importance of ISMS, and, more importantly, that they have a practical approach towards implementing the ISMS safeguards. Each business unit of Ecovadis has Information Security referents. They are the first point of contact for any team member to raise concerns or ask questions on IS matters. 99 percent (553) of our employees participated in the annual IS refresher course, and 27 percent (151) of the participants were asked to attend an additional focus training due to some identified weaknesses in their understanding of the essentials of IS. Our work-from-home benefit is also ruled by Ecovadis Mobile Device/BYOD Policy. Having set high standards for ourselves, Ecovadis does not expect less from our suppliers. We have incorporated specific IS clauses in our service agreements with our cyber service providers. Ecovadis outsources its data storage services to certified data centers at different locations within the European Union. Our general Terms and Conditions show our customers the expectations we established for ourselves but also from users of our platform to ensure the integrity of our information service system. Moreover, we have a Security Incident Management procedure for the quick detection of security events and quick response to security incidents. Every bit of information handled by Ecovadis is done through strict information classification labels to ensure that no unauthorised access or disclosure of information occurs. All information is kept on our systems for a definite time frame and a file retention schedule has been implemented for each business unit as per operational requirements. We require the submission of a certificate of secured disposal from our subcontractors. The total recordable Information Security incidents for 2018 summed up to 33 equating to an increase of 3 percent compared to 2017. The number of IS incident averaged to 2.75 reported cases per month. It is noteworthy to note that this KPI does not discriminate between low and high level incidents. Additionally, in 2018 Ecovadis did not breach any standards with regards to marketing communication and received no substantial complaints concerning our client base's private information. 27 Our Employees Ecovadis team continues to grow, totalling 558 employees worldwide by the end of 2018. The numbers of the new hires, as well as the turnover on all teams combined, are presented below: No of hires 2017 2018 Turnover 2017 2018 Female 113 85 Female 24 54 Male 105 123 Male 24 88 Total 218 208 Total 48 142 28 Employees’ health and safety By its nature, the provision of intellectual services is an activity that bears a low risk of injuries or occupational diseases. As a result, we are confidently committed to zero occupational disease and invest in the physical wellbeing of our employees. Every office is carefully designed to ensure that all employees work under the best and most comfortable conditions through the provision of ergonomic office equipment (office chairs, footrests). As per legislation, 100 percent of our employees in Mauritius, France and Warsaw are represented in a formal joint management-work health and safety committee resulting in an overall coverage of 75.6 percent. Ecovadis SAS also has a collective agreement in force. Regular fire drills are carried out and periodic trainings on ergonomics, stretching, nutrition, cardiovascular diseases, first aid and road safety have also been provided to Mauritius employees. Ecovadis (Mauritius) Ltd totalled up to approximately 591 hours of training on health and safety issues in 2018 about 2.1 hour per employee trained. Similarly, in the Warsaw office, 100 percent of employees received a mandatory training on health and safety issues. 26 employees went through a voluntary emergency preparedness training and 22 employees followed a voluntary first aid training. In 2018, no work-related fatalities were recorded. One major H&S incident occurred in Mauritius outside of work premises, the employee was immediately transported to a nearby hospital where professional care was given. The global absenteeism rate was estimated at 16.3 percent. Employees Benefits Additional vacation days Full-time and part-time employees benefit from additional vacation days, starting from 12 months of employment: Europe: 1 additional business day for every 5 years of tenure, up to 4 days; Americas: 1 additional business day for every year of tenure, up to 5 days; Hong-Kong: 1 additional business day for every year of tenure, up to 5 days. 29 Flexible time policy As a measure to achieve a healthy work-life balance, the company institutes flexible time policy in all its locations; the policy applies to all regular (full time or part-time) employees. Employees can choose to shift the regular office hours upon their convenience, provided that they work the same amount of daily hours defined by the local laws and practices. Work from home In order to allow a greater work flexibility, Ecovadis also instituted its “work from home” policy. It applies to full-time employees who have demonstrated a stable work record. On average, all employees work from their home up to 2 times a month. 30 Office exchange program Ecovadis promotes cultural diversity and working within intercultural and cross-business unit teams. Therefore, Ecovadis encourages and provides employees with means to travel and work from other Ecovadis offices. Permanent employees showing consistently good performance are eligible for this program. Transportation fees As per legal compliance, Ecovadis provided transport refunds and subsidies in France, Mauritius and Hong Kong. Employee referral program Ecovadis strives to be an employer of choice that attracts and retains the best talent. Through the employee referral program, Ecovadis employees act as advocates of the company’s values and facilitate the candidates’ search and recruitment. The company has put in place an employee referral program: full time employees are entitled to referral rewards for introducing candidates to Ecovadis in order to fill relevant positions. Sport Ecovadis contributes to the well-being of employees outside of the work environment. In Mauritius, for example, the company covers 50 percent of the membership fee of a pre-selected gymnasium or sports club. 31 Percentage of employees covered by work benefits in 2018 32 A Healthy Social Dialogue Ecovadis values a healthy social dialogue. To do so, Ecovadis allows employees to form groups and elect representatives voicing their rights and needs. In compliance with the French law, 6 employee representatives are elected for a period of 4 years in the Paris office, to transmit employees collective or individual requests to the employer and facilitate improvements in the company organization. However, due to departures, the Paris office actually has 4 employee representatives. Additionally, the Paris office has signed a sector specific collective agreement for all local employees. Legislation in the other countries where Ecovadis operates does not oblige employee representation. Yet, the Mauritius office, for example, still elects 3 employee representatives every year to act as a link between employees and management. Nurturing an Open Dialogue Dialogue is central for professional growth and for achieving our company’s goals. As per our Labour Practices & Human Rights Policy, we are committed to providing our employees all the tools and opportunities to exploit their potential and perform at their highest standard. Twice a year, employees go through a conscientious performance assessment, where team leaders and team members engage in an open conversation on the quantitative and qualitative performance, expectations and objectives. The structure of the appraisal review is designed so as to gather feedback from the employee, their colleagues and management. The performance assessment in 2018 covered 100 percent of permanent employees in Warsaw, New York, Toronto, Hong Kong, France and Tunis and 86.2 percent in Mauritius. Professional Growth Ecovadis’ constant growth is dependent on our employees’ outstanding work. We therefore make every effort to create an environment where our team members can grow professionally. Our recruitment processes are exigent; all candidates are carefully selected based solely on their qualifications, spoken languages and aptitudes, and are thoroughly trained throughout their time at Ecovadis. 33 Developing Skills We keep on developing a comprehensive online and in-person training programme to make sure that all employees can perform at their best. All newcomers go through an intensive training period upon joining the company; the introductory training programme offers an induction that sets the tone with regard to our work culture. Supplementary training sessions, tailored to the specific requirements of each business unit, are then undertaken by our every team member. For example, our CSR analysts are trained for a minimum of three months, before entering an in-depth debriefing system the purpose of which is to gradually immerse newcomers into practice. In 2018, a total of 811 debriefs for trainees were carried out. After the initial trainings are concluded, we follow up with periodical info sessions and refreshers. Each office has appointed an individual in charge of identifying training needs and organizing training sessions. Special attention is given to the training needs and requests which result from the individual performance assessments that take place at least annually, with each office taking up the topics that are the most relevant for its activities. 89.9 percent of targeted employees were trained on Ecovadis Business Models and Strategy and 85.7 percent of targeted employees in managerial positions participated in Team Management Essentials Workshop. In addition, training sessions offered covered topics such as GRI standards, customer service, emotional quotient, time management as well as language courses. A total of 9084.4 hours of training were provided in 2018 with an average of 16.2 hours per FTE. In 2018, we are confident that 100 percent of employees globally received at least one training. 34 Key Performance Indicators Global KPIs Covered by collective bargaining (%) 14.3 Covered by H&S Committee (%) 75.6 Absenteeism Rate (%) 16.3 Performance Reviews (%) 98 Hours of Training on Skills development (h) 9084.4 Hours of Training per FTE (h) 16.2 No of employees who benefited from office 54 exchange Cultural Exchange and Career Mobility Ecovadis has an internal mobility programme; all full time employees who have been with the company for at least a year have the opportunity to undergo an office exchange for a couple of months. This encourages the development of soft skills such as communication, adaptability, teamwork and empathy. This also creates a bond among employees of different offices who often collaborate virtually on projects. In 2018, 54 employees have benefited from our cultural exchange programme. Career mobility opportunities are also possible for those who prefer to work closer to home. In addition to our constant interdepartmental projects, employees can temporarily join other business units to carry out specific tasks, depending on business needs. This scheme has already led to a wide range of skills development for our employees and may even lead to a career change opportunity for some as the experience in other business units can result in taking a new job function permanently. 35 Strong in Diversity Ecovadis’ uniqueness also stems from its diverse workforce. In 2013, we made our commitment public by signing and becoming a member of the French Diversity Charter (Charte de la Diversité). We are convinced that diversity and equality are essential for building a stronger company. Our ethnic mosaic reinforces our corporate culture, and the pluralistic atmosphere in each of our offices contributes to the global push toward tolerance. Some KPIs: 52 nationalities 30% female in Executive Committee 44% female team leaders Eliminating Discrimination and Harassment We recognise our responsibility in creating a healthy and respecful workplace free of discrimination and harrassment. All the employees are hired, promoted and compensated solely based on meritocracy independently of race, colour, religion, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, genetic characteristics, political opinion, trade union affiliation, pregnancy, sexual orientation or physical appearance. Every year, each employee is required to acknowledge their consent with the Code of Ethics during the biannual performance appraisal. In doing do, they are reminded of Ecovadis zero tolerance to discrimination and harrassment. To ensure a point of contact in case of questions or complaints, there is a dedicated ethics referent appointed at each of our offices. We have also put in place a dedicated whistleblowing communication channel, where employees can report any case of discrimination or harassment, seek advice or voice their concerns anonymously if preferred. We always guarantee confidentiality and will never retaliate against a report made in good faith. In 2018, there were no reported cases of discrimination. Having fun at Ecovadis As per our materiality assessment, our employees’ well being is our foremost priority. To this end, every Ecovadis office sets up a Staff Welfare Committee, which is a voluntary committee that organises fun events to promote a positive working atmosphere and enhance work-life balance. 36 Protecting the Environment Environmental Policy Although Ecovadis does not operate in a business sector that produces or causes significant pollution, we are aware that our actions have an impact on the environment. Ecovadis has committed itself to working towards minimizing the environmental effects of its operations through best practices, including the promotion of environmental awareness, monitoring relevant environmental KPIs, identifying and assessing environmental impacts and the implementation of adequate controls. We aim at enhancing our environmental performance and protecting the environment to the best of our ability. We will focus on the following areas in an effort to meet our objectives: Energy Consumption Some Key Performance Indicators Total energy consumption = 246684.65 kWh Scope 3 emissions = 169629 kg Being a service provider, our impact on the environment is minimal. However, since our platform is 100 percent digital, we rely heavily on electricity. Thus we have strived to use energy as efficiently as possible by adopting certain best practices such as: ● Energy awareness training during orientation of newcomers; ● Switching off all office lighting after working hours; ● Making maximum use of natural light during the day; ● Minimizing the use of air conditioning whenever possible by favouring direct fresh air circulation; ● Use of energy efficient lighting and IT equipment; ● Configuring all desktops/laptops so that sleep mode is activated within 15 minutes of inactivity; ● Purchasing of renewable energy from local power grids whenever possible; ● Installation of motion sensor activated lighting systems in the office in specific places like restrooms. We are also aware that we have to minimize our GHG emissions. In our line of activity, the main source of emissions is business and employee travel. Therefore, we have invested in teleconferencing tools so as to avoid, as much as possible, in-person business commutes. 37 Our environmental performance Global energy consumption in kWh Heating in Warsaw in GJ Total = 323 GJ 38 GHG Emissions based on air travel in 2018 in Kg Material Consumption and Waste Generation Being a company that operates in the sustainability field, we promote minimal use of raw materials (such as paper) and diligent waste management practices. As such, we encourage each of our business units to implement sustainable waste management practices including waste segregation and recycling. As our platform is solely digital, our paper consumption is minimal. Yet we still try to use paper in a responsible manner. For example, we have invested in photocopying machines that offer double-sided printing. Moreover, the Paris and Mauritius location recycle their waste paper. Total amount of paper recycled = 400 kg Total amount of waste recycled in Paris = 48.9 kg Being a company that relies mainly on IT equipment for our daily activities, our objective is to recycle all IT equipment when they reach their end-of-life. With the help of local recycling partners, we will participate in the recycling of these products and thereby reduce electronic waste to landfills. The Paris office already engages in the recycling of IT equipment. 39 Paper (in Kg) consumed and recycled Waste recycled in Paris office in 2018 Environmental Services & Advocacy We provide supplier sustainability rating services and our aim is to continuously improve the sustainable services and solutions provided. We regularly update our own internal processes and methodology based on new research and development in the industry. We want to make sure that the companies we assess are continuously improving their CSR performance, thus making this world a better place to live in. The section below highlights some best practices of our subsidiaries in Mauritius, Paris (HQ) and Toronto. 40 Environmental Approach at Ecovadis (Mauritius) Ltd ● GHG emissions: The Mauritian and Polish offices, along with our Headquarters in Paris, offset their carbon emissions linked with business travels. This activity will be repeated every year. ● Environment Team: The office in Mauritius has formalized an “Environmental Team” as part of the overall CSR team. Their main task will be to contribute to sustainable environmental practices for the office. ● Awareness: All newcomers to Ecovadis undergo an orientation to the company’s CSR programme. They are also made aware of procedures in place such as awareness on energy management and waste segregation, among other topics. ● Paper: Recycling bins are available to employees and paper is recycled through a local company, Paper Link’s. ● Kitchenware: A common source of waste is single-use tableware. Instead of purchasing and providing disposable tableware, Ecovadis provides reusable mugs, plates and cutlery. We encourage employees to use reusable takeout containers. ● PET Bottles Recycling: PETE1, HDPE2, LDPE4 and PP5 plastic bottles are recycled through a partnership with Mission Verte. ● Toners and Ink Cartridges: Toners and ink cartridges are recycled through a partnership with Cartridge World, a recycling company in Mauritius. Environmental Approach at Ecovadis SAS ● Financing small renewable energy producers: In 2018, the Paris office started purchasing electricity from Enercoop, an electric utility cooperative company. In this way, Ecovadis finances small producers of electricity from renewable energy sources. ● Waste Recycling: The Paris office also segregates waste for the following products: metal cans, plastic bottles, paper (carton waste such as milk/juice, paper, newspapers, magazines and cereal boxes), and electronic wastes as shown above. ● Awareness-raising campaign on plastic waste reduction: 2018 also had its focus on awarenessraising campaigns on plastic waste reduction following that year’s Environmental Theme “Beat Plastic Pollution”. A full week was dedicated to raising awareness of water management and waste from plastic bottles. Photo exhibitions, documentary and conferences were organized by employees. The office is now committed to not offer any plastic bottles to customers nor employees and instead is using special carafes. ● Awareness raising campaign on waste reduction and IT waste recycling: Together with the pledge taken to reduce plastic waste and recycling, our headquarters created the Ecovadis 10 Commandments which aim at helping employees reduce waste as well as recycle our IT waste. ● Awareness raising campaign on food waste reduction: Other awareness campaigns included food waste reduction. The Paris office partnered with “Disco Soup” whereby left-overs from a local shop were collected and cooked together to prepare a soup. This activity aimed at sensitizing employees about food wastage. 41 ● Lunch provider: Finally, our headquarters now works with a special catering agency that delivers local organic food with cutlery and containers that can be easily recycled. Toronto Office The Toronto office is located in a building owned by WeWork. As WeWork strives to be an eco-conscious organization, the Toronto office encouraged them to get rid of disposable cutlery and was successful in having them replaced with reusable cutlery. They also introduced the recycling of electronic equipment. The Toronto office also uses recycled toilet paper and paper towels. 42 Our supply Chain Since we are a Software As A Service (SaaS) company, we do not have any significant risks emerging from our supply chain. We are, however, conscious of the impact of our procurement practices on society and the environment and the link between them. This is why we always aim to work with suppliers who share similar commitments towards sustainability and whenever possible, eco-friendly products are favored over non-sustainable ones; we purchase recycled office supplies, FSC/PEFC certified paper, sustainable food commodities and energy efficient IT equipment. Find below some examples. Sheltered Workshop Through purchase from sheltered workshops, we promote equal opportunity in our supply chain for anyone irrespective of his/her disability. One example is our Paris Office, where we work with the sheltered workshop “ESAT Arcade” for the procurement of office supplies. Reusable commodities We highly encourage the procurement of reusable dishware. Our Mauritius office provides to its employees a mug with each staff’s name written. Plates and silverware for all employees and guests during events are also used. Buying local Ecovadis supports purchase from local vendors as this helps to reduce our carbon footprint due to substantial transport networks as well as promoting the local vendors of our community. Our supplier Code of Conduct Our first supplier Code of Conduct was drafted with the aim of covering material sustainability issues that are related to our business activities. This Code of Conduct has been prepared by our Procurement Team as well as some CSR Analysts and is currently being reviewed and formalized, following which a copy of the Code will be provided to all our suppliers. Paper Use We purchase paper on a regular basis, though not often used. Paper procured are recycled or FSC/PEFC certified papers. Tea and coffee Our company has a particular precedence for organic products that have a Fair-Trade Label. The Paris office purchases coffee beans that originate from regions where farmers receive the right trading conditions. 43 Corporate citizenship Ecovadis’ vision is the creation of a marketplace where sustainability intelligence influences every business decision thereby improving economies and people’s lives. To create a sustainable society, we engage with our stakeholders to integrate our objectives in their thought and action processes. In doing so, we partner in contributing to the betterment of society. Since we aim to lead by example, we encourage EcoVadians to take responsibility for everything they do and to positively impact the quality of life of our communities. Our thriving online community takes pride in communicating their various efforts through our specially created #CSR hashtag. #CSR is essential to share all the activities being carried out across our various offices. This push toward the nurturing of the ideal corporate citizen has enabled us to enrich lives by providing opportunities to many underserved members of the societies and communities within which we operate. Ecovadians are provided with the opportunity to build their capacity to become actors of sustainable change, and role models for the communities around us. Our Community Involvement History in 2018 February Give blood and save a life Safe blood transfusions help save millions of lives every year. And because helping those in need just feels so good, our Paris co-workers participate in blood donation events multiple times a year by both being blood donors and also by promoting the importance of such a life-saving act. March River Clean Up in Mauritius Some EcoVadians in Mauritius gathered on a weekend for a river clean up. Thanks to their efforts, trash was collected and the area left cleaner for the community to enjoy. 44 April Responsible Fashion The UNFCCC declares that the fashion industry is responsible for 10 percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions. As spokespeople for sustainability, EcoVadians commit to living an eco-responsible life. Colleagues in Paris organized an after-work clothes swapping event. The principle was simple, “Swap first, give what's left”. Left-over clothes were donated to La Ressourcerie des Batignolles an eco-responsible NGO in Paris who sells second-hand items at a low price to people in need. May Responsible Fashion In partnership with the Rotaract Club of Port Louis a community organization, the Mauritius Office organized a Clothes Drive. Employees donated second-hand clothes, in perfect condition, which were then sold at low prices to people in need. The funds raised were used by the Rotaract Club to carry out community events aimed at helping community livelihood. Run for a cause Employees in Warsaw and Hong Kong participated in EKIDEN Relay and Wing for Life Run respectively. The aim of the charity runs was to raise funds for the NGOs while keeping fit! 45 June Together for a Cleaner Environment The Toronto office was given two hours of volunteering time to pick up trash at a local beach that would otherwise be washed into the lake. Volunteers were split into two teams for a friendly competition. Trash was sorted and collected. July Mangrove awareness day For the international Mangrove Day, an awareness session about the importance of Mangroves was organised in Mauritius. Participants visited some mangrove plantations to gain a practical understanding of the mangrove ecosystem and its importance in the local context. Because we do not do things halfway, the participants adopted a hands-on approach and planted some mangroves. August Food donation to Vuillemin Employees in Mauritius generously donated non-perishable food to disadvantaged families. About 20 families in need received a week’s worth of staple food and delicious breakfast for their children. 46 September Refugee Kitchen Hong Kong colleagues participated in an event aimed at supporting asylum seekers. They enjoyed a 3course dinner prepared by a group of refugees, and interacted with them by sharing life experiences. All funds raised were used to support the NGO's work and distributed as financial assistance to refugees. October #TheFutureWeWant The Conference of Youth 14 (COY 14) is an official event of YOUNGO, the children and youth constituency of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The regional workshop brought together young climate advocates and professionals to collaboratively engage in climate action in the Indian Ocean region. Participants had the opportunity to interact with experts on topics such as Political Ecology, Environmental law and policy, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) & Social Enterprise. These exchanges focused on creating a platform for the younger generation to take a larger role in the future of the climate negotiations & sustainable sector in Africa. 47 November 5-year Partnership with The Children Foundation Ecovadis Mauritius has been closely working with The Children Foundation for about five years and is committed to supporting their growth. To do so, the construction of additional space for Handicraft courses has been funded to help them in their goal of helping children who cannot fit into mainstream schools. Supporting Men’s Health The Movember initiative aims at reducing the number of men dying prematurely by 20% by 2030. Our handsome Parisian colleagues joined the movement, committed to raising awareness of men’s health while raising funds. December Supporting Sustainable Employment Toys were collected in the Paris Office and donated to an association that assists people towards sustainable employment, by having them repair, clean and sell the toys. Objective: reduce waste, contribute to sustainable employment. 48 Our contribution towards a sustainable future (indirect impacts on the society) Our Indirect Impact Ecovadis focuses on rating the CSR performance of worldwide companies along the supply chains of their clients. Our CSR rating methodology works by measuring the quality of a company’s CSR Management System. The CSR Management System includes the policies, actions and results. These three are further elaborated into seven other indicators, which are: policies, endorsements, measures, certifications, coverage (Deployment of Actions), reporting (through Key Performance Indicators) and 360° news monitoring. When we evaluate the CSR Management System of a company, CSR issues (such as energy, employee health and safety and water) important to the business activity of the company being assessed should be defined and covered by the CSR Management System. Those CSR issues being assessed are grouped into four different themes, and the issues covered in each assessment are based on the relevance of the 21 CSR issues to the context of the supplier’s organisation (such as the industry, the size, the geography). The 21 CSR issues stem from International CSR Standards which include the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, the International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s standards, the ISO 26000 Guidelines, the CERES Roadmap and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, also known as the Ruggie Framework. The ultimate result of this whole assessment is a CSR scorecard that provides explicit information about the overall CSR score per themes as well as the strengths of the CSR Management System and improvement areas to be addressed depending on their respective priority. What does this mean? Our service helps in communicating the concept of social responsibility to all companies and their employees, while allowing them to incorporate CSR into their day-to-day operations and core business strategy. When assessed companies can understand and apply the concepts of sustainability, it implies that · The environment is being less depleted, emission of greenhouse gases is reduced, waste is properly managed and recycled or treated, companies have a greater sense of responsibility for the management of the end-of-life products that they sell; · Employees are safer, healthier, and have an improved work-life balance. Career management and the right training for skill development is also provided, while respecting all basic human rights; · All decisions taken by leaders and employees are made ethically, since they become aware of the impacts of corruption, anti-competition, misuses of third party information and misleading advertisements; · Companies are more aware of the sustainability practices along their supply chains. 49 Contributing Team The completion of our Sustainability Reports would not have been possible without the precious contribution and dedication of our CSR experts. Below are our Sustainability Champions; Sophie Tripier MRU Natasha Olivier MRU Haruka Tamura PAR CSR Analyst CSR Member/Jr Quality Asst. CSR Analyst Ishan Ramdenee MRU Victoria Shapovalova HK Nadisha Gungoo MRU CSR Analyst CSR Analyst CSR Analyst Cat Yim HK Victoria Ponomareva PAR Adeline Lefort PAR Jr. CSR Analyst International Coordinator Jr. Customer Success Manager Katrina Cheng HK Jr. CSR Analyst 50 Appendix: Appendix: GRI Standards Referencing GRI 102: General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Disclosure No. Disclosure name Ecovadis Performance Result 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Ecovadis’ founders and co-CEOs can be found as the introductory part of the report 102-1 Name of the organization Ecovadis SAS 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Ecovadis is the world’s most trusted provider of business sustainability ratings, intelligence and collaborative performance improvement tools for global supply chains 102-3 Location of headquarters 43/47, avenue de la Grande Armée 75116 Paris 102-4 Location of operations Offices in Mauritius, France, USA, Tunisia, Canada, HongKong, Germany, UK, Australia, Argentina, Mexico, Belgium, The Netherlands 102-5 Ownership and legal form Ecovadis is a 100% privately held company. Ecovadis SAS Ecovadis Inc Ecovadis Canada Limited Ecovadis (Mauritius) Ltd Ecovadis Tunisia sarl Ecovadis Polska Sp. z o.o Ecovadis Japan K.K. Cybervadis SAS 102-6 Markets served Consumer Goods Chemicals Rail Transport ICT Beauty 102-7 Scale of the organization Ecovadis has 558 employees working in 14 countries. These employees collectively speak more than 10 languages 102-8 Information on employees and other 558 employees workers 52 nationalities 10 languages 102-12 External initiatives Sector Initiatives: The Joint Audit Cooperation Together for Sustainability Ecovadis ICT Sector Initiative Railsponsible Responsible Beauty Initiative AIM Progress 51 Responsible Health Initiative Clean Cargo Sustainable Transportation Carbon Disclosure Project 102-13 Membership of associations Organizational Memberships: United Nations Global Compact La Charte de la Diversité GRI Community Member Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council Observatoire des Achats Responsables 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 14.3% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. This pertains to our Paris Office only as per legal compliance 102-47 List of material topics Ecovadis has set the following topics as its priorities: Energy consumption and GHG emissions Employee welfare Sustainable Procurement Community Involvement 102-50 Reporting period 1 January 2018 31 December 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report August 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Yearly 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the yalluck@Ecovadis.com report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Self-proclaimed the GRI Standards GRI 201 General Disclosures: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Net sales (EUR) (recognized revenue): 26,458K distributed GRI 102 General Disclosures: Ethical Standards 102-25 Conflicts of interest No incidents of conflict of interest have been reported 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms Our core values are integrity, teamwork, commitment to of behavior customers, trust, drive to success 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Ecovadis’ 24-hour Ethics Helpline is available globally to all about ethics employees, so they can report concerns confidentially and without fear of retaliation GRI 205 General Disclosures: Anti Corruption 205-2 Communication and training about antiUpon hire, all employees are required to read and agree to the 52 corruption policies and procedures Code of Ethics, and 100% of employees are trained. All employees are required to recertify their acceptance of and compliance with the code twice every other year 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and No incidents of anti corruption have been reported actions taken GRI 206 General Disclosures: Anti Competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive No incidents of anti competitive behavior have been reported behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices GRI 302 General Disclosures: Environmental Standards 302-1 Energy consumption within the A total of 246684.65 kWh of energy was used in 2018 organization Warsaw Office used 323 GJ in heating GRI 305 General Disclosures: Energy Consumption and Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Our Scope 3 emissions through business travel totalled up to 169629 kg GRI 306: General Disclosures: Energy Consumption and Emissions 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 400 kg of paper recycled in Mauritius and Paris 48.9 kg of waste recycled in Paris GRI 401 General disclosures: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee Total no of hires in 20108 totalled up to 208 with a turnover of turnover 142 (25.4%) 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees All FTE employees are eligible for flexitime, work from home, that are not provided to temporary or sick leaves, vacation leaves, office exchange part-time employees GRI 403 General Disclosures: Occupational Health & Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 75.6% of employees worldwide are covered by a H&S management–worker health and safety Committee in their respective office committees 53 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, No H&S incidents have been reported occupational diseases, lost days, and Absenteeism rate was 16.3% absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk By its nature, the provision of intellectual services is an activity of diseases related to their occupation that bears a low risk of injuries or occupational diseases GRI 403 General Disclosures: Training & Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Every employee had an average of 16.2h of training on skills employee development In Mauritius, team members received an average of 2.1h of OHS training 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Ecovadis offers an array of training to all employees ranging and transition assistance programs from leadership sessions to customer service to languages courses 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 98% of employees globally has their performance reviewed regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405 General Disclosures: Diversity & Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 30% female on Board of Directors employees GRI 406 General Disclosures: Non Discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective No incidents of discrimination have been reported actions taken 54 Global Compact 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 55 The 17 Sustainable Development Goals Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Goal 9 Build a resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts* Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development Goal 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably managed forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Goal 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 56
