A2 Global Risk Suite 2004, 20/F., Tower 5 China Hong Kong City 33 Canton Road Tsim Sha Tsui Hong Kong United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress A2 Global Risk July 2018 – July 2019 WE SUPPORT A2 Global Risk COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS A2 GLOBAL RISK 1. Statement of continued support by the Managing Director 31 July 2019 To our stakeholders: I am delighted to confirm that A2 Global Risk (formerly Allan & Associates) reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our third annual Communication on Progress, we describe the actions we have taken over the previous year to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. These actions will lay the foundation for our future efforts to further the principles of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Bradley J. Allan Managing Director A2 Global Risk 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS A2 GLOBAL RISK 2. Description of Actions 2.1 Human Rights A2 Global Risk ensures it is not complicit in any human rights abuses. All staff have completed safety and security in the workplace training, which includes harassment awareness in order to protect individuals from physical, verbal, sexual and physiological abuse. This training is integrated into the new hire orientation training is subject to on-going periodic review. A2 Global Risk also integrates human rights requirements into its third-party and employment contracts. 2.2 Labour A2 Global Risk is an equal opportunity employer and does not permit any discrimination in its hiring practices, regardless of gender, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, colour, race, ethnic or national origin, or disability. A2 Global Risk ensures that it does not engage in any form of forced labour, bonded labour or child labour and complies with all minimum wage requirements in every country in which it operates. A2 Global Risk’s senior staff have completed UN GC online training webinars related to supply chain labour standards. A2 Global Risk does not offer unpaid internships and ensures all interns receive at least the equivalent local minimum wage for full time employment, even where this is not a legal requirement. A2 Global Risk maintains a human resources grievance policy to ensure all personnel-related concerns and disputes are investigated and addressed appropriately and impartially. A2 Global Risk has not recorded any serious personnel complaints or instigated any personnel grievance-related investigations during the reporting period. 2.3 Environment A2 Global Risk is taking steps to minimise its carbon footprint through measures such as avoiding unnecessary use of heating and air conditioning in its offices and avoiding nonessential air travel. A2 Global Risk has also purchased new, more energy efficient computing equipment in some of its offices. A2 Global Risk participates in waste recycling schemes where these are available at its office locations. All A2 Global Risk staff have completed health and safety in the workplace training to reduce the risks our working environments present to human health. A2 Global Risk 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS A2 GLOBAL RISK 2.4 Anti-Corruption A2 Global Risk maintains a comprehensive, enterprise-wide anti-corruption, anti-bribery and compliance policy. The Managing Director has publicly stated his commitment to anticorruption efforts and a Compliance Officer has been appointed responsible for overseeing successful implementation of the policy. A dedicated anti-corruption training module has been integrated into the newhire orientation and annual training programmes. A conflict of interest policy and reporting procedure are also in place. 3. Measurement of Outcomes 3.1 Human Rights A2 Global Risk has not engaged in any human rights violations nor recorded any human rights violations among suppliers and contractors during the reporting period. 3.2 Labour A2 Global Risk has not engaged in any form or forced labour, bonded labour or child labour, nor recorded any labour violations among suppliers and contractors during the reporting period. No major personnel grievances have been reported to A2 Global Risk’s personnel grievance mechanism during the reporting period. 3.3 Environment A2 Global Risk has taken steps to reduce its workplace carbon emissions during the reporting period. A2 Global Risk has also not recorded any major workplace injuries during the reporting period. 3.4 Anti-Corruption A2 Global Risk has not recorded any corruption or compliance related issues during the reporting period. A2 Global Risk has engaged with a variety of external anti-corruption organisations and has increased awareness and understanding of A2 Global Risk staff and suppliers through participation at anti-corruption events and training. A2 Global Risk 4
