2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Growth. Innovation. Value Creation. CONTENTS Introduction 03 04 CEO's Message 05 2018 Performance at a Glance About The NSE 06 07 08 09 The Sustainable Exchange Championing Africa’s Growth The NSE at a Glance 2018 Highlights 12 About this Report 13 Leadership and Governance 17 Executive Management at NSE Sustainability, Governance and Leadership 18 19 Council Committees 20 Demutualising the NSE Stakeholder Engagement 22 23 Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement 24 Stakeholder Engagement Grid Materiality Assessment 26 27 Materiality Review 28 Materiality Grid Sustainability at The NSE 29 30 Progress on Our Commitments 32 Contributing to the Global Goals Marketplace 34 35 Our Market and Products 38 Leveraging Technology for Market Growth 39 Economic Performance for 2018 Workplace 40 41 Employee Profile 42 Building and Nurturing Talent 43 Labour Practices and Human Rights Communities 45 47 Promoting Financial Literacy 49 Leading Change in Health and Wellness 50 Inspiring and Empowering Change Environment 51 52 Energy and Waste Management APPENDIX 72 GRI Content Index 74 List of Abbreviations 75 List of Tables 77 List of Figures 79 Contact Us at The NSE INTRODUCTION We were convinced at the beginning of the year that strengthening investors' education towards responsible investing while creating a conducive environment for transparency, efficiency, growth and productivity, would be pivotal to creating sustained positive impact. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 03 NIGERIA STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 04 CREATING VALUE THROUGH INNOVATION “The NSE's position as a Sustainable Stock Exchange has been further strengthened through our Corporate Sustainability initiatives hinged on four key pillars “ Community, Marketplace, Workplace and Environment scaling impacts across cities and The Nigerian Stock Exchange recognises the essential role we We launched the Innovation Hub to better position the NSE to play in supporting sustainable economic growth in Africa's leverage on innovation and enhance the adoption of largest economy. We have a commitment to our clients, emerging finance technologies through fintech. colleagues, and the wider community to run our business The NSE's position as a Sustainable Stock Exchange has been responsibly. Our Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility further strengthened through our Corporate Sustainability strategy sets out the way through which we foster sustainable initiatives hinged on four key pillars Community, economic growth, while creating value for our employees, Marketplace, Workplace and Environment scaling impacts our communities and within the environment. across cities and local communities. We hold ourselves In the reporting year, our efforts have been concentrated on accountable to the highest standards, leading the quest for delivering our 4-year strategy which focuses on enhancing our the integration of the Environmental, Social and Governance customer focus, reorganising for optimisation and capitalising (ESG) imperatives in the Nigerian capital market. For us, it is on 'big bang' opportunities. The outcome of these efforts is not just enough to walk the talk, we continually influence the increasingly expanding our position as the multi-asset hub ecosystem to embrace sustainable business practices while creating opportunities for our key stakeholders. The expected shaping results across different industries in line with the outcome of this strategy is a fully demutualised financial Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). services hub with a strong customer focus that leverages This report captures the progress we have made in imbibing innovation and technology to deliver an array of world-class sustainability into every unit of the Exchange, promoting products and services which further position the NSE as the knowledge based ESG focused investments, empowering our sustainable exchange championing Africa's growth. employees and achieving strong impact in the community Despite global capital markets decline, most notably in and our environment. It amply touches on key initiatives emerging and frontier markets, The NSE All Share Index (NSE implemented to embrace sustainability principles in our ASI) reached a ten-year peak of 45,092.83 in January 2018. operations, internalise the values as employees, and These were largely driven by significant market performance influence our ecosystem, all in a bid to remain a good in the 2017 financial year where the Exchange emerged third corporate citizen. best performer globally. However, market performance of the I invite you to join us as we work to foster the growth of longNSE was not without its challenges, as significant term sustainable finance and improve ESG performance and uncertainties including global pZolitical tensions, unstable oil reporting in Africa's largest economy. prices and weakening local production resulted in bearish sentiments. Through these challenges, we have reorganised and optimised performance by investing in our people and Oscar Onyema, OON enhanced processes for more robust customer relationships. Chief Executive Officer THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE 04 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE Marketplace · 10.69 billion Federal Government green bond First certified sovereign green bond from an emerging economy · Retained ISO 27001:2013 Certification for our Information Security Management System (ISMS) for the third consecutive year · UNGC Nigeria Local Network: Nominated steering committee member Workplace · Employee restructuring: Restructured for efficiency and innovation · Supporting local content: 90% spent on local suppliers · Anti-corruption: Zero incidents of OUR FOUR corruption SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS Environment · Support for the circular economy: Partnered with RecyclePoints to collect and process recyclable waste materials from our premises Communities · Supporting the fight against cancer: N28.5 million raised for cancer eradication · Financial Literacy and inclusion: 42,480 students impacted with knowledge of financial literacy · Improving access to quality education: Provided world class education to over 300 children from Internally Displaced Communities (IDPs) in Borno State THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 05 ABOUT THE NSE Following its establishment in 1960, the NSE now hosts over 258 companies across 12 diverse sectors. The NSE is registered as a company limited by guarantee under the Investments and Securities Act (ISA) and regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of Nigeria. THE SUSTAINABLE EXCHANGE CHAMPIONING AFRICA'S GROWTH As economic growth and opportunities increasingly improve across the African continent, The Nigerian Stock Exchange is repositioning to better play its part as the engine of sustainable growth for Africa's largest economy. Following its establishment in 1960, the NSE now host over 327 listed securities across 12 diverse sectors. The NSE is registered as a company limited by guarantee under the Investments and Securities Act (ISA) and regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of Nigeria. We are an open, professional and vibrant exchange, connecting Nigeria and Africa to the world. We continue to evolve to meet the needs of our valued customers by working at the centre of the capital market, helping to effectively allocate the resources required to achieve sustainable development. Our Mission To provide investors and businesses a reliable, efficient and an adaptable exchange hub in Africa, to save and to access capital. Our Vision To be Africa's preferred exchange hub. Our Values Our core values are the defining principles by which we operate as individuals and as a company. They define who we are, how we work, what we believe in and what we stand for. Our values are at the heart of everything we do; and they are: A – Ambition I Inclusive F Fair THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 07 As a leading African exchange by market capitalisation The NSE is affiliated with: and turnover, the NSE provides investors access to liquidity and transparency across a wide range across a wide array of securities and instruments. Equities African Securities International Organisation West African Capital The NSE provides equities listing and trading services Exchanges Association of Securities Commissions Markets Integration Council (WACMIC) across a wide range of trading segments on our Premium Board, Main Board and Alternative Securities Market (ASeM). Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) and ClosedEnd Funds trading are facilitated through a fully-electronic hybrid trading service (order and quote driven). World Federation Sustainable Stock United Nations Global of Exchanges Exchanges Compact Initiative Debt Instruments Our integrated trading platforms and vast network of dealing member firms connect institutional and retail investors to one of the most liquid bond markets in SubSaharan Africa. The NSE features a Retail Bond Trading Global Reporting Financial and Information Services Capital Markets Initiative Division (FISD) of the Software and Committee (CMC) Platform (RTP) for the benefit of retail investors seeking to Information Industry Association (SIIA) participate in a secondary market of local and international listed debt instruments. Indices Our range of indices provide investors with suitable Financial System Financial Services Regulation reference tools to track the performance of their Strategy (FSS) 2020 Coordination Committee (FSRCC) investments. The NSE features 13 indices that track market and sector performance including the NSE Corporate Others are: Governance (CG) Index which rates select listed companies · Financial Information Exchange (FIX) based on the quality of their corporate integrity, · Intermarket Surveillance Group (ISG) compliance, reputation and understanding of their · Financial Literacy Steering Committee and Working fiduciary responsibilities. Groups of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Exchange Traded Funds The NSE provides access to an array of Exchange Traded Corporate Information Funds (ETFs) that track a diversified range of indices including sovereign bonds, the main NSE 30 Index, pension The Nigerian Stock Exchange (The Exchange/NSE) funds and ethical investment compliant instruments. 2-4 Customs Street, Marina, Corporate Headquarters: Lagos As the frontline market regulator, we are committed to ensuring that our issuers, listed companies and www.nse.com.ng Website: intermediaries meet their regulatory obligations to uphold investor protection, market integrity and stability. As the Security and Exchanges Primary Regulator: market operator, we facilitate secure and easy access to Commission (SEC) investment and fundraising by providing reliable and resilient market infrastructure and ensuring accessibility to our products and services. Associations and Memberships We maintain partnerships with various local and international organisations to advance the attainment of our vision. Multi-stakeholder partnerships help us share knowledge, experience and technology towards driving sustainable development. 08 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 HIGHLIGHTS =N=21.9 tn total Market Capitalisation 11.75% increase in fixed income market capitalisation from =N=9.10tn in 2017 to =N=10.17tn in 2018 162 companies listed and actively traded on The Exchange trading market 7 Premium Board members ₦1.173tn total capital raised on The Exchange 1st 1st fully certified Climate Bonds Initiative certified sovereign green bond issued by an African country First ever FGN Sukuk listing: ₦100bn FGN Ijarah Sukuk 246 employees across 5 operating locations in Nigeria All Share Index (ASI) reaching a ten-year peak of 45,092.83 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 09 Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility Strategy at a Glance The unique position of the NSE at the centre of the capital market enables us provide leadership in areas of corporate governance and sustainability. Our Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility (CSR) strategy is focused on leading the sustainability agenda and serving as a model of sound corporate governance practices for Nigerian companies. Our CSR strategy is executed through 4 pillars, as demonstrated in the graphic below: 10 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Awards Recognition · 2018 Award for CSR in Education – Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry · 2018 Award for Best Use of Technology for Efficiency – Nigeria Technology Innovation & Telecom Awards (NTITA) Leading Change In CSR Education We are pleased to be recognised for our contribution to improving access to quality education for children from Internally Displaced Communities in the North East through our partnership with Bridge International Academies (BIA). Through this partnership, we deployed BIA's technology infused disruptive educational approach for over 250 children in conflict-ridden areas of Borno State. See Communities, page 46, for more on our education intervention in Borno State. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 ABOUT THIS REPORT This 2018 Sustainability Report aims to share information during the reporting year. This report communicates on the diverse initiatives the Exchange is undertaking to progress on our sustainability commitments at the contribute to the realisation of a sustainable society. It corporate head office and across the active five branches captures our commitment to providing market solutions pan Nigeria . as well as supporting a financial ecosystem that fosters long-term investment that will drive sustainable economic growth. The report also explains the impact of Referenced Reporting Guidelines The following guidelines, principles and frameworks have our activities towards the attainment of the global been cross-referenced in the course of this report: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015. In addition, we aligned our · Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards activities to the United Nations Global Compact Local · Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Network Nigeria to which we were appointed as Steering · United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Committee member during the reporting year. Communication on Progress (COP) · Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative (SSEI) As with previous years, we have based our reporting approach on the framework and guidance provided by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This report has been Data Integrity prepared in accordance with the “core” option of the GRI The data represented on the economic, environmental and Standards which is the most recent GRI reporting social indices of this report is based on the reports and framework. We have adhered to the GRI principles for documents of different departments and units of The defining report content including: Exchange which have contributed to the contents of this report based on their activities/performance for the Stakeholder Inclusiveness – Our approach to building reporting year. Strict internal control has been exercised to enduring relationships with stakeholders by being collect and analyse data to support all disclosures in this responsive to their reasonable expectations and interests report. Sustainability Context – Our performance in relation to The Exchange is committed to complete transparency and sustainability related issues in the context of both the local has represented the impact which our business has on and global concerns people and the planet in a fair manner. Our effort has been to ensure that the information presented in this report is Materiality Focusing on issues that are most important to unbiased, comparable, accurate, reliable and our business and stakeholders, and opportunities where comprehensible. we can have the greatest impact. The analysis of material aspects was conducted under the framework of our CSR For more in-depth content and additional information approach covering the dimensions of our strategic pillars. about the NSE, contact: Completeness – We strive to include all information that is Olumide Orojimi of significant economic, environmental and social impact Head, Corporate Communications to enable stakeholders to assess the NSE's performance. E: oorojimi@nse.com.ng Our GRI Content Index provides a full list of our GRI Olutobi Onajin disclosures with relevant references. This is provided on Team lead, Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability page 53 of this report. E: oonajin@nse.com.ng The Nigerian Stock Exchange Report Timeframe 2-4 Customs Street This report provides an update on The Exchange's Lagos, Nigeria sustainability performance from 1 January, 2018 to 31 E: corpcomm@nse.com.ng December, 2018. It emphasises our proactive management P: +234 700 225 5673 of stakeholder expectations and how this has shaped the principles we have adopted in our day-to-day business activities. Significant Changes to Boundary and Scope As part of our drive to improve efficiency across all platforms, seven of our branches were made inactive 12 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE NATIONAL COUNCIL MEMBERS Otunba Abimbola Ogunbanjo National Council President He currently serves as the Managing Partner of the renowned leading corporate law firm of Chris Ogunbanjo & Co (Solicitors). Otunba Ogunbanjo serves on the boards of several multinational corporations and non-profit organizations including Beta Glass PLC and the Advisory Board of the University of Buckingham Centre for Extractive Studies. He is a past Board member of GTL Registrars and ConocoPhillips amongst others. Mr. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, CON Ex-Officio ​Mr. Aig-Imoukhuede is the founder and Chairman of Coronation Capital Nigeria Limited. He is also founder of the Africa Initiative for Governance (“AIG”). Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede led the 2002 acquisition of Access Bank, then a fringe regional player. As Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, he was head of the team responsible for pl​acing the Bank on an unprecedented growth trajectory, transforming the bank into top-5 leadership position in Nigeria. Aigboje retired as CEO of Access Bank in December 2013. Mr. Oscar Onyema, OON CEO Mr. Onyema has been CEO and member of the National Council of The Exchange since April 2011. In this role, he is responsible for superintending the general working of The Exchange. He is Chairman of Central Securities Clearing System Plc (CSCS), the clearing, settlement and depository for the Nigerian capital market; Chairman of NG Clearing, which is in the process of developing a central counterparty clearing house (CCP); and Chairman of the subsidiaries of The Exchange. Mr. Abubakar Balarabe Mahmoud, SAN, OON, FCIArb (UK) First Vice President ​Mr. Mahmoud is the Managing Partner and one of the founding partners of the law firm of DIKKO & MAHMOUD. He was one time Kano State Attorney General & Commissioner for Justice and was in the public service (from 1979 to 1993) as prosecutor and legal adviser. He held various positions including Director Litigation, Public Prosecution, Solicitor-General at the Ministry of Justice, Kano. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE NATIONAL COUNCIL MEMBERS Mrs Catherine Nwakaego Echeozo Second Vice President ​Mrs. Cathy Echeozo is the director of Cathingens Organisation, a Social Investment and Innovation Non-Governmental Organization. She has over 33 years' experience in the banking industry and retired as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of GTBank in March 2017. She previously served on the Boards of GTBank, and Nigerian Interbank Settlement System Plc. Erelu Angela Adebayo Ordinary Member ​Erelu Angela Adebayo was previously the first lady of Ekiti State and Chairman, Ekiti State Action Committee on Aids. She received the Lagos State Award Eko 2012 and ThisDay Award for Service to Nigerian Children 2012. She serves on the Dangote Foundation, Afriland Properties Plc., Meyer Paints Plc., Greenwich Trust Ltd., and Women at Risk Foundation. She previously served on the Board of WEMABOD. Mrs Fatimah Bintah Bello–Ismail Ordinary Member (Institutional) ​Mrs. Fatimah Bintah BelloIsmail is the Managing Partner of Universal Chambers, a firm of Barristers, Solicitors and Notary Pu​blic. She worked at Kehinde Sofola & Co, and Continental Merchant Bank Plc. She served as a panelist on WIMBIZ's 10th Anniversary Lecturer Series “Women on Board” in March 2012. She was invited by the Republic of Turkey to participate in the W20 (Women 20) Summita sub group and initiative of the Term Presidency of Turkey G20 in October 2015. She is the Secretary of the International Cancer Centre Abuja. Oluwole Adeosun Dealing Member Mr. Oluwole Ololade Adeosun Is the Managing Director and CEO of Chartwell Securities Limited. Chartwell Securities Limited is registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a Broker/Dealer firm and an Issuing House. He was the CEO of Intercontinental Securities Limited from 2000 – 2007. 14 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE NATIONAL COUNCIL MEMBERS Kamarudeen Oladosu Dealing Member Mr. Kamarudeen Kareem Oladosu, a chartered accountant and stockbroker, is the Managing Director of Equity Capital Solutions Ltd. Equity Capital Solutions Limited (ECSL) provides capital market services such as Securities Dealing, Issuing House functions, investment & financial advisory services and other anciliary services. He was former Head of Securities Dealing Services of the defunct Intercontinental Bank Plc. Yomi Adeyemi Dealing Member Mr. Yomi Adeyemi is the Managing Director and CEO of Fortress Capital Limited. Fortress Capital Limited (formerly Heritage Investment and Securities Limited) is duly registered by SEC as an Issuing House, Broker/ Dealer firm and was admitted as a dealing member of The Exchange in 1997. Fortress Capital Limited offers securities trading, asset management and investment advisory services. Seyi Osunkeye Dealing Member Mr. Seyi Osunkeye is the Managing Director of Pilot Securities Limited. Pilot Securities Limited is a Dealing Member of The Exchange and is licenced by SEC as a Broker /Dealer firm. He was a former Treasurer of the Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria. He currently serves on the Boards of Alpgam Energy Plc, Greenfield Integrated Energy Services Ltd, Letshego Microfinance Ltd, and Star Gaming Ltd. Chidi Agbapu Dealing Member Mr. Chidi Agbapu is the Managing Director of Planet Capital Ltd. Planet Capital Limited is a boutique firm licensed by The Exchange and SEC to operate as an Issuing House, Stockbrokers and Financial Advisors. He was former Managing Director of Emerging Capital Ltd. He is the Chairman of the Shareholders Audit Committee of Fidelity Bank Plc. He serves on the Board of General Cotton M​ill Onitsha, MTI Plc., and MTI Ltd (Ghana). He is a past director of Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS), Bendel Feeds and Flour Mills Plc. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE NATIONAL COUNCIL MEMBERS Patrick Ajayi Dealing Member Mr Patrick Adebayo Ajayi is the Managing Director​/CEO of WCM Capital Limited. He qualified as a Stock Broker in 2004 and worked with Support Services Limited (a stockbroking Firm) prior to joining Woodland Capital Markets Plc. He helped to turn around the fortunes of Woodland Capital Markets PLC when he joined in 2013 as part of the new Management Team. He serves on the Boards of Ne​d Phillips Capital Limited and WCM3 Investments Limited. 16 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE Executive Management Oscar N. Onyema, OON Chief Executive Officer Tinuade Awe Bola Adeeko Executive Director, Regulation Divisional Head, Shared Services Jude Chiemeka Olumide Bolumole Divisional Head, Trading Business Divsional Head, Listing Business THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 SUSTAINABILITY, GOVERNANCE AND LEADERSHIP The NSE is committed to aligning with the Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance issued during the reporting year by the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN), sequel to the suspension of the 2016 National Code of Corporate Governance. SUSTAINABILITY, GOVERNANCE AND LEADERSHIP This section provides disclosure on governance practices that are particularly relevant to sustainability issues at the NSE. The National Council of the Nigerian Stock Exchange is the highest body of leadership at the NSE and is responsible for providing oversight of The Exchange's business and financial affairs, strategy, structures and policies; monitoring the exercise of any delegated authority; and dealing with challenges and issues relating to corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and corporate ethics. CSR related issues are overseen by the Governance and Remuneration Committee (GARC). The day-to-day management of The Exchange is vested in obligations. Environmental, social and economic topics are the hands of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who is reviewed on a quarterly basis to identify and analyse assisted by the Executive Committee appointed by the opportunities for the NSE to increase its impact. Council. The Executive Committee drives CSR at the NSE as it addresses relevant economic, environmental and social Currently, the structure of the NSE's highest governance issues during sessions. The Divisional Head of Listing body comprises thirteen members: a Council President, Business has the responsibility for driving sustainable Chief Executive Officer (CEO), an Ex-Officio, four Ordinary finance at the NSE while the Divisional Head of Shared Members and six dealing members. There were no Services has the responsibility for implementing the NSE's significant changes to this structure during the reporting overarching sustainability strategy. Both divisional heads period. However, when the demutualisation process is are members of the Executive Committee. completed, the leadership and governance structures of the NSE are expected to change. These changes will be The Council has unrestricted access to the staff of The reported in future sustainability reports. Exchange as necessary for the effective discharge of its Council Committees The Council established four (4) Council Committees and one (1) Adhoc Committee to facilitate the effective discharge of its oversight responsibilities and efficient decision-making. The Council Committees are set forth below: Audit & Risk Management The Committee is charged with duties relating to financial reporting, internal controls and risk management systems, whistleblowing and fraud, and internal and external Committee audit. The Committee also has oversight responsibilities of The Exchange's litigation portfolio. Regulation Committee The Committee is charged with ensuring that the Exchange discharges its functions as a self-regulatory organisation effectively. It provides oversight over The Exchange's quotations and its disciplinary, investigative, rules and adjudicatory functions. Technical & Business The Committee is charged with the supervision of the technology, business, Committee innovation and Branch Councils' functions of The Exchange. Governance & Remuneration The Committee is charged with ensuring that The Exchange complies with good Committee corporate governance policies and practices. The Committee also provides oversight functions over The Exchange's human resource policies, remuneration practices, corporate social responsibility and sustainability activities and budgeting. Demutualisation Advisory The Committee is responsible for assisting the Council with coordinating The Committee (Adhoc Committee) Exchange's demutualisation process. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 DEMUTUALISING THE NSE The NSE commenced a demutualisation initiative in 2017 after an Extra-Ordinar​y General Meeting (EGM) of its members in March 2017. During the reporting year, significant progress was made to demutualise the NSE. The Demutualisation Bill of the NSE was signed into law and assented to by the Presidency on 29 August, 2018. The Demutualisation Advisory Committee has the responsibility of coordinating the Exchange's demutualisation process. RESTRUCTURING TO CREATE ENHANCED VALUE: OUR 2018 2021 STRATEGIC PLAN Enhancing our Customer · ‘‘Delighting’’ our customers (i.e., customer needs framework via consumer studies Focus · Creating customer value proposition and reward systems · Growing retail participation as a key component of a resilient market Reorganising for · Ensuring the right people are in place to drive our investors’ growth strategy · Optimising the NSE’s organisational structure Optimisation · Sustaining a high-performance culture · Capitalising on core competencies and emerging technologies Capitalising on ‘Big Bang’ · Driving innovation across the organisation Opportunities · Promoting competitive pricing and relevant incentives throughout the value chain During the reporting period, we achieved key successes in implementing our 4-year strategic plan including: Corporate · Restructured for efficiency and innovation and established several new departments Restructuring · Established 37 new roles and filled 13 of these positions Innovation · Launched the Enterprise Innovation Hub to leverage emerging technologies to Hub create smart products and services. Demutualisation · Launched the Enterprise Innovation Hub to leverage emerging technologies to create smart products and services. Derivatives · Completed required technological enhancements for the launch of the derivatives products · Created rulebook which is currently undergoing approval process alongside onboarding of dealing members THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 Code of Conduct Beyond Compliance Our Code of Conduct clearly spells out acceptable and nonThe management of the NSE ensures that corporate acceptable behaviour in the Exchange. There are well governance standards are clearly understood and adhered defined reporting lines for reporting breaches including a to by employees and business partners. For them, whistle blowing policy to facilitate the reporting of compliance with all national and international regulation is concerns regarding ethical behaviour and organisational a key priority. integrity. The code of conduct also provides insight on the Exchange's position on bribery and corruption as well as The NSE is committed to aligning with the Nigerian Code of anti-competitive behaviour. Corporate Governance issued during the reporting year by the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN), sequel to Managing Risks and Opportunities the suspension of the 2016 National Code of Corporate The National Council believes effective risk management Governance. practices are fundamental to the achievement of The Exchange's vision and mission. As a testament to this belief, The National Council has a formal and rigorous process for it approved a robust Risk Management Framework to guide evaluating its performance, that of its committees, the the Exchange's approach for identifying, analysing, Council President and individual Council members. This responding to, and monitoring risks and opportunities, process is codified in the Council's Evaluation Policy. The within its internal and external environment. The Audit and Evaluation, conducted on an annual basis, is usually Risk Management Committee of the National Council conducted by an independent firm. A combination of both provides support to the Council in the discharge of its risk qualitative and quantitative methodology are adopted in management oversight responsibilities, by monitoring the the assessment including desk reviews, deployment of implementation, effectiveness and efficiency of the risk questionnaires and one-on-one interviews with council management processes. The committee reviews the risk members. The Evaluation Report is usually reviewed by profile of The Exchange every quarter to understand and both the GARC and the National Council and assess the adequacy of decisions made by the recommended changes/areas for improvement management on the key risks faced by The Exchange and highlighted for necessary action. arising from new products, services or strategic initiatives. Oscar N. Onyema OON, CEO, NSE; Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, erstwhile Honorable Minister of Roads, Works and Housing, Eme Essien Lore, Country Manager, Interna onal Finance Corpora on; Mr. Mani Gokul, Head, Primary Markets, Middle East, Africa, India, London Stock Exchange Group on a panel at the 2018 NSE/LSE Dual Lis ng Conference. 21 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In order to develop relationships with stakeholders based on mutual trust and respect, various communication mechanisms have been established including help lines, websites, e-bulletins, reports and meetings. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT: BUILDING SUSTAINABLE RELATIONSHIPS We recognise that our long-term business success is dependent on building enduring relationships with our stakeholders. The Exchange's approach to sustainable business practices stems from consistent and extensive engagement with its stakeholders. By regularly engaging and gathering feedback, we work to address issues of concern with the aim of improving our business activities and operations. We define our stakeholders according to the Accountability AA1001 Stakeholder Engagement Standard (SES) 2015. We strive to build enduring relationships based on the principles of equality, transparency, accountability and responsibility. We attach importance to effective and continuous dialogue with stakeholders and we continue efforts to develop channels for communication with stakeholders. OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT APPROACH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders engaged at The Exchange are represented below: Our stakeholders consist of employees, member, companies, investors, regulatory bodies, the media and Non-Government Organisations (NGOs), amongst others. In order to develop relationships with Listed/ stakeholders based on mutual trust and respect, Potential Brokers/ Issuers Dealers/ various communication mechanisms have been Media/ Members Analysts established including help lines, websites, e-bulletins, Clearing/ reports and meetings. In addition to these, joint Market participants initiatives are carried out with stakeholders in Local different fields, and we come together in collaboration Investors platforms. Employees The We engaged our employees through quarterly town hall International Exchange meetings; employee engagement surveys through our Investors Regulators 'Best Place to Work' platform; regular intranet & e-mail communication; weekly Heads of Department and NGOs/ Professional Executive Committee meetings; brown bag sessions Bodies based on various topics; induction programme for new Suppliers/ recruits, amongst others. Our investors were engaged Government Other Business Exchanges Partners through events and platforms such as guided tours of The Exchange, media parleys, our website, and other ad hoc activities. 23 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The table below provides an overview of our stakeholder engagement for the reporting year: Our Stakeholder Engagement Grid S/N Stakeholders Mode of Engagement Frequency of Engagement Examples 1 Listed/Potential Issuers Annual stakeholder engagement Annual and ad hoc We hosted 112 personnel within these functions sessions; factory visits; from 74 listed companies at our 2018 Issuers consultations; printed materials; Engagement Forum themed Achieving enquiries; face-to-face meetings; Compliance Through Substantial Engagement . training. This session helped us receive feedback on a feasible timeline for when companies can issue their sustainability reports required by the NSE sustainability disclosure guidelines. 2 Brokers/Dealers/ Bi-monthly CEO breakfast Bi-monthly and quarterly We started the reporting year with plans to Members meetings; quarterly compliance implement a pricing methodology and par value officers forum; quarterly change initiatives. To ensure these initiatives investigation panel meetings; were successful, we trained over 500 regular training. stakeholders including stockbrokers and investors on the benefits of the new methodology. These sessions were critical to reducing potential conflict between the NSE and related stakeholders. 3 Employees Quarterly Town hall meetings; Quarterly and ad hoc Our quarterly town hall meetings are one of the employee engagement survey (daily, weekly) most important platforms we deploy to engender through 'Best Place to Work' inclusive conversations between management platform; regular intranet & e-mail and employees. communication; weekly Heads of Department and Executive Suggestions boxes have also been provided on all Committee meetings; brown bag our floors for employee engagement with sessions based on various topics; Executive Management. induction programme for new recruits and regular in-house seminars for all employees. 4 Regulators Ad hoc liaison & working Ad hoc In line with our commitment to foster the growth meetings; regular reports & of ESG performance and reporting among listed review of The Exchange's companies, we engaged the SEC for approval to performance in its regulation of launch a set of guidelines on sustainability listing matters; informal meetings reporting for listed companies. on specific cases and regular meetings on policy matters; The guidelines have been approved. attend to requests for documents on ad hoc basis. 5 Clearing Regular briefings, seminars, Regular and ad hoc Launched X-Bot to enhance market participation participants/Market meetings and discussions; by applying artificial intelligence to provide data participants information package issued from and information from the Exchange to market time to time; regular participant participants, especially retail investors, in a more circulars; ad hoc surveys; market convenient, faster and in real-time access. consultation on new proposals. 6 Suppliers/Business Site inspection as scheduled; Ad hoc NSE maintains close relationships with leading partners meetings on a need basis. business partners and suppliers, particularly data vendors and distributors, who disseminate a wide range of NSE market data via The Exchange's Market Data Feed service. 7 NGOs/ Consultations on new proposals; Regular NSE signed an MOU with RecyclePoints Ltd to Professional bodies regular meetings and boost our commitment to ensuring a sustainable correspondence; ad hoc written environment. This partnership facilitates waste requests; co-organisation of collection as part of our internal recycling drive. seminars and events. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 8 Government Verbal and written communications Ad hoc Our role at the centre of the capital market has a with The Presidency; Ministry of strong public interest which aligns with an array of Finance; Ministry of Environment; government organisations that we work with. For Central Bank and other Ministries; example, we work closely with the Economic and meeting with President of the Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to achieve Federal Republic of Nigeria, investor protection which is also paramount to Speaker of the Federal House of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Representatives; responding to legislative enquiries from the Similarly, we pay courtesy visits to the Executive National Assembly, meetings upon and Legislative arms of the Federal Government request. on key economic issues. 9 Other Exchanges Regular meetings on specific Regular NSE hosted the 2018 ASEA conference themed projects; delegations for courtesy “Champions on the rise: Africa's ascension to a and training purposes; frequent more sustainable future”. We are also members verbal and written of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) and communications; annual board Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (SSEI). meeting of World Federation of Exchanges and Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative, African Stock Exchanges Association (ASEA) Exco, West African Capital Markets Integration Council (WACMIC). 10 Int'l investors Guided tour of The Exchange Regular In partnership with the London Stock Exchange Trading Floor on prior Group (LSEG), NSE hosted the 5th edition of the arrangement; regular media NSE-LSE Dual Listing Conference in Lagos. interviews and events, including Themed Attracting Global Capital to Drive the quarterly media parley and Nigeria's Economic Reforms and Sustainable media/analyst briefings on The Growth Development”, the workshop brought Exchange's financial year outlook; together companies keen to explore a news releases whenever there is London/Lagos dual listing, corporate finance any information update; daily experts, lawyers, capital market operators, phone and written enquiries; The regulators, government officials, media and Exchange website, news alerts and thought leaders to discuss investment social media channels; circulation opportunities in Nigeria. of daily, weekly and monthly statistics. 11 Local investors Seminars, access to market data, Regular We continued hosting our Facts Behind the press releases. Figures and Facts behind the listings events which promotes transparency by creating a platform for investors and other market participants to engage listed companies in discourse on their financial performance . 12 Media/Analysts Press conferences, press releases, Regular We commissioned a media lounge at our access to the NSE library equipped headquarters to serve as a meeting and bonding with computers and high-speed facility for journalists that cover the activities of internet, allowing media The Exchange. Regular information about The practitioners to conduct their Exchange is shared via press releases to the research and file their reports media. from the Exchange. 25 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT In defining materiality in this report, we put into consideration our social, environmental and economic impacts and how they significantly affect our current and future ability to create sustainable value. MATERIALITY REVIEW Our materiality review is conducted to help us identify the environmental, social and governance issues that affect or have the potential to have a significant impact on our operations. In defining materiality, we deploy the following frameworks to identify and report material issues: 1. Our priorities as a leading securities exchange in Africa 2. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards content index 3. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), 4. Our commitment to the Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative (SSEI) and, 5. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We consult extensively across our stakeholder universe to identify the issues that are most important to our business, our stakeholders and society. OUR APPROACH TO MATERIALITY trend, the NSE equity market started 2018 on a high, with the All Share Index (ASI) reaching a ten-year peak of 45,092.83 in We have adopted a materiality process which involves the January. following steps: However, the uncertainties associated with the 2019 general elections created investor sentiment that resulted in a steady drop in foreign portfolio investment (FPI) during the year. Identification Stakeholder of issues Prioritisation Engagement important to of identified Regional Macroeconomic Trends us and our issues stakeholders In an environment of slowing global growth, the fast-growing population and markets across Africa present important opportunities for businesses. As Africa's industrial revolution ramps up, experts estimate that African industries have the opportunity to double production within a decade. Recent OUR MATERIAL ISSUES advances to improve regional integration such as the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) will boost interIn defining materiality in this report, we put into continental trade. Capital markets are expected to propel consideration our social, environmental and economic this momentum. impacts and how they significantly affect our current and future ability to create sustainable value. In addition, United Nations (UN) estimates a financing gap of $2.5 trillion per year exists for developing countries to Our continued success in facilitating sustainable achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Capital development is influenced by a number of frequently markets will play a crucial role to channel private sector changing material factors. Each material factor brings unique investments for Africa's development. risks and opportunities to the organisation. Material factors that impacted our business operations during the reporting Talent period and will potentially continue to have a potential to impact our operations in the near future include: Within the financial services sector, we operate in a specialised industry of ever evolving security exchanges. Across many functions within the Exchange, the talent required are not readily transferrable from other sectors of The Nigerian economy continued its path of recovery, the financial sector. In addition, the global nature of the growing by 1.81% year-on-year in real terms as at the third financial industry requires our talent to align to international quarter of 2018. Riding on the winds of the economic standards while ensuring fit for the local and regional recovery, year-on-year growth in capital importation to context. Nigeria reached 114.33% as at September 2018, from the corresponding period of the previous year. The NSE All Share Our continued success is dependent on our ability to attract, Index emerged the best in Africa in 2017. Building on this retain and empower a highly qualified and motivated 27 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT workforce. Our Material Issues Technology High Impact Areas Technology is one of the most significant enablers of the Promoting environmental, social and governance issues (ESG) capital market. Globally, activities on stock exchanges are increasingly driven by high speed transactions across Data security and customer privacy (DSCP) geographies. We rely on technology to drive all aspects of Managing business continuity and technology risks (BCTR) our business activities and operations. Today's technology industry is characterised by advances that are changing at Improving customer relations (CR) an accelerating pace and the NSE strives to stay ahead of Promoting financial literacy and inclusion (FL) the innovation curve by implementing cutting edge technology. Promoting transparency and efficiency in the capital market (TE) Systemic risk management (RM) For example, during the reporting year, the NSE deployed Artificial Intelligence (AI) to provide faster and real-time Medium Impact Areas access to data and information from the Exchange. Access and affordability (AA) Competitive behaviour (CB) Growth of Sustainable Finance Compensation and benefits (CB) Globally, sustainable investments now account for about one-quarter of all professionally managed investments Managing conflict of interest (CI) globally. Closer to home, advances in sustainable finance saw Energy saving (ES) the launch of the first fully certified sovereign green bond in Nigeria and the world's first blue bond in Seychelles. Waste management (WM) Diversity and inclusion (DI) Through our membership of the Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (SSEI), the NSE is committed to fostering the Low Impact Areas development of long term sustainable finance. In addition, The Exchange is a signatory to the Marrakech Pledge, a Employee volunteering (EV) continental coalition of African Capital Markets Regulators Community relations (ER) and Exchanges committed to act collectively in favor of fostering Green Capital Markets in Africa. Fair marketing and advertising (FMA) 60 MA BCTR DSCP RM TE Level of Importance to Stakeholders FL CI ESG 40 CR AA CB CB DI WM FMA ES EV 20 0 0 20 40 60 Level of Importance to NSE THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE NSE Building on our sustainability journey to date, 2018 saw us take further steps to strengthen our approach to sustainability by implementing several activities and initiatives under our strategic pillars of Marketplace, Workplace, Community and the Environment. SUSTAINABILITY AT THE EXCHANGE Sustainability is an integral part of our corporate strategy at The Exchange. We strive to integrate sustainability into our business models and decision-making mechanisms, putting into consideration our goal to be the sustainable exchange championing Africa's growth. Building on our sustainability journey to date, 2018 saw us take further steps to strengthen our approach to sustainability by implementing several activities and initiatives under our strategic pillars of Marketplace, Workplace, Community and the Environment. PROGRESS ON OUR COMMITMENTS Several milestones were achieved in the reporting year 2018 across all our strategic objectives with corresponding measurable impact on all stakeholder groups. The table below indicates progress we have made on our commitments across our CSR pillars along with our aspirations for the near future. Focus area Commitment What we set to do in 2018 What we achieved in 2018 What we plan to do in 2019 Impact over 7500 students Impacted 231,048 beneficiaries Impact 300,000 beneficiaries through from over 29 secondary (42,480 students) through 424 financial literacy programmes across schools across the country financial literacy programmes the country with knowledge of financial literacy Provide educational Continued N10 million Continue N10 million commitment for the intervention for internally commitment for the running of running of Maisandari Alamderi Model displaced children and youths Maisandari Alamderi Model Nursery and Primary School purposely built in Borno State, North East Nursery and Primary School for Internally Displayed Persons in Maiduguri Nigeria donated by the NSE Community Enrich the Increase participation in the 20,061 essay entries received Increase number of essay entries to 30,000 communities annual essay competition to where we live and 20,000 work Commence training at X16 programs for 968 participants. 1,650 participants through 49 programs Academy to boost capital 26 participants in The Exchange market literacy Graduate Trainee Programme; the largest class since inception Raise up to N50 million in N28.5 million raised through Increase donations for cancer-related causes donations from annual donations to N30 million Corporate Challenge for intervention in cancer related causes Ensure up to 200 women Over 200 women attended the Ensure at least 200 women participate in the participate in the International half-day symposium 2019 International Women's Day celebrations Women's Day celebrations Workplace Create an enabling Support health and education Employees donated cash, gift Continue to support health and environment with of vulnerable children through items (clothing, food items, education of vulnurable children sound impactful initiatives toiletries, school supplies, through impactful initiatives organisational household items, toys, etc) to SOS culture that Children Village, Bethesda Home promotes diversity of the Blind and Children of and inclusion as Promise Orphanage well as the wellbeing and development of employees THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 Marketplace Promote marketConduct another CGRS Conducted CGRS exercise, hosted Continue to champion credible capital market based approach to exercise for companies and the 5th edition of NSE-LSE Dual engagements and knowledge sharing through ESG imperatives directors Listing Conference; ASEA's flagship workshops, seminars and conferences amongst all event; Capital Market Information stakeholders Security Forum; NSE Market Data Workshop and the Maiden NSEETP Conference Secured SEC's approval for Commence Sustainability Reporting for Sustainability Disclosure issuers and listed companies Guidelines for all listed companies Environment Adopt approaches Convert the NSE head office Proposal was approved, execution Conclude the conversion from fossil fuels to to minimise energy source from diesel to delayed by legal issues with LPG liquefied petroleum gas once the distribution negative LPG and their rights for energy legal frame work is concluded environmental distribution. Held employee impact on the volunteering programme on 2018 environment World Environment Day themed 'Beat Plastic Pollution'. Also held a clean-up programme aimed at clearing plastic waste from our immediate environment and creating awareness on the menace of plastic pollution Host a community awareness Signed a Memorandum of Continue to engage in and design employee program to reduce plastic Understanding (MoU) with Recycle initiatives to protect and nurture the pollution Points Ltd in support of the environment Cleaner Lagos Initiative Students listen with rapt attention to lessons on financial literacy, during a session at the 2018 Global Money Week which held at The Exchange 31 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We remain committed to leveraging our scale to make progress towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The financial sector has a significant role to play in financing the SDGs. This is why the NSE is committed to galvanising action by providing investors and businesses with a reliable platform to access the long-term finance required to ultimately achieve economic, social and environmental benefits. Through our programmes and initiatives this year, we have been able to impact over 309,700 people so far along our strategic pillars and commitments. All the programmes implemented by The Exchange are also mapped to the global SDGs to indicate how we are contributing our quota to a sustainable world. Community Markeplace Workplace Environment THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 THE SUSTAINABLE STOCK UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT EXCHANGES INITIATIVE NIGERIA BOARD The Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative is a UN Partnership Programme of the UN Conference on Trade The Exchange has been appointed to the Steering and Development (UNCTAD), the UN Global Compact, the Committee of the United Nations Global Compact Local UN Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), and Network Nigeria. In this role, the NSE will be part of the the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). The SSE strategic team that will be shaping the implementation of convenes Partner Exchanges from around the world who the Sustainable Development Goals in Nigeria. join the SSE by signing a voluntary public commitment. The Nigerian Stock Exchange is a proud signatory to this commitment. Like many United Nations initiatives, the SSE and its partners focus activities towards advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as agreed upon by the General Assembly within the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Participants at the 2018 NSE Corporate Challenge get ready to commence The Exchange’s annual race to raise awareness and funds to fight the scourge of cancer in Nigeria. 33 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MARKETPLACE The Market Services Department serves all stakeholders in the capital market industry, whether local or international. The geographic locations covered include Nigeria, Africa, Asia, Europe and America. MARKETPLACE The Exchange serves as a dynamic yet complex institution Africa, features large to small-sized companies from different possessing inherent mechanisms and structures through economic​ sectors, that meet and adhere to its globally compliant which long term financial resources are mobilised, high listing standards. harnessed and efficiently made available to drive economic development. The Exchange's equities market features three boards: As at 2018, The Exchange has over 160 listed companies Market Capitalisation Market Capitalisation with a total market capitalisation of over N13 trillion. The Equities Number (NGN) as of Sep30, (USD)* as of Sep 30, Category Listed 2018 2018 listed companies fall under the categories listed below: · Agriculture Premium Board 7 5,574,105,028,914.65 5,574,105,028,914.65 · Conglomerates Main Board 153 6,388,151,694,831.03 6,388,151,694,831.03 · Construction/Real Estate · Consumer Goods AseM 9 7,643,198,772.12 7,643,198,772.12 · Financial Services Listed Securities (Q3 2018) · Health Care · ICT Premium Board · Industrial Goods The NSE recorded significant progress across the Premium · Natural Resources Board with the migration of 4 additional companies after · Oil & Gas they passed the corporate governance and market · Services capitalisation requirements. This growth heralds the birth of a new dimension in the NSE's efforts to promote high MARKETPLACE HIGHLIGHTS levels of corporate governance and sustainability amongst listed companies. Leveraging Technology for Innovation · Launched X-Bot, X-Pay The Premium Board is the NSE's listing segment for the elite group of issuers that meet the Exchange's most stringent · Launched Enterprise Innovation Hub corporate governance, and the high​est standards of capitalisation and liquidity. Launched in 2015 along with Promoting ethical and sustainable finance the NSE Premium Board Index, the Premium Board · Listed first Sovereign green bond from an emerging showcases companies that are leaders in their respective economy sectors. A total of 7 of Nigeria's leading companies are now listed on the NSE Premium Board. · Listed first ijara sukuk infrastructure bond Advances on the NSE Premium Board The NSE Premium Board Index has continued to outperform the NSE-All share index, reaching a 3-year · Migrated 4 additional companies to the Premium return of over 48%. These successes emphasize the key Board role of promoting high levels of corporate governance in delivering superior business and financial performance. EQUITIES MARKET The Market Services Department serves all stakeholders in the Main Board capital market industry, whether local or international. The Building on the recovery of the Nigerian economy from geographic locations covered include Nigeria, Africa, Asia, recession and the success attained after emerging the third Europe and America. The Department serves mainly all best performing exchange in the world, The Exchange stakeholders in the capital market such as market data vendors, continued to the potential of listing on the NSE. brokers, pension fund managers, regulators, media, website and mobile aggregators, researchers and students and recently, The 5th edition of the NSE-LSE Dual Listing Conference themed fintech startups. Through The Exchange's Business Continuity ‘Attracting Global Capital to Drive Nigeria's Economic Reforms Steering Committee which has representation from diverse and Sustainable Growth Development’ hosted corporate departments and units, adequate attention is paid to all finance experts, lawyers, capital market operators, regulators, transactions on the floor of The Exchange. government officials, media and thought leaders to discuss investment opportunities in Nigeria. The conference, a The Nigerian Stock Exchange, as a preferred listing destination in platform for engaging companies keen to explore a 35 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT London/Lagos dual listing, is a partnership between the NSE Q3 2018 52-Week Change By Capitalisation††† and the London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG). (Sept 2018) (Sep 2017 Sep 2018) N7.92tn Large Cap (>$1 billion) -3.54% $21.78bn Alternatives Market To encourage and improve retail participation in the capital Mid Cap ($150 million N2.90tn -5.91% market, The Exchange conducts awareness and advocacy -$1billion) $7.96bn programmes. The NSE also has the (Alternative Securities Small Cap N1.15bn 22.83% (< $150 million) $3.17bn Market (ASeM) Board, which allows SMEs to participate in the capital markets. DATA SECURITY FIXED INCOME Data security is a critical aspect of our ongoing initiative to Market Capitalisation Market Capitalisation Number drive technology and innovation across The Exchange. Since Category Listed (NGN) as of Sep30, (USD)* as of Sep 30, 2018 2018 the launch of the NSE's world class data centre in 2017, we have significantly deepened our ability to offer state of the FGN Bonds 61 9,479,519,184,589.89 9,479,519,184,589.89 art and secure cloud services to a wide array of customers. Corporate Bonds 22 274,453,110,000.00 274,453,110,000.00 Ensuring data security is maintained at all times, The State and 23 606,269,507,190.00 606,269,507,190.00 Municipal Bonds Exchange facilitates the discourse across the financial system on best practice data management and security. Since 2014, Supranational 2 12,950,000,000.00 12,950,000,000.00 Bonds the NSE has provided a platform for stakeholders and thought leaders in the information security space to share Total 288 22,349,068,179,544.91 61,435,670,403.94 knowledge on Information Security best practices by hosting Listed Securities (Q3 2018) the annual Nigerian Capital Market Information Security Forum. The NSE hosts and lists different fixed income instruments on its platform which include: This platform helps raise awareness data security and how Ÿ Federal Government Bonds key financial sector operators can implement initiatives to Ÿ State/Local Government Bonds improve customer/investor protection from cyber threats. Ÿ Supranational Bonds Ÿ Corporate Bonds Performance by Sector and Capitalisation Ÿ Euro Bonds By Sector Q3 2018 52 Week Change (Oct. (Sept.) 2017 – Sept. 2018) N132.66 bn Diversifying Fixed Instruments Across Agriculture 7.48% $364.68 mn The Exchange N88.08bn The debut of the first sovereign green bond and the ijara Conglomerates -2.48% $242.13mn sukuk deepened financial inclusion across the capital Construction/Real N74.73bn -13.78% market by providing instruments across asset classes that Estate $205.42 mn appeal to ethical and sustainability concerned investors. N3.00tn Consumer Goods -7.32% $8.24bn First Certified Sovereign Green Bond Issuance N3.97 Financial Services 0.89% The Federal Government Sovereign Green Bond was listed tn$10.92bn N33.90 bn on the Exchange during the reporting year. The listing of Health Care -15.94% this Sovereign Green Bond, which is the country's first ever $93.20mn certified green bond and the first in an emerging market, is N27.56 bn ICT -19.56% a culmination of the NSE's efforts to promote sustainable $75.76mn finance as a viable solution to achieve the sustainable N3.89tn Industrial Goods -2.31% development agenda in Nigeria. $10.69 bn N4.46 bn Natural Resources -24.85% $12.27 mn The NSE played a critical role in conceptualising the bond N619.10 and galvanising stakeholders to ensure the bond was listed. Oil & Gas 8.63% To promote the bond and highlight the opportunities for bn$1.70 bn N131.00 bn sustainable finance in Nigeria, the NSE held a pre-listing Services 4.69% $360.11 mn THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 conference for market participants, themed, 'Exploring the Federal Government's efforts to improve the road network Green Financing Opportunity: Green Bonds and Enabling across the 6 geopolitical zones of the country, emphasizes Frameworks' on the same day of the listing. In 2016, the the role of the NSE in galvanising resources to achieve NSE collaborated with the Federal Ministry of sustainable development in Africa's largest economy. Environment, Federal Ministry of Finance and Debt Management Office to host a high profile conference themed “Green Bonds: Investing in Nigeria's Sustainable Development” which was a major step towards the EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS conceptualisation of the sovereign green bond. Exchange Traded Funds are another product that is listed on The Nigerian Stock Exchange. The ETF is a kind of security that tracks performance of investment of underlying assets such as bonds and indices. The trading of the ETF is similar to that of stocks. ETFs derive their performance from the index or underlying assets they track. With the ETF, investors are availed the opportunity to diversify their investments and gain exposure to various investment strategies and asset classes, including: Ÿ Local Fixed Income Ÿ Local Equities Oscar N. Onyema, OON, CEO, The Nigerian Stock Exchange, responds to questions Ÿ International Markets from the audience during the Official Listing Ceremony of the FGN Green Bond Ÿ Commodities Green Bonds Listing and Pre-Listing Conference Number Market Capitalisation Market Capitalisation Category (NGN) as of Sep30, (USD)* as of Sep 30, Listed The first Sovereign Green Bond (N10.69billion, 5-year, 2018 2018 Federal Government Sovereign Green Bond at coupon rate Exchange9 5,976,455,247.22 5,976,455,247.22 Traded Funds of 13.48%) in an emerging market, was listed on The Nigerian Stock Exchange by Debt Management Office (DMO) on Friday, 20 July, 2018. Exchange Traded Products (ETPs) Conference The event had in attendance about 200 market operators, The Nigerian Stock Exchange hosted the 2018 Exchange government officials, c-level executives, as well as top Traded Products (ETPs) Conference, tagged, 'Exchange officials from the academic and sustainability sector. The Traded Products: Evolving Investment Themes, Accessing event was headlined by Ms. Pat Oniha, DG, DMO, Hon. New Markets and Enhancing Portfolio Alpha', on Ibrahim Usman Jibril, the Honourable Minister of State for Wednesday, 5 December, 2018, at the Oriental Hotel, Environment, and Ms. Amina J. Mohammed, United Lagos. Nations Deputy Secretary General, represented by Mr. Edward Kallon, United Nations Resident/Humanitarian Coordinator, and Chapel Hill Denham, who was the It was noted that the ETPs space had grown steadily by a financial adviser to the transaction. cumulative average growth rate of 8.0 per cent over the last four years. Currently, there are nine ETPs listed on The Exchange, two thematic ETFs providing access to pensionThe green bond issuance and listing follows Nigeria's compliant and Shariah-compliant stocks, 2 broad equity endorsement of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change market ETFs tracking the NSE 30 Index, 3 sector-based ETFs, on 21 September, 2016. The Paris Agreement aims to 1 commodity ETF, and 1 bond ETF tracking exposure to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate benchmark FGN Sovereign Bonds. The conference thus change. served as a form of capacity building for issuers and intermediaries to expand their footprint by broadening distribution channels, introducing other asset First Ijara Sukuk Issuance classes/strategies, entering new markets, leveraging technology and data analytics to understand the market The capital market also witnessed the listing of the first and demand. Federal Government Ijarah Sukuk valued at N100bn with a tenure of 7 years. Sukuk are bonds structured to generate returns according to Islamic non-interest finance principles. This issuance, which will be used to support the 37 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT technology to enable customers access NSE services using their PCs, tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, thereby reducing the cost of transactions. Launch of X-Bot We are leveraging the power of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to Damilola Ajayi, Executive Director, Vetiva Capital Management; Dayo Obisan, Managing Director, Greenwich Asset improve access to information about the Exchange to Management; Shuaib Audu, Executive Director, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management; Ndako Minjidadi, Head, Investment & Research, Lotus Capital and Suleiman Adedokun, Managing Director, Meristem Wealth Management in market participants. X-Bot, an AI powered Chatbot that a panel discussion on “Practical Solutions to Identified Challenges in the Nigerian ETF Market Segment” at the 2018 NSE ETPs Conference responds directly and automatically to enquiries through Facebook Messenger is designed to provide convenient, faster and real-time access to on-demand market information, news and events on the activities of the Exchange. X-Bot was launched in December. To attend to all enquiries at The Exchange, The NSE Contact Center is available. NSE also launched X-Bot, an artificial intelligence AI-powered chatbot that responds directly and automatically to enquiries made through Facebook Nerina Visser, ETF Strategist, ETF South Africa presenting a paper titled “Using ETFs to engender and promote financial inclusion in Africa and support infrastructural development: Case Study of Tax Free ETF Savings Plan in Messenger. The Exchange also has segment/ sectorSouth Africa and the CFSE ETF of India” at the 2018 NSE ETPs Conference specific account managers, and it explores several avenues to seek feedback on customers' satisfaction. Accolades for Best Use of Technology Our drive to promote innovation through technology did not go unnoticed. We received the 2018 Nigeria Technology Innovation & Telecom Awards (NTITA) for 'Best Use of Technology for Efficiency Award. The annual NTITA awards is organised to showcase excellence and celebrate Dayo Obisan, Managing Director, Greenwich Asset Management; Shuaib Audu, Executive Director, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management; Damilola Ajayi, Executive Director, Vetiva Capital Management; Oscar N. Onyema, OON, Chief the continued growth of Nigeria's Information, Executive Officer, The Nigerian Stock Exchange; Ndako Minjidadi, Head, Investment & Research, Lotis Capital and Suleiman Adedokun, Managing Director, Meristem Wealth Management at the 2018 NSE ETPs Conference Communication and Technology industry. The NSE is proud to be recognised for our innovative approach in delivering exceptional innovations in technology for the capital LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY FOR market. MARKET GROWTH Deploying innovative market-related solutions through MARKET DATA technology is critical to our success in an increasingly To meet up with the diverse requirement of users who interconnected world. X-Pay and X-Bot are technologywant to keep up to date with market activities, The based solutions launched during the reporting year to Exchange provides a range of real-time, end-of-day, reference enhance the delivery of services across our marketplace. and historical data products. The NSE recognises that the delivery mechanisms and platforms associated with its market data are essential to transparency in the Nigerian capital We launched the NSE Enterprise Innovation Hub as a market and will help in the growth of its ecosystem. platform for incubating and accelerating ideas that meet the needs of our marketplace. Over the years, we have Through a number of authorised vendors, access to the NSE's provided over 50 innovative market data products to market data can be obtained both locally and globally. NSE ensure key market stakeholders can create value across the data can also be purchased directly from the Exchange entire NSE value chain. depending on user's preference. Regardless of source, all NSE data must be used and distributed in accordance with the NSE Launch of X-Pay Market Data Agreement. M ​ arket data comprises of exchange Further deepening our drive to improve the customer data, technology services, connectivity and feeds and access experience at the Exchange, we launched X-Pay, a market data. dedicated payments platform to enable users to conveniently make payments for products, services, events and trainings offered across the Exchange. The X-Pay 3rd Annual Market Data Conference We partnered with Sterling Bank Plc to host the 3rd Annual platform leverages the power of innovation and digital THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38 Market Data Workshop in October. The workshop served to the listing of a N100bn FGN Ijarah Sukuk designed to deepen our relationship with key market stakeholders and finance critical road infrastructure across the country. thought leaders on issues surrounding the future capital The table below summarises the financial performance of markets in the wake of the 4th industrial revolution and The Exchange for the reporting year: other disruptive technologies that have the potential to drive growth in the financial services industry. Financial activities for the year ended 2018: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE FOR 2018 Details 2018 At the commencement of the 2018 Financial/Reporting year, NSE equity market was high, with the All Share Index N’000 (ASI) reaching a ten-year peak of 45,092.83 in January. This was largely driven by the positive performance of the ASI in Economic value generated 2017 which emerged the best in Africa. However, towards the second quarter, political risks, oil price volatility and Revenue 8,275,849 rising global yields resulted in bearish sentiments that saw the ASI and equity market capitalisation fall by 17.81% and 13.87% to close at 31,430.50 and N11.73trillion, Economic value distributed respectively. Listing activity remained relatively low during the year, (one listing and four delistings) equity turnover Operating cost (2,431,748) remained relatively stable, marginally declining by 5.45% to N1.20trillion. Turnover velocity inched up 0.91 Personnel expenses (3,065,236) percentage points to 10.25%, and likewise, the size of volumes traded in the period increased by 0.96% to Payment to government (Tax) 101.43billion with the Financial Services sector being responsible for the highest traded in volume and value. In (5,496,984) the year under review, foreign portfolio investments RETAINED IN THE BUSINESS outpaced domestic participation by 1.73%, accounting for 50.87% of total transactions, while domestic transactions For depreciation and amortisation (580,384) accounted for 49.13%. To augment reserves (2,198,481) Fixed income market capitalisation increased by 11.75% to N10.17tn from N9.10tn in 2017. The market also witnessed (8,275,849) Oscar N. Onyema, OON, CEO, The Nigerian Stock Exchange, responding to questions from the audience during the 2017 Market Recap|2018 Outlook presentation at The Exchange. 39 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WORKPLACE We are dedicated to creating a culture of excellence for all our staff with a deep commitment to human capital development. We recognise that our employees are the heart, mind and soul of our Exchange. WORKPLACE HIGHLIGHTS Strategic restructuring Ÿ Launched change management plan and restructured for efficiency Ÿ Created several new departments including Regulation Technology Ÿ Launched NSE Olympics The Exchange is at the heart of the economy of Africa's largest economy. Ensuring The Exchange is driven by a highly motivated and skilled talent base is critical to delivering world-class services that will further position the NSE as the preferred exchange hub. To achieve this objective, we initiated a workforce restructuring programme during the reporting year referred to as the HR restructuring project. The HR restructuring project was conducted in line with a change management programme which featured critical activities such as the focus group sessions, change readiness and impact surveys. We are dedicated to creating a culture of excellence for all our employees with a deep commitment to human capital Count of Employees development. We recognise that our employees are the heart, mind and soul of our Exchange. Female Employees 90 EMPLOYEE PROFILE Male Employees 156 Human capital is critically important to The Exchange — 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 our council members, our management, our stakeholders Count of Employees 246 and our employees. Our track record is one of growth and innovation driven by highly capable and engaged teams. Management Levels We believe that an engaged workforce is a critical success factor and we remain committed to building a highperforming culture where people can thrive. 8% For the reporting year, we had a total staff strength of 246 18% employees, comprising 156 males and 90 females, all motivated and committed to actualising The Exchange's goals. Senior and middle management represented 8% and 18% of the total employee profile respectively. A total 74% of 205 employees, representing the bulk of our staff strength were professional staff, while 41 supported the NSE as auxiliary employees. Senior Management Mid Management Junior Management 41 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Employee account Average hours of training per gender Auxiliary Employees 41 Male 51 Female Professional 97 Employees 205 BUILDING AND NURTURING TALENT Average hours of training per employee category We recognise that building capacity amongst employees is 4.19 one of the contributors to the success of any organisation. We know that to be 'future ready' entails meeting the everevolving business demands of the capital market. To achieve this, we have invested in building and strengthening our employees' competencies particularly in developing their ability to be adaptable, agile and innovative. The Exchange has put in place several mechanisms to build capacity and competence amongst our staff. Some of these are: 39 LEAD The Leadership Enhancement and Development (LEAD) programme is The Exchange's strategy used to Professional Auxilliary develop its experienced hire and build high-performing, innovative, and global leaders who are confident and ready to take up new and higher responsibilities. EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION CDGP The Competency Development and Growth AND BENEFITS Programme (CDGP) is a structured approach by The We employ best practice in matters of remuneration. The Exchange to demonstrate its commitment to employee Nigerian Stock Exchange has a pay structure and benefits competency development toward the growth of each policy which determines the remuneration elements individual via a learning culture. applicable to the job grades in the organisation. The Exchange also has a policy called the Remuneration For the reporting year, average hours of training for men is Adjustment Framework which sets out the process 51 hours while that of women is 97 hours. In terms of required for adjustment of The Exchange's remuneration in employee category, average hours for professional line with The Exchange's strategic objective and best employees is 39 hours while that of auxiliary employees is practices. Retirement benefits are guided by the statutory 4.19 hours. These are represented in the charts below: requirements of the Nigerian Pension Reform Act 2014. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42 Our pay structure is based on job grades and not gender or Number of complaints Number of reports S/N Category filed during the pending as at the end other consideration. The Exchange does not operate in a reporting year of the financial year unionised environment, hence collective bargaining is not 1 Child labour Nil Nil applicable. Presently, our entry level salaries are above the national minimum wage. With regard to benefits, both 2 Forced labour Nil Nil permanent and fixed-term employment employees are 3 Involuntary labour Nil Nil provided the same benefits such as parental leave, medical 4 Sexual harassment Nil Nil insurance, life insurance, accident insurance, pension contribution amongst others. The table below provides information on staff who took parental leave and who SHOWCASING DIVERSITY returned back to work after the leave for the reporting year. Each person working for The Exchange is considered equal as others without any discrimination based on language, religion, philosophical view, political view, race, gender and Details of number of staff who took parental other reasons. The NSE strives to provide equal leave opportunities to everybody and this approach is based on S/N Description of Event Male Female Total ‘right person for the right task’, ‘equal work-load, equal wage’ and ‘rewarding success’ principles. Our pay structure 1 Total number of employees 156 90 246 is based on job grades not gender. Hiring and promotion is that were entitled to parental also based on competence and performance. leave, by gender The National Council is currently composed of 23% female 2 Total number of employees 5 6 11 and 77% male, as represented in the chart below: that took parental leave, by gender 3 Total number of employees 5 6 11 that returned to work in the reporting period after Gender Distribution of National Council Members parental leave ended, by gender 23% 4 Total number of employees 5 6 11 that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender 5 Return to work and retention 100% 100% 100% rates of employees that took 77% parental leave, by gender Female Male LABOUR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS At The Exchange, we have a strict stance against child MAIDEN EDITION labour and forced labour in our employment practices. We OF THE NSE X-CHALLENGE have institutionalised policies to ensure that we follow due We launched the NSE X-Challenge to foster stronger processes and practices that are in line with all labour working relationships amongst our employees. This event regulations and laws. For the reporting year, we had no will be organised annually as a platform to foster a reported incident of forced labour or compulsory or child culture of collaboration and competition among our labour in any of our operations. We remain committed to employees. protecting the dignity of our employees at all times. 43 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING At the NSE, we have a strong culture of giving back to realised out of which N205,000 was used for health communities and being a good corporate citizen. We sponsorship of 10 children for a period of one year. support and encourage our employees to volunteer, using their skills, resources and time, to worthy causes 2. Employee Volunteering for World Environment Day: that make a difference in society. For the reporting year As a way of engaging employees during the 2018 2018, we had the following employee volunteering World Environment Day which was themed 'Beat activities: Plastic Pollution', we held a clean-up programme aimed at clearing plastic waste from our immediate 1. Employee Giveback to SOS Children's Village Easter environment and creating awareness on the menace Donation: During the Easter season, we had an of plastic pollution. About 30 employees participated internal campaign to donate cash, food, provisions and in the exercise as volunteers. toiletries to SOS Children's Village at Isolo, Lagos. In addition to in-kind donations, a sum of N247,000 was NSE Employees take a stand for recycling, at the entrance of The Exchange following a clean up exercise of the Lagos Island Central Business District on the 2018 World Environment Day. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44 COMMUNITIES Through several initiatives implemented across board, we have been able to impact measurably in the educational, health and other sectors of the economy. COMMUNITIES We believe that financial markets and companies play an important role and have responsibility not only towards economic growth and development but also towards committing to support inclusive and sustainable development in the communities where they live and work. Through several initiatives implemented across board, we have been able to impact measurably in the educational, health and other sectors of the economy. COMMUNITIES HIGHLIGHTS Education and Financial Literacy 17,480 250+ 300% increase in students 20,061 students reached IDP school children impacted entries received for NSE through 73 X-tour visits through education intervention reached through Essay Competition, in the North East Global Money Week 78% increase from 2017 Health Intervention NSE Corporate Challenge 2018 ₦ 450+ 44m+ Partnership with over N28.5m+ Runners from Impressions across 25 Raised in donations organisations 150 companies various social media platforms including media houses participated in Corporate Challenge THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46 IMPROVING ACCESS TO EDUCATION AND PROMOTING FINANCIAL LITERACY The Exchange holds various annual programmes to promote financial inclusion and financial literacy. We contribute to the National Financial Inclusion Strategy and integration of financial literacy into school curricula. Global Money Week We celebrated Global Money Week in collaboration with Access Bank Plc and AIESEC Nigeria. The week-long event included interactive sessions with the management of the NSE, school outreach programmes in Lagos, Ibadan, Kano, Abuja, Onitsha and Port Harcourt, and excursions to the trading floor as well as a closing gong ceremony. We also collaborated with Bestman Games and Ediye (Restaurant) Limited, to introduce a Monopoly Open Competition for children between the ages of seven (7) and fifteen (15). The competition, which was designed to help children learn and show their basic financial planning skills, had 10 contestants and the winners went home with NSE X-Tours Monopoly games. (Schools' Excursion to The Exchange) The NSE was able to impact a total of 15,116 students, an For the reporting period, the NSE recorded 17,480 increase of over 300% from last year's 4,117 students, thus participants in our X-Tours programmes from over 70 bringing the number of students directly impacted since schools. Through X-Tours, the Exchange conducts commencement in 2014 to 22,286. participants on a field-trip through any of our trading floors across the country. A tour of the trading floor and interactive sessions on financial education topics expose participants to a 'live' view of what happens at a stock Snippets from 2018 Global Money Week exchange, and helps inspire them to seek career at The Nigerian Stock Exchange opportunities in the capital market. Children interacting with floor brokers during the 2018 NSE’s “A Day At The Exchange” event for children of NSE Staff and dealing members 47 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The NSE Essay Competition is one of the financial literacy NSE ESSAY COMPETITION and inclusion initiatives of The Nigerian Stock Exchange aimed at bridging the gap in classroom learning with practical knowledge required for long-term personal financial planning. The competition's overall goal is to 20,061 develop a culture of wealth creation amongst our youth towards building a financially savvy generation. In its 19th year, the competition has inspired over 67,000 young 10,100 people in more than 12,000 schools across Nigeria. 7,400 4,200 1,700 The topic for the 2018 essay competition was 'Discuss how 1,300 1,074 technology can promote financial literacy and encourage investment habit among youths', with the aim of bringing 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 the subject of technology to the fore and getting young people thinking about how to adopt technology as a Entries for the NSE Essay competition: The journey so far veritable tool for building a financially savvy generation. The 2018 competition, which was supported by Jim Ovia Foundation, Access Bank Plc and Prime Atlantic Limited, was open for entry on Monday, 16 July, 2018, and closed on Over 20,000 entries across Friday, 26 October, 2018. We received over 20,000 entries 36 states and FCT. across the federation, 50% more than the total entries received in 2017. Over 500 students in attendance at the Awards Ceremony Over 20 schools participated in the Award Ceremony N3.6M in scholarships, ₦ Investments, personal computers and desktops/printers for schools. Over 3M social media impressions, #NSEEssayCompetition2018 Sponsorships Figure 2: 2018 NSE Essay Competition Highlights THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 Dare2Dream Initiative · Zero security breach or negative developments in the school on Empowerment and Financial Literacy In the course of our drive towards building a financially savvy generation, NSE partnered with Kinabuti Fashion Initiative to empower young people with entrepreneurial LEADING CHANGE IN HEALTH AND WELLNESS skills and financial literacy, leveraging its Dare2Dream NSE Corporate Challenge initiative across university campuses in Nigeria. Ÿ Over N150m raised since the launch of the Corporate The Dare2Dream initiative, now in its fifth year, provided Challenge the NSE the opportunity to empower young people looking Ÿ Over 2,800 runners have participated to start careers in the creative arts space, specifically as models, models, dancers, musicians and presenters. The fifth in the series of the NSE Corporate Challenge, Delivered in the form of a reality show, it comes in three which is an annual, highly competitive and fun-filled 5phases, starting with campus activations to create kilometre walk, jog and run competition designed to raise awareness and select the top creative minds, then a boot awareness and funds towards the eradication of cancer, camp to provide essential training for the participants and was held on 15 September, 2018, at Muri Okunola Park, to shortlist, and then lastly, a grand finale event to Victoria Island, Lagos. showcase the identified talents and to announce winners. We raised N28.5 million via sponsorship and registration. In The partnership saw the NSE engage with about 25,000 the same vein, we had a total of 259 actual runners. The undergraduates during the 2018 Dare2Dream activations, hashtags #eracecancer and #NSECorporatechallenge were giving them financial literacy talks, educating them about trending topics on Twitter on September 15 and 16, 2018, the various offerings available in the capital market and respectively, with 37.2 million impressions and 7.03 million conducting trivia quizzes to test understanding of the unique reach. Having garnered 6 new media partnerships, learning from the various talks. Stockbrokers were also on the race received extensive coverage across various print, ground to assist interested youths to open brokerage electronic and online platforms. accounts and begin to invest for the future. For this year, the campus activations were held at five Nigerian universities: University of Lagos, University of Port Harcourt, University of Calabar, University of Jos and Enugu State University. NSE Corporate Challenge 2018 Race Ambassadors At The Closing Gong The partnership drew international attention and was featured in the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) Focus Magazine. CHANGING EDUCATIONAL OUTCOMES Borno State Education Intervention Programme Maisandari Alamderi Model Nursery and Primary School, which was built and donated by The Exchange in 2017 to help Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Borno State, enjoys positive feedback and testimonials from community leaders and parents as it continues to make giant strides, having positively impacted over 200 families directly since its inception. Specifically, some achievements are worthy of note: Ÿ Nil dropout of the 250 pupils enrolled (143 boys and 107 girls) Ÿ Improved learning outcomes in speaking, reading and writing among the pupils Ÿ ·Upskilled teachers with technology-based delivery of the standardised curriculum 49 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INSPIRING AND EMPOWERING CHANGE International Women's Day 2018 Commissioner to Nigeria, Laure Beaufils, and Dame Abimbola Fashola, former First Lady of Lagos State and Chairman, LEARN NGO/Ella Cares. In addition to an allfemale panel, we had an all-male panel to provide broader perspective to the discussions about gender parity. TIA Meet-Up Conference The NSE hosted the second in the series of the Traders Investors and Analysts (TIA) Meet-Up conference organised in partnership with Trendonomics. The platform brings together market players and investors to learn, share and network. The aim is to acquire knowledge about the market and financial products, explore market tools, We commemorated the 2018 International Women's Day, decipher investment opportunities and understand the themed 'Press for Progress' in partnership with Sustainable platforms needed to achieve investment goals. As markets Stock Exchanges Initiative, United Nations Women, United continue to evolve, the NSE is at the centre of helping Nations Global Compact, International Finance investors garner all available information to effectively Corporation, the World Federation of Exchanges, Women direct their investment decisions and ultimately grow their in ETFs and Women in Management, Business and Public wealth. Service (WIMBIZ). With over 200 attendees, the half-day symposium was headlined by both the British Deputy High A cross section of panelists at the 2018 NSE Market Data Workshop, The Exchange’s annual free-to-attend conference that brings together industry leaders to provide recent insights no market data and the impact on the investment decision making. THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50 ENVIRONMENT An essential principle of our approach to corporate responsibility and sustainability is our ability to balance the achievements of our financial performance with sustainability goals that align with our commitment to creating shared value for our stakeholders. One of our expressions in this regard is our commitment to environmental sustainability in all our business processes in line with our holistic sustainability approach. For the reporting year, our environmental sustainability initiatives were structured along the lines of energy consumption and management and waste management. ENERGY employee volunteering event. Employee volunteers from The Exchange came out in their numbers to clear plastic waste from their immediate environment as well as create In order to effectively conserve energy within our awareness on the menace of plastic pollution, in line with operations, we commenced the process of converting the the theme for this year's celebration, 'Beat Plastic Exchanges' head office energy source from diesel to Pollution'. Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG). Process for conversion is currently ongoing. For the reporting year, we employed the NSE employee volunteers were joined by Mr. Desmond use of 80% energy saving material and also implemented a Majekodunmi, Chairman of Lagos State Urban Forest and building power saving plan thus resulting in a reduction of Animal Shelter Initiative (LUFASI); Chief Ede Dafinone, our energy consumption. Our total diesel (AGO) Chairman, Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) consumption stood at 434,830 litres/annum in 2018 while National Executive Council; Mrs Bilikiss Adebiyi-Abiola; electricity consumption was 1,173,375 kWh/annum from General Manager, Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) in 2018, a great (LASPARK) and Mazi Ukonu, CEO, RecyclePoints in the improvement from our consumption figure in previous clean-up exercise along the business district of Lagos. years. Internal Recycling Programme WASTE Furthermore, to adequately manage waste, The Exchange Our environmental sustainability initiative was also has an internal water recycling programme and we channelled towards waste management through the currently recycle about 50% waste generated. An MoU following activities: was signed with RecyclePoints Limited to ensure the success of the programme. At the end of the year, a Commemoration of the World Environment Day progress report capturing the volume of recyclable waste In May 2018, we commemorated the World Environment generated the NSE will be developed and included in our Day for the first time at The Exchange with a Closing Gong sustainability report. Our goal in the near future is to ceremony tagged 'Sound the Gong Against Plastic recycle 100% of the waste generated at The Exchange. Pollution'. We also held a clean-up programme which was an THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52 GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Title GRI Disclosure Individual disclosure items Standard GRI Standard Title Page Section Topic Number ('a', 'b', 'c', etc.) are not Number listed here GRI 102 General disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior 04 CEO's stement decision-maker GRI 102 General disclosures 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and 27 Our materials issues opportunities GRI 102 General disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation 08 The NSE at a glance GRI 102 General disclosures 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 08 The NSE at a glance/contact and services us at the NSE. GRI 102 General disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover page Contact us at the NSE GRI 102 General disclosures 102-4 Location of operations Back cover page Contact us at the NSE. GRI 102 General disclosures 102-5 Ownership and legal form 08 NSE at a glance GRI 102 General disclosures 102-6 Markets served 34 Marketplace GRI 102 General disclosures 102-7 Scale of the organisation 08 NSE at a glance GRI 102 General disclosures 102-8 Information on employees 40 Workplace and other workers GRI 102 General disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining 43 Labour practices and human agreements rights GRI 102 General disclosures 102-12 External initiatives 46 Communities and environment GRI 102 General disclosures 102-13 Membership of associations 08 Association & memberships GRI 102 General disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the 39 Economic performance for consolidated financial 2018. statements GRI 102 General disclosures 102-46 Defining report content and 12 About this report topic boundaries GRI 102 General disclosures 102-47 List of material topics Our priorities GRI 103 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material 12 About this report topic and its boundary GRI 102 General disclosures 102-48 Restatements of information 12 About this report GRI 102 General disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting 12 About this report GRI 102 General disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 23 Our stakeholders GRI 102 General disclosures 102-42 Identifying and selecting 23 Our stakeholder engagement stakeholders approach: Building sustainable relationships 53 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI 102 General disclosures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 23 Our sakeholder engagement engagement approach GRI 102 General disclosures 102-44 Key topics and concerns 24 Stakeholder engagement raised table GRI 102 General disclosures 102-50 Reporting period 12 About this report GRI 102 General disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report 12 About this report GRI 102 General disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle 12 About this report GRI 102 General disclosures 102-53 Contact point for questions 12 For in depth information regarding the report about the report GRI 102 General disclosures 102-54 Claims of reporting in 12 About this report accordance with the GRI standards GRI 102 General disclosures 102-55 GRI content index 53 GRI content index GRI 102 General disclosures 102-56 External assurance N/A GRI 102 General disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 13 Leadership and governance GRI 102 General disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 06 About the exchange and norms of behaviour GRI 201 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value 39 Economic performance for generated and distributed 2018 GRI 201 Economic performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan 42 Employee remuneration obligations and other and benefits retirement plans GRI 203 Indirect economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments 49 Leading change in health impacts and services supported and wellness GRI 203 Indirect economic 203-2 Significant indirect economic 35 Marketplace impacts impacts GRI 301 Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 52 Waste GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within 52 Energy the organisation GRI 302 Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 52 Energy GRI 302 Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy 52 Energy consumption GRI 306 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal 52 Waste method GRI 306 Effluents and waste 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 52 Waste GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and 41 Employee profile employee turnover GRI 401 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 42 Employee remuneration employees that are not and benefits provided to temporary or part-time employees THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54 GRI 401 Employment 401-3 Parental leave 42 Employee remuneration and benefits GRI 404 Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per 42 Building and nurturing year per employee talents GRI 404 Training and education 404-2 Programs for upgrading 42 Building and nurturing talent employee skills and transition assistance programs GRI 404 Training and education 404-3 Percentage of employees 42 Building and nurturing talent receiving regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405 Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance 43 Showcasing diversity Opportunity bodies and employees GRI 413 Local communities 413-1 Operations with local 49 Changing educational community engagement, outcomes impact assessments, and development programs 55 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AGM Annual General Meeting AGO Automotive Gas Oil AI Artificial Intelligence ALM African Leadership Managazine ASEA African Securities Exchanges Association ASEM Association of Stock Exchange Management ASI All Share Index CACC CBN-Affiliated Councils and Committees CDGP Competency Development and Growth Programme CEO Chief Executive Officer CL Child Labour CMC Capital Markets Committee CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DG Director General DMO Debt Management Office EV Employee Volunteering EVD Economic Value Distributed EVG Economic Value Generated EVR Economic Value Retained FILEX Financial Literacy Excellence Awards FIX Financial Information eXchange FL Financial Literacy FME Federal Ministry of the Environment FMF Federal Ministry of Finance FSRCC Financial Services Regulation Coordination Committee FSS Financial Systems Strategy GARC Governance and Remuneration Committee GB Green Bonds GBL Green Bonds Listing GMW Global Money Week GRI Global Reporting Initiative HCD Human Capital Development HR Human Resources IDP Internally Displaced Persons IOSCO International Organisations of Securities Commissions ISA Investment and Securities Act ISG Intermarket Surveillance LASPARK Lagos State Parks and Garden Agency LAWMA Lagos State Waste Management Authority LCCI Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry LEAD Ladership, Enhancement and Development LPG Liquefied Petrolrum Gas LUFASI Lagos State Urban Forest and Animal Shelter Initiative MDGs Millennium Development Goals MoU Memorandum of Understanding NCF Nigeria Conservation Foundation NEC National Executive Council THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56 THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 NGO Non-Government Organisation NSE Nigeria Stock Exchange PL Parental Leave PM Premium Board RAF Remuneration Adjustment Framework RMF Risk Management Framework SDGs Sustainable Development Goals SE Stakeholder Engagement SEC Secutities and Exchange Commission SMEs Small and Medium Enterprises SRO Self Regulatory Organisation SSEI Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative TIA Traders, Investors and Analysts TOGY Th Oil and Gas Year UN United Nations UNDP United Nations Development Programme UNGC United Nations Global Compact WACMIC West African Capital Markets Integration Council WED World Environment Day WFE World Federation of Exchanges WIMBIZ Women in Management, Business and Public Service THE NIGERIAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 CORPORATE HEAD OFFICE The Nigerian Stock Exchange Stock Exchange House 2 – 4 Customs Street Lagos Nigeria Tel: +234 700 225 5673 Email: contactcenter@nse.com.ng Abuja Ibadan Kano Muktar El Yakub Place Cocoa House, 14th Floor, 2nd Floor, African Alliance House Plot 1129 Zakariya Mailalari Street Oba Adebimpe Road, Dugbe F1 Sani Abacha Way, Kano Beside Metro Plaza Ibadan, Oyo State, Kano State Central Business District Tel: 234-8039666663, 08023035171 Tel: +234-9-6232506-7 Abuja Email: kogun@nse.com.ng Email:ikabiri@nse.com.ng Tel: +234 8181527899, +234-9-4603510 Email: nseabuja@nse.com.ng Onitsha PortHarcourt Business Village, 1, Ridge Road Sterling Place G. R. A, Onitsha 2nd Floor, Plot 13, Trans-Amadi Anambra State Industrial Layout Tel: +234-46-845898, +2348023366475 P. O. Box 1410 Email: nseonitsha@nse.com.ng Port Harcourt, Rivers State Tel: 23409063953510, 08068398700 E-Mail nseph@nse.com.ng
