Contents The Faurecia transformation 00 Faurecia in brief 04 Message from Patrick Koller 05 Key figures 2018 06 Key challenges facing the automotive industry 08 Seizing opportunities to emerge as a technology leader 09 “Inspiring Mobility”: Faurecia’s vision 10 Sustainable Mobility 12 Cockpit of the Future 14 An innovation ecosystem to accelerate Faurecia’s transformation 16 Three Business Groups to drive profitable growth 18 Achieving sustainable value creation through customer intimacy and operational excellence 19 An efficient risk management system 24 Robust performance demonstrating our resilience 25 Two governance bodies driving strategy and execution 26 The Chief Executive Officer’s compensation 28 Key financial figures 2018 29 1. Financial statements 31 1.1. The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 32 1.2. Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 107 2. Internal Controls & Risk Management 133 2.1. Participants and systems 134 2.2. Description of the main risks 139 2.3. Insurance and coverage of risks 151 3 Governance and capital stock 153 3.1 Corporate governance 154 3.2. Capital stock and shareholder structure 205 4 CSR 227 4.1. Social Responsibility 228 4.2. Environmental Responsibility: introduction 252 4.3. Societal responsibility 268 4.4 Independent veriﬁer’s report on consolidated non-ﬁnancial statement presented in the management report 278 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 281 5.1. Agenda 282 5.2. Explanatory notes to the resolutions 284 5.3. Resolutions 301 5.4. Proﬁles of the Board members whose candidates appointment is put to the vote 310 5.5. Proﬁles of the Board members whose cooptation is put to the vote 312 5.6. Reports 313 6. Other information 321 6.1. Background 322 6.2. Legal information 326 6.3. Organizational structure as of December 31, 2018 330 6.4. Additional information on audits of ﬁnancial statements 332 6.5. Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document and information ofﬁcer 333 6.6. Cross-reference tables 334 II / Document référence document Registrationde 2018 2018 Registration document 2018 including the annual ﬁnancial report Proﬂle Faurecia is a leading automotive technology company developing solutions for Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future. Ambition Innovation Transformation This Registration Document, including the annual financial report, was filed with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on April 26, 2019 pursuant to Article 212-13 of the General Regulation of the AMF. It may be used in connection with a financial transaction if accompanied by a memorandum approved by the AMF. This document has been prepared by the issuer under the responsibility of its signatories. The English language version of this Registration Document is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions expressed therein the original language version of the document in French takes precedence over this translation / Registration document 2018 01 Registration document 2018 including the annual ﬁnancial report Proﬂle Faurecia is a leading automotive technology company developing solutions for Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future. Ambition Innovation Transformation This Registration Document, including the annual financial report, was filed with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on April 26, 2019 pursuant to Article 212-13 of the General Regulation of the AMF. It may be used in connection with a financial transaction if accompanied by a memorandum approved by the AMF. This document has been prepared by the issuer under the responsibility of its signatories. The English language version of this Registration Document is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions expressed therein the original language version of the document in French takes precedence over this translation / Registration document 2018 01 The Faurecia transformation Faurecia is in the midst of a major transformation to enable it to seize new opportunities in a rapidly changing automotive industry. The Group has decided to publish this introductory chapter to its Registration Document, to give all its stakeholders, from its employees and partners to its shareholders and investors, a clear understanding of its vision and strategy. This chapter addresses the way Faurecia responds to the major challenges of the automotive industry, through its commitment to inspiring mobility. The Group is becoming a technology company providing solutions for Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future, working within a broader innovation ecosystem. Faurecia’s business model is focused on creating short and long-term value for all stakeholders, in terms of both financial and extra-financial performance. Faurecia’s transformation is embedded in a robust, ethical and efficient corporate governance structure. This chapter was inspired by the framework published by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). 02 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation The Faurecia transformation Faurecia in brief 04 Message from Patrick Koller 05 Key ﬁgures 2018 06 Key challenges facing the automotive industry 08 Seizing opportunities to emerge as a technology leader 09 “Inspiring Mobility”: Faurecia’s vision 10 Sustainable Mobility 12 Cockpit of the Future 14 An innovation ecosystem to accelerate Faurecia’s transformation 16 Three Business Groups to drive proﬁtable growth 18 Achieving sustainable value creation through customer intimacy and operational excellence 19 An efﬁcient risk management system 24 Robust performance demonstrating our resilience 25 Two governance bodies driving strategy and execution 26 The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s compensation 28 Key ﬁnancial ﬁgures 2018 29 / Registration document 2018 03 The Faurecia transformation Faurecia in brief Faurecia in brief Global Climate Demographic Resource Technological change growth scarcity mutations Trends Automotive, AUTOMOTIVE SOCIAL CONSUMER social Connected Ride sharing Millenials Urbanization Freedom Security & consumer Autonomous Electriﬁed Ageing Asia Affordability Time Trends Vision INSPIRING MOBILITY Strong convictions in order to deﬁne Faurecia’s positive impact on society and all stakeholders Convictions and Values A corporate culture with strong values to promote entrepreneurial spirit and accountability Innovation E cosys tem SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Strategic priorities COCKPIT OF THE FUTURE Business Groups Seating Interiors Clean Mobility Operational excellence & digital manufacturing Fundamentals Customer centricity BECOME AN AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY LEADER IN A WORLD UNDERGOING SIGNIFICANT CHANGE 04 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Message from Patrick Koller Message from Patrick Koller “WE DEMONSTRATED OUR AGILITY TO MANAGE THE SHORT TERM AND DELIVER ON OUR COMMITMENTS, WHILST AT THE SAME TIME INVESTING IN OUR FUTURE.” Faurecia has focused its strategy on developing solutions or battery electric vehicles. We are also deploying our emissions for the Cockpit of the Future and Sustainable Mobility. This reduction solutions into the High horsepower and Commercial strategy is fully aligned with the four major trends disrupting the Vehicles markets and to this end we completed the acquisition automotive industry: Connectivity, Autonomy, Ride-sharing and of Hug Engineering and re-negotiated our contract with our Electrification. In 2018 Faurecia made significant progress in the partner Cummins. deployment of this strategy whilst at the same time managing Even though the growth in the Chinese market slowed down some headwinds that disturbed the market in the second half in the second half of the year, it will still be the main driver of the year. We demonstrated our agility to manage the short of long term growth for the global automotive industry and term and deliver on our commitments, whilst at the same time will in particular see a rapid rise in electric vehicles. Faurecia investing in our future. continued its strategy of developing partnerships with Chinese At the CES in Las Vegas in January of this year, we highlighted OEMs, and concluded two new Joint Ventures with FAW and the rapid progress we have made in developing new user Wuling Industry. Our objective is to have 40% of our sales with experiences for the Cockpit of the Future. Many of these Chinese OEMs, matching their share of the overall Chinese were developed with our innovation ecosystem which market. was expanded during 2018 to include Hella and five new In order to ensure the sustainable development of the Group start-up investments to complement the existing partnerships we identified six Convictions that will enable us to determine of Accenture, Mahle and ZF. In addition to completing the improvement targets and make a contribution to society. acquisition of Parrot Automotive, we announced a major Combined with our values, we now have a clear and strong strategic project to acquire Clarion, the Japanese supplier of culture, to guide our actions and make us attractive to future in-vehicle-infotainment (IVI) and full digital audio systems, HMI employees. and advanced driver assistance systems, connectivity and cloud-based services. With its core competences in electronics I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders and software integration, this acquisition would significantly and the Board of Directors for their confidence, and in strengthen Faurecia’s offer for cockpit systems integration. particular all of the Group’s employees for their contribution to our performance in 2018. For Sustainable Mobility, we are focused on technologies for hybrid vehicles, which could represent 50% of the market Patrick Koller by 2025, as well as for zero emissions vehicles, be they fuel cell Chief Executive Officer / Registration document 2018 05 The Faurecia transformation Key ﬁgures 2018 Key ﬁgures 2018 Sales € 17,524.7m vs. €16,962,1m in 2017 Operating Income EBITDA Net cash ﬂow €1,273.9m €1,157.6m €2,140.6m €1,950.9m €528.1m €435.3m 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number of employees Number of production sites Number of R&D centers 114,693 vs. 109 275 en 2017 254 vs. 243 in 2017 35 vs. 30 in 2017 Investment GHG emissions (scopes 1 & 2) Accidents with lost time in innovation per million hours €188m 40.92 worked (FR0t) vs. €160m in 2017 tons eq CO2 per €m of sales vs 42.12 in 2016 0.95 vs. 1 in 2017 06 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Key ﬁgures 2018 Faurecia’s global presence Breakdown of sales and production sites 116 SITES 38 EUROPE SITES NORTH AMERICA €8,858.2m €4,474.2m 50.5% 25.5% ASIA SOUTH REST OF AMERICA THE WORLD €3,257.2m €714,1m €221.0m 18.6% 1.3% 4.1% 17 4 79 SITES SITES SITES Celebrating 20 years of Faurecia in 2018 In December 1997, PSA Peugeot Citroën subsidiary ECIA completed a friendly takeover bid for automotive seating specialist Bertrand Faure, to create a new automotive equipment supplier: Faurecia. At the time, the Group was the world’s 17th largest automotive parts manufacturer, with a workforce of 30,000 people at one hundred sites and sales of €3.5 billion. After two decades of impressive international expansion and a series of strategic acquisitions, Faurecia has tripled its workforce (to reach 115,000 people) and the number of countries in which it operates (around 300 sites in 37 countries), and has become one of the top 10 automotive technology suppliers worldwide. / Registration document 2018 07 The Faurecia transformation Key challenges facing the automotive industry Key challenges facing the automotive industry Today, society and business have entered a new age of unprecedented disruption. Companies must adapt rapidly and anticipate new demands. The megatrends impacting the automotive industry mean that future mobility will be connected, autonomous, shared and electrified. Critical challenges have arisen worldwide… Major megatrends are shaping the world and its future: climate change, resource scarcity, growing and ageing populations, economic power shifting towards Asia, and urbanization are just a few examples. At the same time the technological revolution keeps accelerating, significantly transforming everyday life and generating new business models. …with a major impact on the future of the automotive industry The consequences of these trends on the automotive industry is a radical shift in mobility which is becoming connected, autonomous, shared and electrified. Faurecia has anticipated these trends and developed a strategy to benefit from them. Future mobility the steering wheel, then eyes-off – and experiencing significant growth. This ultimately mind-off – the road in more trend is the result of the emergence will be CONNECTED and more situations. As a result, the of new peer-to-peer services, made Connected cars are already a reality. car occupants will be able to engage possible by the current digital revolution. The trend for connected cars is driven in non-driving occupations such as Users of shared mobility will demand both by legislation for safety (emergency relaxing, working and socializing. This personalization of their interiors and calls), customer expectations for means that the automotive industry will digital continuity. infotainment and technology have to extend the value-proposition, developments for autonomous cars. delivering new user experiences. In Connectivity will allow continuous this context the car interior will be Future mobility monitoring and upgrading of the vehicle completely reinvented and the cockpit will be ELECTRIFIED and will provide access to a wide range of the future will be connected, versatile of services for the car occupants The and predictive. The powertrain mix is rapidly evolving move to 5G from 2021 will enhance t o w a rd s e l e c t r i f i c a t i o n , d u e t o connectivity through better quality, Between 8 and 12% of cars are environmental concerns and pressure coverage and bandwidth. predicted to allow at least hands-off from regulators and society. Whilst driving by 2025. different regions are moving at different speeds towards zero emissions there will 90 % of cars are expected to be be a rapid rise in hybrid vehicles. Battery connected by 2025. Future mobility Electric Vehicles and Fuel Cell Electric vehicles will co-exist as zero emissions will be SHARED alternatives, depending on use cases. Future mobility Connectivity is also impacting the way users see mobility, as they begin Nearly 50 % of all new car sales will be AUTONOMOUS to use new solutions, particularly in could be electrified by 2030, Autonomous driving will progressively urban settings. Ride-sharing services, including hybrid engines. allow the car driver to be hands-off such as car-pooling or ride-hailing, are 08 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Seizing opportunities to emerge as a technology leader Seizing opportunities to emerge as a technology leader Given this growing complexity and the need for major technology investment, OEMs are increasingly reliant on a strategic and limited network of major technology suppliers with whom they can form close partnerships. As barriers to entry fall with the rise of electric vehicles, new entrants are appearing, creating new opportunities and new business models. The vast majority of these companies have Chinese investment. Supported by the government, the Chinese market is leading the way in electric vehicles. Faurecia’s strategy to provide intelligent solutions for sustainable mobility and the cockpit of the future is based on its leading position in its three activities: Seating, Interiors and Clean Mobility and its strong customer intimacy with all OEMs. The addressable market for Sustainable Mobility will reach €51 billion by 2030. The addressable market for the Cockpit of the Future will reach €81 billion by 2030. / Registration document 2018 09 The Faurecia transformation “Inspiring Mobility”: Faurecia’s vision “Inspiring Mobility”: Faurecia’s vision With the automotive industry currently facing some of the most disruptive changes in its history, Faurecia is undergoing a major transformation of its business. Strong Convictions and Values underpin the Group’s strategy which has the objective of creating value for all stakeholders whilst making a positive and sustainable contribution to society. From energy efficient and zero emissions technologies to connected and predictive cockpits, Faurecia is creating long-term value by providing solutions for Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future. Sustainable Mobility Cockpit of the Future  For Passenger Vehicles: innovative  Becoming the leading supplier of solutions for hybrid vehicles and systems for new user experiences becoming a leader in fuel cell with the best level of comfort, safety technologies. and Human Machine Inter face (HMI) solutions integrated through an  For Commercial Vehicles and High electronics management system. Horsepower: developing solutions for zero emissions and ultra-clean diesel technologies. Making a positive contribution to society and all stakeholders Faurecia has a responsibility as a company Convictions and six Values that guide ambition. Defined in 2018, the Convictions to make a positive contribution to society its actions and behaviors. Together, the will enable the Group in 2019 to build a and to all its stakeholders. Faurecia’s Convictions and Values are the backbone continuous improvement approach, sustainable development engagement of Faurecia’s transformation, empowering based on a list of indicators and progress is an integral part of its corporate culture, teams to make the Group more agile and targets. Being Faurecia. Within this cultural efficient, and allowing it to balance shortframework the Group has defined six term execution and sustainable long-term A sustainable development approach to value creation Faurecia’s six Convictions describe the Group’s commitment for sustainability and long-term value creation in the face of the main global and social challenges: Convictions for the Planet: partnerships Faurecia works to reduce social responsibility. Above and beyond pollutant emissions and improve air its legal obligations, Faurecia has a  Environmental issues pose a serious quality. responsibility to maintain a frank and challenge for humanity. Faurecia wants ongoing dialogue with the communities to help cap the rise in temperature  Companies must have a positive impact that surround its sites, to ensure that its by reducing the carbon footprint of on society. Faurecia is a member of operations are harmoniously integrated its activities and offering solutions for the community in each region where into each region. As appropriate, The sustainable mobility. The Group supports it operates worldwide. The Group Group initiates or contributes to projects national and international organizations contributes to economic development and programs that address local needs, in reducing global warming and by and the creation of social value by by offering its expertise and resources respecting their principles. Air quality hiring locally, providing career training in support. poses an increasing threat to health and advancement for employees and in cities. Through its solutions and through a commitment to ethics and 10 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation “Inspiring Mobility”:Faurecia’s vision Convictions for business: Convictions for people: best guarantee for ensuring that everyone can reap the benefits  Short term thinking jeopardizes future  Diversity is a strength. Diversity in the of technological advances and generations. In an ever-changing workforce with regard to gender, changing work practices. For younger world, Faurecia must invest in its place of origin, cultural or educational generations Faurecia has extensive future and in particular in technology, background, experience or any other programs of apprenticeships, work/ new business models and learning. difference is a source of strength. study, volunteers for international The Group must preserve natural Thanks to Faurecia’s diversity, the experience (VIE) and internships that resources and meet environmental Group has a better understanding of both provide the Group with a talent challenges for the well-being of customer expectations and makes pool and enable extensive on the job future generations. At the same time, better decisions. It encourages the training and cultural integration. in order to maintain the confidence broadest possible diversity through of its customers and shareholders, recruitment and career management These sustainable development it must deliver short term financial and by fostering workplace conditions convictions will enable the Group in 2019 and operational per for mance. and a flexible organization that are to build a continuous improvement Faurecia must be able to balance adapted to individual needs. approach, through progress targets and both long term and short term and key indicators. Based on the assessment  The world is in a state of permanent not jeopardize one at the expense of extra financial risks and opportunities, disruption. Technology is rapidly of another. Its culture enables it to it will ensure consistency and integration changing Faurecia’s business models combine rigor and discipline in shortof Corporate Social Responsibility in all and working methods. The Group term execution with a long term vision. existing policies, processes and programs. must anticipate the next trends,  Power must have a counterbalance. remain agile and invest in innovation Faurecia’s sustainable development Faurecia believes in a system of and education. It strives to ensure approach will contribute to the creation transparency and dialogue. Each the employability of its employees of value, both financial and non-financial, employee and stakeholder can voice throughout their working life, through for all of Faurecia’s stakeholders with an opinion, criticism, or alternative lifelong learning, professional mobility whom the Group creates mutually suggestion or report a violation without and on the job training. This is the beneficial relationships. fear of personal consequences and in complete transparency. The Group believes in open, responsible and balanced dialogue, based on mutual The ﬁnancial community Innovation partnerships recognition and an acceptance of Investors Research establishments the legitimacy of each viewpoint. Individual shareholders Strategic partnerships Faurecia’s relationship with its Start-ups Suppliers suppliers is guided by the principles Suppliers Customers of respect and partnership to create Sub-contractors long term value for both parties. The Group views and respects collective Employees representation of employees and social dialogue in the same proactive The education sector and constructive spirit. Schools Governments, Universities public authorities, Higher education local communities establishments Strong Values that support Faurecia’s performance Alongside its sustainable development approach, the Group’s strong performance-based culture, Being Faurecia, is grounded in six values which guide day to day behavior. These robust principles also guide ethics, management and operational excellence. The six values are broken down into managerial values (Entrepreneurship, Autonomy and Accountability) and behavioral values (Respect, Exemplarity and Energy). Combined, they mobilize employees to achieve ambitious goals, deliver excellent performance and develop innovative solutions for future mobility. / Registration document 2018 11 The Faurecia transformation Sustainable Mobility Sustainable Mobility Social and political pressure on the automotive industry to reduce emissions has never been higher. As stringent new regulations come into force around the world, and with demand for electrified vehicles constantly increasing, Faurecia has made sustainable mobility a strategic priority. Innovating for air quality and energy efficiency Air quality and energy efficiency have been at the heart of Faurecia’s innovation for over 15 years. The Group is now accelerating its investment in solutions for powertrain electrification, in particular for hybrid and zero emissions vehicles. It is also deploying its air quality solutions into new markets such as commercial vehicles and high horsepower. Faurecia has developed a three-pronged strategic roadmap for Sustainable Mobility: developing innovative solutions for hybrid vehicles 1. that improve fuel economy, such as exhaust heat recovery solutions and lightweighting; developing ultra-clean solutions for Commercial 2. Vehicles and High Horsepower engines; developing solutions for zero emissions, in particular 3. fuel cell technology and battery housing subsystems and modules. The Group’s strategy, supported by an acceleration of its innovation spending and the development of its ecosystem, will enable Faurecia to achieve profitable growth regardless of the rate of evolution of the powertrain mix. Leadership in technologies for hybrid vehicles The requirement for increasing content The key technologies that are particularly in the powertrain to meet emissions adapted to hybrid vehicles are low In the field of lightweighting, control regulations, as well as the need pressure EGR, exhaust heat recovery Faurecia recently developed for significant reduction in CO2 emissions, systems (EHRS), electric heated catalyst the Resonance Free Pipe which drive the need for several key Faurecia (EHC) and real-time emissions monitoring reduces weight and packaging technologies which will increase the as well as acoustic valves and ultracomplexity by eliminating overall value of the exhaust line by 30 to lightweight exhaust lines. resonators. This award-winning 70% in 2025 vs 2017. innovation was launched in 2018 in the United States, in collaboration with General Motors. 12 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Sustainable Mobility Achieving leadership in commercial vehicles Faurecia is anticipating the ongoing emissionization of all commercial vehicles, particularly in growth markets like China and India, where regulations are converging towards European and North American In the High Horsepower field, Faurecia finalized standards. in 2018 the acquisition of Hug Engineering, the European leader in complete exhaust gas Faurecia will drive profitable growth through: purification systems for High Horsepower engines.  accompanying the implementation of new regulations with customer This operation highlights a step forward in the diversification and growth in India and China. Faurecia has developed strategy to improve air quality through world joint ventures with three partners representing more than 50% of the class aftertreatment systems for all types of diesel market in China (Dongfeng, Yinlun and Yuchai), and has a strategic engines. The Group anticipates global market relationship with Tata in India; consolidation in this sector, enabling a few global players to directly supply engine OEMs.  expanding its product offer to include new breakthrough technologies, such as its Ammonia Storage and Delivery System (ASDS) or alternative dosing systems, as well as adapting its zero emissions offer to Commercial vehicles. Developing new solutions for zero emissions vehicles Faurecia’s strategy for zero emissions be enriched with functional thermal Faurecia has identified two areas in vehicles covers both Battery Electric management or crash resistance. which it intends to compete in the Vehicles (BEV) and Fuel Cell Electric long-run: hydrogen storage tanks, Whilst they have not reached large Vehicles (FCEV). and bipolar plates and stack systems. scale production yet, fuel cell electric Faurecia’s ambition in Battery Electric vehicles (FCEV) offer some advantages Faurecia’s strategy to successfully Vehicles is to become a leading player over battery electric vehicles (BEV), in compete in this field is embodied in battery housing, including thermal particular for heavy and long range by the ecosystem it has built with management. Based on its composite vehicles in terms of autonomy and Stelia Aerospace Composites and experience, the Group has already charging time. Fuel cell and battery Ad-Venta, for hydrogen storage and begun supplying battery pack covers, electric vehicles will probably coexist management, and with the CEA as a basis for the offer. This will then for different applications. (French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energies Commission) for bipolar plates and stack systems. / Registration document 2018 13 The Faurecia transformation Cockpit of the Future Cockpit of the Future Increasingly autonomous and connected vehicles are radically changing today’s driving experience. Vehicle interiors are being reshaped to allow both drivers and passengers to work or relax in certain situations. With its comprehensive technological offer, Faurecia is making the Cockpit of the Future a reality today. Toward a personalized journey for vehicle occupants Through its vision for the Cockpit of the Future, Faurecia aims to provide a more versatile, predictive and connected environment to personalize the experience and enable occupants to make the most of their time on board. Faurecia has moved quickly to seize the Cockpit of the Future opportunity, leveraging its unique competitive advantages based on its seating and interiors expertise. Starting as a multidisciplinary team to identify appropriate user cases, develop partnerships and initiate customer relationships, Faurecia has now put in place an organization focused on three areas: cockpit technologies, advanced safety, comfort and wellness and cockpit systems integration. 1. cockpit technologies; 2. advanced safety, comfort; wellness and cockpit systems 3. integration. Thanks to its strong ecosystem and the Group’s product portfolio and competences, Faurecia is in a unique position to become the leading Cockpit technologies systems integrator for new user experiences in Consumers expect intuitive and Through its ownership of the interior the Cockpit of the Future, offering triple win attractive interaction with the car. surfaces, its ability to deliver premium solutions: Faurecia is therefore developing quality and its relationships with specific cockpit technologies several key startups and partners,  an enhanced user experience for consumers; including displays and kinematics, Faurecia is uniquely positioned in  reduced cost, weight or packaging for decoration and interior lighting, these cockpit technologies and is customers; intuitive Human Machine Interfaces able to integrate them seamlessly into (HMI) or “smart sur faces”, and the vehicle with an intuitive interface.  increased content per vehicle for Faurecia. personalized climate comfort and air quality. The strategic collaboration signed in 2018 with Hella, the lighting and electronics specialist, will allow Faurecia to develop innovative interior lighting solutions for a more personalized and dynamic experience. 14 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Cockpit of the Future Advanced safety, comfort and wellness Cockpit systems integration Autonomous driving will lead to the emergence of new The Group’s ambition is to become the leading supplier of systems use cases for the vehicle interior. As occupant positions for unique user experiences integrated through an electronics may no longer need to be fixed facing forward and management system. upright, users will have more freedom to do other Faurecia will enable predictive actions that are based on a tasks during their journey. Faurecia, with its partner ZF, learned user profile and that are personalized and contextual. is developing safety systems so that passengers can It will manage all the interior cabin electronics with a transversal continue to travel safely in any seated position, whether approach, integrating the key functions of the cockpit, such as driver they are driving, working or relaxing. information, infotainment, safety, comfort, thermal management The Group’s R&D teams are also developing solutions or sound systems to ensure that the cockpit interacts intuitively with that provide an optimal onboard experience and occupants. Faurecia is developing its solution with open source enhance wellness. Through close monitoring of the technologies, so that new apps from software developers and users thermal and postural comfort of the occupants, the can be integrated into the vehicle. cockpit will learn each occupant’s preferences over time and leverage artificial intelligence to make The project to acquire Clarion would give Faurecia critical adjustments so that people feel better at the end of mass as a leading player in cockpit electronics and software their journey. integration, with a strong global presence and a competitive industrial footprint. Clarion is a major Japanese supplier of in-vehicle-infotainment (IVI) and full digital audio systems, L’Advanced Versatile Structure (AVS) provides a HMI and advanced driver assistance systems. With its core safety cocoon in all seat positions. Developed competences in electronics and software integration, this since 2017 in partnership with ZF, a global leader acquisition would significantly strengthen Faurecia’s offer for in active and passive safety technology, AVS cockpit systems integration. offers intelligently powered kinematics to allow occupants to effortlessly recline, lift, adjust and Faurecia intends to create a new Business Group swivel their seat and then return it smoothly and headquartered in Japan, named “Faurecia Clarion quickly to the upright driving position. Crucially, Electronics” regrouping Clarion with the recent acquisitions the seatbelt and belt retractor are both in infotainment and connectivity of Parrot Automotive in integrated into the seat, functioning optimally in France and Coagent Electronics in China. This Business Group different seat positions, while the frame features would employ almost 9,200 people, more than 1,650 software airbags on both the driver and passenger side. engineers and have over €2 billion of revenues by 2022. FOR MORE INFORMATION • Our value creation model, pp. 22-23. / Registration document 2018 15 The Faurecia transformation An innovation ecosystem to accelerate Faurecia’s transformation An innovation ecosystem to accelerate Faurecia’s transformation Faurecia has developed an open innovation ecosystem to accelerate the integration of new competences and time to market. This innovative, collaborative ecosystem incorporates non-rival alliances with global leaders as well as investment in startups and collaboration with academic institutions. An ever-stronger innovation ecosystem This ecosystem covers four types of collaboration: strategic and technology partnerships with key 1. players in different industrial and technology sectors; academic partnerships with universities and 2. scientific institutes; investment in start-ups through Faurecia Ventures; 3. technology platforms to collaborate with local 4. start-up ecosystems. © Cushman & Wakefield 16 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation An innovation ecosystem to accelerate Faurecia’s transformation IPS RSH €1.1bn NE PART 8,300 engineers R&D budget 800 software engineers 70 Al experts €188m invested in ACQUISITIONS innovation CAGR 20% 2016-2018 403 ﬁrst-ﬁling patents in 2019 Up 25% 4 • Silicon Valley ST AR technology • Toronto TU • Tel Aviv PS platforms • Shenzhen Strategic and technology include those with Stanford University Technology platforms in the USA and the Collège de France, partnerships French Commission for Atomic Energy Faurecia also collaborates with local startTo rapidly accelerate its development and Alternative Energies, collaboration up ecosystems via technology platforms. in key areas, Faurecia has developed between Dortmund and Supelec. They allow the Group to scout startups, partnerships with other industrial or establishing strong connections in major technology companies. The main innovation clusters, and to closely follow partnerships signed in 2017 were with Investment in startups emerging trends and new technologies. ZF and Mahle for the Cockpit of the The Group’s platforms are located in the Faurecia Ventures, the Group’s Silicon Valley, Toronto, Shenzen and Tel Aviv. Future, and with Accenture for the investment fund, advances Faurecia’s development of digital services and innovation strategy by identifying, digital transformation. incubating and investing in start-ups with New partnerships were signed in 2018, relevant technologies for Sustainable as Faurecia entered into strategic Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future. collaboration with Hella, the lighting ADVISORY COUNCILS In 2018, Faurecia invested in the and electronics specialist, as well as In order to keep abreast of the latest American startups Powersphyr (wireless a business alliance with Hitachi for technology and market trends, charging technology), Promethient Faurecia has created two Advisory a combined offer with Clarion for (climate control technology) and Councils: one in Silicon Valley and autonomous driving solutions. SUBPAC (innovative sound solutions) for one in China. The members of these the Cockpit of the Future. It also invested Councils are experts in different fields, in the French startup Enogia for energy such as start-up incubators, venture Academic partnerships recovery, and in the innovative French capital, artificial intelligence, new lab ESP Consulting to better assess the mobility solutions or economics. Their Faurecia works with academics in open role is to bring a new perspective and innovation networks, to test, assess human impact of its technologies for challenge Faurecia’s ideas, as well as and prototype in order to provide the predictive and personalized use cases to identify relevant technology and relevant information to orient research inside the cockpit. strategic topics for discussion. for the Group. Important partnerships / Registration document 2018 17 The Faurecia transformation Three Business Groups to drive proﬁtable growth Three Business Groups to drive proﬁtable growth Faurecia’s is organized into three Business Groups: Seating, Interiors and Clean Mobility. Faurecia is a global leader in each of these businesses. Clean Mobility Faurecia Clean Mobility develops and produces innovative solutions for air quality, energy efficiency, acoustic performance and powertrain electrification to address the needs of all types of vehicle manufacturers, industrial and high horsepower engine applications, as well as cities and fleet operators. €4.6 billion sales 26% of Group sales A global leader in clean mobility solutions Interiors Faurecia Interiors develops and produces full interior systems including instrument panels, door panels, center consoles and acoustic and soft trim, as well as decoration and smart surfaces, solutions for intuitive Human Machine Interfaces and personalized cabin climate comfort and air quality. Its main focus is on seamlessly integrating smart surfaces and displays with new HMI solutions and versatile architecture for the use cases of today and the Cockpit of the Future. €5.5 billion sales 31.0% of Group Sales A global leader in interiors systems Seating Faurecia Seating develops and produces seat systems that optimize the comfort and safety of occupants while offering premium quality to its customers. It develops innovative solutions for thermal and postural comfort, health and wellness and advanced safety for the use cases of today and the Cockpit of the Future. €7.4 billion sales 43%of Group sales A global leader in seating solutions 18 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Achieving sustainable value creation through customer intimacy and operational excellence Achieving sustainable value creation through customer intimacy and operational excellence Faurecia’s customer intimacy and operational excellence form the key enablers of the Group’s transformation and enable sustainable value creation. Strong customer intimacy The permanent development of customer intimacy is a priority for all the teams at Faurecia. This is achieved through regular contacts and meetings, at all levels of the Group’s organization, from the top management to the site teams, as well as through technology reviews and co-development projects. The confidence of Faurecia’s customers in its strategy is expressed both through the numerous awards that its customers give to the Group and its record order intake over the past few years. Record order intake Faurecia’s success in the new entrants a significant share of all business awarded market segment with a contract with in the commercial vehicles market which By the end of 2018 the Group’s three-year Chinese EV car maker BYTON, a new will ensure the increase of its market share rolling order intake represented €63 billion customer for the Group, to supply in this important market. of sales: a new record for the Group. displays, swiveling seats and electronics. In 2018, the New Value Spaces Two other noticeable awards are for represented more than 12% of order PSA’s Peugeot 308 and DS4 instrument Customer recognition intake. panel and door panels. As a confirmed strategic partner of Among the business awards won in 2018, Faurecia also performed particularly well many of its major customers, Faurecia three are emblematic of Faurecia’s in the commercial vehicles segment, as received over 40 recognition awards commercial momentum. First, the largest highlighted through a contract to supply in 2018 for global per for mance, business in volume for seat frames for emissions control technologies to the new excellence manufacturing, cost saving, the Renault Nissan SUV global platform. truck maker Traton, which includes MAN and innovation. In particular, the Group The second business is an illustration of and Scania brands. Overall Faurecia won was honored with an Innovation award at the 2018 groupe Renault Suppliers event, for its innovative concept for Order intake (3-year rolling) future vehicle interiors. Faurecia also In billion euros received two German Innovation Awards for its “Morphing Instrument Panel” and “Immersive Sound Experience” for its unique and personalized user experience. 62 63 53 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018 / Registration document 2018 19 The Faurecia transformation Achieving sustainable value creation through customer intimacy and operational excellence Program management 220 PROGRAMS Vehicle application programs follow a unique process involving all the players LAUNCHED IN 2018 needed for the development and serial launch of a new product. The Program Management Core System (PMCS) process describes all the requirements to be Some of the emblematic vehicles fulfilled at each phase of the program. Each program phase has intermediate launched with Faurecia content: reviews to validate progress. The PMCS has five phases:  Peugeot 508;  acquisition and verification of the client’s needs;  Dodge RAM 1500;  product development;  Nissan Altima;  product validation and development of the manufacturing process;  Ford Focus.  industrialization and validation of the means of production;  ramp-up and start of serial production. Driving operational performance toward excellence Faurecia aims at being benchmark in each of its activities. In 2018, several transversal initiatives have been launched to keep progressing in all aspects. Total Customer Satisfaction Faurecia Excellence System In 2018 Faurecia kicked off its Total The Faurecia Excellence System (FES) to meet four key objectives: clarification Customer Satisfaction program which governs the organization of Faurecia’s of the fundamentals, update of the aims at capturing a holistic picture of production and operations. Designed system content, simplification of the customer feedback including both to continuously improve the quality, audit questionnaire, and acceleration performance and perception across cost, delivery and safety performance, of digitalization. All of the changes have the whole value chain: from program it makes it possible to secure strong been designed to make the excellence acquisition to launch and delivery. operational performance of Faurecia’s system pragmatic and comprehensible Beyond the quality metrics, customer production sites, all around the world, for all employees. FES was renamed FES feedback is now being collected thanks to common working methods X.0 to express both the agility and the immediately and transparently via a and language. This approach by continuous improvement dimension of dedicated Customer Satisfaction digital Faurecia is fundamental as suppliers the system. With a deployment planned application. must ensure the same level of quality throughout 2019, FES X.0 will contribute and service throughout the world. to the success of the Total Customer Satisfaction program and to driving In 2018, the decision to redesign Faurecia bottom-line performance. Excellence System was made in order CELEBRATING WORLD QUALITY DAY On November 8, all Faurecia sites around the world celebrated World Quality Day to increase awareness of the important contribution of Quality to customer satisfaction. Many actions were organized to allow teams to demonstrate their commitment to quality. 20 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Achieving sustainable value creation through customer intimacy and operational excellence Initiative Faurecia Best Plant Plant Risk Assessment the connection of programmable controllers in production machinery to Faurecia launched its plant ranking In 2018, Faurecia rolled out its Plant computer databases allows real-time initiative in early 2018. It consists of Risk Assessment program across all its analysis of many parameters, prevents a monthly assessment designed to 254 production sites worldwide. The breakdowns and avoids the production of promote comparative analysis between purpose of this program is to prevent non-compliant parts. The introduction of production sites and to foster a spirit operational issues thanks to an early artificial intelligence for visual inspection of healthy competition. Ultimately, detection of potential risks over the 18 of parts improves quality and reduces the program will contribute to reduce following months, considering the impact process variability. performance gaps by the sharing of best of new program launches. The assessment practices. All Faurecia sites, except those covers four domains – plant maturity, In 2017, the digital transformation with a workforce less than 100 people, are people, programs, sales/customers/ entered mass deployment mode. At the part of the ranking. Every year, based on suppliers through 20 criteria. Each criterion end of 2018, more than one thousand their results against defined KPIs, the best can be assessed either at 0 (very low cobots and AGVs had been installed at plants will be awarded and actions plans risk), 1 (potential risk) or 2 (significant Faurecia production sites. More than a will be put in place so the less performing challenge requiring a mitigation plan). hundred factories have digital production sites rapidly improve. The assessment is revised quarterly and dashboards, allowing real-time risk mitigation plans are developed to information sharing on the smooth running reduce criticality. of production lines. Thus, the reaction of operational teams is immediate in case of quality drift or production line stoppage. Digital manufacturing Digitalization of the manufacturing 19 BEST PLANTS system is moving a step further with Since 2015, Faurecia has engaged in a the launch of pull system digitalization WERE NOMINATED IN 2018, strategic transformation of its operations, (automatic production launch signal) of which the top in each Business using the Industry 4.0 or “Internet of that will strengthen monitoring of Group were Anting Frames (FAS), Things” approach. The emergence of new plant operational per formance. Nanjing (FCM) and Ourense (FIS). solutions, such as smart robots (including The implementation of these digital collaborative robots, visual guided management tools, combined with robots etc.) or self-guided handling “big data” for an ever greater control of devices (AGVs or “Autonomous Guided manufacturing processes, opens up new Vehicles”), has led to a breakthrough prospects for optimizing the operating in the automation of assembly and conditions of production lines, for an ever handling of our products. In addition, better use of industrial assets. KEY DIGITALIZATION FIGURES (at the end of 2018) 800 AGV 470 SMART ROBOTS 106 SITES USING DIGITAL MANAGEMENT CONTROL 300 MACHINES CONNECTED TO THE DATA LAKE In 2015, Faurecia engaged in the strategic transformation of its operations, using the Industry 4.0 or “Internet of Things” approach. FOR MORE INFORMATION • See Chapter 4 on CSR. / Registration document 2018 21 The Faurecia transformation Achieving sustainable value creation through customer intimacy and operational excellence Faurecia business model of creating and sharing value 2 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR VALUE CREATION Sustainable Cockpit Mobility of the Future Innovating in air quality and energy efﬁciency: Toward more versatile, predictive and connected environment for vehicle occupants: Leadership in technologies for hybrid vehicles Cockpit technologies Achieving leadership in commercial vehicles Advanced safety, comfort and wellness Developing new solutions for zero emissions vehicles Cockpit systems integration 1 OUR BUSINESS MODEL em syst 115,000 o ec siness grou employees bu p innovat SEATING s 37 countries ion CLEAN MOBILITY 300 sites INTERIORS cult u re 403 ﬁrst ﬁlling patents tals VALUES en m fund OPERATIONAL a EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY CONVICTIONS TOTAL CUSTOMER Planet care SATISFACTION 77.7% ISO 14001 certiﬁed sites 723,121 tons of CO2 GHG emissions (scopes 1 & 2) 2.05 million MWh Electricity consumption People care Occupational safety (FR0t) : 21.8 hours training on average per employee per year 0.95 accident leading to a work stoppage per million 32.4% of managers & professionals hired in 2018 were hours worked, employees and temporary workers recent graduates Employee engagement index 23.8% of managers and professionals are female 54 pts of operator engagement in 2018 353 collective agreements concluded in 2018 61 pts for managers and professionals in 2017 in 18 countries 22 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Achieving sustainable value creation through customer intimacy and operational excellence 3 OUR SHARED VALUE Employees salaries and social charges: 3,706 M€ Faurecia 21.1% Suppliers total sales purchase & external costs: 12,400 M€ in 2018 70.8% States & Communities 17,525 M€ taxes: 239 M€ 1.4% Banks ﬁnance costs: 108 M€ 0.6% Shareholders company holders and minorities: 211 M€ PRIORIT EGIC IES 1.2% RAT ST 2. OU R UR SHARE Operating 3. O Financing D Cash ﬂow from VA operating activities ODEL after dividend SM L E S 1,432 M€ N 1. OU UE R BUS I Investment capacity Investments in ﬁxed assets: External ﬁnancing 673 M€ 3.8% (net debt variation) Investisments in R&D: 26 M€ 593 M€ 3.4% Investments in acquisition: 175 M€ 1% / Registration document 2018 23 The Faurecia transformation An efﬁcient risk management system An efﬁcient risk management system The Group has developed a comprehensive risk management system. This allows Faurecia to optimize the operations of its Business Groups through identification and mitigation of major risks. A Group-wide approach to risk management Faurecia’s management and from risk mapping to the monitoring of Both the Audit Committee of the governance structures are involved in specific operational risks. In this regard, Board of Directors and the Executive the risk management of the Group’s the Group launched the Faurecia Committee conduct continuous evolving business model. The Group Enterprise Risk Management Program oversight of the process. The Group’s Risk Committee and the Management (ERM) in 2017, to define and oversee risk Internal Control and Audit departments, Committees of each Business Group management actively and consistently, as well as external participants, provide work together to avoid and contain all for all types of risk. their specific expertise, from operational potential threats to Faurecia’s success, processes to auditing. This table presents the main risks identified by Faurecia, broken down according to the Group’s different types of capital and differentiating extra-financial risks. Faurecia has implemented a variety of counter-measures to prevent and contain those risks. They are detailed in Chapter 2 of the Registration Document (“Risks”). CAPITAL RISKS CAPITAL RISKS Human Safety at work Intellectual Continuity and security of information systems Talent acquisition and retention Intellectual property Social dialogue Relational Litigation Financial External growth Regulatory development Risk associated with the automotive Business ethics supplier business Duty of care and responsible Interest rate risk purchasing Currency risk Environmental Sites environmental impact Liquidity risk and climate change Risk related to raw materials Customer credit risk Natural events Industrial Product safety and Quality Supplier failure risk Programme management Extra-financial risk (in the context of the extra-financial Fire and explosion performance declaration) FOR MORE INFORMATION • See Risks and CSR chapters. 24 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Robust performance demonstrating our resilience Robust performance demonstrating our resilience Faurecia is committed to profitable growth and long-term value creation for all its stakeholders. This is achieved through the Company’s focus on operational excellence and total customer satisfaction, combined with its strategy focused on Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future supported by its Convictions and Values for sustainable development. Faurecia’s performance, both financial and extra-financial in 2018, despite increasing headwinds in the second half of the year demonstrate the pertinence of its strategy and the resilience of its business model. Faurecia’s performance in 2018 2017 2018 Variation Sales €16,962.1 m €17,524.7 m +7%* Operating income €1,157.6 m €1,273.9 m +10% Operating margin (% of sales) 6.8% 7.3% Net income Group Share €599.4 m €700.8 m +16.9% EBITDA €1,950.9 m €2,140.6 m +9.7% Capital expenditure €738.6 m €673.2 m -8.8% Net cash ﬂow €435.3 m €528.1 m +21.3% Net cash flow (% of sales) 2.6% 3.0% Total equity €3,453.9 m €4,071.3 m +17.9% Net debt €451.5 m 477.7 +5.8% * At constant currency and including bolt-ons Faurecia, a European “Top Employer” In 2018, Faurecia received its first “Top Employer Europe” certification, a label based on certification in five countries: France, Germany, Spain, the Czech Republic and Poland. The Group has been certified alongside 31 companies in Europe this year, for excellence in its work environment and career development. The Top Employer label is awarded to companies that meet relevant standards with regard to HR management practices in talent attraction and development, compensation and social benefits, as well as training and skills development. FOR MORE INFORMATION • See Chapter on Financial statements. / Registration document 2018 25 The Faurecia transformation Two governance bodies driving strategy and execution Two governance bodies driving strategy and execution Faurecia has two governance bodies, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, responsible for deciding and implementing the Group’s strategy. The Board of Directors The Board of Directors oversees Faurecia’s business, financial and economic strategies. This 15-member body, including 8 independent directors and 2 employee representatives, meets at least four times a year. Three Committees are tasked with the preparation of discussions on specific topics: the Audit Committee, the Governance Committee and the Management Committee. They make proposals and recommendations and give advice in their fields of expertise. Age Nationality Committees Executive Corporate Patrick KOLLER 59 French-German Officer Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and board member Independent Board Michel de ROSEN 67 French Chairman of the Governance Committee Members Chairman of the Board of Directors Éric BOURDAIS DE CHARBONNIÈRE 79 French Governance Committee Odile DESFORGES 68 French Chairwoman of the Audit Committee Hans-Georg HÄRTER 73 German Management Committee Linda HASENFRATZ 52 Canadian Chairwoman of the Management Committee Penelope HERSCHER 58 American Management Committee Valérie LANDON 56 French Audit Committee Bernadette SPINOY 56 Belgian Governance Committee Board Members Olivia LARMARAUD 60 French Audit Committee Affiliated With the Grégoire OLIVIER 58 French Shareholder PSA Robert PEUGEOT 68 French Management Committee Philippe de ROVIRA 45 French Governance Committee Board Members Daniel BERNARDINO 48 Portuguese Representing Emmanuel PIOCHE 53 French Employees 60 years 4 years, 2 months 8 2 AVERAGE AGE AVERAGE SENIORITY INDEPENDENT BOARD MEMBERS BOARD MEMBERS (1) REPRESENTING EMPLOYEES 6 6 97.83% 100% NATIONALITIES FEMALE BOARD MEMBERS ATTENDANCE RATE ATTENDANCE RATE AT AT BOARD MEETINGS COMMITTEE MEETINGS (1) Excluding Board members representing employees. 26 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Two governance bodies driving strategy and execution Expertise at the service of strategy With their diverse backgrounds, experience and skills, Faurecia’s Board members offer the Group their expertise, support it in defining its strategy and tackling the challenges that it faces, within the context of the Group’s transformation and new strategic orientations. Principal areas of expertise and experience of the Board members as of December 31, 2018 Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Banking / Finance / Risk management Artiﬁcial intelligence / Digital Governance / Management of large Automotive technologies Industry companies Speciﬁc knowledge of a geographic International experience CSR market The Executive Committee Faurecia’s executive functions are performed by an Executive Committee that meets monthly to review the Group’s results and oversees the Group’s operations and deployment of its strategy. It discusses and prepares guidelines on important operational subjects, and its decisions are then deployed throughout the Group. Under the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, the Faurecia Executive Committee is comprised of the 11 Executive Vice-Presidents of the Business Groups and support functions. Patrick Koller Michel Favre Kate Philipps Eelco Spoelder Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Group Chief Financial Group Communications Faurecia Seating Ofﬁcer Jean-Michel Renaudie François Tardif Hervé Guyot Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Faurecia Interiors Faurecia China Group Strategy Christophe Schmitt Hagen Wiesner Thorsten Muschal Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Faurecia Clean Mobility Group Operations Sales and Program Management Jean-Pierre Sounillac Executive Vice-President, Group Human Resources / Registration document 2018 27 The Faurecia transformation The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s compensation The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s compensation In line with market practices, the Group’s policy regarding compensation for its Chief Executive Officer is closely linked to the successful implementation of the Group’s strategy and is balanced between long-term and short-term incentives. Subject to a vote by the Group’s shareholders, the compensation paid or awarded to the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Patrick Koller, is based on three main components: fixed compensation, short-term variable compensation and long-term variable compensation in the form of performance shares. Short-term variable compensation Fixed compensation Long-term variable compensation Ranging from 0 to 180% of the ﬁxed compensation Quantitative targets (for 2018) Performance shares Performance Operating income Free cash ﬂow Fulﬁllment of an external Fulﬁllment of an internal & transformation (40%) (60%) performance condition performance condition (40%) (60%) of the Group Qualitative targets (for 2019) Multiplying effect 0.70 to 1.20 Execution Management Being Faurecia of strategy in terms of program (30%) of Sustainable launches Mobility (30%) and Smart Life on Board (40%) SHORT-TERM LONG-TERM FOR MORE INFORMATION • See Chapter on Governance. 28 / Registration document 2018 The Faurecia transformation Key ﬁnancial ﬁgures 2018 Key ﬁnancial ﬁgures 2018 (1) 17,524.7 + 7% (2) 16,962.1 1,273.9 1,157.6 700.8 599.4 6.8% 7.3% 3.5% 4.0% 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Sales Operating Income (3) Consolidated Net Income Group Share (in €m and as a% of sales) (in €m and as a% of sales) 2,140.6 1,950.9 738.6 673.2 528.1 435.3 11.5% 12.2% 4.4% 3.8% 2.6% 3.0% 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 EBITDA (4) Capital expenditure Net Cash Flow (in €m and as a% of sales) (in €m and as a% of sales) (in €m and as a% of sales) 114,693 109,275 4,071.3 3,453.9 451.5 477.7 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Number of employees Total equity Net debt (5) (in €m) (in €m) (1) After application of IFRS 15 (reconciliation available in § 1.7). (2) At constant currencies and including Bolt-Ons. (3) Before amortization of acquired intangible assets ((§ 1.1.2.1 to the consolidated financial statements). (4) Operating income before depreciations and amortizations of assets (§ 1.1.2.3 to the consolidated financial statements). (5) Note 26.1 to the consolidated financial statements. / Registration document 2018 29 30 / Registration document 2018 1. Financial statements 1.1. The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 32 1.1.1. Business review 32 1.1.2. Consolidated ﬁnancial statements 43 1.1.3. Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 103 1.2. Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 107 1.2.1. Faurecia management report 107 1.2.2. Financial statements 111 1.2.3. Subsidiaries and afﬁliates 128 1.2.4. Statutory Auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements 130 In accordance with Article 28 of European Commission Regulation No. 809/2004, the following information is incorporated by reference in this Registration Document:  the consolidated financial statements, the annual financial statements, the corresponding Statutory Auditors’ reports, the comments on the consolidated financial statements and significant events of the year by business, set out respectively on pages 34 to 91, 99 to 117, 92 to 95, 118 to 120, and 24 to 33 of the 2017 Registration Document filed with the AMF on April 26, 2018 under number D. 18.0391;  the consolidated financial statements, the annual financial statements, the corresponding Statutory Auditors’ reports, the comments on the consolidated financial statements and significant events of the year by business, set out respectively on pages 175 to 236, 243 to 263, 237 and 238, 264 and 265, and 8 to 19 of the 2016 Registration Document filed with the AMF on April 24, 2017 under number D. 17.0417. This Section provides a description of Faurecia’s activities and results in 2018. All information concerning market positions is based on estimates made by Faurecia on the basis of information contained in the annual reports of the various actors of the market, industry publications and other market research. / Registration document 2018 31 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1. The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.1. Business review Since January 1, 2018 Faurecia has applied the IFRS 15 ‘BB+’. The Outlook on the Long-Term IDR is Stable. The rating standard on revenue recognition. As the Group decided to action reflects the improved and better-than-expected have full retrospective application, the consolidated financial earnings and underlying cash-generation of Faurecia, which statements published as of December 31, 2017 have been positions the French auto supplier at the high-end of the ‘BB’ restated consequently. All 2017 figures presented herafter are category, according to Fitch’s revised Rating Navigator for after application of IFRS 15 norm. auto suppliers. In 2017, Faurecia had already partly anticipated IFRS 15 through February/March 2018 the presentation of sales as “Value-added sales”, i.e. “Total Faurecia issued early March €700 million of 7-year bonds, due sales” minus “Monoliths”, for which Faurecia operates as an 2025, with a coupon of 2.625%. The favourable conditions agent. achieved demonstrate the significant appreciation of In addition, as from January 1, 2018, with the implementation Faurecia’s credit quality. With the cash raised through these of IFRS 15: new bonds, Faurecia repaid in advance €700 million of 3.125% bonds June 2022. This was done through an exchange offer  revenue from Tooling is recognized at the transfer of control which allowed amortising the reimbursement premium and to the customer (PPAP = Production Part Approval Process), issuance fees over the life of the new bonds. This new longshortly before serial production; term bond issue will allow Faurecia to enhance its financial  development costs are recognized as set-up costs for the structure by extending its debt maturity profile and reducing serial parts production and the corresponding revenue is its cost of funding. included in product sales. March 2018 The impacts of IFRS 15 norm on consolidated financial Faurecia announced that it had completed the acquisition of statements as of December 31, 2017 are available on § 1.7. 100% of the Swiss company Hug Engineering, a market leader in The § 2.5 Note 1.B provides further explanation on IFRS 15 complete exhaust gas purification systems for high horsepower application. engines (above 750 hp). These engines are used in applications including marine propulsion, power generation, rail, agricultural and other industries. This acquisition represents a major step 1.1.1.1. Main events forward for Faurecia in its strategy to improve air quality through world class aftertreatment systems for all types of diesel engines. Hug Engineering is the High Horsepower market leader in Europe 1.1.1.1.1. FISCAL YEAR EVENTS and one of the largest players worldwide. The company is well positioned to maintain its leadership position as the market January/February 2018 grows rapidly to reach €2.4 billion in the next 10 years when Rating agencies updated their long-term corporate credit the majority of high horsepower engines become subject to ratings: emissions regulations.  Standard & Poors has assigned Faurecia their ‘BB+’ longFaurecia announced an investment in the French start-up term corporate credit ratings, with a stable outlook. The Enogia in order to enhance its expertise in energy recovery stable outlook reflects their view that Faurecia will gradually technology. Founded in 2009 and based in Marseille, the startimprove its profitability, with an S&P Global Ratings-adjusted up, which employs 30 people, has developed and patented EBITDA margin widening toward 9% in 2018 and funds from a hermetic, compact high-speed turbine that recovers heat operations to adjusted debt within the 35%-40% range; and converts it into electricity. Enogia’s technologies are very  Moody’s has upgraded the corporate family rating (CFR) of well suited to commercial vehicles, trucks and high horsepower Faurecia S.A. (Faurecia) to Ba1 from Ba2. The outlook on the engines (marine transport and generators) and the investment ratings is stable; by Faurecia will enable it to grow rapidly in these market segments.  Fitch Ratings has upgraded Faurecia S.A.’s Long-Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) and senior unsecured debt from ‘BB’ to 32 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements April 2018 schedule. This transaction underlines the importance of Parrot Faurecia announced the opening of a new tech center in Automotive in Faurecia’s Cockpit of the Future strategy. It would Yokohama, Japan, for its Seating, Interiors and Clean Mobility accelerate the development of infotainment solutions based businesses. With this strengthened presence, the Group will on the Android operating system by Parrot Automotive and accelerate the development of technologies for Smart Life on the development of an open platform integrating the different Board and Sustainable Mobility through reinforced customer connected systems and functionalities of the vehicle interior. intimacy and the establishment of technology partnerships. The transaction would be based on an enterprise value of €100 million, identical to that used when Faurecia entered into May 2018 the capital of Parrot Automotive in 2017. This project is subject At its Capital Markets Day held in Paris on May 15, Faurecia to consultation of the Parrot Automotive and Parrot SA Works detailed its 2020 financial targets: Councils and to the agreement of the antitrust authorities.  sales growth of above 7% per year to exceed €20 billion. August 2018 After three years of record order intake, Faurecia has secured For its first participation at the IAA Commercial Vehicles trade growth of above 7% CAGR (including a 2% annual market fair in Hannover, Germany, Faurecia demonstrated advanced growth assumption) between 2017 and 2020 to reach sales technologies for fuel efficiency, air quality, zero emission of over €20 billion. The Group will double its sales in China to and driver well-being. Faurecia is a leader in developing reach €4.5 billion; technologies to improve air quality and energy efficiency  operating margin of 8% of sales in 2020 (a 110 basis point for passenger and commercial vehicles. Through its recent improvement vs. 2017) to be achieved through leverage acquisition of HUG Engineering, which offers complete on sales and major Group Initiatives, including digital systems for High Horsepower vehicles, including monolith, transformation. Combined, these initiatives will provide coating, manufacturing and assembly, Faurecia is now around 125 bps of improved operating margin, a part of also a leading player in this fast-growing market segment. which will finance acceleration in innovation; In addition, the Group is developing innovative solutions for zero emission transportation such as fuel cell and battery  net cash flow at 4% of sales driven by its “Convert2Cash” technologies. Faurecia offers forward-looking technologies for initiative. smart vehicle interiors. At the IAA Commercial Vehicles trade Faurecia communicated on its 2025 ambition: €30 billion of fair, the company presented “Active Wellness Express™”, a sales, New Value Spaces representing almost €7 billion. groundbreaking innovation offering more comfort and safety for professional drivers. This is the first connected seat cover for June 2018 professional drivers with sensors monitoring health and wellness Faurecia signed a strategic partnership framework agreement data. The system detects fatigue and stress at an early stage with one of the leading Chinese automobile manufacturer, and triggers appropriate countermeasures for more security, FAW group, to develop cockpit of the future technologies and comfort and well-being at the wheel. sustainable mobility solutions. Within this strategic cooperation, September 2018 several fields have been defined: develop Cockpit of the Future solutions and services, develop connected, versatile At the Paris Motor Show, Faurecia showcased its latest and and predictive seat solutions and provide zero emission and disruptive technologies in its two strategic areas of focus: air quality technologies. Smart Life on Board & Sustainable Mobility. Faurecia has taken full measure of increasing autonomy and connectedness of Faurecia signed on June 15 an Amend & Extend (A&E) vehicles, by pioneering a comprehensive technology offer that agreement regarding its €1.2 billion Syndicated Credit Facility, makes the Cockpit of the Future a reality today. On its booth, initially signed in December 2014 and already amended Faurecia demonstrated its role as a leading systems integrator in June 2016. This new agreement extends the maturity of to enhance user experience in the versatile, connected and the facility, which is undrawn as of today, from June 2021 predictive Cockpit of the Future. Also, as the global clean tech to June 2023, with two optional one-year extensions. It also leader, Faurecia is committed to drive the mobility and industry improved its economic conditions. This agreement strengthens value chain towards zero emissions and offers innovative the Group’s financial structure and flexibility over the long-term: solutions in three areas: emissions reduction for all types of Faurecia’s average long-term debt maturity now exceeds five engines from passenger vehicles to high horsepower, zero years and its average cost of financing is below 3%. emissions mobility and air quality solutions for cities. All these technologies showcased at the Paris Motor Show, will support July 2018 the automotive industry’s evolution towards zero emissions and Faurecia and Parrot have finalized a proposal concerning the digital services for smarter and cleaner cities. take-over of 100% of Parrot Automotive by Faurecia, ahead of / Registration document 2018 33 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements October 2018 1.1.1.1.2. RECENT EVENTS Faurecia announced the acquisition of 100% of Parrot January 2019 Faurecia Automotive. The deal followed the announcement of an agreement between Parrot and Faurecia on July 5 this At CES, Faurecia showcased how the onboard intelligence year regarding Faurecia’s proposal to acquire 100% of Parrot and integrated design of the Cockpit of the Future provides Faurecia Automotive. The transaction is based on an enterprise a more mersatile, connected and predictive environment value of €100 million, identical to that used when Faurecia that allows people to make the most of their time onboard. entered into the capital of Parrot Automotive in 2017. Faurecia also demonstrated key technologies to accelerate the development of fuel-cell powered vehicules, a promising Faurecia announced a new joint venture with Liuzhou future zero emissions mobility solution. Wuling Automotive Industry Co., Ltd, a China leading automotive component manufacturing company. The new February 2019 joint venture, named Faurecia (Liuzhou) Emissions Control On February 26, Faurecia announced a partnership with Japan Technologies Co., Ltd and controlled equally by each party, Display Inc. to enhance the digital user experience inside the further extends the bilateral cooperation to the Clean Mobility cockpit. Faurecia and Japan Display Inc. will cooperate on the activity and targets annual sales of 600 million RMB in 2023. development and integration of large displays into automotive Through this joint venture, Faurecia and Wuling Industry embark interiors. on a comprehensive strategic cooperation in the area of automotive emissions control systems, leveraging resources March 2019 from both sides to develop innovative clean mobility solutions Faurecia, through its subsidiary Hennape Six SAS, has reached starting from SAIC GM Wuling Automobile Co., Ltd (SGMW) and on October 26, 2018 binding agreements with Clarion and manufacturers which are subsidiaries controlled by SGMW in Hitachi, the controlling shareholder owning 63.8% of Clarion, China. for a tender offer to acquire 100% of the shares of Clarion, listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, for a price of ¥2,500 per Faurecia announced that it had reached binding agreements clarion share. The tender offer has been authorized by antitrust with Clarion and Hitachi, the controlling shareholder owning authorities. Clarion shareholders have tendered 95.2% of their 63.8% of Clarion, for a tender offer to acquire 100% of the shares to the offer launched on January 30, 2019. The tender shares of Clarion. Clarion is a major Japanese supplier of inoffer, closed on February 28, 2019, has been followed by a vehicle-infotainment and full digital audio systems, HMI and squeeze out at the end of which Hennape Six SAS has acquired advanced driver assistance systems, connectivity and cloudon March 28, 2019 the remaining Clarion shares (excluding based services. With its core competences in electronics treasury shares). and software integration, this acquisition would significantly reinforce Faurecia’s offer for cockpit systems integration. As part This acquisition has been financed through the issuance of this transaction, Faurecia and Hitachi Automotive Systems by Faurecia S.E. in December 2018 of a €700 million have also reached an agreement for a business alliance within Schuldscheindarlehen and the conclusion of a €500 million which Clarion and Hitachi Automotive Systems would be able bridge loan. to combine their product offers to propose unique autonomous Faurecia S.E. has successfully issued on March 27, 2019 driving solutions to OEMs. €500 million of senior notes due 2026 at 3.125% to refinance November 2018 the bridge loan. The lighting and electronics specialist HELLA and Faurecia, will On March 11, Faureca and Michelin signed a Memorandum cooperate in a strategic partnership for the development of of Understanding to create a joint venture bringing together all innovative interior lighting solutions. Within this cooperation, both of Michelin’s fuel cell related activities – including its subsidiary companies will jointly develop lighting with high-technology Symbio – with those of Faurecia. Symbio (a Faurecia Michelin content in the domain of surface-lighting and dynamicHydrogen Company) will be owned equally by Faurecia lighting for a more personalized cockpit environment. Faurecia and Michelin. This French joint venture, built around a unique contributes its expertise as a complete system integrator for ecosystem, will develop, produce and market hydrogen fuel vehicle interiors and HELLA supplies innovative products in the cell systems for light vehicles, utility vehicles, trucks and other field of interior lighting. applications. December 2018 All these press releases are available on the site www.faurecia.com. Faurecia announced an investment in ESP Consulting, an innovative French lab that uses cognitive science to optimize human well-being and performance in different situations. Faurecia’s objective is to better assess the human impact of its technologies for predictive and personalized use cases inside the cockpit. 34 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.1.2. Automotive production In the second half of 2018, production decreased by 4.4% compared to 2017, mainly in Europe by 5.3% and Asia by 5.6%; Worldwide automotive production decreased by 1.1% in 2018 during the same period, production increased in North America compared to 2017. It decreased in all regions of the world by 1.7% except in South America, where it grew by 3.1%. Production decreased in Europe (including Russia) by 1.2%, in North All the data related to automotive production and volume America by 0.6% and in Asia by 1.5% (of which a decrease of evolution in 2018 is based on IHS Automotive report dated 4.6% in China). January 2019. 1.1.1.3. Sales At constant (in € millions) H2 2017 Currencies currencies * H2 2018 Product Sales 7,711.1 (139.5) 342.5 7,914.2 Var. in % -1.8% 4.4% 2.6% Tooling, Prototypes and Other Services 705.8 (8.4) (78.1) 619.3 Var. in % -1.2% -11.1% -12.2% Sales 8,416.9 (147.9) 264.4 8,533.5 Var. in % -1.8% 3.1% 1.4% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €297.9 million or 3.5%. At constant (in € millions) FY 2017 Currencies currencies * FY 2018 Product Sales 15,771.3 (592.1) 1,151.2 16,330.4 Var. in % -3.8% 7.3% 3.5% Tooling, Prototypes and Other Services 1,190.8 (38.5) 42.0 1,194.3 Var. in % -3.2% 3.5% 0.3% Sales 16,962.1 (630.6) 1,193.2 17,524.7 Var. in % -3.7% 7.0% 3.3% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €441.8 million or 2.6%. Sales of products (parts, components and R&D sold to This represents an increase of 0.3% on a reported basis and a manufacturers) reached €16,330.4 million in 2018 compared growth of 3.5% at constant currencies. to €15,771.3 million in 2017. The product sales increased by 3.5% Sales totaled €17,524.7 million in 2018 compared to on a reported basis and by 7.3% at constant currencies. €16,962.1 million in 2017, showing an increase of 3.3% on a Sales of tooling, prototypes and other services totaled reported basis and a growth of 7.0% at constant currencies. €1,194.3 million in 2018 versus €1,190.8 million in 2017. / Registration document 2018 35 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.1.3.1. BY REGION At constant Automotive (in € millions) H2 2018 H2 2017 Reported currencies * Production Sales Europe 4,128.1 4,192.5 -1.5% -0.2% -5.3% North America 2,242.2 2,122.0 5.7% 2.9% 1.7% South America 350.8 405.5 -13.5% 18.3% -3.3% Asia 1,714.4 1,558.0 10.0% 11.2% -5.6% o/w China 1,325.6 1,185.7 11.8% 13.2% -12.0% Rest of the World 98.0 138.9 -29.4% -27.5% -14.6% TOTAL 8,533.5 8,416.9 1.4% 3.1% -4.4% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €297.9 million or 3.5%: €37.1 million for Hug in Europe, €255.0 million for Wuling, BYD and CoAgent in Asia. At constant Automotive (in € millions) FY 2018 FY 2017 Reported currencies * Production Sales Europe 8,858.2 8,502.8 4.2% 5.4% -1.2% North America 4,474.2 4,473.2 0.0% 4.6% -0.6% South America 714.1 793.6 -10.0% 17.7% 3.1% Asia 3,257.2 2,932.9 11.1% 13.9% -1.5% o/w China 2,494.6 2,242.6 11.2% 13.9% -4.6% Rest of the World 221.0 259.6 -14.8% -10.0% -2.2% TOTAL 17,524.7 16,962.1 3.3% 7.0% -1.1% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €441.8 million or 2.6%: €55.9 million for Hug in Europe, €372.8 million for Wuling, BYD and CoAgent in Asia.  in North America, sales reached €4,474.2 million (25% of total 1% sales), versus €4,473.2 million in 2017. Due to the exchange Rest of the World rate, the sales are in line with last year on a reported basis 19% whereas they grew by 4.6% at constant currencies. This is to Asia be compared to a 0.6% downturn in production market in North America;  in South America, sales totaled €714.1 million (4% of the total 4% sales), compared to €793.6 million in 2017. Sales decreased South 51% by 10.0% on a reported basis. However, they were up 17.7% America Europe at constant currencies. In 2018, the automotive production in the region increased by 3.1%; 25%  in Asia, sales were up by 11.1% on a reported basis to reach North €3,257.2 million (19% of total sales) and to be compared to America €2,932.9 million in 2017. This represents a growth of 13.9% at constant currencies. Sales in China went up 11.2% on a reported basis, and up 13.9% at constant currencies. Over Sales by region in 2018 grew as follows: the same period, the automotive production decreased by  in Europe, sales totaled €8,858.2 million (51% of total sales), 1.5% in Asia and by 4.6% in China; compared to €8,502.8 million in 2017. Sales were up 4.2% on a  in the rest of the world (mainly South Africa after the stoppage reported basis and up 5.4% at constant currencies. Over the of Iran activities), sales amounted to €221.0 million, a 14.8% same period, car manufacturers decreased their production decrease on a reported basis and a 10.0% decrease at in Europe by 1.2%; constant currencies. 36 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.1.3.2. BY CUSTOMER Sales to the Ford group accounted for 16.2% of Faurecia’s total sales, totaling €2,842.8 million. Compared to 2017, sales to Ford 7% group decreased by 9.4% on a reported basis and by 2.6% at FCA constant currencies. 5% Sales to the PSA group totaled €2,429.7 million. They were up GM 5.7% on a reported basis and up 7.3% at constant currencies. 5% They accounted for 13.9% of Faurecia’s total sales. BMW Sales to the Renault-Nissan-Mistubishi group represented 5% €2,211.8 million or 12.6% of Faurecia’s total sales. They were Daimler down 7.5% on a reported basis and down 3.6% at constant 4% 19% Chinese OEMs currencies compared to 2017. VW 3% Sales to the FCA group reached €1,125.3 million (6.5% of total CVE sales). This represented a growth of 13.4% on a reported basis 16% 2% and of 20.2% at constant currencies compared to 2017. Ford HKMC Sales to the Daimler group totaled €875.4 million (5.0% of total 2% sales). They were down 15.5% on a reported basis and down JLR 13.9% at constant currencies. 14% 5% Sales to BMW represented €889.2 million or 5.1% of total sales. PSA Others They increased by 6.0% on a reported basis and by 6.8% at 13% constant currencies compared to 2017. Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi Sales to the GM group decreased to €907.6 million (5.2% of total sales). They declined by 11.6% on a reported basis and by 7.7% In 2018, sales to four main customers (VW, Ford, PSA, at constant currencies compared to 2017. Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi) amounted to €10,739.4 million or 61.3% of sales. It represented 63.8% in 2017. Sales to the VW group totaled €3,255.1 million. They accounted for 18.6% of Faurecia’s total sales. Compared to 2017, they increased by 8.5% on a reported basis and by 10.9% at constant currencies. 1.1.1.3.3. BY BUSINESS GROUP At constant (in € millions) H2 2018 H2 2017 Reported currencies * Sales Seating 3,656.5 3,492.5 4.7% 6.4% Interiors 2,622.2 2,741.7 -4.4% -2.3% Clean Mobility 2,254.8 2,182.7 3.3% 4.7% TOTAL 8,533.5 8,416.9 1.4% 3.1% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €297.9 million or 3.5%: €174.5 million for Wuling and BYD on Seating, €80.5 million for Wuling and CoAgent on Interiors and €37.1 million for Hug on Clean Mobility. At constant (in € millions) FY 2018 FY 2017 Reported currencies * Sales Seating 7,438.0 7,129.2 4.3% 7.6% Interiors 5,471.7 5,367.4 1.9% 6.0% Clean Mobility 4,615.0 4,465.5 3.3% 7.2% TOTAL 17,524.7 16,962.1 3.3% 7.0% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €441.8 million or 2.6%: €224.7 million for Wuling and BYD on Seating, €148.2 million for Wuling and CoAgent on Interiors and €55.9 million for Hug on Clean Mobility. / Registration document 2018 37 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 31% 1.1.1.4. Operating Income Interiors In 2018: 43%  operating income before amortization of acquired intangible Seating assets reached €1,273.9 million (7.3% of sales), compared to €1,157.6 million (6.8% of sales) in 2017;  gross expenditures for R&D totaled €1,093.1 million, or 6.2% of sales, compared to €1,152.3 million, or 6.8% of sales in 2017. The portion of R&D expenditure capitalised amounted to €794.3 million, compared to €870.7 million in 2017. The R&D capitalization ratio represented 72.7% of total R&D 26% expenditure, whereas it represented 75.6% over the same Clean Mobility period in 2017;  the net R&D expenses reached €298.8 million compared to In 2018, the three Business Groups contributed to the sales €281.7 million in 2017, stable at 1.7% of sales; growth:  selling and administrative expenses were contained to  the Seating business reached €7,438.0 million sales, up 4.3% €703.2 million (4.0% of sales), compared to €680.4 million on a reported basis and up 7.6% at constant currencies (4.0% of sales) in 2017; compared to 2017;  EBITDA – which represents operating income before  the Interiors business totaled €5,471.7 million sales. This depreciation, amortisation and provisions for impairment represented a 1.9% increase on a reported basis and a 6.0% of property, plant and equipment and capitalised R&D increase at constant currencies; expenditures – rose to €2,140.6 million (12.2% of sales), to be  the Clean Mobility business generated €4,615.0 million compared to €1,950.9 million (11.5% of sales) in 2017. sales, up 3.3% on a reported basis and up 7.2% at constant currencies compared to 2017. 1.1.1.4.1. BY REGION H2 2018 H2 2017 Operating Operating (in € millions) Sales Income % Sales Income % Europe 4,128.1 260.7 6.3% 4,192.5 253.4 6.0% North America 2,242.2 154.3 6.9% 2,122.0 116.5 5.5% South America 350.8 12.7 3.6% 405.5 6.8 1.7% Asia 1,714.4 187.3 10.9% 1,558.0 179.8 11.5% Rest of the World 98.0 11.7 12.0% 138.9 18.4 13.2% TOTAL 8,533.5 626.7 7.3% 8,416.9 574.9 6.8% FY 2018 FY 2017 Operating Operating (in € millions) Sales Income % Sales Income % Europe 8,858.2 565.9 6.4% 8,502.8 524.0 6.2% North America 4,474.2 289.7 6.5% 4,473.2 249.6 5.6% South America 714.1 24.6 3.4% 793.6 12.8 1.6% Asia 3,257.2 367.0 11.3% 2,932.9 339.2 11.6% Rest of the World 221.0 26.7 12.1% 259.6 32.0 12.3% TOTAL 17,524.7 1,273.9 7.3% 16,962.1 1,157.6 6.8% 38 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements The operating income in 2018 compared to 2017 increased  in South America, the operating income increased by €11.8 by €116.3 million: milion to reach €24.6 million. The operating margin in the region represented 3.4% of sales compared to 1.6% of sales  in Europe, the operating income was up by €41.9 million, to in 2017; reach €565.9 million or 6.4% of sales. This is to be compared to €524.0 million or 6.2% in 2017;  in Asia, the operating income increased by €27.8 million to reach €367.0 million or 11.3% of sales. The operating income  in North America, the operating income increased by in percentage of sales decreased compared to 2017 which €40.1 million to €289.7 million. The operating income reached was 11.6%; 6.5% of sales, compared to 5.6% in 2017;  in the rest of the world (South Africa), the operating is stable at 12.1% of sales (decrease of €5.3 million). 1.1.1.4.2. BY BUSINESS GROUP H2 2018 H2 2017 Operating Operating (in € millions) Sales Income % Sales Income % Seating 3,656.5 227.0 6.2% 3,492.5 204.5 5.9% Interiors 2,622.2 155.1 5.9% 2,741.7 148.2 5.4% Clean Mobility 2,254.8 244.6 10.8% 2,182.7 222.2 10.2% TOTAL 8,533.5 626.7 7.3% 8,416.9 574.9 6.8% FY 2018 FY 2017 Operating Operating (in € millions) Sales Income % Sales Income % Seating 7,438.0 448.5 6.0% 7,129.2 404.4 5.7% Interiors 5,471.7 325.6 6.0% 5,367.4 299.8 5.6% Clean Mobility 4,615.0 499.8 10.8% 4,465.5 453.4 10.2% TOTAL 17,524.7 1,273.9 7.3% 16,962.1 1,157.6 6.8% The three Business Groups contributed to the rise of the total an expense of €96.2 million in 2017. This item included operating income in 2018: €100.8 million in restructuring charges implemented to bring costs in line with new market realities, compared to  the Seating business operating income amounted to €85.0 million in 2017. This item also included the €16.9 million €448.5 million (6.0% of sales) compared to €404.4 million in impairment of all assets related to business with Iran. Indeed, 2017 (5.7% of sales); following the United-States decision of May 8, 2018 and  the Interiors business operating income reached €325.6 million related restrictions imposed on business with Iran, the 51% (6.0% of sales) compared to €299.8 million in 2017 (5.6% of interest held by Faurecia in Faurecia Azin Pars has been sold; sales);  financial income amounted to €9.5 million, compared to  the Clean Mobility business operating income was up €12.7 million in 2017. Financial costs totaled €117.6 million, €46.4 million at €499.8 million (10.8% of sales) compared to versus €120.9 million in 2017; €453.4 million in 2017 (10.2% of sales).  other financial income and expense represented an expense of €55.7 million compared to €23.0 million in 2017. This expense included €6.6 million from discounting pension 1.1.1.5. Net income benefit liabilities, €4.6 million commitment fees on credit The net income group share reached €700.8 million, or 4.0% of facilities and €7.9 million linked to the amortization of debt sales in 2018. This is to be compared to €599.4 million or 3.5% of issuance costs. This Item also includes costs of €20.1 million sales over the same period in 2017. It represented an increase from loan depreciation related to Amminex and €5.7 million of €101.5 million. from hyper-inflation in Argentina; In 2018:  the tax expense reached €190.0 million, compared to €260.7 million in 2017. This represented an average tax rate  the amortization of intangible assets acquired in business of 20.0% compared to an average rate of 28.1% over the combinations related mainly to Coagent and Hug businesses same period in 2017. It includes the recognition of €72 million represented an expense of €10.9 million; deferred tax assets in France, made possible by the continous  the “other non-recurring operating income and expenses” improvement of the Group taxable income in the country; represented an expense of €147.3 million, compared to / Registration document 2018 39 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements  the share of net income of associates totaled €31.4 million, Basic earnings per share on continued operations amounted to compared to €34.6 million in 2017; €5.11 (diluted net earnings per share on continued operations at €5.09) compared to €4.37 in 2017 (diluted on continued  net income attributable to minority interests totaled operations at €4.35). €92.5 million. It consists of net income accruing to investors in companies in which Faurecia is not the sole shareholder, mainly in China. 1.1.1.6. Financial structure and net debt 1.1.1.6.1. RECONCILIATION BETWEEN NET CASH FLOW AND CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING AND INVESTING ACTIVITIES (in € millions) § FY 2018 FY 2017 Net cash ﬂow 528.1 435.3 Acquisitions/Sales of investments and business (net of cash and cash equivalents) from continued activities 2.3 174.6 218.0 Proceed from disposal of ﬁnancial assets from continued activities 2.3 0.0 0.0 Other changes from continued activities 2.3 67.0 52.9 Cash provided by operating and investing activities 2.3 286.5 164.4 1.1.1.6.2. NET CASH FLOW 2017. This change consisted in part of a increase in inventories of €29.0 million, a net increase in trade receivables of The net cash inflow was €528.1 million in 2018 compared to a €56.6 million, a increase in trade payables of €293.1 million net cash inflow of €435.3 million over the same period in 2017. and a negative variation of other trade receivables and It can be explained as follows: payables for €188.6 million, from lower downpayments from  the operating margin before depreciations and amortizations customers and higher prepayments on new contracts. The of non-current assets or EBITDA reached €2,140.6 million evolution of these balance sheet positions was impacted by compared to €1950.9 million in 2017, due to the increase exchange rate changes; in operating income for €116.3 million and the increase in  capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment depreciation and amortization by €73.8 million; and on intangible assets represented cash outflows of  restructuring represented cash outflows of €93.4 million €673.2 million, versus €738.6 million in 2017; compared to €88.3 million in 2017;  capitalized research and development costs represented  net financial costs represented cash outflows of €107.8 million, cash outflows of €592.7 million, versus €647.9 million in 2017; versus €124.5 million in 2017;  income taxes represented cash outflows of €260.9 million,  the change in working capital requirement, including compared to €286.5 million in 2017; receivables factoring, represented a positive impact of  finally, other cash flow items represented €96.7 million in €18.9 million compared to a positive impact €330.5 million in inflows, compared to €39.8 million in inflows in 2017. 40 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.1.6.3. NET DEBT (in € millions) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Net debt 477.7 451.5 Net debt stood at €477.7 million at the end of 2018, compared to €451.5 million at year-end 2017. (in € millions) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Shareholders’ equity 4,071.3 3,453.9 The Group’s shareholders’ equity rose from €3,453.9 million at  the €700 million of Schuldscheindarlehen (private placement year-end 2017 to €4,071.3 million at the end of 2018, an increase under German law), made of several tranches maturing of €617.4 million. in December 2022, December 2023 and December 2024, €378 million were settled on December 20, 2018; The main elements of long-term financial resources are:  since October 24, 2018, and in order to secure the financing  the syndicated credit facility for €1,200 million signed of Clarion, Faurecia has with one ot its main banks, a bridge in December 2014 and renegotiated in June 2016 and loan of €1.3 billion, with a maturity of one year with 2 options June 2018, maturing in June 2023 and which was not drawn of 6 months each, reduced to €750 million following the at December 31, 2018; Schuldscheindarlehen refinancing.  €700 million of bonds maturing in June 2023 and €700 million of bonds maturing in June 2025; 1.1.1.7. IFRS 15 reconciliation The following table is reconciliating the 2017 figures as presented in the 2017 Annual Results with the 2017 figures after IFRS 15 norm application as presented in the 2018 Annual Results. (in € millions) FY 2017 Reported (1) IFRS 15 Impact FY 2017 Restated (2) Sales Europe 8,500.4 2.4 8,502.8 North America 4,470.2 3.0 4,473.2 South America 788.0 5.6 793.6 Asia 2,942.3 (9.4) 2,932.9 Rest of the World 261.3 (1.7) 259.6 TOTAL 16,962.2 (0.1) 16,962.1 (1) As presented as Value Added Sales/Operating Income in 2017 Annual Results. (2) As presented in 2018 Annual Results. (in € millions) FY 2017 Reported (1) IFRS 15 Impact FY 2017 Restated (2) Operating Income Europe 527.0 (3.0) 524.0 North America 257.6 (8.0) 249.6 South America 11.6 1.2 12.8 Asia 341.8 (2.7) 339.1 Rest of the World 32.3 (0.2) 32.1 TOTAL 1,170.3 (12.7) 1,157.6 (1) As presented as Value Added Sales/Operating Income in 2017 Annual Results. (2) As presented in 2018 Annual Results. / Registration document 2018 41 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements (in € millions) FY 2017 Reported (1) IFRS 15 Impact FY 2017 Restated (2) Sales Seating 7,132.9 (3.7) 7,129.2 Interiors 5,336.1 31.3 5,367.4 Clean Mobility 4,493.2 (27.7) 4,465.5 TOTAL 16,962.2 (0.1) 16,962.1 (1) As presented as Value Added Sales/Operating Income in 2017 Annual Results. (2) As presented in 2018 Annual Results. (in € millions) FY 2017 Reported (1) IFRS 15 Impact FY 2017 Restated (2) Operating Income Seating 410.9 (6.5) 404.4 Clean Mobility 299.7 0.1 299.8 Interiors 459.7 (6.3) 453.4 TOTAL 1,170.3 (12.7) 1,157.6 (1) As presented as Value Added Sales/Operating Income in 2017 Annual Results. (2) As presented in 2018 Annual Results. 1.1.1.8. Outlook  operating income should increase in value and operating margin should be at least 7% (including Clarion consolidation In the current uncertain environment, Faurecia’s assumption is as from April 1); that worldwide automotive production should be down 1% in 2019 vs. 2018, with a difficult first half and growth resuming in  net cash flow should be at least €500 million (including Clarion the second half. consolidation as from April 1). Based on this assumption and including the impact of IFRS 16 Main currency assumptions: USD/€ @ 1.20 average and CNY/€ implementation as of January 1, 2019, Faurecia’s full-year 2019 @ 7.80 average. financial targets are: On November 26, Faurecia will hold a Capital Markets Day in  Sales growth at constant currencies should outperform Paris presenting: worldwide automotive production by 150 to 350bps  strategic roadmap and medium-term objectives for the new (excluding Clarion consolidation). Business Group “Faurecia Clarion Electronics” integrating 2019 sales outperformance is impacted by the one-off Clarion, Parrot Automotive and Coagent; effect of the end of production of two Seating programs in  new medium-term Group objectives: due to the change in North America and Europe (representing c. 200bps of sales perimeter to be effective as from April 1, the 2020 financial growth). Seating will resume growth in 2020 and further targets as presented at the Capital Markets Day of May 15, accelerate in 2021 due to the start of production of major 2018 are no longer relevant and new medium-term financial global frame programs. This will result in an average yearly targets will be presented. sales growth for the Seating activity of 600 to 800bps (at constant currencies) between 2019 and 2021; 42 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.2. Consolidated financial statements 1.1.2.1. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2017 (in € millions) Notes 2018 Restated SALES 4 17,524.7 16,962.1 Cost of sales 5 (15,248.8) (14,842.4) Research and development costs 5 (298.8) (281.7) Selling and administrative expenses 5 (703.2) (680.4) OPERATING INCOME (BEFORE AMORTIZATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS) 4 1,273.9 1,157.6 Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 11 (10.9) (1.2) OPERATING INCOME (AFTER AMORTIZATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS) 1,263.0 1,156.4 Other non-recurring operating income 6 2.9 5.2 Other non-recurring operating expense 6 (150.2) (101.3) Income from loans, cash investments and marketable securities 9.6 12.6 Finance costs (117.7) (120.9) Other ﬁnancial income and expense 7 (55.7) (23.0) INCOME BEFORE TAX OF FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 951.9 929.0 Taxes 8 (190.0) (260.7) of which deferred taxes 8 112.7 (22.6) NET INCOME (LOSS) OF FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 761.9 668.3 Share of net income of associates 13 31.4 34.6 NET INCOME FROM CONTINUED OPERATIONS 793.3 702.9 NET INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 2.3 0.0 (7.4) CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME (LOSS) 793.3 695.5 Attributable to owners of the parent 700.8 599.4 Attributable to minority interests 23 92.5 96.1 Basic earnings (loss) per share (in €) 9 5.11 4.37 Diluted earnings (loss) per share (in €) 9 5.09 4.35 Basic earnings (loss) from continued operations per share (in €) 9 5.11 4.42 Diluted earnings (loss) from continued operations per share (in €) 9 5.09 4.40 Basic earnings (loss) from discontinued operations per share (in €) 9 0.00 (0.05) Diluted earnings (loss) from discontinued operations per share (in €) 9 0.00 (0.05) / Registration document 2018 43 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2017 (in € millions) Notes 2018 Restated CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME (LOSS) 793.3 695.5 Amounts to be potentially reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss (18.4) (189.4) Gains (losses) arising on fair value adjustments to cash ﬂow hedges 12.2 9.8 of which recognized in equity 7.8 5.9 of which transferred to net income (loss) for the period 4.4 3.9 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (30.6) (199.2) Amounts not to be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss 15.7 3.1 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post-employment beneﬁt obligations 25 15.7 3.1 Other comprehensive income from dicontinued operations 0.0 0.0 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (EXPENSE) FOR THE PERIOD 790.6 509.2 Attributable to owners of the parent 701.4 429.6 Attributable to minority interests 89.2 79.6 44 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.2.2. Consolidated balance sheet Assets 2017 (in € millions) Notes 2018 Restated Goodwill 10 1,492.1 1,216.1 Intangible assets 11 1,959.4 1,634.7 Property, plant and equipment 12 2,784.6 2,589.4 Investments in associates 13 144.2 151.1 Other equity interests 14 60.7 239.9 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 15 91.2 96.8 Other non-current assets 16 46.2 43.1 Deferred tax assets 8 355.5 246.9 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 6,933.9 6,218.0 Inventories, net 17 1,431.7 1,387.5 Trade accounts receivables 18 1,947.5 1,859.3 Other operating receivables 19 313.8 270.3 Other receivables 20 661.5 556.0 Other current ﬁnancial assets 30 1.0 7.3 Cash and cash equivalents 21 2,105.3 1,563.0 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 6,460.8 5,643.4 Assets held for sale 0.0 0.0 TOTAL ASSETS 13,394.7 11,861.4 Liabilities 2017 (in € millions) Notes 2018 Restated EQUITY Capital 22 966.3 966.3 Additional paid-in capital 632.8 632.8 Treasury stock (51.0) (34.2) Retained earnings 1,443.0 969.9 Translation adjustments 17.8 44.4 Net income (loss) 700.8 599.4 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENTS 3,709.7 3,178.6 Minority interests 23 361.6 275.3 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 4,071.3 3,453.9 Non-current provisions 25 393.3 397.2 Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 26 1,870.0 1,598.4 Other non-current liabilities 1.7 1.5 Deferred tax liabilities 8 27.3 18.6 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,292.3 2,015.7 Current provisions 24 191.4 183.3 Current ﬁnancial liabilities 26 714.0 423.4 Prepayments from customers 605.0 545.7 Trade payables 4,562.6 4,219.3 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 27 618.0 627.4 Sundry payables 28 340.1 392.7 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 7,031.1 6,391.8 Liabilities linked to assets held for sale 0.0 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13,394.7 11,861.4 / Registration document 2018 45 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.2.3. Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 2017 (in € millions) Notes 2018 Restated IOPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating Income (loss) 1,273.9 1,157.6 Depreciations and amortizations of assets 5.5 866.7 793.3 o/w depreciations and amortizations of R&D assets 5.4 394.8 351.9 o/w other amortizations 471.9 441.4 EBITDA 2,140.6 1,950.9 Operating current and non-current provisions (10.7) (6.7) Capital (gains) losses on disposals of operating assets (36.0) 2.1 Paid restructuring (93.4) (88.3) Paid ﬁnance costs net of income (107.8) (124.5) Other non-recurring operating income and expenses paid (35.4) (2.4) Paid taxes (260.9) (286.5) Dividends from associates 27.3 16.6 Change in working capital requirement 18.9 330.5 Change in inventories (29.0) (68.0) o/w R&D inventories increase 5.4 (201.6) (222.7) o/w R&D inventories decrease 5.4 224.7 295.6 Change in trade accounts receivables (56.6) (106.7) Change in trade payables 293.1 595.2 Change in other operating receivables and payables 28.6 (14.6) Change in other receivables and payables (excl. Tax) (217.2) (75.4) Operating cash ﬂows from discontinued activities 0.0 0.0 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES 1,642.6 1,791.6 IIINVESTING ACTIVITIES Additional property, plant and equipment 12 (672.7) (738.2) Additional intangible assets 11 (0.6) (0.4) Capitalized development costs 5.4 & 11 (592.7) (648.0) Acquisitions/Sales of investments and business (net of cash and cash equivalents) (174.5) (218.0) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 124.8 23.9 Proceed from disposal of ﬁnancial assets 0.0 0.0 Change in investment-related receivables and payables 26.6 6.3 Other changes (67.0) (52.9) Investing cash ﬂows from discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY INVESTING ACTIVITIES (1,356.1) (1,627.2) CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING AND INVESTING ACTIVITIES (I)+(II) 286.5 164.4 IIIFINANCING ACTIVITIES Shares issued by Faurecia and fully consolidated companies (net of costs) 15.5 24.3 Dividends paid to owners of the parent company (150.9) (122.6) Dividends paid to minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries (59.7) (63.4) Acquisitions of treasury stocks (47.8) (40.1) Other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 0.0 0.0 Debt securities issued and increase in other ﬁnancial liabilities 682.4 194.9 Repayment of debt and other ﬁnancial liabilities (163.3) (108.6) Financing cash ﬂows from discontinued activities 0.0 0.0 NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES 276.2 (115.5) IVOTHER CHANGES IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Impact of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (20.5) (48.1) Net cash ﬂows from discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 542.2 0.8 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF PERIOD 1,563.0 1,562.2 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD 2,105.3 1,563.0 The net cash flow amounts to €528.1 million as of December 31, 2018. 46 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.2.4. Consolidated statement of changes in equity Valuation adjustments Actuarial Retained gain/(loss) earnings on post Equity atand net Transemploytributable Additional income lation Cash ment to owners Number Capital paid-in Treasury (loss) for adjustﬂow beneﬁt of the Minority (in € millions) of shares (1) stock capital Stock the period ments hedges obligations parent interests Total Shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2016 before appropriation of net income (loss) 138,035,801 966.3 632.8 (25.7) 1,252.9 230.8 (6.6) (108.5) 2,942.0 215.1 3,157.1 Impact of IFRS 15 application (45.3) (1.0) (46.3) 1.6 (44,7) Net income (loss) restated 599.4 599.4 96.1 695.5 Other comprehensive income (182.7) 9.8 3.1 (169.8) (16.5) (186.3) Comprehensive income restated 599.4 (182.7) 9.8 3.1 429.6 79.6 509.2 Capital increase 0.0 16.9 16.9 2016 dividends (122.6) (122.6) (65.8) (188.4) Measurement of stock options and shares grant (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) Purchases and sales of treasury stock (8.5) (8.5) (8.5) Changes in scope of consolidation and other (2.5) (2.7) (5.2) 27.9 22.7 Shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2017 Restated before appropriation of net income (loss) 138,035,801 966.3 632.8 (34.2) 1,671.5 44.4 3.2 (105.4) 3,178.6 275.3 3,453.9 Net income (loss) 700.8 700.8 92.5 793.3 Other comprehensive income (27.3) 12.2 15.7 0.6 (3.3) (2.7) Comprehensive income 700.8 (27.3) 12.2 15.7 701.4 89.2 790.6 Capital increase 0.0 24.7 24.7 2017 dividends (150.9) (150.9) (67.6) (218.5) Measurement of stock options and shares grant (11.0) (11.0) (11.0) Purchases and sales of treasury stock (16.8) (16.8) (16.8) Changes in scope of consolidation and other 7.7 0.7 8.4 40.0 48.4 Shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2018 before appropriation of net income (loss) 138,035,801 966.3 632.8 (51.0) 2,218.1 17.8 15.4 (89.7) 3,709.7 361.6 4,071.3 (1) Of which 814,320 treasury stock as of December 31, 2017 and 917,160 as of December 31, 2018 – See Note 9. / Registration document 2018 47 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.2.5. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Contents NOTE 1 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting NOTE 20 Other receivables 72 policies 49 NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents 72 NOTE 2 Change in scope of consolidation NOTE 22 Shareholders’ equity 72 and recent events 53 NOTE 23 Minority interests 74 NOTE 3 Post-balance sheet events 54 NOTE 24 Current provisions and contingent NOTE 4 Information by operating segment 54 liabilities 74 NOTE 5 Analysis of operating expenses 58 NOTE 25 Non-current provisions and provisions NOTE 6 Other non recurring operating income for pensions and other postand expenses 60 employment beneﬁts 75 NOTE 7 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 60 NOTE 26 Net debt 81 NOTE 8 Corporate income tax 61 NOTE 27 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 85 NOTE 9 Earnings per share 63 NOTE 28 Sundry payables 85 NOTE 10 Goodwill 64 NOTE 29 Financial instruments 86 NOTE 11 Intangible assets 66 NOTE 30 Hedging of currency and interest rate risks 89 NOTE 12 Property, plant and equipment 66 NOTE 31 Commitments given and contingent NOTE 13 Investments in associates 68 liabilities 93 NOTE 14 Other equity interests 69 NOTE 32 Related party transactions 94 NOTE 15 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 70 NOTE 33 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 95 NOTE 16 Other non-current assets 70 NOTE 34 Information on the consolidating NOTE 17 Inventories and work-in-progress 70 company 95 NOTE 18 Trade accounts receivables 71 NOTE 35 Dividends 95 NOTE 19 Other operating receivables 71 Faurecia S.E. (previously S.A. until December 26, 2018) and its subsidiaries (“Faurecia”) form one of the world’s leading automotive equipment suppliers in three vehicle businesses: Seating, Interiors and Clean Mobility. Faurecia’s registered office is located in Nanterre, in the Hauts-de-Seine department of France. The Company is listed on Euronext Paris.² The consolidated financial statements were approved by Faurecia’s Board of Directors on February 15, 2019. The accounts were prepared on a going concern basis. 48 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 1 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies 1.A Accounting principles They are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual The consolidated financial statements of the Faurecia group results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) published by the IASB, The results of the sensitivity tests carried out on the carrying as adopted by the European Union and available on the amounts of goodwill and provisions for pensions and other European Commission website. employee benefits are provided in Notes 10 and 25.2, respectively. In addition, Note 11 “Intangible Assets” describes These standards include International Financial Reporting the main assumptions used for measuring intangible assets. Standards and International Accounting Standards (IAS), as well as the related International Financial Reporting Interpretations As of July 1, 2018 Argentina has been declared as hyper Committee (IFRIC) interpretations. inflation country according to the criteria defined by the standard IAS 29. As of January 1, 2018, Faurecia has then The standards used to prepare the 2018 consolidated financial applied the specific accounting rules defined by this standard statements and comparative data for 2017 are those published to its Argentinian subsidiaries. The impact on the Group financial in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJEU) as of statements as of December 31, 2018 is not material. December 31, 2018, whose application was mandatory at that date. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of 1.B Modiﬁcations to the previously the consolidated financial statements have been consistently published consolidated ﬁnancial applied to all the years presented. statements Faurecia has more specifically applied the new standard IFRS 15 on revenue recognition from January 1, 2018 (see IMPLEMENTATION OF IFRS 15 Note 1B). All other new standards, amendments and revisions to the existing standards including IFRS 9, whose application is Since January 1, 2018 Faurecia has applied the new mandatory from January 1, 2018, have no significant impact standard IFRS 15 on revenue recognition. As this application is on the Group consolidated financial statements. retrospective the published consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017 have been restated consequently. The Moreover, Faurecia has not undertaken any early application corresponding impacts are presented in the following tables; of the new standards, amendments or interpretations whose they were also indicated for the major part in the Note 4 of the application is mandatory after December 31, 2018, irrespective consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017. of whether or not they are adopted by the European Union. The in-depth analysis conducted on contracts and sales Faurecia will apply the new IFRS 16 standard as of January 1, transactions has enabled to identify and assess the changes to 2019 relating to leases by using the modified retrospective the presentation of the sales figure and the rules for recognition method (no restatement of comparative periods). over time described below. The main assumptions considered are: Faurecia operates as an agent for monoliths sales, these sales  the exemption of contracts with a duration less than are then recorded at net value in the income and total sales 12 months; are therefore only added-value sales, as previously reported by Faurecia. Indeed, these components are used in catalyst  the duration of a contract is equal to its non cancellable and their technical specifications are directly settled between duration, except if the Group is reasonnably certain to final customer and monoliths producer. They are bought by exercise the renewal or cancellation options contractually Faurecia to be integrated to emission control systems sold to agreed; final customers without direct added value.  the discount rate used is the marginal borrowing rate For development contracts or the sale of tooling, sales were corresponding to the contract duration, in the absence of recognized when the technical stages were validated by the a contract implicit rate. customer. If no such technical stages were provided for in the The impacts are currently being determined and audited. The contract, sales were recognized when the related study was financial debt linked to leases is expected to reach an amount completed or the tooling delivered. From now on, revenue on between €650 and €700 million as of January 1, 2019. tooling is recognized at the transfer of control of these toolings to the customer, usually shortly before serial production starts The accounting principles applied are given in each note and development costs are generally recognized as set up hereafter. costs for the serial parts production and capitalized, they are The preparation of financial statements in accordance with then not considered as a revenue distinct from product sales, IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions when except specific cases depending on the contract with the measuring certain assets, liabilities, income, expenses and customer. obligations. These estimates and assumptions are primarily The impacts of changes due to IFRS 15 on the recognition of used when calculating the impairment of property, plant tooling sales to the customers as well as on development costs and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill, as well as for are not significant for the Group. measuring pension and other employee benefit obligations. / Registration document 2018 49 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements RESTATED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Full-year 2017 Full-year 2017 (in € millions) Published IFRS 15 Impact Restated SALES 20,181.7 (3,219.6) (1) 16,962.1 (2) Cost of sales (18,066.0) 3,223.6 (14,842.4) Research and development costs (265.0) (16.7) (281.7) Selling and administrative expenses (680.4) 0.0 (680.4) OPERATING INCOME (BEFORE AMORTIZATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS) 1,170.3 (12.7) 1,157.6 Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (1.2) 0.0 (1.2) OPERATING INCOME (AFTER AMORTIZATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS) 1,169.1 (12.7) 1,156.4 Other non operating income 5.2 0.0 5.2 Other non operating expense (101.3) 0.0 (101.3) Income from loans, cash investments and marketable securities 12.6 0.0 12.6 Finance costs (120.9) 0.0 (120.9) Other ﬁnancial income and expense (23.0) 0.0 (23.0) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE TAX OF FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 941.7 (12.7) 929.0 Taxes (261.8) 1.1 (260.7) Of wich deferred taxes (23.7) 1.1 (22.6) NET INCOME (LOSS) OF FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 679.9 (11.6) 668.3 Share of net income of associates 34.6 0.0 34.6 Net income from continued operations 714.5 (11.6) 702.9 Net income from discontinued operations (7.4) 0.0 (7.4) CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME (LOSS) 707.1 (11.6) 695.5 Attributable to owners of the parent 610.2 (10.8) 599.4 Attributable to minority interests 96.9 (0.8) 96.1 Basic earnings (loss) per share (in €) 4.45 (0.08) 4.37 Diluted earnings (loss) per share (in €) 4.42 (0.08) 4.35 Basic earnings (loss) from continued operations per share (in €) 4.50 (0.08) 4.42 Diluted earnings (loss) from continued operations per share (in €) 4.48 (0.08) 4.40 Basic earnings (loss) from discontinued operations per share (in €) (0.05) 0.00 (0.05) Diluted earnings (loss) from discontinued operations per share (in €) (0.05) 0.00 (0.05) (1) Of which monolith’s impact of -€3,219.4 million. (2) Of which monolith’s impact of €3,219.4 million. 50 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements RESTATED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Assets (in € millions) 2017 Published IFRS 15 Impact 2017 Restated* Goodwill 1,216.1 0.0 1,216.1 Intangible assets 1,281.3 353.4 1,634.7 Property, plant and equipment 2,649.7 (60.3) 2,589.4 Investments in associates 151.1 0.0 151.1 Other equity interests 239.9 0.0 239.9 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 96.8 0.0 96.8 Other non-current assets 43.1 0.0 43.1 Deferred tax assets 232.6 14.3 246.9 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 5,910.6 307.4 6,218.0 Inventories, net 1,419.2 (31.7) 1,387.5 Trade accounts receivables 1,766.1 93.2 1,859.3 Other operating receivables 270.3 0.0 270.3 Other receivables 556.0 0.0 556.0 Other current ﬁnancial assets 7.3 0.0 7.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1,563.0 0.0 1,563.0 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 5,581.9 61.5 5,643.4 Assets held for sale 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL ASSETS 11,492.5 368.9 11,861.4 * Reclassifications have been made between non current assets and current assets in comparison to the version published for the half year results as of June 30, 2018 for €93.3 million. Liabilities (in € millions) 2017 published IFRS 15 Impact 2017 restated EQUITY Capital 966.3 0.0 966.3 Additional paid-in capital 632.8 0.0 632.8 Treasury stock (34.2) 0.0 (34.2) Retained earnings 1,014.9 (45.0) 969.9 Translation adjustments 43.6 0.8 44.4 Net income (loss) 610.2 (10.8) 599.4 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENTS 3,233.6 (55.0) 3,178.6 Minority interests 274.7 0.6 275.3 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 3,508.3 (54.4) 3,453.9 Non-current provisions 397.2 0.0 397.2 Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 1,598.4 0.0 1,598.4 Other non-current liabilities 1.5 0.0 1.5 Deferred tax liabilities 18.6 0.0 18.6 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,015.7 0.0 2,015.7 Current provisions 178.0 5.3 183.3 Current ﬁnancial liabilities 423.4 0.0 423.4 Prepayments from customers 127.7 418.0 545.7 Trade payables 4,219.3 0.0 4,219.3 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 627.4 0.0 627.4 Sundry payables 392.7 0.0 392.7 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 5,968.5 423.3 6,391.8 Liabilities linked to assets held for sale 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 11,492.5 368.9 11,861.4 / Registration document 2018 51 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements RESTATED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (in € millions) 2017 Published IFRS 15 impact 2017 Restated* IOPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating Income (loss) 1,170.3 (12.7) 1,157.6 Depreciations and amortizations of assets 719.0 74.3 793.3 o/w depreciations and amortizations of R&D assets 257.6 94.3 351.9 o/w other amortizations 461.4 (20.0) 441.4 EBITDA 1,889.3 61.6 1,950.9 Operating current and non-current provisions (6.7) 0.0 (6.7) Capital (gains) losses on disposals of operating assets 2.1 0.0 2.1 Paid restructuring (88.3) 0.0 (88.3) Paid ﬁnance costs net of income (124.5) 0.0 (124.5) Other non-recurring operating income and expenses paid (2.4) 0.0 (2.4) Paid taxes (286.5) 0.0 (286.5) Dividends from associates 16.6 0.0 16.6 Change in working capital requirement 213.0 117.5 330.5 Change in inventories (185.3) 117.3 (68.0) o/w R&D inventories increase (396.3) 173.6 (222.7) o/w R&D inventories decrease 379.4 (83.8) 295.6 Change in trade accounts receivables (103.9) (2.8) (106.7) Change in trade payables 595.2 0.0 595.2 Change in other operating receivables and payables (17.6) 3.0 (14.6) Change in other receivables and payables (excl. Tax) (75.4) 0.0 (75.4) Operating cash ﬂows from discontinued activities 0.0 0.0 0.0 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES 1,612.6 179.0 1,791.6 IIINVESTING ACTIVITIES Additional property, plant and equipment (738.2) 0.0 (738.2) Additional intangible assets (0.4) 0.0 (0.4) Capitalized development costs (468.9) (179.0) (648.0) Acquisitions/Sales of investments and business (net of cash and cash equivalents) (1) (218.0) 0.0 (218.0) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 23.9 0.0 23.9 Proceed from disposal of ﬁnancial assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in investment-related receivables and payables 6.3 0.0 6.3 Other changes (52.9) 0.0 (52.9) Investing cash ﬂows from discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY INVESTING ACTIVITIES (1,448.2) (179.0) (1,627.2) CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING AND INVESTING ACTIVITIES (I)+(II) 164.4 (0.0) 164.4 IIIFINANCING ACTIVITIES Shares issued by Faurecia and fully consolidated companies (net of costs) 24.3 0.0 24.3 Dividends paid to owners of the parent company (122.6) 0.0 (122.6) Dividends paid to minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries (63.4) 0.0 (63.4) Acquisitions of treasury stocks (40.1) 0.0 (40.1) Other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 Debt securities issued and increase in other ﬁnancial liabilities 194.9 0.0 194.9 Repayment of debt and other ﬁnancial liabilities (108.6) 0.0 (108.6) Financing cash ﬂows from discontinued activities 0.0 0.0 0.0 NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES (115.5) 0.0 (115.5) IVOTHER CHANGES IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Impact of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (48.1) 0.0 (48.1) Net cash ﬂows from discontinued operations 0.0 0.0 0.0 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0.8 0.0 0.8 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF PERIOD 1,562.2 0.0 1,562.2 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD 1,563.0 0.0 1,563.0 * Reclassifications have been made between Change in inventories and Capitalized development costs in comparison to the version published for the half year results as of June 30, 2018 for €93.3 million. 52 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.C Consolidation principles ratios and variances reported are computed with the detailed amounts and not with the rounded amounts. Companies over which the Group exercises significant influence and which are at least 20%-owned are consolidated when one The functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is generally their or more of the following criteria are met: annual sales of over local currency. The assets and liabilities of these companies €20 million, total assets of over €20 million, and debt of over are translated into euros at the year-end exchange rate €5 million. and income statement items are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. The resulting foreign exchange Non-consolidated companies are not material, either gains and losses are recorded in equity. individually or in the aggregate. Balance sheets and net income of Group entities active in Subsidiaries controlled by the Group are fully consolidated. hyperinflation economies are restated to take into account Control is presumed to exist when the Group holds more than the changes in purchasing power of the local currencies using 50% of a company’s voting rights, and may also arise as a result the official indexes at closing date. They are then translated of shareholders’ agreements. in euros using the exchange rate of the closing date; without Subsidiaries are fully consolidated as of the date on which restatement of comparative periods in accordance with IAS 21. control is transferred to the Group. They are no longer However certain companies located outside the euro or consolidated as of the date that control ceases. the US-dollar zone and which carry out the majority of their Companies over which the Group exercises significant influence transactions in euros or US dollars may, however, use euros or but not control, generally through a shareholding representing US dollars as their functional currency. between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, are accounted for All material inter-company transactions are eliminated in by the equity method. consolidation, including inter-company gains. The Faurecia group’s financial statements are presented in The accounting policies of subsidiaries and companies euros. Except if specifically specified, amounts are in millions of accounted for by the equity method are not significantly euros; generally, amounts presented are rounded to the closest different from those applied by the Group. unit; consequently, the sum of rounded amounts can present non significant differences to the reported total. Moreover, Note 2 Change in scope of consolidation and recent events 2.1 Change in scope of consolidation in company Hongtai Faurecia Composite (Wuhan) Co., Ltd, held at 50% and consolidated by equity method since April 1, 2018. 2018 Within the Seating consolidation scope, the company Shenzen Faurecia Automotive Parts Co., Ltd has been acquired at 2.2 Reminder of change in scope of 70% and is fully consolidated since March 2018. Following the consolidation introduced in 2017 United States decision of May 8, 2018 and related restrictions imposed on business with Iran, the 51% interest held by Faurecia Within the Seating consolidation scope, the companies Tianjin in Faurecia Azin Pars have been sold. All related assets have Faurecia Xuyang Automotive Seat Co., Ltd and Faurecia been impaired (see Note 6). (Changshu) Automotive System Company Co., Ltd have been created in China, they are held respectively at 60% and at Within Interior Systems, in China, Faurecia consolidates since 100% and fully consolidated since May and August 2017. The January 1, 2018, using the full consolidation method, Coagent company Faurecia Liuzhou Automotive Seating Co., Ltd has of which the main company is Faurecia Coagent Electronics been created in China, held at 50%, and is fully consolidated S&T Co., Ltd, held at 50.1%. Moreover, in China, the companies since December 2017. Faurecia (Liuzhou) Automotive Interior Systems Co. Ltd and Faurecia (Hangzhou) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd have been Within Interior Systems, in China, the company Chongqing created in February 2018, and are held respectively at 50% and Faurecia Changpeng Automotive Parts Company Ltd, 100%. These companies are fully consolidated. The company held at 80% since October 2016, is fully consolidated since Chongqing Zhuotong Automotive Interior Systems has been January 2017, in addition, the company CSM Faurecia also created in August 2018, and it is held at 50%. This company Automotive Systems Company, held at 50% is fully consolidated is fully consolidated. In the United States, Faurecia share in DMS since January 2017; these two companies are serving their companies, consolidated by equity method, is now at 49%. customer Changan group; Faurecia has acquired 16% of Finally, Faurecia acquired, in September 2018, the remaing part FMM Pernambuco Componentes Automotivos Ltda in Brazil, (80%) of Parrot Faurecia Automotive, previously held at 20% and serving FCA as customer, previously consolidated by equity consolidated by equity method. Parrot Faurecia Automotive is method and which is now held at 51% and fully consolidated now fully consolidated with its 2 chinese subsidiaries. since February 2017. The company Faurecia Shing Sun Co. Ltd in South Korea, previously held at 60%, has been sold in Within the Clean Mobility perimeter, Faurecia has acquired 100% March 2017. Faurecia has acquired on March 31, 2017 20% of the company Hug Engineering AG, based in Switzerland, and of Parrot Faurecia Automotive which is consolidated by its commercial subsidiaries. This company is fully consolidated equity method. Faurecia Automotive Industries Morocco since March 1, 2018. Moreover, Faurecia has created the / Registration document 2018 53 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Sarl has been created in Morocco and is fully consolidated. 2.3 Recent events In India, the companies Basis Mold India Private Limited and PFP Acoustic and Soft Trims India Private Limited have been Faurecia, through its subsidiary Hennape Six SAS, has reached on created, respectively held at 38% and 100%, the first one is October 26, 2018 binding agreements with Clarion and Hitachi, consolidated by equity method and the second one is fully the controlling shareholder owning 63.8% of Clarion, for a tender integrated. Faurecia Coagent Electronics S&T Co., Ltd has been offer to acquire 100% of the shares of Clarion, listed on the Tokyo acquired in November 2017 in China at 50.1%; its integration is Stock Exchange, for a price of 2 500 yens per clarion share. in progress as at December 31, 2017 and is fully consolidated The tender offer has been authorized by antitrust authorities. starting in 2018. Clarion shareholders have tendered 95.2% of their shares to the offer launched on January 30, 2019. The tender offer, closed Within the Clean Mobility perimeter, in China, the companies on February 28, 2019, has been followed by a squeeze out at Faurecia (Tianjin) Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd, the end of which Hennape Six SAS has acquired on March 28, F a u r e c i a Y i n l u n E m i s s i o n s C o n t r o l Te c h n o l o g i e s 2019 the remaining Clarion shares (excluding treasury shares). (Weifang) Co., Ltd and Dongfeng Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd have been created; respectively held at This acquisition has been financed through the issuance by Faurecia 51%, 52% and 50%, they are fully consolidated; the company SE in December 2018 of a €700 million Schuldscheindarlehen and Dongfeng Faurecia (Xiangyang) Emissions Systems Co., Ltd the conclusion of a €500 million bridge loan. has been created, held at 50%, and is consolidated by equity Faurecia SE has successfully issued on March 27, 2019 €500 million method. of senior notes due 2026 at 3.125% to refinance the bridge loan. Note 3 Post-balance sheet events No significant post-balance sheet events have occurred apart from the launch of the tender offer on Clarion described in 2.3. Note 4 Information by operating segment The Group is structured into three business units based on the capitalized, they are then not considered as a revenue distinct nature of the products and services offered: from product sales, except specific cases depending on the contract with the customer.  Seating (design and manufacture of complete vehicle seats, seating frames and adjustment mechanisms); Operating margin (before amortization of acquired intangible assets) is the Faurecia group’s principal performance indicator.  Interior Systems (design and manufacture of instrument panels, complete cockpits, door panels and modules, and It corresponds to net income of the fully consolidated acoustic systems); companies before:  Clean Mobility (design and manufacture of exhaust systems).  the amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (customer relationship…); These business units are managed by the Group on an independent basis in terms of reviewing their individual  other non-recurring operating income and expenses, performance and allocating resources. The tables below show corresponding to material, unusual and non-recurring items reconciliation between the indicators used to measure the including reorganization costs and early retirement costs, the performance of each segment – notably operating income impact of exceptional events such as the discontinuation – and the consolidated financial statements. Borrowings, of a business, the closure of an industrial site, disposals of other operating income and expense, financial income and non-operating buildings, impairment losses and reversals expenses, and taxes are monitored at the Group level and are recorded for property, plant and equipment or intangible not allocated to the various segments. assets, as well as other material and unusual losses;  income on loans, cash investments and marketable securities; 4.1 Accounting principles  finance costs; Revenue on parts is recognized when the control is transferred  other financial income and expenses, which include the to the customer, incidental to ownership of the modules or parts impact of discounting the pension benefit obligation and produced. This generally corresponds to when the goods are the return on related plan assets, the ineffective portion shipped. of interest rate and currency hedges, changes in value of interest rate and currency instruments for which the hedging Revenue on tooling is generally recognized at the transfer of relationship does not satisfy the criteria set forth in IFRS 9, and control of these toolings to the customer, usually shortly before gains and losses on sales of shares in subsidiaries; serial production starts and development costs are generally recognized as set up costs for the serial parts production and  taxes. 54 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 4.2 Key ﬁgures by operating segment 2018 Interior Clean (in € millions) Seating Systems Mobility Other Total TOTAL SALES 7,491.5 5,489.2 4,617.3 128.4 17,726.4 Inter-segment eliminations (53.6) (17.5) (2.2) (128.4) (201.7) Consolidated sales 7,437.9 5,471.7 4,615.1 0.0 17,524.7 Operating income (before amortization of acquired intangible assets) 448.5 325.6 499.8 0.0 1,273.9 Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (10.9) Operating income (after amortization of acquired intangible assets) 1,263.0 Other non recurring operating income 2.9 Other non recurring operating expenses (150.2) Finance costs, net (108.1) Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (55.7) Corporate income tax (190.0) Share of net income of associates 31.4 Net income from continued operations 793.3 Net income from discontinued operations 0.0 NET INCOME (LOSS) 793.3 Segment assets 3,730.6 3,120.3 3,390.9 172.9 10,414.7 Net property, plant and equipment 791.6 982.4 951.7 58.9 2,784.6 Other segment assets 2,939.0 2,137.9 2,439.2 114.0 7,630.1 Investments in associates 144.2 Other equity interests 60.7 Short and long-term ﬁnancial assets 2,255.9 Tax assets (current and deferred) 519.2 Assets held for sale 0.0 TOTAL ASSETS 13,394.7 Segment liabilities 2,143.2 1,861.2 2,419.3 228.4 6,652.1 Borrowings 2,584.0 Tax liabilities (current and deferred) 87.3 Liabilities linked to assets held for sale 0.0 Equity and minority interests 4,071.3 TOTAL LIABILITIES 13,394.7 Capital expenditure 218.5 224.7 204.2 25.4 672.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (132.4) (163.1) (139.5) (6.2) (441.2) Impairment of property, plant and equipment (0.1) (2.6) (0.4) 0.0 (3.1) Headcounts 47,279 40,436 24,278 2,700 114,693 / Registration document 2018 55 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 2017 Restated Interior Clean (in € millions) Seating Systems Mobility Other Total TOTAL SALES 7,164.1 5,389.6 4,472.1 514.2 17,540.0 Inter-segment eliminations (35.0) (22.2) (6.5) (514.2) (577.9) Consolidated sales 7,129.1 5,367.4 4,465.6 0.0 16,962.1 Operating income (before amortization of acquired intangible assets) 404.4 299.8 453.4 0.0 1,157.6 Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (1.2) Operating income (after amortization of acquired intangible assets) 1,156.4 Other non recurring operating income 5.2 Other non recurring operating expenses (101.3) Finance costs, net (108.3) Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (23.0) Corporate income tax (260.7) Share of net income of associates 34.6 Net income from continued operations 702.9 Net income from discontinued operations (7.4) NET INCOME (LOSS) 695.5 Segment assets 3,469.6 2,642.3 3,007.2 199.5 9,318.6 Net property, plant and equipment 725.4 929.1 878.7 56.2 2,589.4 Other segment assets 2,744.2 1,713.2 2,128.5 143.3 6,729.2 Investments in associates 151.1 Other equity interests 239.9 Short and long-term ﬁnancial assets 1,696.0 Tax assets (current and deferred) 455.8 Assets held for sale 0.0 TOTAL ASSETS 11,861.4 Segment liabilities 1,986.9 1,807.7 2,239.4 275.1 6,309.1 Borrowings 2,021.8 Tax liabilities (current and deferred) 76.6 Liabilities linked to assets held for sale 0.0 Equity and minority interests 3,453.9 TOTAL LIABILITIES 11,861.4 Capital expenditure 219.5 262.3 240.4 21.6 743.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (123.9) (162.1) (137.5) (9.2) (432.7) Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.2 (0.3) (2.0) 0.0 (2.1) Headcounts 44,794 39,120 22,799 2,562 109,275 56 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 4.3 Sales by operating segment Sales by operating segment break down as follows: 2018 2017 Restated (in € millions) Consolidated Sales % Consolidated Sales % Seating 7,437.9 43 7,129.1 42 Interior Systems 5,471.7 31 5,367.4 32 Clean Mobility 4,615.1 26 4,465.6 26 TOTAL 17,524.7 100 16,962.1 100 4.4 Sales by major customer Sales* by major customer break down as follows: 2018 2017 Restated (in € millions) Consolidated Sales % Consolidated Sales % Ford group 2,494.8 14 2,780.8 16 VW group 2,531.7 14 2,338.6 14 PSA Peugeot Citroën 2,182.6 12 2,078.2 12 Renault-Nissan 1,681.6 10 1,858.4 11 GM 826.8 5 942.1 6 Daimler 816.3 5 963.5 6 BMW 730.0 4 738.9 4 Others 6,260.9 36 5,261.6 31 TOTAL 17,524.7 100 16,962.1 100 * The presentation of sales invoiced may differ from that of sales by end customer when products are transferred to intermediary assembly companies. 4.5 Key ﬁgures by geographic area Sales are broken down by destination region. Other items are presented by the region where the companies involved operate: 2018 Other European North South Other (in € millions) France Germany countries America America Asia countries Total Consolidated Sales 2,181.3 2,049.8 4,569.7 4,482.2 738.2 3,240.0 263.5 17,524.7 Net property, plant and equipment 341.3 129.0 845.1 653.4 122.2 671.2 22.4 2,784.6 Capital expenditure 99.7 22.5 211.3 166.8 14.9 154.8 2.8 672.8 Headcounts as of December 31 13,831 6,474 40,489 20,996 5,729 25,753 1,421 114,693 / Registration document 2018 57 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 2017 Restated Other European North South Other (in € millions) France Germany countries America America Asia countries Total Consolidated Sales 2,075.3 2,187.5 4,184.0 4,476.4 817.3 2,924.6 297.0 16,962.1 Net property, plant and equipment 335.6 134.2 781.4 602.2 143.0 564.3 28.7 2,589.4 Capital expenditure 114.8 37.8 206.2 177.4 18.7 177.1 11.8 743.8 Headcounts as of December 31 13,739 6,827 39,491 20,690 5,895 20,716 1,917 109,275 Note 5 Analysis of operating expenses 5.1 Analysis of operating expenses by function (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated (1) Cost of sales (15,248.8) (14,842.4) Research and development costs (2) (298.8) (281.7) Selling and administrative expenses (703.2) (680.4) TOTAL (16,250.8) (15,804.5) (1) Includes in 2018 the gain on sales and lease backs on operational assets for €24 million and expenses linked to an industrial reorganization following the sale of Automotive Exterior business and a new organization for painting lines for €28 million. (2) Includes in 2018 the gain on sales and lease backs on operational assets for €18 million. 5.2 Analysis of operating expenses by nature (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Purchases consumed (10,389.5) (10,230.5) External costs (2,010.0) (1,972.8) Personnel costs (3,705.7) (3,548.6) Taxes other than on income (48.7) (54.4) Other income and expenses* 756.7 786.2 Depreciation, amortization and provisions for impairment in value of non-current assets (866.7) (793.3) Charges to and reversals of provisions 13.1 8.9 TOTAL (16,250.8) (15,804.5) * Including production taken into inventory or capitalized. 607.2 673.7 The CICE (tax credit for competitiveness and employment) is allocated to personnel costs; it amounted to €12.6 million in 2018 (€14.9 million in 2017). 58 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 5.3 Personnel costs 2017 (in € millions) 2018 Restated Wages and salaries* (2,942.8) (2,804.9) Payroll taxes (762.9) (743.7) TOTAL (3,705.7) (3,548.6) * Of which temporary employee costs. (334.4) (305.2) Details of expenses relating to the Group’s free shares plans and pension costs are provided in Notes 22.2 and 25, respectively. 5.4 Research and development costs 2017 (in € millions) 2018 Restated Research and development costs, gross (1,093.1) (1,152.3) Capitalized development costs 794.3 870.7 of which in inventory 201.6 222.7 of which in intangible assets 592.7 648.0 TOTAL (298.8) (281.7) Development costs are usually capitalized in intangible assets are capitalized in inventory and recognized in P&L (cost of as they are considered as set up costs for the serial parts sales) when the corresponding revenue is recognized. production, and then amortized to match the quantities of The development costs recognized in the cost of sales parts delivered to the customer, over a period not exceeding (stock decrease and R&D assets depreciation) amount to five years except under exceptional circumstances. For some €619.6 million as of December, 31, 2018, vs €647.5 million as of specific contracts where there is a separate transfer of control December, 31, 2017. of these development works, in accordance with IFRS 15, costs 5.5 Depreciation, amortization and provisions for impairment in value of non-current assets (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Amortization of capitalized development costs (398.6) (353.1) Provisions for impairment of capitalized development costs 3.8 1.1 Amortization of other intangible assets (31.5) (29.2) Depreciation of speciﬁc tooling (12.8) (9.5) Depreciation and impairment of other property, plant and equipment (427.6) (402.6) TOTAL (866.7) (793.3) This table does not include allowances and reversals of provision for non-recurring items. / Registration document 2018 59 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 6 Other non recurring operating income and expenses Other non recurring operating income and expenses are analyzed as follows: OTHER NON RECURRING OPERATING INCOME (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Release of provision for impairment of assets 0.0 1.4 Others 2.9 3.8 TOTAL 2.9 5.2 OTHER NON RECURRING OPERATING EXPENSES (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Other provisions for impaiment of assets (3.4) 0.0 Reorganization expenses (1) (100.8) (85.0) Others (2) (46.0) (16.3) TOTAL (150.2) (101.3) (1) As of December 31, 2018, this item includes restructuring costs in the amount of €97.8 million and provisions for impairment in value of noncurrent assets in the amount of €3.0 million, versus respectively, €79.2 million and €5.8 million in 2017. (2) Of which €16.9 million relating to the end of business with Iran (see Note 2.1), as of December 31, 2018. RESTRUCTURING Reorganization costs (€100.8 million) include redundancy and site relocation payments for 2,180 people. Note 7 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Impact of discounting pension beneﬁt obligations (6.6) (6.8) Changes in the ineffective portion of currency hedges (1.9) (0.2) Changes in fair value of currency hedged relating to debt (5.6) 4.0 Foreign exchange gains and losses on borrowings (6.0) (7.7) Hyperinﬂation impact (Argentina) (5.7) 0.0 Others* (29.9) (12.3) TOTAL (55.7) (23.0) * As of December 31, 2018, this item includes amortization of costs related to bonds and other long-term debts, commissions for non-use of the credit facility and depreciation of loans to non consolidated entities. 60 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 8 Corporate income tax Deferred taxes are recognized using the liability method for Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent temporary differences arising between the tax bases for assets that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available and liabilities and their carrying amounts on the consolidated in the short or medium term against which the temporary financial statements. Temporary differences mainly arise differences or the loss carry forward can be utilized. from tax loss carryforwards and consolidation adjustments to When appropriate, a deferred tax liability is booked to cover subsidiaries’ accounts. taxes payable on the distribution of retained earnings of Deferred taxes are measured using tax rates (and laws) that subsidiaries and associates which are not considered as having have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance been permanently reinvested and for which the Group is not sheet date. in a position to control the date when the timing difference will reverse. Corporate income tax can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Current taxes  Current corporate income tax (302.7) (238.1) Deferred taxes  Deferred taxes for the period 112.7 (22.6) TOTAL (190.0) (260.7) 8.1 Analysis of the tax charge The effective corporate income tax charge can be reconciled with the theoretical tax charge as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Pre-tax income of consolidated companies 951.9 929.0 Theoretical Tax (34.43%) (327.7) (319.9) Effect of rate changes on deferred taxes recognized on the balance sheet (2.8) (1.6) (1) Effect of local rate differences 80.0 67.3 Tax credits 0.5 12.5 Change in unrecognized deferred tax 93.8 (0.4) (2) Permanent differences & others (33.8) (18.6) Corporate tax recognized (190.0) (260.7) (1) The impact of local rate differences mainly relates to Chinese entities. (2) Mainly due to withholding tax in 2018. The 2018 tax expense includes the recognition of a €72 million deferred tax assets in France, made possible by the continuous improvement of the Group taxable income in this country and based on the Group strategic plan 2019-2021. / Registration document 2018 61 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 8.2 Analysis of tax assets and liabilities (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Current taxes  Assets 163.7 208.9  Liabilities (60.0) (58.0) 103.7 150.9 Deferred taxes  Assets* 355.5 246.9  Liabilities (27.3) (18.6) 328.2 228.3 * Of which tax assets on tax losses. 138.6 61.5 The assessment of the ability to recover net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2018 (€328.2 million) is based on the Group’s 2019-2021 strategic plan for the long-term recovery of tax losses. Changes in deferred taxes recorded on the balance sheet break down as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Amount as at the beginning of the year 228.3 252.0  Deferred taxes carried to net income from continued operations for the period 112.7 (22.6)  Deferred taxes carried to net income from discontinued operations for the period 0.0 0.0  Deferred taxes recognized directly in equity* (2.3) (1.6)  Effect of currency ﬂuctuations and other movements (10.5) 0.5 Amount at the end of the year 328.2 228.3 * Mainly related to actuarial gains and losses directly recognised in equity. 8.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities by nature (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Tax asset carryforwards 138.6 61.5 Intangible assets (367.0) (291.7) Other tangible assets and long term assets 234.3 119.9 Pensions 66.0 75.1 Other reserves 11.5 16.4 Stocks 97.6 80.0 Other working capital 147.2 167.1 TOTAL 328.2 228.3 of which deferred tax assets 355.5 246.9 of which deferred tax liabilities (27.3) (18.6) 62 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 8.4 Impairment of tax asset carryforwards The ageing of impaired tax asset carryforward is detailed as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated N+1 11.7 10.8 N+2 11.4 12.2 N+3 15.5 13.4 N+4 5.1 2.7 N+5 and above 21.4 13.2 Unlimited 499.6 619.4 TOTAL 564.7 671.7 These impaired deferred income tax assets on loss carry forwards are mainly located in France. Note 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income of the parent and the weighted average number of shares attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary number of shares outstanding during the year, excluding shares (including stock options, free shares and convertible treasury stock. For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings bonds). per share, the Group adjusts net income attributable to owners 2018 2017 Restated (1) Number of shares outstanding at year-end 138,035,801 138,035,801 Adjustments:  treasury stock (917,160) (814,320)  weighted impact of share issue prorated 0 0 Weighted average number of shares before dilution 137,118,641 137,221,481 Weighted impact of dilutive instruments:  stock options (2) 0 0  free shares attributed 610,752 761,865  bonds with conversion option 0 0 Weighted average number of shares after dilution 137,729,393 137,983,346 (1) Changes in the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2018, are analyzed as follows: As of December 31, 2017: Number of Faurecia shares outstanding 138,035,801 Exercise of stock options 0 As of December 31, 2018: Number of Faurecia shares outstanding 138,035,801 (2) As of December 31, 2018, no stock options were still outstanding. The dilutive impact of the bonds was calculated using the Starting in 2017, the potentially dilutive impact of free shares treasury stock method. is taken into account considering the number of shares to be distributed for the plans of which the realization of the In relation to stock options, this method consists of comparing performance conditions has already been stated by the Board. the number of shares that would have been issued if all outstanding stock options had been exercised to the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value. / Registration document 2018 63 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Earnings per share Earnings per share break down as follows: 2018 2017 Restated Net Income (loss) (in € millions) 700.8 599.4 Basic earnings (loss) per share 5.11 4.37 After dilution 5.09 4.35 Net Income (loss) from continued operations (in € millions) 700.8 606.7 Basic earnings (loss) per share 5.11 4.42 After dilution 5.09 4.40 Net Income (loss) from discontinued operations (in € millions) 0.0 (7.4) Basic earnings (loss) per share 0.00 (0.05) After dilution 0.00 (0.05) Note 10 Goodwill In case of a business combination, the aggregate value of the allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs). A CGU is defined acquisition is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash liabilities assumed based on their fair value determined at their inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from acquisition date. other assets or groups of assets. A goodwill is recognized when the aggregate of the The CGU to which goodwill is allocated represents the level consideration transferred and the amount of any nonwithin the operating segment at which goodwill is monitored controlling interest in the acquiree exceed the net of the for internal management purposes. The Group has identified acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired the following CGUs: and the liabilities assumed. In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill  Seating; is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least once a year and more often if there is an indication that it may be  Interior Systems; impaired. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is  Clean Mobility. The carrying amount of assets and liabilities thus grouped is compared to the higher of its market value and value in use, which is equal to the present value of the net future cash flows expected, and their net market value including costs of disposal. (in € millions) Gross Impairment Net Amount as of January 1, 2017 Restated 1,728.6 (510.9) 1,217.7 Acquisitions 19.6 0.0 19.6 Translation adjustments and other movements (21.3) 0.1 (21.2) Amount as of December 31, 2017 Restated 1,726.9 (510.8) 1,216.1 Acquisitions 269.5 0.0 269.5 Translation adjustments and other movements 6.4 0.1 6.5 Amount as of December 31, 2018 2,002.8 (510.7) 1,492.1 Breakdown of the net amount of goodwill by operating segment: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Seating 842.9 793.6 Interior Systems 271.8 66.9 Clean Mobility 377.4 355.6 TOTAL 1,492.1 1,216.1 64 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Cash-generating units and impairment The cash flow forecasts used to calculate value in use were based on the Group’s 2019-2021 strategic plan which was tests drafted in mid-2018. The volume assumptions used in the 2019Impairment tests are carried out whenever there is an indication 2021 strategic plan are based on external information sources. that an asset may be impaired. Impairment testing consists of The main assumption affecting value in use is the level comparing the carrying amount of an asset, or group of assets, of operating income used to calculate future cash flows with the higher of its market value and value in use. Value in and particularly the terminal value. The operating margin use is defined as the present value of the net future cash flows assumption for 2021 is the range of 8% of sales for the Group expected to be derived from an asset or group of assets. as a whole. The assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there Projected cash flows for the last year of the Strategic Business are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units, Plan (2021) have been projected to infinity by applying a or CGUs). growth rate determined based on analysts’ trend forecasts for Impairment tests are performed on each group of intangible the automotive market. The growth rate applied for the yearassets (development costs) and property, plant and equipment end 2018 test was 1.4% (1.4% applied for 2017). attributable to a customer contract. This is done by comparing Faurecia called on an independent expert to calculate the the aggregate carrying amount of the group of assets weighted average cost of capital used to discount future cash concerned with the present value of the expected net future flows. The market parameters used in the expert’s calculation cash flows to be derived from the contract. were based on a sample of 18 companies operating in the An impairment loss is recorded when the assets’ carrying automotive supplier sector (7 in Europe, 5 in the United States amount is higher than the present value of the expected and 6 in Asia). Taking into account these parameters and a net future cash flows. A provision is also recorded for losses to market risk premium of 7% on average, the weighted cost of completion on loss-making contracts. capital used to discount future cash flows was set at 9% (on the basis of a range of values provided by the independent expert) In case of a triggering event, impairment testing is also carried in 2018 (9% in 2017). This rate was applied for the impairment out on general and corporate assets grouped primarily by type tests carried out on all of the Group’s CGUs. They all bear the of product and geographic area. same specific risks relating to the automotive supplier sector The cash inflows generated by the assets allocated to these and the CGUs multinational operation does not justify using CGUs are largely interdependent due to the high overlap geographically different discount rates. among various manufacturing flows, optimization of capacity The tests performed at year-end 2018 did not show any utilization, and centralization of research and development indication of further impairment in goodwill. activities. Manufacturing assets whose closure is planned are tested independently for impairment. The table below shows the sensitivity of the impairment test results to changes in the assumptions used as of December 31, 2018 to determine the value in use of the CGUs to which the Group’s goodwill is allocated: Test income Operating margin (value in use – net Cash ﬂow discount Growth rate to rate for terminal Combination of Sensitivity (in € millions) carrying value) rate +0.5 pt inﬁnity -0.5 pt value -0.5 pt the 3 factors Seating 3,419 (332) (289) (323) (872) Interior Systems 1,845 (235) (207) (253) (642) Clean Mobility 3,965 (344) (302) (212) (798) / Registration document 2018 65 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 11 Intangible assets A. Research and development These capitalized costs are amortized to match the quantities of parts delivered to the customer, over a period not exceeding expenditure five years except under exceptional circumstances. The Faurecia group incurs certain development costs in Research costs, and development costs that do not meet the connection with producing and delivering modules for specific above criteria, are expensed as incurred. customer orders which are considered as set up costs for the serial parts production and capitalized. In accordance with IAS 38, these development costs are B. Other intangible assets recorded as an intangible asset where the Company concerned can demonstrate: Other intangible assets include development and purchase costs relating to software used within the Group – which are  its intention to complete the project as well as the availability amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of between of adequate technical and financial resources to do so; one and three years – as well as patents and licenses, and the  how the customer contract will generate probable future intangible assets acquired in business combinations (customer economic benefits and the Company’s ability to measure relationship…); these assets are amortized on the corresponding these reliably; contracts duration.  its ability to reliably measure the expenditure attributable to the contracts concerned (costs to completion). Intangible assets break down as follows: Development Software Intangible assets (in € millions) costs and other acquired Total AMOUNT AS OF JANUARY 1, 2017 RESTATED 1,329.9 53.4 0.0 1,383.3 Additions 652.6 0.4 0.0 653.0 Depreciation and amortization (353.1) (29.2) (1.2) (383.5) Funding of provisions 1.1 0.1 0.0 1.2 Translation adjustments and other (62.7) 39.2 4.2 (19.3) AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 RESTATED 1,567.8 63.9 3.0 1,634.7 Additions 596.0 0.6 0.0 596.6 Depreciation and amortization (398.6) (31.5) (10.9) (441.0) Funding of provisions 3.8 0.0 0.0 3.8 Translation adjustments and other 14.4 26.0 124.9 165.3 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 1,783.4 59.0 117.0 1,959.4 The book value of development costs allocated to a customer of future sales. The volumes taken into account in Faurecia’s contract as well as the associated specific tooling is compared Business Plans are the best estimates by the Group’s Marketing to the present value of the expected net future cash flows to be department based on automakers’ forecasts when available. derived from the contract based on the best possible estimate Note 12 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition cost, Property, plant and equipment are depreciated by the straightor production cost in the case of assets produced by the Group line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as for its own use, less accumulated depreciation. follows: Maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred, except when they increase productivity or prolong the useful Buildings 20 to 30 years life of an asset, in which case they are capitalized. Leasehold improvements, ﬁxtures In accordance with the amended version of IAS 23, borrowing and ﬁttings 10 to 20 years costs on qualifying assets arising subsequent to January 1, Machinery, tooling and furniture 3 to 10 years 2009 are included in the cost of the assets concerned. 66 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Investment grants are recorded as a deduction from the assets ownership of the asset to the lessee are recorded under assets that they were used to finance. at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. The recognized assets are Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases subsequently depreciated as described above. An obligation which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to of the same amount is recorded as a liability. Other property, plant Plant, and equipment and tooling and Speciﬁc property, plant and (in € millions) Land Buildings equipment tooling equipment in progress Total AMOUNT AS OF JANUARY 1, 2017 RESTATED 87.5 432.6 1,327.2 17.6 539.3 2,404.2 Additions (including own work capital) (1) 0.0 1.2 23.1 48.5 671.0 743.8 Disposals (6.3) (61.2) (182.3) (14.5) (14.4) (278.7) Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (0.3) (51.2) (314.9) (29.5) (36.8) (432.7) Non-recurring impairment losses 0.0 0.1 (0.9) (0.5) (0.9) (2.2) Depreciation written off on disposals 0.8 44.3 179.1 34.6 13.9 272.7 Currency translation adjustments (2.2) (20.9) (87.2) (0.3) (28.9) (139.5) Entry into scope of consolidation and other movements 0.9 58.1 583.0 (18.1) (602.1) 21.8 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 RESTATED 80.4 403.0 1,527.1 37.8 541.1 2,589.4 (1) Additions (including own work capital) 0.0 3.2 20.7 14.1 634.8 672.8 Disposals (10.5) (61.5) (170.6) (3.5) (19.8) (265.9) Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (0.4) (49.2) (341.0) (12.8) (37.8) (441.2) Non-recurring impairment losses 0.0 (1.7) (0.3) 0.0 (1.1) (3.1) Depreciation written off on disposals 3.1 45.2 112.0 2.0 19.8 182.1 Currency translation adjustments (0.1) (6.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (6.9) Entry into scope of consolidation and other movements 17.4 84.9 551.9 (10.0) (586.8) 57.4 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 89.9 417.8 1,699.5 27.5 549.9 2,784.6 (1) Including assets held under finance leases: c in 2017 Restated 1.1 c in 2018 0.2 2018 2017 Restated (in € millions) Gross Depreciation Net Gross Net Land 100.5 (10.6) 89.9 90.3 80.4 Buildings 1,110.3 (692.5) 417.8 1,087.4 403.0 Plant, tooling and technical equipment 4,337.5 (2,638.0) 1,699.5 3,919.2 1,527.1 Speciﬁc tooling 150.3 (122.8) 27.5 145.5 37.8 Other property, plant and equipment & property, plant and equipment in progress 817.6 (267.7) 549.9 787.7 541.1 TOTAL 6,516.2 (3,731.6) 2,784.6 6,030.1 2,589.4 Including assets subject to lease ﬁnancing 65.2 (61.4) 3.8 65.3 8.8 Property, plant and equipment are often dedicated to client programs. / Registration document 2018 67 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 13 Investments in associates Investment in associates for continued operations: Dividends Group share received by Group share Group share (in € millions) % interest (1) of equity (2) the Group of sales of total assets Teknik Malzeme 50% 4.8 (2.8) 28.7 14.7 (3) Parrot Faurecia Automotive 20% NA 0.0 9.7 NA Changchun Xuyang Faurecia Acoustics & Soft Trim Co. Ltd 40% 3.7 0.0 21.3 16.8 Dongfeng Faurecia Automotive Exterior Systems Co. Ltd 50% 10.6 0.0 21.0 37.7 Detroit Manufacturing Systems LLC 49% 16.1 (4.2) 380.9 102.0 DMS leverage lender (LLC) 49% 4.5 0.0 0.0 17.7 Faurecia Japon NHK Co. Ltd 50% 0.0 0.0 166.7 36.9 Others 36.2 (5.3) 195.1 89.7 SUB-TOTAL 75.9 (12.3) 823.4 315.5 SAS group 50% 68.3 (15.0) 633.0 304.3 TOTAL 144.2 (27.3) 1,456.4 619.8 (1) Percent of interest held by the Company that owns the shares. (2) As the Group share of some company’s net equity is negative, it is recorded under liabilities as a provision for contingencies and charges. (3) Until 2018, September. There is no joint operation in the sense of IFRS 11 within the companies consolidated by equity method. 13.1 Change in investments in associates (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Group share of equity at beginning of period 151.1 130.7 Dividends (27.3) (16.6) Share of net income of associates 31.4 34.6 Change in scope of consolidation (12.2) 7.2 Capital increase 1.7 1.9 Currency translation adjustments (0.5) (6.7) Group share of equity at end of period 144.2 151.1 68 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 13.2 Information on signiﬁcant associates SAS is a joint venture with Continental Automotive GmbH which manufactures full cockpit modules with electronics and circuitry built into the instrument panels. Its headquarters is located in Karlsruhe (Germany), with subsidiaries mainly in France, Slovakia, Spain, Mexico, Turkey, Czech Republic and United States of America. Additional information on this entity (actual data as of November and December forecasts) is provided below: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated* Sales 633.0 544.1 Operating income (loss) 63.4 46.1 Net income (loss) 47.0 37.0 * After IFRS 15. (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Fixed assets 150.8 113.8 Current assets 394.8 351.5 Cash 63.0 73.6 TOTAL ASSETS 608.6 538.9 Equity 136.5 121.0 Borrowings 0.0 0.0 Other non-current liabilities 82.8 20.4 Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 389.3 397.5 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 608.6 538.9 The other associates, in joint control or significant influence, taken individually, are not considered as significant neither for sales nor for total assets. Note 14 Other equity interests Equity interests correspond to the Group’s interests in the capital An impairment loss is recognized when appropriate. The criteria of non-consolidated companies. They are subject to impairment generally applied are the Group’s equity in the underlying net testing based on the most appropriate financial analysis criteria. assets and the earnings outlook of the Company concerned. 2018 2017 Restated % of (in € millions) share capital Gross Net Net Changchun Xuyang Industrial Group 19.0 12.3 12.3 12.4 Amminex Emissions Systems APS 91.5 24.0 24.0 24.0 TactoTek Oy 9.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 Canatu Oy 7.5 5.0 5.0 5.0 Coagent* 50.1 187.5 Other 16.3 14.4 6.0 TOTAL 62.6 60.7 239.9 * Consolidated in 2018. / Registration document 2018 69 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 15 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets Loans and other financial assets are initially stated at fair value and then at amortized cost, calculated using the effective interest method. Provisions are booked on a case-by-case basis where there is a risk of non-recovery. 2018 2017 Restated (in € millions) Gross Provisions Net Net Loans with maturity longer than one year 73.6 (16.5) 57.1 27.2 Others 41.8 (7.7) 34.1 69.6 TOTAL 115.4 (24.2) 91.2 96.8 Note 16 Other non-current assets This item includes: 2017 (in € millions) 2018 Restated Pension plan surpluses 17.6 18.3 Guarantee deposits and other 28.6 24.8 TOTAL 46.2 43.1 Note 17 Inventories and work-in-progress Inventories of raw materials and supplies are stated at cost, parts or modules for customer orders and which are sold to determined by the FIFO method (First-In, First-Out). the customer, ie for which the control is transferred to the customer, usually shortly before serial production starts or Finished and semi-finished products, as well as work-in-progress, specific development work which is sold to customers when the are stated at production cost, determined by the FIFO method. contract enables to consider that there is a separate transfer of Production cost includes the cost of materials and supplies control of these development works in accordance with IFRS 15. as well as direct and indirect production costs, excluding These costs are recognized in the income statement over the overhead not linked to production and borrowing costs. period in which the corresponding sales are made. Work-in-progress includes the costs of specific tooling produced Provisions are booked for inventories for which the probable or purchased specifically for the purpose of manufacturing realizable value is lower than cost and for slow moving items. 2018 2017 Restated (in € millions) Gross Depreciations Net Net Raw materials and supplies 628.8 (81.9) 546.9 515.8 Engineering, tooling and prototypes 490.9 (8.4) 482.5 526.8 Work in progress for production 4.9 0.0 4.9 2.2 Semi-ﬁnished and ﬁnished products 472.5 (75.1) 397.4 342.7 TOTAL 1,597.1 (165.4) 1,431.7 1,387.5 70 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 18 Trade accounts receivables Under trade receivables sale programs, the Group can sell a The following table shows the amount of receivables sold with portion of the receivables of a number of its French, German, maturities beyond December 31, 2018, for which substantially North America and other subsidiaries to a group of financial all the risks and rewards have been transferred, and which have institutions, transferring substantially all of the risks and rewards therefore been derecognized, as well as the financing under relating to the receivables sold to the financial institutions these programs which corresponds to the cash received as concerned. consideration for the receivables sold: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Financing 1,032.8 1,146.5 Guarantee reserve deducted from borrowings (33.6) (39.4) Cash received as consideration for receivables sold 999.2 1,107.1 Receivables sold and derecognized (977.3) (1,038.7) Individually impaired trade receivables are as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Gross total trade receivables 1,968.5 1,875.0 Provision for impairment of receivables (21.0) (15.7) TOTAL 1,947.5 1,859.3 Given the high quality of Group counterparties, late payments  €18.2 million between one and two months past due; do not represent a material risk. They generally arise from  €6.8 million between two and three months past due; administrative issues.  €17.4 million between three and six months past due; Late payments as of December 31, 2018 were €152.4 million, breaking down as follows:  €31.7 million more than six months past due.  €78.3 million less than one month past due; Note 19 Other operating receivables (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Down payments 111.3 103.3 Currency derivatives for operations 29.8 4.3 Other receivables* 172.7 162.7 TOTAL 313.8 270.3 * Including the following amounts for VAT and other tax receivables. 163.7 156.9 / Registration document 2018 71 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 20 Other receivables (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Short-term portion of loans 65.5 24.0 Prepaid expenses 388.1 223.1 Current taxes 163.7 208.9 Other sundry receivables 44.2 100.0 TOTAL 661.5 556.0 In 2018, the receivables on Crédit d’Impôt pour la Compétitivité et l’Emploi (CICE) and Crédit d’Impôt Recherche (CIR) have been sold respectively for amounts of €13.1 million and €95.6 million vs respectively €14.2 million and €43.1 million in 2017. Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include current account balances known amount of cash and are not subject to a significant risk in the amount of €1,462.0 million (compared to €868.1 million in of impairment in the event of changes in interest rates. They are 2017) and short-term investments in the amount of €643.3 million measured at fair value and variances are booked through P&L. (compared to €694.9 million in 2017), or a total of €2,105.3 million The carrying amount of marketable securities is almost identical as of December 31, 2018. to market value as they are held on a very short-term basis. These components include current account balances and units in money market funds that are readily convertible to a Note 22 Shareholders’ equity 22.1 Capital The Group’s capital is not subject to any external restrictions. Shares which have been registered in the name of the same As of December 31, 2018, Faurecia’s capital stock totaled holder for at least two years carry double voting rights. €966,250,607 divided into 138,035,801 fully paid-up shares with a par value of €7 each. As of December 31, 2018, Peugeot S.A. held 46.34% of the capital stock and 63.11% of the voting rights. The capital and additional paid-in capital variance on the period can be analyzed as follows: Additional Capital paid-in capital Number of shares (in € millions) (in € millions) Amount as of January 1, 2018 Restated 138,035,801 966.3 604.0 Exercise of stock options Amount as of December 31, 2018 138,035,801 966.3 604.0 22.2 Share-based payment Free shares are measured at fair value by reference to the market price of Faurecia’s shares at the grant date, less (i) an amount corresponding to the expected dividends due on A – FREE SHARE GRANT the shares but not paid during the vesting period and (ii) an In 2010 Faurecia implemented a share grant plan for executives amount reflecting the cost of the shares being subject to a of Group companies. These shares are subject to service and lock-up period. The fair value is recognized in payroll costs on a performance conditions. straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. 72 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements The amount recognized for the period is an expense of €20 million, compared to €21.1 million in 2017. Details of the share grant plans as of December 31, 2018 are set out in the table below: Maximum number of free shares that can Share be granted* for: Adjustments Date of market Annual Date of reaching exceeding value Non-transShareholders’ Board the objecthe objecPerformance at grant dividend ferrability Acquisition Sales date Meeting meeting tive tive condition date (in €) rate discount date (from) 2018 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth compared to a reference group of 05/27/2016 07/25/2016 632,231 822,485 companies 32.875 1.25% NA 07/25/2020 07/25/2020 2019 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth compared to a reference group of 05/27/2016 07/20/2017 569,422 740,210 companies 48.46 1.75% NA 07/20/2021 07/20/2021 2020 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth compared to a reference group of 05/29/2018 07/19/2018 420,956 547,250 companies 62.26 2.30% NA 07/19/2022 07/19/2022 * Net of free shares granted cancelled. The performance conditions for the plan attributed by the 22.3 Treasury stock Board of July 28, 2014 have been met, the corresponding shares, ie 738,660 have been definitely distributed in July 2018. As of December 31, 2018, Faurecia held 917,160 treasury stock The performance conditions for the plan attributed by the shares. Board of July 23, 2015 have been met, the corresponding The cost of the shares held in treasury stock as of December 31, shares, ie 610,752 will be definitely distributed in July 2019. 2018 totaled €51 million, representing an average cost of €55.61 per share. / Registration document 2018 73 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 23 Minority interests This item corresponds to minority shareholders’ interests in the equity of consolidated subsidiaries. Changes in minority interests were as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Amount as at beginning of the period 275.3 215.1 Increase in minority shareholder interests 24.7 16.9 Other changes in scope of consolidation 40.0 29.3 Minority interests in net income for the year 92.5 96.1 Dividends allocated to minority interests (67.6) (65.8) Currency translation adjustments (3.3) (16.3) Amount as the end of the year 361.6 275.3 The minority interests, taken individually, are not considered as significant in comparison to the total net equity. Note 24 Current provisions and contingent liabilities 24.1 Current provisions A provision is recorded when Group Executive Management has decided to streamline the organization structure and announced the program to the employees affected by it or their representatives, when relevant. (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Restructuring 78.9 72.5 Risks on contracts and customer warranties 57.1 53.7 Litigation 10.0 17.6 Other provisions 45.4 39.5 TOTAL 191.4 183.3 Changes in these provisions in 2018 were as follows: Amount as Change in scope Amount as of of January 1, Expenses Sub total of consolidation December (in € millions) 2018 Restated Additions charged Reversal* changes and other changes 31, 2018 Restructuring 72.5 76.2 (72.1) 0.0 4.1 2.3 78.9 Risks on contracts and customer warranties 53.7 11.8 (26.1) (1.4) (15.7) 19.1 57.1 Litigation 17.6 8.6 (12.9) (1.7) (6.0) (1.6) 10.0 Other provisions 39.5 12.7 (6.3) (0.1) 6.3 (0.4) 45.4 TOTAL 183.3 109.3 (117.4) (3.2) (11.3) 19.4 191.4 * Surplus provisions. 74 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 24.2 Contingent liabilities LITIGATION  the inquiry of the Competition Commission of South Africa is still ongoing. As a reminder, on March 25, 2014, the European Commission and the United States Department of Justice, on November 27, Moreover, The Group has reached agreements, for non 2014, the Competition Commission of South Africa, and on material amounts, with the plaintiffs to settle all three class May 19, 2017, the Brazilian competition authority (CADE), actions which were filed in the United States District Court for initiated inquiries covering certain suppliers of emission control the Eastern District of Michigan against several suppliers of systems on the basis for suspicions of anti-competitive practices emissions control systems, including group affiliates, alleging in this market. Faurecia is one of the companies covered by anticompetitive practices in regard to Exhaust Systems. These these inquiries. agreements have been validated by the court. On the status of these inquiries: Two class actions for similar allegations have also been filed in Canada but are at a very preliminary stage.  the European Commission has announced to close the case, as communicated by Faurecia on May 2, 2017; The consequences of still on-going procedures and above mentioned can not be predicted; therefore, no accruals were  an agreement has been reached with the CADE for a non accounted for as of December 31, 2018. material amount and made public on September 5, 2018 putting an end to the inquiry on Faurecia; There are no other claims or litigation in progress or pending that are likely to have a material impact on the Group’s  in December 2018, Faurecia has been informed by the consolidated financial position. United States Department of Justice that it was no more subject to an inquiry; Note 25 Non-current provisions and provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts 25.1 Non-current provisions (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Provisions for pensions and other employee obligations 393.3 397.2  Pension plan beneﬁt obligations 221.9 224.0  Post-retirement beneﬁt obligations 130.3 128.2  Long-service awards 26.4 26.2  Healthcare costs 14.7 18.8 Provisions for early retirement costs 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 393.3 397.2 CHANGES IN NON-CURRENT PROVISIONS (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Amount as at beginning of the period 397.2 399.7 Changes in scope of consolidation 5.8 (0.4) Other movements 0.0 (6.5) Allowance (or reversal) of provision 34.1 32.5 Expenses charged to the provision (14.6) (13.7) Payments to external funds (10.5) (9.8) Restatement differences (18.7) (4.6) Amount as at the end of the period 393.3 397.2 / Registration document 2018 75 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 25.2 Provisions for pensions and other Benefit obligations are partially funded by contributions to external funds. In cases where the funds are permanently post-employment beneﬁts allocated to the benefit plan concerned, their value is Group employees may receive, in addition to their pensions deducted from the related liability. An excess of plan assets is in conformity with the applicable regulations in the countries only recognized in the balance sheet when it represents future where the Group companies employing them are located, benefits effectively available for the Group. additional benefits or post-retirement benefit obligations. The Periodic pension and other employee benefit costs are Group offers these benefits through either defined benefits or recognized as operating expenses over the benefit vesting defined contribution plans. period. The valuation and accounting methodologies followed by the Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefits plan are Group are the following: recognized in other comprehensive income.  for defined contribution plans, costs are recognized as In case of a change in regime, past service costs are fully expenses based on contributions; recognized as operating expenses, the benefits being fully  the liability for defined benefit plans is determined on an acquired or not. actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method, The expected rate of return of defined benefits plan assets is according to the agreements effective in each concerned equal to the discount rate used to value the obligation. This Group company. return is recorded in “Other financial income and expense”. The valuation takes into account the probability of employees The other post-employment benefits mainly cover seniority staying with the Group up to retirement age and expected bonuses as well as health care benefits. The obligation is valued future salary levels as well as other economic assumptions (such using similar methodology, assumptions and frequency as the as the inflation rate, the discount rate) for each concerned ones used for post-employment benefits. zone or country. These assumptions are described in Note 25.2. BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Present value of projected obligations  Pension plan beneﬁt obligations 396.8 382.9  Post-retirement indemnities obligations 135.2 134.1  Long-service awards 26.4 26.2  Healthcare costs 14.7 18.8 TOTAL 573.1 562.0 Value of plan assets:  Provisions booked in the accounts 393.3 397.2  External funds (market value) (1) 197.4 183.1  Plan surplus (2) (17.6) (18.3) TOTAL 573.1 562.0 (1) External funds mainly cover pension plan benefit obligations for €192.4 million in 2018. (2) Pension plan surpluses are included in Other non-current assets. 76 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements PENSION BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Directors on February 11, 2015. It guarantees an annuity based on the reference salary, the Group’s operating income, and A – Description of the plans the budget approved by the Board of Directors. In France, the supplementary pension scheme comprises a B – Assumptions used defined benefit plan for all managerial employees granting a rent relating to salary tranche C. The Group’s obligations under these plans are determined on an actuarial basis, using the following assumptions: In the United States, one plan was settled in May 2017. The two remaining defined benefit pension plans are all closed  retirement age between 62 and 65 for employees in France; to new participants, respectively since 1996 and 2002. The  staff turnover assumptions based on the economic conditions first plan covers 637 participants and the second plan covers specific to each country and/or Group company; 337 participants.  mortality assumptions specific to each country; In Germany, the main defined benefit pension plan still open covers 5,402 participants. The benefit granted is based on the  estimated future salary levels until retirement age, based number of years of service, starting after 14 years. on inflation assumptions and forecasts of individual salary increases for each country; A specific supplementary pension scheme for Executive Committee members who have an employment contract with  the expected long-term return on external funds; Faurecia S.A. or any of its subsidiaries, comprising a defined  discount and inflation rates (or differential) based on local benefit plan for French members and a defined contribution conditions. plan for foreign members, was approved by the Board of The main actuarial assumptions used in the past two years to measure the pension liability are as follows: (in %) Euro zone United Kingdom USA DISCOUNT RATE 2018 1.95% 2.95% 3.91% 2017 Restated 1.50% 2.60% 3.40% INFLATION RATE 2018 1.80% 3.30% N/A 2017 Restated 1.80% 3.20% N/A Nota: Iboxx AA rate is the reference to determine the discount rate for the euro zone. In the United States, the pension benefit obligations (closed to new participants) are not sensitive to the inflation rate. The average duration of the various plans is as follows: (in number of years) Euro zone United Kingdom USA Average duration 15.4 21.8 7.4 C– Information on external funds External funds are invested as follows: 2018 2017 Restated (in %) Equities Bonds Others Equities Bonds Others France 23% 75% 2% 23% 75% 2% United Kingdom 31% 68% 1% 32% 67% 1% United States 59% 33% 8% 63% 29% 8% The fair value of shares and bonds falls in the level 1 category (price quoted in active markets) in 2018. / Registration document 2018 77 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements D – Provisions for pension liabilities recognized on the balance sheet 2018 2017 Restated (in € millions) France Abroad* Total France Abroad Total Amount as at beginning of the period 167.0 166.9 333.9 160.0 170.5 330.5 Effect of changes in scope of consolidation (provision net of plan surpluses) 0.7 5.1 5.8 0.0 (0.4) (0.4) Additions 15.7 14.9 30.6 15.8 13.4 29.2 Expenses charged to the provision (4.7) (6.6) (11.3) (3.8) (4.9) (8.7) Payments to external funds (6.1) (4.4) (10.5) (4.6) (5.2) (9.8) Actuarial gains/(losses) (5.8) (8.5) (14.3) (0.4) (4.4) (4.8) Other movements 0.0 0.4 0.4 0.0 (2.1) (2.1) Amount as at the end of the period 166.8 167.8 334.6 167.0 166.9 333.9 * The provision for €167.8 million as of December, 31, 2018 relates mainly to Germany (€124.5 million). E – Changes in pension liabilities 2018 2017 Restated (in € millions) France Abroad Total France Abroad Total PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION Amount as at beginning of the period 185.1 331.9 517.0 175.0 324.2 499.2 Service costs 13.8 11.7 25.5 13.4 9.7 23.1 Annual restatement 2.9 7.8 10.7 2.8 7.6 10.4 Beneﬁts paid (8.9) (17.5) (26.4) (5.8) (16.8) (22.6) Actuarial gains/(losses) (5.4) (13.5) (18.9) (0.1) 17.7 17.6 Other movements (including translation adjustment) 0.7 24.1 24.8 0.0 (10.9) (10.9) Curtailments and settlements (0.7) 0.0 (0.7) (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) Effect of closures and plan amendments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.5 AMOUNT AS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 187.5 344.5 532.0 185.1 331.9 517.0 VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS Amount as at beginning of the period 18.1 165.0 183.1 15.0 153.7 168.7 Projected return on plan assets 0.3 4.6 4.9 0.2 4.3 4.5 Actuarial gains/(losses) 0.4 (5.0) (4.6) 0.3 22.1 22.4 Other movements (including translation adjustment) 0.0 18.6 18.6 0.0 (8.4) (8.4) Employer contributions 6.1 4.4 10.5 4.6 5.2 9.8 Beneﬁts paid (4.2) (10.9) (15.1) (2.0) (11.9) (13.9) Curtailments and settlements 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Effect of closures and plan amendments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 AMOUNT AS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 20.7 176.7 197.4 18.1 165.0 183.1 BALANCE OF PROVISIONS AS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 166.8 167.8 334.6 167.0 166.9 333.9 TOTAL CHANGE EXPENSED AT THE END OF THE YEAR 15.7 14.9 30.6 15.8 12.9 28.7 78 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements These costs are recognized:  in operating income for the portion relating to service cost;  in “Other financial income and expenses” for restatement of vested rights and the projected return on external funds. The actuarial gains and losses generated have been recorded in Other comprehensive income according to IAS 19R. It can be analyzed as follows: 2018 (in € millions) France Abroad Total Detail of actuarial gains and losses of the period:  differences linked to ﬁnancial assumptions 16.3 18.2 34.5  differences linked to demographic assumptions (10.9) (4.7) (15.6)  other differences 0.4 (5.0) (4.6) TOTAL 5.8 8.5 14.3 In France, pension liability increased by €2.4 million at year-end  €0.7 million relating to change in scope; compared to 2017. This increase breaks down as follows:  €(0.7) million relating to employee reduction plans;  €16.7 million relating to service cost and interest cost for 2018;  €(5.4) million resulting from actuarial gains and losses,  €(8.9) million relating to lump-sum retirement bonuses and (including €( 16.3) million relating to the discount rate, rights to capital for supplementary pension schemes; €10.9 million relating to experience). F – Retirement pension liabilities: sensitivity to changes in the discount rate and in the inﬂation rate in the main scope The impact of a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate and in the inflation rate for the projected benefit obligation is as follows: Discount rate Inﬂation (in %) +0.25 pt rate+0.25 pt France (2.6%) +2.6% Germany (4.2%) +0.9% 25.3 Long-service awards The Group evaluates its liability for the payment of longof long-service awards using the same method and assumptions service awards, given to employees based on certain seniority as for its pension liability. Provisions for long-service awards have requirements. The Group calculates its liability for the payment been set aside as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated French companies 5.7 6.2 Foreign companies 20.7 20.0 TOTAL 26.4 26.2 / Registration document 2018 79 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 25.4 Healthcare costs In addition to pension plans, some Group companies, mainly in the United States, cover the healthcare costs of their employees. The related liability can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Foreign companies 14.7 18.8 TOTAL 14.7 18.8 The increase of 25 basis points in the discount rate and 1 percentage point in the healthcare cost trend rates would lead to the following variations on the Group’s projected benefits obligations: Discount rate Healthcare cost (in %) +0.25 pt trend rate +1 pt. Projected beneﬁt obligation (2.3%) 9.8% Expenses recognized in connection with this liability break down as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Service cost (0.1) (0.1) Interest cost* (0.7) (0.9) Curtailment 0.0 0.0 TOTAL (0.8) (1.0) * Interest cost is recorded under “Other financial income and expenses”. The Group’s financial liabilities fall within the IFRS 9 categories of liabilities” (Note 26), “Accrued taxes and payroll costs” (Note 27) (i) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and (ii) and “Other payables” (Note 28). other financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Financial assets and liabilities are broken down into current and They are recorded on the following balance sheet items: non-current components for maturities at the balance sheet “Current financial liabilities” and “Non-current financial date: under or over a year. 80 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 26 Net debt The Group’s financial liabilities are generally measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 26.1 Analysis of net debt 2017 (in € millions) 2018 Restated Bonds 1,371.4 1,387.7 Bank borrowings 485.6 195.7 Other borrowings 1.2 0.9 Obligations under ﬁnance lease 11.3 14.1 Non-current derivatives 0.5 0.0 SUB-TOTAL NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 1,870.0 1,598.4 Current portion of long term debt 46.7 56.0 Short-term borrowings* 665.3 365.3 Current derivatives 2.0 2.1 SUB-TOTAL CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 714.0 423.4 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2,584.0 2,021.8 Derivatives classiﬁed under non-current and current assets (1.0) (7.3) Cash and cash equivalents (2,105.3) (1,563.0) NET DEBT 477.7 451.5 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT 2,105.3 1,563.0 * including bank overdrafts 34.6 62.7 The change in net financial debt during the year is as follows: Change in Balance as of Impact of consolidation Balance as of December 31, Impact Translation fair value scope and December 31, (in € millions) 2017 Restated on cash adjustments changes other changes 2018 Bonds 1,387.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 (16.2) 1,371.4 Bank borrowings 195.7 401.3 (2.3) 0.0 (109.1) 485.6 Other borrowings 0.9 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 1.2 Obligations under ﬁnance lease 14.1 0.2 0.1 0.0 (3.1) 11.3 Non-current derivatives 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 SUB-TOTAL NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 1,598.4 402.1 (2.2) 0.0 (128.2) 1,870.0 Current portion of long term debt 56.0 (137.3) (1.6) 0.0 129.5 46.7 Short-term borrowings 365.3 261.4 3.8 1.1 33.7 665.3 Current derivatives 2.1 (0.4) 0.0 0.3 0.0 2.0 SUB-TOTAL CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 423.4 123.7 2.2 1.4 163.2 714.0 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2,021.8 525.8 0.0 1.4 35.0 2,584.0 Derivatives classiﬁed under non-current and current assets (7.3) 0.0 0.3 6.1 0.0 (1.0) Cash and cash equivalents (1,563.0) (515.6) 20.5 0.0 (47.3) (2,105.3) TOTAL 451.5 10.2 20.8 7.5 (12.3) 477.7 / Registration document 2018 81 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 26.2 Maturities of long-term debt 2024 and (in € millions) 2020 2021 2022 2023 beyond Total Bonds 0.0 0.0 0.0 694.4 677.0 1,371.4 Bank borrowings 85.3 7.8 139.8 196.8 55.8 485.6 Other borrowings 1.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.2 Obligation under ﬁnance leases 4.9 1.8 1.8 0.5 2.3 11.3 Non-current derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.1 0.5 TOTAL AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 91.5 9.7 141.9 891.7 735.2 1,870.0 26.3 Financing for bonds redeemed by anticipation has been expensed. Costs related to the bond issue are expensed in P&L over the life time The main components of Faurecia financing are described of the bonds. below: The bonds are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange (Global Exchange Market). The costs related to the bond issue are 2023 BONDS expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. On April 1, 2016, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of €700 million due June 15, 2023, carrying annual interest of SYNDICATED CREDIT FACILITY 3.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as from June 15, 2016. On December 15, 2014, Faurecia signed a syndicated credit facility, with a five-year maturity, for an amount of €1,200 million. They are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange (Global Exchange This credit facility was renegotiated on June 24, 2016, in order Market). The costs related to the bond issue are expensed in to extend the maturity to five years from that date, or June 24, P&L over the life time of the bonds. 2021 and improve its terms and conditions. These bonds include a covenant restricting the additional On June 15, 2018, Faurecia signed with participating banks a indebtedness if the EBITDA** after certain adjustments is lower second agreement to extend again the maturity to five years than twice the gross interest costs, and restrictions on the debt from that date, or June 15, 2023, with two optional one-year similar to those of the syndicated credit loan. extensions that can be exercised in June 2019 and June 2020, subject to agreement of participating banks, and that would 2025 BONDS extend the maturity respectively to June 2024 and June 2025. This agreement has improved again its terms and conditions On March 8, 2018, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of and strengthens the Group’s financial structure. €700 million due June 15, 2025, carrying annual interest of 2.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as In accordance with the credit documentation, all guarantees from June 15, 2018. issued by some Group subsidiaries in favor of banks participating in this credit facility were eliminated when the bonds due in These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the 2023 bonds December 2016 were fully redeemed on April 12, 2016. and do not benefit from guarantees issued by subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2018, this credit facility was not drawn. The proceeds of these bonds have been used to redeem the €700 million bonds due June 15, 2022, carrying annual interest This credit facility includes only one covenant, related to of 3.125%, issued in March and April 2015. consolidated financial ratios: Net debt*/EBITDA** must be lower than 2.50. Compliance with this ratio is a condition affecting This has been done through a tender offer through which the availability of this credit facility. As of December 31, 2018, 2022 bond holders could exchange their bonds against new the Group complied with this ratio. 2025 bonds. The rate of exchange has reached over 77%. The bonds that were not tendered in this offer have been This credit facility includes some restrictive clauses on asset redeemed (“make-whole “) in accordance with the offering disposals (disposal representing over 25% of the Group’s memorandum. The settlement of these two operations has total consolidated assets requires the prior approval of banks taken place on March 8, 2018. representing two-thirds of the syndicate) and on the debt level of some subsidiaries. The bond premium for bonds tendered in the offer is amortized over the duration of the new 2025 bonds; the bond premium * Consolidated net debt. ** Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. 82 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements FINANCING OF CLARION CO. LTD ACQUISITION As of December 31, 2018, this bridge loan was not drawn and its amount was reduced to €750 million as a consequence of Following the binding agreements reached on October 26, the refinancing described hereafter. 2018 with Clarion and Hitachi, and the authorization received from anti trust authorities, Faurecia has launched on January 30, In order to anticipate and secure the refinancing of this bridge 2019 a tender offer on Clarion Co. Ltd, (cf Note 2.3). loan, Faurecia has signed on December 17, 2018 a private placement under German law (Schuldscheindarlehen) for a The tender covers whole Clarion shares (around 56.55 million total amount of €700 million. This transaction is structured into shares) for a price of ¥2.500 per share, i.e. a total of around several tranches in EUR and USD, at fixed and variable rates, ¥141.3 billion, or around €1.1 billion. with maturities of 4, 5 and 6 years. €378 million have been The total amount of the acquisition is hedged through received on December 20, 2018 and the remaining amount contingent forwards, which will transform in forward hedging has been received in early January 2019. The USD tranches at a given exchange rate when the offer is a success and the have been partially converted in euro resources through long acquisition has to be paid for; in the opposite case, hedging term cross-currency swaps. is cancelled without Faurecia having to pay (or receive) any Finally, during 2018, Faurecia regularly issued commercial amount, whatever the exchange rate euro/yen. papers with a maturity up to one year for investors located In order to secure the financing of the acquisition, of the mainly in France. repayment of some Clarion debts as well as of integration costs, Faurecia is rated Ba1 by Moody’s with stable outlook and BB+ Faurecia has implemented a bridge loan for an amount of with a stable outlook by Fitch Ratings (increase of these two €1.3 billion with one of its main banks. This loan has a maturity ratings on February 20, 2018). On January 31, 2018, Standard & of one year, extendable by one year through two six-months Poor’s assigned to Faurecia a BB+ long-term corporate credit extension options. This loan includes some restrictive clauses ratings, with a stable outlook. similar to the ones of the syndicated loan of €1.2 billion. / Registration document 2018 83 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements The Group’s global contractual maturity schedule as of December 31, 2018 breaks down as follows: Carrying Amount Remaining contractual maturities (in € millions) Assets Liabilities Total 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 1-5 years >5 years Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 91.2 91.2 91.2 Loans and receivables 46.2 46.2 46.2 Trade accounts receivables 1,947.5 1,947.5 1,923.7 15.3 8.5 Cash and cash equivalents 2,105.3 2,105.3 2,105.3 Interests on: 2023 Bonds (114.2) (114.2) (12.7) (12.7) (88.8) 2025 Bonds (119.4) (119.4) (9.2) (9.2) (73.5) (27.6) Other long term borrowings (2.9) (2.9) (2.9) Obligations under ﬁnance leases (ST portion) (2.6) (2.6) (2.4) (0.1) (0.1) Other current ﬁnancial liabilities (706.5) (706.5) (696.8) (6.7) (3.0) Trade accounts payables (4,562.6) (4,562.6) (4,544.7) (6.4) (11.5) Bonds (excluding interest) 2023 Bonds (685.4) (685.4) (685.4) 2025 Bonds (686.0) (686.0) (686.0) Bank borrowings Syndicated credit facility 0.0 Others (485.6) (485.6) (429.8) (55.8) Other borrowings (1.2) (1.2) (1.2) Obligations under ﬁnance leases (LT portion) (11.3) (11.3) (9.0) (2.3) Interest rate derivatives (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  o/w cash ﬂow hedges (0.5) (0.5) (0.5)  o/w derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting under IFRS 0.0 Currency hedges 30.8 (9.3) 21.5 20.0 1.2 1.6 (1.3) 0.0  o/w fair value hedges 1.1 (2.1) (1.0) 0.2 0.1 (1.3)  o/w cash ﬂow hedges 29.6 (7.2) 22.4 19.7 1.2 1.5  o/w derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting under IFRS 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 TOTAL 4,221.0 (7,387.5) (3,166.5) (1,198.3) (18.6) (26.4) (1,151.6) (771.7) 84 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 26.4 Analysis of borrowings As of December 31, 2018, the variable rate borrowings were 37.7% of borrowings before taking into account the impact of hedging. (in € millions) 2018 Variable rate borrowings 975.3 37.7% Fixed rate borrowings 1,608.8 62.3% TOTAL 2,584.0 100.0% Borrowings, taking into account foreign exchange swaps, break down by repayment currency as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Euros 2,327.9 90.1% 1,297.6 64.2% US Dollars 81.9 3.2% 504.4 24.9% Other currencies 174.3 6.7% 219.8 10.9% TOTAL 2,584.0 100.0% 2,021.8 100.0% In 2018, the weighted average interest rate on gross outstanding borrowings was 3.28%. Note 27 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 2017 (in € millions) 2018 Restated Accrued payroll costs 353.6 344.1 Payroll taxes 149.5 146.1 Employee proﬁt-sharing 33.5 24.3 Other accrued taxes and payroll costs 81.4 112.9 TOTAL 618.0 627.4 Note 28 Sundry payables 2017 (in € millions) 2018 Restated Due to suppliers of non-current assets 187.4 161.3 Prepaid income 31.9 91.7 Current taxes 60.0 58.0 Other 53.5 81.5 Currency derivatives for operations 7.3 0.2 TOTAL 340.1 392.7 / Registration document 2018 85 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 29 Financial instruments 29.1 Financial instruments recorded in the balance sheet 2018 Breakdown by category of instrument (1) Financial Financial assets/ assets/ Balance Carrying amount liabilities at liabilities at Assets and Financial Sheet not deﬁned fair value fair value liabilities at liabilities Carrying as ﬁnancial through proﬁt through amortized measured at (in € millions) amount instruments or loss (2) equity (2) cost fair value Other equity interests 60.7 60.7 60.7 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 91.2 91.2 91.2 Trade accounts receivables 1,947.5 1,947.5 0.0 0.0 Other operating receivables 313.8 284.0 8.4 21.4 0.0 29.8 Other receivables and prepaid expenses 661.5 596.0 65.5 65.5 Currency derivatives 1.0 1.0 1.0 Interest rate derivatives 0.1 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2,105.3 2,105.3 2,105.3 FINANCIAL ASSETS 5,181.1 2,827.5 2,175.5 21.4 156.7 2,353.6 Long-term debt* 1,870.0 1.2 0.5 1,868.3 1,865.3 Short-term debt 714.0 2.0 712.0 714.0 Prepayments from customers 605.0 605.0 0.0 0.0 Trade payables 4,562.6 4,562.6 0.0 0.0 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 618.0 618.0 0.0 0.0 Sundry payables 340.1 332.8 7.3 0.0 7.3 Of which Currency derivatives 7.3 7.3 7.3 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 8,709.7 6,119.6 2.0 7.8 2,580.3 2,586.6 (1) No financial instruments were transferred between categories in 2018. (2) All of the instruments in this category are financial assets or liabilities designated as measured on initial recognition. * The fair value of the bonds, excluding accrued interest, was established on the basis of the year-end market value (December 31, 2018): for the 2023 bonds quoted 100.822% of par, at €705.8 million and for the 2025 bonds quoted 94.587% of par, at €662.1 million. 86 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 2017 Restated Breakdown by category of instrument (1) Financial Financial assets/ assets/ Balance Carrying amount liabilities at liabilities at Assets and Financial Sheet not deﬁned fair value fair value liabilities at liabilities Carrying as ﬁnancial through proﬁt through amortized measured at (in € millions) amount instruments or loss (2) equity (2) cost fair value Other equity interests 239.9 239.9 239.9 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 96.8 96.8 96.8 Trade accounts receivables 1,859.3 1,859.3 0.0 Other operating receivables 270.3 266.4 0.2 3.7 3.9 Other receivables and prepaid expenses 556.0 532.0 24.0 24.0 Currency derivatives 7.3 7.3 7.3 Interest rate derivatives 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1,563.0 1,563.0 1,563.0 FINANCIAL ASSETS 4,592.6 2,657.7 1,810.4 3.7 120.8 1,934.9 Long-term debt* 1,598.4 0.9 1,597.5 1,671.4 Short-term debt 423.4 423.4 423.4 Prepayments from customers 545.7 545.7 0.0 Trade payables 4,219.3 4,219.3 0.0 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 627.4 627.4 0.0 Sundry payables 392.7 390.4 1.7 0.6 2.3 Of which Currency derivatives 1.9 1.7 0.2 1.9 Interest rate derivatives 0.4 0.4 0.4 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 7,806.9 5,783.7 1.7 0.6 2,020.9 2,097.1 (1) No financial instruments were transferred between categories in 2017. (2) All of the instruments in this category are financial assets or liabilities designated as measured on initial recognition. * The fair value of the bonds, excluding accrued interest, was established on the basis of the year-end market value (December 31, 2017): for the 2022 bonds quoted 102.958% of par, at €720.7 million and for the 2023 bonds quoted 105.695% of par, at €739.9 million. The main measurement methods applied are as follows:  financial liabilities are primarily recognized at amortized cost calculated using the effective interest rate method;  items accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, as well as hedging instruments, are measured using a valuation  the fair value of trade receivables and payables related to technique based on rates quoted on the interbank market, manufacturing and sales operations corresponds to their such as Euribor and exchange rates set daily by the European carrying value given of their very short maturities. Central Bank; / Registration document 2018 87 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements The impact of financial instruments on income: 2018 Breakdown by category of instrument Financial assets/ liabilities at fair value Financial liabilities Instruments (in € millions) Impact Income through proﬁt or loss at amortized cost derivatives Translation differences on commercial transactions (6.8) (7.0) 0.2 Income on loans, cash investments and marketable securities 9.6 9.6 Finance costs (117.7) (117.7) Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (55.7) (55.7) Net income (expenses) (170.6) 2.6 (173.4) 0.2 2017 Restated Breakdown by category of instrument Financial assets/ liabilities at fair value Financial liabilities Instruments (in € millions) Impact Income through proﬁt or loss at amortized cost derivatives Translation differences on commercial transactions 1.4 1.3 0.1 Income on loans, cash investments and marketable securities 12.6 12.6 Finance costs (120.9) (120.9) Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (23.0) (23.0) Net income (expenses) (129.9) 13.9 (143.9) 0.1 As of December 31, 2018, movements in provisions for impairment break down as follows by category of financial asset: Balance as Reversals Change in scope Balance as of of January 1, (surplus of consolidation December 31, (in € millions) 2018 Restated Additions Utilizations provisions) and other changes 2018 Doubtful accounts (15.7) (5.5) (0.5) 0.0 0.7 (21.0) Shares in non-consolidated companies (1.8) (0.1) 0.0 0.0 0.0 (1.9) Non-current ﬁnancial assets (26.7) (1.1) 3.2 0.0 0.4 (24.2) Other receivables (9.1) (26.5) 0.5 0.0 (0.7) (35.8) TOTAL (53.3) (33.2) 3.2 0.0 0.4 (82.9) 29.2 Financial instruments – fair value hierarchy The Group’s financial instruments that are measured at fair based on rates quoted on the interbank market, such as Euribor value break down as follows by level of fair value measurement: and exchange rates set daily by the European Central Bank) Level 1 (prices quoted in active markets) for short-term cash for currency and interest rate instruments. investments and Level 2 (measured using a valuation technique 88 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 30 Hedging of currency and interest rate risks 30.1 Transactions in foreign currencies Currency risks on forecasted transactions are hedged on the basis of estimated cash flows determined when budgets and derivatives are prepared, validated by Executive Management; these Transactions in foreign currencies are converted at the forecasts are updated on a regular basis. The related derivatives exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. Receivables are classified as cash flow hedges when there is a hedging and payables are converted at the year-end exchange rate. relationship that satisfies the IFRS 9 criteria. Resulting gains or losses are recorded in the income statement Subsidiaries with a functional currency different from the euro as operating income or expenses for operating receivables and are granted inter-company loans in their operating currencies. payables, and under “Other financial income and expenses” Although these loans are refinanced in euros and eliminated for other receivables and payables. in consolidation, they contribute to the Group’s currency risk Faurecia uses derivative instruments traded on organized exposure and are therefore hedged through foreign exchange markets or purchased over-the-counter from first-rate swaps or financing in the concerned currency. counterparties to hedge currency and interest rate risks. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of instruments They are recorded at fair value in the balance sheet. used to hedge future revenues is recorded in equity and taken to operating income when the hedged revenues are received. Changes in the fair value of instruments used to hedge trade 30.2 Hedging of currency risks receivables and payables are recorded as operating income or expense. Currency risks relating to the commercial transactions of the Group’s subsidiaries are managed centrally by Faurecia using The portion of the change in fair value of these hedges that is forward purchase and sale contracts and options as well as ineffective (time value of the hedges) is recorded under “Other foreign currency financing. Faurecia manages the hedging of financial income and expenses” together with changes in the currency risks on a central basis, through the Group Finance fair value of instruments used to hedge other receivables and and Treasury department, which reports to the Executive payables except for the changes in the fair value of cash Management. Hedging decisions are made by a Market Risk flow hedges which are recorded in amounts to be potentially Management Committee that meets on a monthly basis. reclassified to profit or loss. 2018 Currency exposure (in € millions) USD CZK CNY RUB GBP PLN MXN ZAR Trade receivables (net of payables) 0.0 (23.1) (13.6) 11.2 (6.2) (22.2) 0.0 0.0 Financial assets (net of liabilities)(1) (188.4) 0.0 0.0 0.0 (122.9) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Forecast transactions(2) 193.1 (149.3) 50.4 93.5 (30.5) (159.6) (222.2) 27.3 Net position before hedging 4.7 (172.4) 36.8 104.7 (159.6) (181.8) (222.2) 27.3 Currency hedges 69.3 83.1 0.0 (6.0) 123.0 106.4 162.7 0.0 Net position after hedging 74.0 (89.4) 36.8 98.7 (36.6) (75.4) (59.5) 27.3 (1) Including inter-company financing. (2) Commercial exposure anticipated over the next six months. 2017 Currency exposure (in € millions) USD CZK CNY RUB GBP PLN MXN ZAR Trade receivables (net of payables) 72.7 (43.0) (7.2) 9.5 (5.4) (0.6) 0.0 42.7 (1) Financial assets (net of liabilities) 553.3 0.0 164.7 7.7 (60.9) 0.0 0.0 32.8 Forecast transactions(2) 30.4 (52.6) (10.0) 12.5 26.4 (89.3) (117.2) (0.9) Net position before hedging 656.4 (95.6) 147.5 29.7 (39.9) (89.9) (117.2) 74.6 Currency hedges (581.4) 66.7 (162.7) (13.7) 73.7 87.6 0.0 (30.5) Net position after hedging 74.9 (28.9) (15.2) 16.0 33.8 (2.3) (117.2) 44.2 (1) Including inter-company financing. (2) Commercial exposure anticipated over the next six months. Hedging instruments are recognized in the balance sheet at fair value. Fair value is determined based on measurements confirmed by banking counterparties. / Registration document 2018 89 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements INFORMATION ON HEDGED NOTIONAL AMOUNTS Carrying amount Maturities (in € millions) Notional 2018 Assets Liabilities amount* < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Fair value hedges  forward currency contracts 0.2 (0.1) 16.6 16.6 0.0 0.0  inter-company loans in foreign currencies swapped for euros 0.9 (0.7) 392.3 392.3 0.0 0.0  cross-currency swaps 0.0 (1.3) 104.8 0.0 104.8 0.0 Cash ﬂow hedges  forward currency contracts 2.2 (2.3) 391.8 391.8 0.0 0.0  currency option 7.8 (4.9) 325.4 325.4 0.0 0.0  contingent forward 19.6 0.0 1,102.8 1,102.8 0.0 0.0 Not eligible for hedge accounting 0.1 0.0 31.3 31.3 0.0 0.0 30.8 (9.3) * Notional amounts based on absolute values. Carrying amount Maturities (in € millions) Notional 2017 Restated Assets Liabilities amount* < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Fair value hedges  forward currency contracts 0.1 0.0 11.6 11.6 0.0 0.0  inter-company loans in foreign currencies swapped for euros 7.3 (1.7) 795.8 795.8 0.0 0.0  cross-currency swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash ﬂow hedges  forward currency contracts 3.7 (0.2) 259.2 259.2 0.0 0.0 Not eligible for hedge accounting 0.1 0.0 29.0 29.0 0.0 0.0 11.2 (1.9) * Notional amounts based on absolute values. The sensitivity of Group income and equity as of December 31, 2018 to a fluctuation in exchange rates against the euro is as follows for the main currencies to which the Group is exposed: Currency exposure USD CZK CNY RUB GBP PLN MXN ZAR 2018 1.15 25.72 7.88 79.72 0.89 4.30 22.49 16.46 Currency ﬂuctuation scenario (depreciation of currency/EUR) 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Exchange rate after currency depreciation 1.20 27.01 8.27 83.70 0.94 4.52 23.62 17.28 Impact on pre-tax income (in € millions) 0.15 1.24 0.68 (0.28) 0.60 1.09 0.00 0.00 Impact on equity (in € millions) 7.17 (4.02) 0.00 0.00 0.00 (5.03) (0.14) 0.00 These impacts reflect (i) the effect on the income statement of those qualifying and not qualifying as fair value hedges) and currency fluctuations on the year-end valuation of assets and (ii) the effect on equity of the change in the intrinsic value liabilities recognized on the balance sheet, net of the impact of of hedging instruments for derivatives qualifying as cash flow the change in the intrinsic value of hedging instruments (both hedges. 90 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements HEDGING OF THE FOREIGN EXCHANGE EXPOSURE 30.3 Interest-rate hedges LINKED TO CLARION CO., LTD ACQUISITION Faurecia manages the hedging of interest rate risks on a The total amount of the acquisition, around ¥141.3 billion, or central basis. Such management is implemented through the around €1.1 billion, is hedged through contingent forwards, Group Finance and Treasury department, which reports to the which will transform in forward hedging at a given exchange Executive Management. Hedging decisions are made by a rate when the offer is a success and the acquisition has to be Market Risk Management Committee that meets on a monthly paid for; in the opposite case, hedging is cancelled without basis. Faurecia having to pay (or receive) any amount, whatever the exchange rate euro/yen. Changes in the fair value of interest rate hedges are recorded directly in “Other financial income and expenses” when the Given its contingent nature, the underlying exposure is not hedging relationship cannot be demonstrated under IFRS 9, or included in above tables which are representing financial or where the Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting commercial exposures currency by currency and its sensitivity, principles. certain or highly probable. The intrinsinc market value of this hedging is booked in the balance sheet and in other The table below shows the Group’s interest rate position, comprehensive income. Its time value component is booked with assets, liabilities and derivatives broken down into fixed in financial result, for an amount of €1.8 million in 2018. This time or variable rates. Financial assets include cash and cash value is defined as being the value of the discount between the equivalents and interest rate hedges include interest rate swaps rate granted by the contingent forward and the market rate at as well as in-the-money options. the realization date of the hedging. Its amount (which depends on the effective date of the payment of Clarion acquisition) is estimated at €5.3 million, ie less than 0.5% of the hedged amount. The net amount in the balance sheet is of €19.6 million, as of December 31, 2018. Under 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 years Total (in € millions) Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable 2018 rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate Financial assets 2,106.3 2,106.3 Financial liabilities (1.4) (710.4) (26.4) 0.0 (857.4) (239.8) (723.6) (25.0) (1,608.8) (975.2) Net position before hedging (1.4) 1,395.9 (26.4) 0.0 (857.4) (239.8) (723.6) (25.0) (1,608.8) 1,131.1 Interest rate hedges 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (152.0) 152.0 (25.0) 25.0 (177.0) 177.0 Net position after hedging (1.4) 1,395.9 (26.4) 0.0 (1,009.4) (87.8) (748.6) 0.0 (1,785.8) 1,308.1 Cross-currency swaps variable/fixed rate are included in the above detailed position, but their value in the balance sheet as well as the notional amounts are included in the corresponding table for currency hedging instruments in Note 30.2 and not in the interest rate hedging instruments herebelow. Under 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 years Total (in € millions) Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable 2017 Restated rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate Financial assets 1,570.3 1,570.3 Financial liabilities (1.4) (416.4) (41.5) 0.0 (775.6) (70.5) (716.4) 0.0 (1,534.9) (486.9) Net position before hedging (1.4) 1,153.9 (41.5) 0.0 (775.6) (70.5) (716.4) 0.0 (1,534.9) 1,083.4 Interest rate hedges (400.0) 400.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (400.0) 400.0 Net position after hedging (401.4) 1,553.9 (41.5) 0.0 (775.6) (70.5) (716.4) 0.0 (1,934.9) 1,483.4 / Registration document 2018 91 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements The main components of the fixed rate debt are: The interest rate derivatives as of December 31, 2018 aim at hedging the variable part of the Schuldscheindarlehen against  bonds maturing in June 2022, issued in March and an interest rate increase. April 2015 for a total amount of €700 million; The second part of the Schuldscheindarlehen, for which funds  bonds maturing in June 2023, issued in April 2016 for a total have been received in January 2019, has also been subject to amount of €700 million. interest rate hedging beginning of 2019.  a part of the Schuldscheindarlehen (see Note 26.3, § “Financing of Clarion Co. Ltd Acquisition”) issued in December 2018. The notional amounts of the Group’s interest rate hedges break down as follows: Carrying amount Notional amounts by maturity (in € millions) 2018 Assets Liabilities < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Interest rate options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Variable rate/ﬁxed rate swaps 0.0 (0.5) 0.0 104.0 25.0 Accrued premiums payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.5) 0.0 104.0 25.0 Carrying amount Notional amounts by maturity (in € millions) 2017 Restated Assets Liabilities < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Interest rate options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Variable rate/ﬁxed rate swaps 0.0 (0.4) 400.0 0.0 0.0 Accrued premiums payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.4) 400.0 0.0 0.0 A part of the Group borrowings being at variable rates as stated December 31, 2018 show that the effect on net financial in Note 26.4, a rise in short-term rates would therefore have an expense (before taxes) would not be significant, taking into impact on financial expense. account the profile of the Group’s borrowings and derivatives in place as of December 31, 2018. The sensitivity tests performed, assuming a 100 bp increase in average interest rates compared to the rate curve as of 30.4 Counterpart risk on derivatives Faurecia’s counterparty risk connection with its derivatives is not significant as the majority of its derivatives are arranged with banks with strong ratings that form part of its banking pool. The consideration of derivatives compensation agreements existing with counterparts, is summarized as follows: (d) Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet (not fullﬁling IAS 32 compensation (a) (b) (c) = (a) (b) criteria) (e) = (c) (d) Gross amounts Net amounts Financial assets as Gross amount compensated presented in of December 31, 2018 value (before (according to the balance Financial Collaterals (in € millions) compensation) IAS 32) sheet instruments received Net amount Derivatives 11.2 11.2 7.2 4.0 Other ﬁnancial instruments TOTAL 11.2 0.0 11.2 7.2 0.0 4.0 92 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements (d) Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet (not fullﬁling IAS 32 compensation (a) (b) (c) = (a) (b) criteria) (e) = (c) (d) Gross amounts Net amounts Financial liabilities as of Gross amount compensated presented in December 31, 2018 value (before (according to the balance Financial Collaterals (in € millions) compensation) IAS 32) sheet instruments received Net amount Derivatives 9.8 9.8 7.2 2.6 Other ﬁnancial instruments TOTAL 9.8 0.0 9.8 7.2 0.0 2.6 Note 31 Commitments given and contingent liabilities COMMITMENTS GIVEN (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated Future minimum lease payments under operating leases 870.4 648.2 Debt collateral:  mortgages 2.0 2.0 Other debt guarantees 55.4 59.3 Firm orders for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 164.3 132.0 Other 1.1 1.3 TOTAL 1,093.2 842.8 Future minimum lease payments under operating leases break down as follows: (in € millions) 2018 2017 Restated N+1 160.8 140.1 N+2 129.9 98.0 N+3 113.7 82.9 N+4 89.3 70.2 N+5 and above 376.7 257.0 TOTAL 870.4 648.2 Expiry dates of mortgages and guarantees: (in € millions) 2018  less than a year 53.2  1 to 5 years 2.3  more than 5 years 1.9 TOTAL 57.4 / Registration document 2018 93 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 32 Related party transactions Transactions with consolidated entities are eliminated by the consolidated or Equity consolidated entities are considered consolidation process. Faurecia’s business relations with non as non significant. 32.1 Transactions with PSA group The Faurecia group is managed independently and transactions with the PSA group are conducted at arm’s length terms. These transactions (including with companies accounted for by the equity method by the PSA group) are recognized as follows in the Group’s consolidated financial statements: 2017 (in € millions) 2018 Restated Sales 2,182.6 2,078.2 Purchases of products, services and materials 15.8 17.8 Receivables* 406.6 522.2 Trade payables 94.5 107.0 * Before no-recourse sales of receivables amounting to: 221.6 273.7 32.2 Management compensation Total compensation for 2018 awarded to the members of €11,882,938 including directors’ fees of €596,000, compared the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Committee with the 2017 figures of €9,521,431 and €512,400 respectively. serving in this capacity as at December 31, 2018 amounted to 94 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 33 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Ernst & Young Amount (excl. VAT) % Amount (excl. VAT) % 2017 2017 2017 2017 (in € millions) 2018 Restated 2018 Restated 2018 Restated 2018 Restated AUDIT Statutory and contractual audits Issuer 0.5 0.5 10.2% 9.4% 0.5 0.5 10.6% 10.9% Fully consolidated companies 3.6 3.9 73.5% 73.6% 3.4 3.6 72.3% 78.3% SUB-TOTAL 4.1 4.4 83.7% 83.0% 3.9 4.1 83.0% 89.1% Other services Issuer 0.4 0.9 8.2% 17.0% 0.5 0.5 10.6% 10.9% Fully consolidated companies 0.4 0.0 8.2% 0.0% 0.3 0.0 6.4% 0.0% SUB-TOTAL 0.8 0.9 16.3% 17.0% 0.8 0.5 17.0% 10.9% TOTAL 4.9 5.3 100.0% 100.0% 4.7 4.6 100.0% 100.0% Other services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit to Other services provided by Ernst & Young Audit to the Company the Company and its subsidiaries mainly relate to issuance of and its subsidiaries mainly relate to issuance of statements statements as independant auditors, agreed-upon procedures as independant auditors, verification of the non-financial reports, contractual audit reports, comfort letters in connection statement included in management report, contractual audit with a financing operation, technical consultations and reports, procedures in connection with divestment projects, procedures on internal controls. consultations and comfort letters in connection with a financing operation. Note 34 Information on the consolidating company The consolidated financial statements of the Faurecia group are included in the consolidated accounts of its parent, the Peugeot S.A., parent company of the PSA group, 7, rue Henri Sainte-Claire Deville 92500 Rueil-Malmaison (France). As of December 31, 2018, Peugeot S.A. held 46.34% of the capital stock of Faurecia and 63.11% of the voting rights. Note 35 Dividends The Board of Directors has decided to propose to the next Annual Shareholders’ Meeting a dividend of €1.25 per share. / Registration document 2018 95 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.2.6. List of consolidated companies as of December 31, 2018 Country Interest of (%) Stake (%)* I – FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Faurecia France Holding Holding South Africa Faurecia Exhaust Systems South Africa, Ltd South Africa 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems South Africa (Pty), Ltd South Africa 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems Pretoria (Pty), Ltd South Africa 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies South Africa (CapeTown) (Pty), Ltd South Africa 100 100 Germany Faurecia Autositze GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Abgastechnik GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Angell – Demmel GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Automotive GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Innenraum Systeme GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Germany GmbH Germany 100 100 Hug Engineering GmbH Germany 100 100 Argentina Faurecia Sistemas De Escape Argentina S.A. Argentina 100 100 Faurecia Argentina S.A. Argentina 100 100 Belgium Faurecia Automotive Belgium Belgium 100 100 Faurecia Industrie N.V. Belgium 100 100 Brazil Faurecia Automotive do Brasil, Ltda Brazil 100 100 FMM Pernambuco Componentes Automotivos, Ltda Brazil 51 100 Canada Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Canada, Ltd Canada 100 100 China Faurecia Exhaust Systems Changchun Co., Ltd China 51 100 Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Automotive Seat Co., Ltd China 60 100 Faurecia – GSK (Wuhan) Automotive Seating Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia (Wuxi) Seating Components Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Tongda Exhaust Systems Wuhan Co., Ltd China 50 100 Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Systems Shanghai, Co., Ltd China 66 100 Faurecia (Changchun) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Development (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Shanghai) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Qingdao) Exhaust Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (China) Holding Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Guangzhou) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Chongqing) Co., Ltd China 72.5 100 * Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. 96 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%)* Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Yantai) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Chengdu) Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia (Nanjing) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Shenyang) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Wuhan) Automotive Components Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 60 100 Chengdu Faurecia Limin Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 79.19 100 Faurecia (Yancheng) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 CSM Faurecia Automotive Parts Co., Ltd China 50 100 Faurecia NHK (Xiangyang) Automotive Seating Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Nanchang) Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Ningbo) Co., Ltd China 91 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Foshan) Co., Ltd China 51 100 Foshan Faurecia Xuyang Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 60 100 Faurecia PowerGreen Emissions Control Technologies (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 91 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Ningbo Hangzhou Bay New District) Co., Ltd China 66 100 Shanghai Faurecia Automotive Seating Co., Ltd China 55 100 Changsha Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 100 100 Dongfeng Faurecia Automotive Interior Co., Ltd China 50 100 Borgward Faurecia (Tianjin) Auto Systems Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia Exhaust Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Chongqing Faurecia Changpeng Automotive Parts Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Jimo) Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Tianjin) Emission Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia Yinlun (Weifang) Emission Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 52 100 Tianjin Faurecia Xuyang Automotive System Co., Ltd China 60 100 Dongfeng Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 50 100 Faurecia (Changshu) Automotive System Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Liuzhou) Automotive Seating Co., Ltd China 50 100 Jiangxi Faurecia Coagent Electronics Co., Ltd China 50.1 100 Shenzhen Faurecia Automotive Parts Co., Ltd China 70 100 Faurecia (Hangzhou) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Liuzhou) Automotive Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 50 100 Guangdong Coagent Global S&T Co., Ltd China 50.1 100 Faurecia Chongqing Zhuotong Automotive Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 50 100 Shanghai Faurecia Automotive Seating component Co., Ltd China 55 100 Parrot Automotive Shenzhen China 100 100 Coagent Global Limited China 50.1 100 Parrot Automotive Asia Paciﬁc Ltd China 100 100 * Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. / Registration document 2018 97 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%)* South Korea Faurecia Korea, Ltd South Korea 100 100 FCM Yeongcheon South Korea 100 100 FAS Yeongcheon South Korea 100 100 Spain Asientos de Castilla Leon, S.A. Spain 100 100 Asientos del Norte, S.A. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Asientos Para Automovil España, S.A. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Sistemas De Escape España, S.A. Spain 100 100 Tecnoconfort Spain 50 100 Asientos de Galicia, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Automotive España, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems España, S.A. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems SALC España, S.L. Spain 100 100 Valencia Modulos de Puertas, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Pamplona, S.L. Spain 100 100 Incalplas, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Holding España S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Industrie Spain, S.L. Spain 100 100 United States Faurecia Emissions Control Systems NA, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Seating, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia USA Holdings, Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, USA, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems, Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia Madison Automotive Seating, Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia Interiors Louisville, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems Saline, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia Mexico Holdings, LLC United States 100 100 FNK North America, Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia North America, Inc. United States 100 100 Hug Engineering Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia DMS United States 100 100 France Faurecia Sièges d’Automobile France 100 100 Faurecia Industries France 100 100 ECSA – Etudes Et Construction de Sièges pour l’Automobile France 100 100 Siebret France 100 100 Siedoubs France 100 100 Sielest France 100 100 Siemar France 100 100 Faurecia Seating Flers France 100 100 Faurecia Investments France 100 100 * Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. 98 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%)* Trecia France 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Holdings France 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Industrie France 100 100 Faurecia Intérieur Industrie France 100 100 Faurecia Systèmes d’Echappement France 100 100 Faurecia Services Groupe France 100 100 Faurecia Exhaust International France 100 100 Faurecia – Metalloprodukcia Holding France 70 100 Faurecia Smart Technologies France 100 100 Faurecia Interieurs Saint-Quentin France 100 100 Faurecia Interieurs Mornac France 100 100 Faurecia Ventures France 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Composites France 100 100 Hambach Automotive Exteriors France 100 100 Hennape Six France 100 100 Parrot Faurecia Automotive S.A.S France 100 100 Great Britain Faurecia Automotive Seating UK, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 Faurecia Midlands, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 SAI Automotive Fradley, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 SAI Automotive Washington, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies UK, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 Hungary Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Hungary Kft Hungary 100 100 India Faurecia Automotive Seating India Private, Ltd India 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies India Private, Ltd India 74 100 Faurecia Interior Systems India Private, Ltd India 100 100 Israel Faurecia Security Technologies Israel 100 100 Italy Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Italy SRL Italy 100 100 Hug Engineering Italia S.r.l. Italy 100 100 Japan Faurecia Japan K.K. Japan 100 100 Faurecia Howa Interiors Co., Ltd Japan 50 100 Luxembourg Faurecia AST Luxembourg S.A. Luxembourg 100 100 Faurecia Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg 100 100 Malaysia Faurecia HICOM Emissions Control Technologies (M) Malaysia 65 100 Morocco Faurecia Équipements Automobiles Maroc Morocco 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Systems Technologies Morocco 100 100 * Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. / Registration document 2018 99 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%)* Faurecia Automotive Industries Morocco SARL Morocco 100 100 Mexico Faurecia Sistemas Automotrices de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Servicios Corporativos de Personal Especializado, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Exhaust Services Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 ET Mexico Holdings II, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Faurecia Howa Interior Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 51 100 Netherlands ET Dutch Holdings B.V. Netherlands 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 100 100 Hug Engineering B.V. Netherlands 100 100 Poland Faurecia Automotive Polska S.A. Poland 100 100 Faurecia Walbrzych S.A. Poland 100 100 Faurecia Grojec R&D Center S.A. Poland 100 100 Faurecia Legnica S.A. Poland 100 100 Faurecia Gorzow S.A. Poland 100 100 Portugal Faurecia – Assentos de Automovel, Lda Portugal 100 100 SASAL Portugal 100 100 Faurecia – Sistemas De Escape Portugal, Lda Portugal 100 100 EDA – Estofagem de Assentos, Lda Portugal 100 100 Faurecia Sistemas de Interior de Portugal, Componentes Para Automoveis S.A. Portugal 100 100 Czech Republic Faurecia Exhaust Systems, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Czech Republic, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems Bohemia, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Components Pisek, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Interiors Pardubice, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Mlada Boleslav, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Plzen Czech Republic 100 100 Romania Faurecia Romania S.R.L. Romania 100 100 Euro Auto Plastic Systems S.R.L. Romania 50 100 Russia OOO Faurecia Interior Luga Russia 100 100 OOO Faurecia Metalloprodukcia Exhaust Systems Russia 70 100 OOO Faurecia Automotive Development Russia 100 100 OOO Faurecia Automotive Exteriors Bumpers Russia 100 100 Slovakia Faurecia Automotive Slovakia SRO Slovakia 100 100 Sweden Faurecia Interior Systems Sweden AB Sweden 100 100 * Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. 100 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%)* Switzerland Hug Engineering AG Switzerland 100 100 Faurecia Switzerland Sarl Switzerland 100 100 Thailand Faurecia Interior Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd Thailand 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Thailand Co., Ltd Thailand 100 100 Faurecia & Summit Interior Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd Thailand 50 100 Tunisia Société Tunisienne d’Équipements d’Automobile Tunisia 100 100 Faurecia Informatique Tunisie Tunisia 100 100 Turkey Faurecia Poliﬂeks Otomotiv Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Turkey 100 100 Uruguay Faurecia Automotive Del Uruguay, S.A. Uruguay 100 100 II – COMPANIES ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE EQUITY METHOD Germany SAS Autosystemtechnik GmbH und Co., KG Germany 50 50 China Changchun Xuyang Faurecia Acoustics & Soft Trim Co., Ltd China 40 40 Zhejiang Faurecia Limin Interior & Exterior Systems Co., Ltd China 50 50 Xiangtan Faurecia Limin Interior & Exterior Systems Co., Ltd China 50 50 Lanzhou Limin Automotive Parts Co., Ltd China 50 50 Jinan Jidao Auto Parts Co., Ltd China 50 50 Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Automotive Components Technologies R&D Co., Ltd China 45 45 Dongfeng Faurecia Automotive Exteriors Co., Ltd China 50 50 Dongfeng Faurecia (Wuhan) Automotive Parts Sales Co., Ltd China 50 50 Qinhuangdao WKW-FAD Automotive Interior Parts Co., Ltd China 50 50 Dongfeng Faurecia (Xiangyang) Emissions Systems Co., Ltd China 50 50 Faurecia Liuzhou Automotive Seating Sales Co., Ltd China 50 50 Chongqing Guangneng Faurecia Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 50 50 Hongtai Faurecia Composite (Wuhan) Co., Ltd China 50 50 Spain Componentes de Vehiculos de Galicia, S.A. Spain 50 50 Copo Iberica, S.A. Spain 50 50 Industrias Cousin Frères, S.L. Spain 50 50 United States Detroit Manufacturing Systems, LLC United States 49 49 DMS leverage lender, LLC United States 49 49 DMS Toledo, LLC United States 49 49 France Automotive Performance Materials (APM) France 50 50 India NHK F. Krishna India Automotive Seating Private, Ltd India 19 19 Basis Mold India Private Limited India 38 38 * Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. / Registration document 2018 101 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%)* Italy Ligneos Srl Italy 50 50 Japan Faurecia – NHK Co., Ltd Japan 50 50 Portugal Vanpro Assentos, Lda Portugal 50 50 Turkey Teknik Malzeme Ticaret Ve Sanayi AS Turkey 50 50 * Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. 102 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.1.3. Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report includes information specifically required by European regulations or French law, such as information about the appointment of Statutory Auditors. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, Justification of assessments – Key audit matters Opinion In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying you of the key audit matters relating to the risks of material consolidated financial statements of Faurecia for the year misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were the most ended December 31, 2018. significant in our audit of the consolidated financial statements, In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true as well as how we addressed those risks. and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial These matters were addressed as part of our audit of the position of the Group at December 31, 2018 and of the results consolidated financial statements as a whole, and therefore of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with contributed to the opinion we formed as expressed above. International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the We do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the European Union. consolidated financial statements. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL (Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements) Basis for opinion Description of risk AUDIT FRAMEWORK The carrying amount of goodwill amounts to €1,492.1 million We conducted our audit in accordance with professional at December 31, 2018. Goodwill is allocated to the three standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit cash-generating units (CGUs) corresponding to the Group’s evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to operating segments: Seating, Clean Mobility, Interior Systems. provide a basis for our opinion. In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is not amortized but is Our responsibilities under these standards are further described tested for impairment at least once a year and more often if in the “Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors relating to the there is an indication that it may be impaired. audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated between groups of CGUs. A CGU is defined as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that INDEPENDENCE are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with or groups of assets, as described in Note 10 to the consolidated the independence rules applicable to us, for the period from financial statements. January 1, 2018 to the date of our report, and, in particular, Impairment tests are performed to compare the carrying we did not provide any non-audit services prohibited by amount of assets and liabilities by Group of CGUs with the Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 or the French Code higher of their value in use (equal to the present value of the of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. net future cash flows expected) and their fair value including costs of disposal. EMPHASIS OF MATTER The cash flow forecasts used were based on the assumptions Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to the used to prepare the Group’s 2019-2021 strategic plan, matter set out in Note 1.B “Modifications to the previously approved by the Board of Directors. The volume assumptions published consolidated financial statements” to the used in the strategic plan are corroborated by external sources. consolidated financial statements, which describes the terms and impact of the first-time application at January 1, 2018 of For a given group of CGUs, an impairment loss is recognized IFRS 15 on revenue recognition. whenever its recoverable amount falls below its carrying amount. / Registration document 2018 103 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements We considered the measurement of the recoverable amount comparing the carrying amount of the assets allocated to a of goodwill to be a key audit matter for the following reasons: customer contract and that of the associated specific tooling with the present value of the net future cash flows expected  the amount of goodwill recorded in the consolidated to be derived from the contract. The cash flow forecasts used financial statements is material; were also based on the assumptions used to prepare the  defining the inputs to be used to perform impairment tests Group’s 2019-2021 strategic plan. requires a high degree of judgment and estimation from We considered the accounting and recoverability of management, in particular as regards future cash flows, development costs to be a key audit matter for the following discount rates (WACC) and long-term growth rates, which reasons: are inherently dependent on the economic environment;  the amount of capitalized development costs in the  the model used to measure recoverable amount is sensitive consolidated financial statements is material; to these estimates.  defining the inputs to be used to perform impairment tests requires a high degree of judgment and estimation How our audit addressed this risk from management, in particular as regards future cash flows, discount rates and the expected gross margin per We made inquiries with management about any indications of program, which are inherently dependent on the economic impairment. We assessed the method used by management environment. to determine the recoverable amount of each group of CGUs in order to consider its compliance with IAS 36. With the support of our asset valuation experts, we assessed How our audit addressed this risk the consistency of the key assumptions used by management With regard to the capitalization of development costs: to determine projected future cash flows and, in particular:  we obtained an understanding of the procedures  compared the key assumptions used with independent implemented by management to determine the eligibility market data. The key assumptions, such as discount rates, of development costs for capitalization and analyzed their are used to determine the recoverable amount for the group compliance with IAS 38; of CGUs;  we performed certain specific testing on a sample of  reperformed the calculations and reconciled the main customer programs to evaluate whether the related strategic plan data with the data used in impairment testing; development costs were eligible for capitalization.  performed sensitivity analyses on the recoverable amounts With regard to the measurement of the recoverable amount calculated by management, in particular with regard to of capitalized development costs: discount rates and operating income.  we made inquiries with management about any indications We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures on of impairment. We obtained an understanding of the method goodwill provided in the notes to the consolidated financial used by management to determine the recoverable amount statements. of these assets in order to consider its compliance with IAS 36; ACCOUNTING AND RECOVERABILITY  with the support of our asset valuation experts, we assess the OF DEVELOPMENT COSTS consistency of the key assumptions used by management to determine projected future cash flows for a sample of (Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements) customer programs and, in particular:  compared the key assumptions used with independent market data such as discount rates, Description of risk  reperformed the calculations and reconciled the main Capitalized development costs stood at a net amount of strategic plan data per program with the data used in €1,783.4 million at December 31, 2018. impairment testing, In accordance with IAS 38, development costs incurred in  reconciled the data specific to each program, such as connection with producing and delivering modules for specific projected delivery quantities and negotiated unit price customer orders are recorded as an intangible asset pursuant per product, with the customer contract or observable to the conditions set out in Note 11 to the consolidated financial external data, where applicable taking into account any statements. ongoing negotiations. These capitalized costs are amortized to match the quantities We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures of parts delivered to the customer, over a period not exceeding provided in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial five years except under exceptional circumstances. statements. Research costs, and development costs that do not meet the above criteria, are expensed as incurred. RECOVERABILITY OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS These assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an (Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements) indication that they may be impaired. Impairment tests involve 104 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Description of risk We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax assets stood at €355.5 million in the balance sheet at December 31, 2018, while deferred tax liabilities stood at We attest that the information pertaining to the Group €27.3 million. presented in the management report includes the consolidated non-financial information statement required Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent under Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available However, in accordance with Article L. 823-10 of the French in the short or medium term against which the temporary Commercial Code, we have not verified the fair presentation differences or the loss carryforward can be utilized. and consistency with the consolidated financial statements The assessment of the ability to recover net deferred tax assets of the information given in that statement, which will be the as of December 31, 2018 (€328.2 million) is based on the Group’s subject of a report by an independent third party. 2019-2021 strategic plan for the long-term recovery of tax losses. The Group’s ability to recover deferred tax assets is assessed by Report on other legal and regulatory management at the end of the year. requirements We considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets to be a key audit matter due to the importance of the assumptions and APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS judgments used by management to recognize these assets and to the materiality of their amounts in the consolidated financial We were appointed Statutory Auditors of Faurecia by statements. the Annual General Meetings held on May 27, 2003 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and on June 17, 1983 for Ernst & Young Audit. How our audit addressed this risk At December 31, 2018, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and We assessed the consistency of the assumptions used by Ernst & Young Audit were in the sixteenth and thirty-sixth management to recognize and measure deferred tax assets consecutive year of their engagement, respectively. and their compliance with IAS 12. With the support of our tax experts, we assessed the probability that the Group will be able to utilize the tax loss carryforwards Responsibilities of management and currently recognized in its balance sheet, in particular with those charged with governance for the regard to: consolidated financial statements  deferred tax liabilities existing in the same tax jurisdiction that Management is responsible for preparing consolidated may be used to offset existing tax loss carryforwards, prior to financial statements giving a true and fair view in accordance their expiry date; with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted  the ability of the Group companies concerned to generate by the European Union and for implementing the internal future taxable profit against which the existing tax loss control procedures it deems necessary for the preparation carryforwards can be utilized. of consolidated financial statements that are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We also assessed the consistency of the main data and assumptions on which taxable income projections underlying In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the accounting and recoverability of deferred tax assets management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability relating to tax loss carryforwards are based. to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern, and using the going concern Lastly, we also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures basis of accounting, unless it expects to liquidate the Company on deferred tax assets provided in the notes to the consolidated or to cease operations. financial statements. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems, as well as, where applicable, any Specific verifications Internal Audit systems, relating to accounting and financial As required by legal and regulatory provisions and in reporting procedures. accordance with professional standards applicable in France, The consolidated financial statements were approved by the we have also verified the information pertaining to the Group Board of Directors. presented in the Board of Directors’ management report. / Registration document 2018 105 1 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and ﬁnancial statements Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors  assess the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit relating to the audit of the consolidated evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists financial statements related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. OBJECTIVE AND AUDIT APPROACH This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the audit report. However, future events or Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance as a going concern. If the Statutory Auditors conclude that about whether the consolidated financial statements as a material uncertainty exists, they are required to draw a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are that an audit conducted in accordance with professional not provided or are inadequate, to issue a qualified opinion standards will always detect a material misstatement when or a disclaimer of opinion; it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they  evaluate the overall presentation of the consolidated could reasonably be expected to influence the economic financial statements and assess whether these statements decisions taken by users on the basis of these consolidated represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner financial statements. that achieves fair presentation; As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial  obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding Code, our audit does not include assurance on the viability or the financial information of the entities or business activities quality of the Company’s management. within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The Statutory Auditors are responsible As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional for the management, supervision and performance of the standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditors exercise audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the professional judgment throughout the audit. opinion expressed thereon. They also: REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE  identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes, in or error, design and perform audit procedures in response particular, a description of the scope of the audit and the audit to those risks, and obtain audit evidence considered to program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for their also report any significant deficiencies in internal control that opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement we have identified regarding the accounting and financial resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, reporting procedures. as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were the most  obtain an understanding of the internal control procedures significant for the audit of the consolidated financial statements relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures and which constitute the key audit matters that we are required that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the to describe in this report. purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration internal control; provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014,  evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used confirming our independence within the meaning of the and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by rules applicable in France, as defined in particular in Articles management and the related disclosures in the notes to the L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code and consolidated financial statements; in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss any risks to our independence and the related safeguard measures with the Audit Committee. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, February 15, 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Ernst & Young Audit Dominique Ménard Jean-Roch Varon 106 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.2. Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.2.1. Faurecia management report The Faurecia company is a holding company which directly than twice the gross interest costs, and restrictions on the debt and indirectly provides financial, accounting, IT, executive similar to those of the syndicated credit loan. management and administrative services to companies in the Group. 2025 BONDS In 2018, Faurecia realized a turnover of €33.4 million, which is On March 8, 2018, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of down compared to 2017 due to an internal reorganization. €700 million due June 15, 2025, carrying annual interest of 2.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as from June 15, 2018. Results of operations These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the 2023 bonds The Company ended 2018 with an operating profit of and do not benefit from guarantees issued by subsidiaries. €7.6 million, compared with €13.4 million in 2017. The proceeds of these bonds has been used to redeem the Net financial income totaled €392.2 million compared to net €700 million bonds due June 15, 2022, carrying annual interest financial income of €64.4 million in 2017. This variance is mainly of 3.125%, issued in March and April 2015. due to an increase of dividends received from subsidiaries, from This has been done through a tender offer through which €63.9 million in 2017 up to €360.9 million, specially coming from 2022 bond holders could exchange their bonds against new Faurecia Automotive Holdings and Faurecia Investments, as 2025 bonds. The rate of exchange has reached over 77%. well as to a decrease of the net provisions on equity investments The bonds that were not tendered in this offer have been for €3.1 million in 2018 compared to €41 million on 2017. redeemed (“make-whole”) in accordance with the offering In 2018, the Company posted net non-recurring loss of memorandum. The settlement of these two operations has €15.9 million, versus a loss of €1.8 million in 2017. taken place on March 8, 2018. Tax income amounted to €31.7 million, compared with The bond premium for bonds tendered in the offer is amortized €18.3 million for fiscal year 2017. This corresponds to the tax over the duration of the new 2025 bonds; the bond premium income recognized from the positive earnings of French for bonds redeemed by anticipation has been expensed. Costs subsidiaries that are part of the consolidated tax group. related to the bond issue are expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. Net income for the fiscal year showed a profit of €415.7 million. This compares with a profit of €94.4 million in 2017. The bonds are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange (Global Exchange Market). The costs related to the bond issue are expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. Financial structure and net debt SYNDICATED CREDIT FACILITY The main components of Faurecia financing are described below: On December 15, 2014, Faurecia signed a syndicated credit facility, with a five-year maturity, for an amount of €1,200 million. 2023 BONDS This credit facility was renegotiated on June 24, 2016, in order to extend the maturity to five years from that date, or June 24, On April 1, 2016, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of 2021 and improve its terms and conditions. €700 million due June 15, 2023, carrying annual interest of 3.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as On June 15, 2018, Faurecia signed with participating banks a from June 15, 2016. second agreement to extend again the maturity to five years from that date, or June 15, 2023, with two optional one-year They are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange (Global Exchange extensions that can be exercised in June 2019 and June 2020, Market). The costs related to the bond issue are expensed in subject to agreement of participating banks, and that would P&L over the life time of the bonds. extend the maturity respectively to June 2024 and June 2025. These bonds include a covenant restricting the additional This agreement has improved again its terms and conditions indebtedness if the EBITDA(1) after certain adjustments is lower and strengthens the Group’s financial structure. (1) Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. / Registration document 2018 107 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements In accordance with the credit documentation, all guarantees €1.3 billion with one of its main banks. This loan has a maturity issued by some Group subsidiaries in favor of banks participating of one year, extendable by one year through two six-months in this credit facility were eliminated when the bonds due in extension options. This loan includes some restrictive clauses December 2016 were fully redeemed on April 12, 2016. similar to the ones of the syndicated loan of €1.2 billion. As of December 31, 2018, this credit facility was not drawn. As of December 31, 2018, this bridge loan was not drawn and its amount was reduced to €750 million as a consequence of This credit facility includes only one covenant, related to the refinancing described hereafter. consolidated financial ratios: Net debt(1)/EBITDA(2) must be lower than 2.50. Compliance with this ratio is a condition affecting In order to anticipate and secure the refinancing of this bridge the availability of this credit facility. As of December 31, 2018, loan, Faurecia has signed on December 17, 2018 a private the Group complied with this ratio. placement under german law (Schuldscheindarlehen) for a total amount of €700 million. This transaction is structured into This credit facility includes some restrictive clauses on asset several tranches in EUR and USD, at fixed and variable rates, disposals (disposal representing over 25% of the Group’s with maturities of 4, 5 and 6 years. €378 million have been total consolidated assets requires the prior approval of banks received on December 20, 2018 and the remaining amount representing two-thirds of the syndicate) and on the debt level has been received early January 2019. The USD tranches have of some subsidiaries. been partially converted in euro resources through long term cross-currency swaps. FINANCING OF CLARION CO. LTD ACQUISITION Finally, during 2018, Faurecia regularly issued commercial Following the binding agreements reached on October 26, papers with a maturity up to one year for investors located 2018 with Clarion and Hitachi, and the authorization received mainly in France. from anti trust authorities, Faurecia has launched on January 30, 2019 a tender offer on Clarion Co. Ltd, (cf Note 2.3). At December 31, 2018, the shareholders’ equity in the Company before distribution of the period’s earnings amounted to The tender covers whole Clarion shares (around 56.55 million €3,285.8 million compared to €3,021.1 million at the close of shares) for a price of ¥2.500 per share, ie a total of around 2017. It thus increased by €264.7 million. ¥141.3 billion, or around €1.1 billion. At December 31, 2018, Faurecia’s financial debt amounted to The total amount of the acquisition is hedged through €221.9 million, taking into account its gross debt, net of available contingent forwards, which will transform in forward hedging funds, marketable securities and advances net of intra-group at a given exchange rate when the offer is a success and the cash and loans, compared with net debt of €215.2 million at acquisition has to be paid for; in the opposite case, hedging December 31, 2017. is cancelled without Faurecia having to pay (or receive) any amount, whatever the exchange rate euro/yen. Trade accounts payable equaling €10.1 million included 23 invoices due that have been paid after December 31, In order to secure the financing of the acquisition, of the 2018; accounts receivable amounted to €20.4 million as of repayment of some Clarion debts as well as of integration costs, December 31, 2018, including €10 million for invoices past due, Faurecia has implemented a bridge loan for an amount of mainly from subsidiaries. (1) Consolidated net debt. (2) Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. 108 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements These break down as follows: Article D. 441 I. 1°: Invoices received, unpaid Article D. 441 I. 2°: Invoices issued, unpaid and in arrears as of the closing date and in arrears as of the closing date Total Total 0 day (1 day 0 day (1 day (indi1 to 31 to 61 to 91 days and (indi1 to 31 to 61 to 91 days and cative) 30 days 60 days 90 days or more more) cative) 30 days 60 days 90 days or more more) (A) LATE PAYMENT CATEGORIES Number of invoices concerned 2 23 0 59 Number of invoices concerned (including VAT) 40,494 0 13,320 220,469 27,342 261,131 0 4,541,000 5,579 0 5,409,677 9,956,256 % of total purchase amount for the ﬁscal year (including VAT) 0.06% 0.00% 0.02% 0.30% 0.04% 0.36% % of sales for the ﬁscal year (including VAT) 0.00% 3.00% 0.00% 0.00% 3.57% 6.57% (B) INVOICES EXCLUDED FROM (A) RELATING TO DISPUTED OR UNRECOGNIZED PAYABLES AND RECEIVABLES Number of excluded invoices 8 0 Total amount of excluded invoices 48,941 0 (C) REFERENCE TERMS OF PAYMENT USED (CONTRACTUAL OR STATUTORY DEADLINE – ARTICLE L. 441-6 OR ARTICLE L. 443-1 OF THE FRENCH CODE OF COMMERCE) Terms of payment used to calculate Contractual deadlines Contractual deadlines late payments The carrying amount of investments in subsidiaries and affiliates  on March 1, 2018, Faurecia Exhaust International (France) recognized in the balance sheet at December 31, 2018 came acquired 100% of Swiss company Hug Engineering AG (BG to €3,484.2 million (€3,177.1 million at end 2017). Clean Mobility), which in turn wholly-owns the following three subsidiaries:  Hug Engineering GmbH (Germany), Business review relating  Hug Engineering Italia S.r.l. (Italy), to the Company’s subsidiaries  Hug Engineering, Inc. (USA); The operations and results of the Company’s subsidiaries in 2018 are analyzed in detail in the review of the consolidated as well as a 90% stake in Hug Engineering B.V. (Netherlands) financial statements. On March 2, 2018, this stake was increased to 100%; The most significant events of 2018 were as follows:  on March 15, 2018, a new entity called Faurecia Automotive Industrie Spain, S.L. was registered. It is wholly-owned by  following the merger on November 30, 2017 between Faurecia Automotive Espana, S.A.; Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Systems Shanghai Co. Ltd and Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Ltd,  on June 1, 2018, part of the shares of Faurecia Holdings the latter was de-listed on December 25, 2017. Since Espana, S.L. – previously held by Faurecia USA Holdings, Inc. January 8, 2018 – the date of registration of the merger – the and Faurecia Interior Systems, Inc. – were transferred to shareholding structure of Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Systems Faurecia. Consequently, as of that date, the capital stock Shanghai Co. Ltd is as follows: of Faurecia Holdings Espana, S. L breaks down as follows:  Faurecia: 59.97%,  Faurecia: 60.59%,  Faurecia Investments: 6.03%,  Faurecia Interior Systems, Inc.: 24.75%,  Gu Mao: 34%;  Faurecia USA Holdings, Inc.: 14.66%; / Registration document 2018 109 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements  on July 2, 2018, Faurecia Interior Luga Holding (France – BG  Hug Engineering B.V. Netherlands, Interiors) – wholly-owned by Faurecia Automotive Holdings  Hug Engineering, Inc. (USA); – was dissolved and de-listed from the Nanterre trade and companies register, following the transfer of all of its assets was transferred, respectively, to: and liabilities to its sole shareholder. Consequently, since that  DE13 – Faurecia Automotive GmbH (Germany), date, OOO Faurecia Interior Luga (Russia – BG Interiors) – a wholly-owned subsidiary of Faurecia Interior Luga Holding – is  NL03 – ET Dutch Holdings B.V. Netherlands, wholly-owned by Faurecia Automotive Holdings;  US08 – Faurecia USA Holdings, Inc. (USA);  on July 2, 2018, Faurecia Exteriors International (France),  on December 31, 2018, Faurecia Automotive Seating B.V. wholly-owned by Faurecia, was dissolved and de-listed from – wholly-owned by ET Dutch Holdings B.V. – was dissolved and the Nanterre trade and companies register, following the de-listed from the trade and companies register. transfer of all of its assets and liabilities to its sole shareholder; As this management report is being presented in the form of this  on July 5, 2018, a new entity called Faurecia Security Registration Document, the various Chapters in this document Technologies Ltd was registered in Tel Aviv (Israel). On July 8, supplement the report. 2018, it was wholly-owned by Faurecia Investments; As such, the foreseeable changes in the Company and  on July 24, 2018, the members of the Board of Directors of material events that occurred between the close of the fiscal Iranian joint venture Faurecia Azin Pars Company approved year and the date of the management report are discussed the transfer of all of the shares held by Faurecia Investments in Sections 1.1.1.8 and 1.1.1.1 respectively. (18,240 shares), Faurecia Automotive Holdings (1 share) and Faurecia Sièges d’Automobile (1 share) – representing The risks that Faurecia faces and the main features of the 51% of the capital stock – to Faurecia’s partner Azin Khodro internal control and risk management procedures are set out Company. This joint venture is thus no longer part of the in Section 2 of this Registration Document. Faurecia scope of consolidation; Information on research and development appears in the  on September 28, 2018, Faurecia Investments acquired introductory chapter, and the way in which Faurecia takes into the partner’s entire stake in Parrot Automotive France, thus consideration the social and environmental consequences of becoming its sole shareholder. Parrot Automotive France its business, and its societal commitments in favor of sustainable wholly owns a Hong Kong based subsidiary called Parrot development, are detailed in Section 4. Automotive Asia Pacific Limited, which in turn wholly owns the The current capital structure, crossing of thresholds, employee subsidiary Parrot Automotive Application Products (Shenzen) share ownership through the Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate Company Limited; mutual fund, and other information on the capital stock  on October 15, 2018, Faurecia Investments’ entire stake in (including the table of financial authorizations and their use Faurecia-GSK (Wuhan) Automotive Seating Co. Ltd (China) during the 2018 fiscal year, the change in capital stock, potential and Faurecia (Shanghai) Automotive Systems (China) was capital stock, treasury stock and information on purchases and transferred to Faurecia (China) Holding; sales of treasury shares) are covered in Section 3.2.1.  on November 14, 2018, Faurecia Investments’ entire stake Information on the compensation of the corporate officers in Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Development and on other aspects of the operation of the Company’s (Shanghai) Co. Ltd (China) was transferred to Faurecia administrative, management and supervisory bodies (including (China) Holding; the list of corporate offices and duties of the corporate officers) appears in Section 3.1.  on November 19, 2018, Faurecia Investments’ entire stake in Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Automotive Seat Co. Ltd Provisions recognized by Faurecia and its subsidiaries for (China) was transferred to Faurecia (China) Holding; pensions and other employee benefits are analyzed in Note 25.2 to the consolidated financial statements.  on October 29, 2018, Faurecia Automotive Seating, LLC set up a limited liability company in Delaware under the name Factors likely to affect a public takeover bid are discussed in Total Network Manufacturing, LLC (BG Seating); the same Section and in Section 6.2.  On December 21, 2018, The Hollingsworth Group LLC – a Information on the fees of the Statutory Auditors is provided limited liability company held by American third parties in Section 6.4. – acquired 51% of the shares of Total Network Manufacturing, Information on options and performance shares is provided LLC via a subscription contract. At the same time, additional in Note 22.2 to the consolidated financial statements and in capital was provided by Faurecia Automotive Seating, LLC Section 3.2.1 of this Registration Document. Other detailed and Faurecia USA Holdings, Inc. As a result, the shareholding information is provided in a special report. structure of the joint venture Total Network Manufacturing, LLC is as follows: Information on the vigilance plan, within the meaning of the French law of March 27, 2017, is provided in Sections 2.2.1 and  the Hollingsworth Group LLC: 51%, 4.3.3.  Faurecia Automotive Seating, LLC: 44%, The draft resolutions are set out in Sections 5.2 and 5.3. They  Faurecia USA Holdings, Inc.: 5%; include a reminder of the dividends paid over the previous three fiscal years and form an integral part of this report and  on December 31, 2018, the entire stake held by Hug supplement the information provided therein. Engineering AG (Switzerland) in:  Hug Engineering GmbH (Germany), 110 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.2.2. Financial statements 1.2.2.1. Income statement (in € thousands) Notes 2018 2017 Services sold 33,439 290,858 Sales 33,439 290,858 Outside services (68,040) (297,463) Taxes other than on income (2,722) (5,049) Salaries and wages (19,920) (16,978) Payroll taxes (5,109) (6,933) Amortization, depreciation and provisions (net of reversals) and expense transfers 3 16,300 (6,716) Other income/(expenses) 4 53,666 55,657 Total operating income and expenses (25,826) (277,482) NET OPERATING INCOME 7,614 13,376 Financial income 5 516,057 193,188 Financing costs 5 (123,816) (128,767) NET FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) 5 392,241 64,421 OPERATING INCOME AFTER NET FINANCIAL INCOME 399,855 77,797 Non-recurring income 6 36,435 19,944 Extraordinary expenses 6 (52,302) (21,708) NET NON-RECURRING INCOME 6 (15,867) (1,764) Employee proﬁt-sharing (0) 0 Corporate income tax 7 31,692 18,331 NET INCOME 415,679 94,364 / Registration document 2018 111 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.2.2.2. Balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 Assets 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Gross Depreciation Net Net (in € thousands) Notes amounts and provisions amounts amounts Intangible assets 8 9,493 9,396 97 105 Property, plant and equipment 9 10,865 10,709 156 302 Investments 10 3,737,474 87,520 3,649,954 3,620,508 TOTAL FIXED ASSETS 3,757,832 107,625 3,650,207 3,620,915 Operating receivables 30,432 0 30,432 25,143 Other receivables 11 2,503,995 20,000 2,483,995 2,049,863 Marketable securities 0 0 and related receivables 12 629,583 4,922 624,661 648,148 Cash and cash equivalents 635,644 635,644 263,232 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 3,799,654 24,922 3,774,732 2,986,386 Prepaid expenses 13 126 126 1,177 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 12,647 12,647 8,499 Bond redemption premiums 0 0 0 Deferred charges 14 35,391 35,391 18,613 TOTAL ASSETS 7,605,650 132,547 7,473,103 6,635,590 Liabilities (in € thousands) Notes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Capital stock 966,251 966,251 Additional paid-in capital 627,441 627,441 Statutory reserve 96,625 96,625 Untaxed reserves 8,939 8,939 Other reserves 0 0 Retained earnings 1,170,906 1,227,486 Net income for the ﬁscal year 415,679 94,364 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 15 3,285,841 3,021,106 Provisions for contingencies and charges 16 18,181 13,878 TOTAL DEBT 17 2,262,377 1,610,115 Operating payables 18 67,406 33,142 Sundry payables 18 1,832,854 1,937,926 TOTAL OPERATING PAYABLES AND OTHER PAYABLES 1,900,260 1,971,068 Prepaid income 200 200 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 6,243 19,223 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,473,103 6,635,590 112 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.2.2.3. Notes to the parent company 2018 ﬁnancial statements Contents NOTE 1 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting NOTE 13 Prepaid expenses 120 policies 114 NOTE 14 Deferred charges 120 NOTE 2 Highlights and post-balance sheet NOTE 15 Shareholders’ equity 121 events 115 NOTE 16 Provisions for contingencies and NOTE 3 Depreciation, amortization and charges 122 provisions (net of reversals) and expense transfers 115 NOTE 17 Borrowings 123 NOTE 4 Other income/(expenses) 115 NOTE 18 Operating payables and other liabilities 124 NOTE 5 Net ﬁnancial income (expense) 116 NOTE 19 Deferred taxes 125 NOTE 6 Net non-recurring income 117 NOTE 20 Financial commitments 125 NOTE 7 Corporate income tax 117 NOTE 21 Financial instruments used to hedge market risks 125 NOTE 8 Intangible assets 118 NOTE 22 Average headcount 126 NOTE 9 Property, plant and equipment 118 NOTE 23 Compensation 126 NOTE 10 Investments 119 NOTE 24 Identity of the parent company NOTE 11 Receivables 119 consolidating the company’s ﬁnancial NOTE 12 Marketable Securities And Related statements 126 Receivables 120 / Registration document 2018 113 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 1 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies The annual financial statements were established in 1.4 FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS accordance with the general principles for preparing and Unhedged payables and receivables in foreign currency are presenting annual financial statements (ANC Regulation translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction No. 14-03 of June 5, 2014), relating to the PCG [Plan Comptable date. At the balance sheet date, they are remeasured at the Général (General Accounting Plan)], amended by the year-end exchange rate. Gains or losses resulting therefrom regulations of the Comité de la Réglementation Comptable are recognized under “Unrealized foreign exchange losses” [Accounting Regulations Committee] and the Autorité des for unrealized losses and under “Unrealized foreign exchange Normes Comptables [Accounting Standards Authority]. The gains” for unrealized gains. main policies applied are as follows: Hedged payables and receivables are translated at the 1.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT hedging rate. Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition or production cost. Property, plant and equipment are 1.5 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated Cash and cash equivalents are measured at their nominal useful lives of the assets, as follows: value.  buildings: twenty to thirty years; 1.6 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND  building improvements, fixtures and fittings: seven to ten years; OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The vested rights of employees under supplementary pension  other fixtures and fittings: ten years; and retirement bonus plans are determined on an actuarial  office equipment and computers: three to five years; basis using the projected unit credit method. The valuation takes into account the probability of employees staying with  software: one to three years; the Company up to retirement age and expected future  furniture: ten years. compensation levels. In cases where the funds are permanently allocated to the benefit plan concerned, their value is 1.2 INVESTMENTS deducted from the related liability. Gross value is equal to contribution value or cost. A provision is made if the value in use of a security is lower than its entry 1.7 NON-RECURRING ITEMS value. Value in use is based on the subsidiary’s revalued net Unusual or non-recurring items are included under “Nonassets, profitability and future outlook. recurring income” and “Non-recurring expense”. For investments intended to be sold, value-in-use estimates also take into account prices at which prior transactions were 1.8 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS carried out, if any. Interest-rate risks are hedged, where appropriate, using financial instruments traded on organized or over-the-counter 1.3 MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND RELATED markets. RECEIVABLES Hedging gains and losses are recognized on a symmetrical Marketable securities are stated at the lower of cost or market basis with the loss or gain on the hedged item. value. 114 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 2 Highlights and post-balance sheet events Faurecia, through its subsidiary Hennape Six SAS, has reached on March 28, 2019 the remaining Clarion shares (excluding on October 26, 2018 binding agreements with Clarion and treasury shares). Hitachi, the controlling shareholder owning 63.8% of Clarion, This acquisition has been financed through the issuance for a tender offer to acquire 100% of the shares of Clarion, listed by Faurecia S.E. in December 2018 of a € 700 million on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, for a price of 2 500 yens per Schuldscheindarlehen and the conclusion of a € 500 million clarion share. The tender offer has been authorized by antitrust bridge loan. authorities. Clarion shareholders have tendered 95.2% of their shares to the offer launched on January 30, 2019. The tender Faurecia S.E. has successfully issued on March 27, 2019 € 500 offer, closed on February 28, 2019, has been followed by a million of senior notes due 2026 at 3.125% to refinance the squeeze out at the end of which Hennape Six SAS has acquired bridge loan. Note 3 Depreciation, amortization and provisions (net of reversals) and expense transfers (in € thousands) 2018 2017 Provision reversals 4,101 3,392 Expense transfers (1) 24,580 55 Depreciation and amortization (8,113) (5,834) Provisions for impairment of current assets Provisions for contingencies and charges (4,268) (4,329) TOTAL 16,300 (6,716) (1) Of which: transfer of fees included in “Outside services” relating to new financings: 24,580 9,928 Note 4 Other income/(expenses) (in € thousands) 2018 2017 Operating income Trademark royalties 74,997 91,949 Other income 109 4 SUBTOTAL 75,106 91,953 Operating expenses Trademark royalties 20,832 35,542 Other non-operating expenses 608 755 SUBTOTAL 21,440 36,296 TOTAL 53,666 55,657 / Registration document 2018 115 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 5 Net ﬁnancial income (expense) Net non-recurring income (expense) breaks down as follows: (in € thousands) 2018 2017 Financial income Income from investments in subsidiaries and afﬁliates (1) 360,930 63,867 Other interest and related income 132,454 109,545 Net proceeds from sales of marketable securities 174 138 Provision reversals (2) 22,499 19,638 TOTAL 516,057 193,188 Financing costs Interest expense 103,159 79,290 (3) Charges to provisions for impairment of investments 3,100 40,978 Charges to other provisions and other ﬁnancial expenses 17,557 8,499 TOTAL 123,816 128,767 NET FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) 392,241 64,421 (1) This item corresponds to dividends received from subsidiaries and affiliates: c Faurecia Services Groupe 4,350 3,816 c Faurecia Automotive Espana 5,332 29,749 c Faurecia Tongda Exhaust System 9,958 9,955 c Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Systems Shanghai 19,585 20,347 c Faurecia Investissements 171,922 0 c Faurecia Automotive Holdings 140,535 0 c Faurecia Exhaust International 9,248 0 (2) Of which: c reversal of provisions for Faurecia Automotive Belgium shares (TUP, 2/07/18) 14,000 0 c reversal of provisions for Faurecia Automotive Belgium shares 15,800 c reversal of provisions for financial contingencies and charges 8,499 3,838 (3) Of which: c Faurecia Automotive GmbH shares 3,100 26,978 c Faurecia Exteriors International shares 0 14,000 116 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 6 Net non-recurring income Net non-recurring income (expense) breaks down as follows: (in € thousands) 2018 2017 Non-recurring income Proceeds from management activities 1 2 (1) Proceeds from disposals of ﬁxed assets 0 152 Proceeds from disposals of bonus shares 35,603 19,790 TOTAL 36,435 19,944 Non-recurring expenses On management transactions 0 3 (2) Carrying amount of ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets sold 65 51 Cost of bonus shares sold 51,418 20,823 Depreciation, amortization and charges to provisions 819 831 TOTAL 52,302 21,708 NET NON-RECURRING INCOME/(EXPENSE) (15,867) (1,764) (1) Of which proceeds from the sale of investments in subsidiaries and affiliates: 14 0 (2) Of which carrying amounts of investments in subsidiaries and affiliates sold or transferred: 65 51 (3) Of which other depreciation and amortization 819 831 Magellan building furnitures et fixtures depreciation 819 831 Note 7 Corporate income tax Faurecia has elected to file a consolidated tax return. The resulting tax group includes the parent company and its main French subsidiaries. This system allows Faurecia to obtain group relief by offsetting any tax losses recorded by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries against the taxable income of other subsidiaries in the tax group: (in € thousands) 2018 2017 Tax beneﬁt arising from group relief 41,531 18,331 Other tax (expense) income (tax credit)* (9,839) 0 TOTAL 31,692 18,331 * Group income tax charge. / Registration document 2018 117 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 8 Intangible assets This can be broken down as follows: Concessions, patents and similar Other intangible Intangible assets in (in € thousands) rights assets progress Total AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 80 0 0 80 Additions (including own work capital) 25 25 Disposals 0 Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions 0 Depreciation written off on disposals 0 Other movements AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 80 25 0 105 Additions (including own work capital) Disposals Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions Depreciation written off on disposals (8) (8) Other movements AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 80 17 0 97 Note 9 Property, plant and equipment 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in € thousands) Brut Net Net Land 53 53 53 Buildings 272 0 0 Other property, plant and equipment 10,540 103 249 TOTAL 10,865 156 302 This can be broken down as follows: Other property, plant and (in € thousands) Land Buildings equipment Total AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 53 0 1,188 1,241 Additions (including own work capital) 80 80 Disposals 0 Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (1,019) (1,019) Depreciation written off on disposals 0 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 53 0 249 302 Additions (including own work capital) 0 Disposals (1,174) (1,174) Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (146) (146) Depreciation written off on disposals 1,174 1,174 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 53 0 103 156 118 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 10 Investments 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 (in € thousands) Brut Provisions Net Net Equity investments 3,571,765 87,520 3,484,245 3,177,136 Loans to subsidiaries and afﬁliates 165,456 0 165,456 443,120 Other non-current securities 253 0 253 252 TOTAL 3,737,474 87,520 3,649,954 3,620,508 Movements in investments in subsidiaries and affiliates break down as follows: (in € thousands) Gross value Provisions Carrying amount AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 3,255,606 73,242 3,182,364 Capital stock increases 19,950 19,950 Charges to and reversals of provisions 25,178 (25,178) Sale of shares 0 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 3,275,556 98,420 3,177,136 Acquisitions 0 Capital increase 546,209 546,209 Charges to and reversals of provisions (10,900) 10,900 Company liquidation (250,000) (250,000) Sale of shares 0 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 3,571,765 87,520 3,484,245 The increase in the gross value of equity investments mainly concerns Faurecia Holdings Espana; the reversal of provisions relates to Faurecia Exteriors liquidation. Note 11 Receivables (in € thousands) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Cash advances 2,446,666 1,978,087 Tax due by subsidiaries in the tax group 5,516 5,263 Prepaid and recoverable corporate income tax 29,574 59,288 Recoverable VAT 896 2,741 Sundry receivables 1,343 4,484 TOTAL 2,483,995 2,049,863 All receivables are due in less than one year. Prepaid and recoverable corporate income tax corresponds to a research tax credit of €11, 2 million and the down-payments made in 2018 amounting to €18, 3 million. / Registration document 2018 119 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 12 Marketable Securities And Related Receivables As of December 31, 2018, this item included: (in € thousands) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Treasury stock 39,798 34,213 Treasury stock depreciation (4,922) 0 OPCVM Rotschild 11,204 0 Securities 499,978 Deposits 78,603 613,935 TOTAL MARKETABLE SECURITIES 624,661 648,148 Treasury stock transactions during the year break down as follows: Shares (in € thousands) Number of shares Amount Amount as at December 31, 2017 814,320 34,213 Use of treasury stock following the conversion of bonds into shares * (738,660) (31,037) Shares buyback 650,000 36,622 Amount as at December 31, 2018 725,660 39,798 * The shares distributed in 2018 have been granted to French or foreign employees of the Group within the framework of the incentive Plan No. 6 (see Note 15.3). Liquidity agreement (in € thousands) Number of shares Amount Amount as at December 31, 2017 0 0 Shares buyback 191,500 11,204 Amount as at December 31, 2018 191,500 11,204 Note 13 Prepaid expenses Prepaid expenses mainly comprise: (in € thousands) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Commissions and bank charges 0 88 Interest on commercial paper Rent 0 804 Other 126 285 TOTAL 126 1,177 Note 14 Deferred charges Deferred charges as of December 31, 2018 refer to financing which €25.9 million was charged to expenses to be spread fees. over a 7 year period. The refinancing of the €700 million bond issue (maturity 15.6.2022 For the latter, it is freed of its commitments by a capital stock – 3.125% rate) by the same nominal amount issued on 8.3.2018 deduction that covers the annuity for the insurance company, (maturity 15.6.2025 – 2.625% rate) generated issue costs, of which is responsible for the service; the deduction is made from a fund established to cover pension benefits which are not 120 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements yet fully acquired. Consequently, the Company has no further The change in the provision in 2015 was mainly due to the pension commitments towards former employees. commitment relating to the specific supplementary pension scheme for Executive Committee members, comprising a The actuarial valuation was carried out by independent defined benefit plan for members who are French nationals actuaries. The calculations were based on a discount rate of and a defined contribution scheme for those who are foreign 1.95% and an inflation rate of 1.8%. nationals, which was approved during the year. It guarantees an annuity based on the amount of the reference salary. Note 15 Shareholders’ equity 15.1 Change in shareholders’ equity Appropriation Capital Net income Amount as at decision at the stock for the ﬁscal Amount as at (in € thousands) 31/12/2017 OGM of 05/29/2018 increase year 31/12/2018 Capital stock 966,251 966,251 Additional paid-in capital 627,441 627,441 Statutory reserve 96,625 96,625 Untaxed reserves 8,939 8,939 Other reserves 0 0 Retained earnings 1,227,486 (56,580) 1,170,906 Net income for the ﬁscal year 94,364 (94,364) 415,680 415,680 TOTAL 3,021,106 (150,944) 0 415,680 3,285,841 15.2 Capital stock and premiums are subject to a condition of presence and performance conditions. from equity issues, mergers The performance conditions of the plan granted by the Board and acquisitions of Directors on July 8, 2014 were met, the corresponding shares, As at December 31, 2018, the share capital was €966,250,607, i.e. 738,660, were granted in July 2018 by distributing treasury divided into 138,035,801 fully paid-up shares of €7 each. shares held, in accordance with the decisions of the Board of Directors. The cost of these shares was re-invoiced by the As of December 31, 2018, 64,664,843 registered shares held company to the subsidiaries employing the beneficiaries, double voting rights. except in countries where this re-invoicing was not possible. There are no share subscription options as of December 31, 2018. The performance conditions of the plan granted by the Board of Directors on July 23, 2015 have been met, the corresponding shares, 15.3 Free share allocation plans i.e. 610,752, will be granted in July 2019 by distribution of treasury shares. Free share allocation plans are in place for executives holding To date, there is no decision by the Board of Directors on the management positions in Group companies. These grants terms and conditions for the distribution of shares corresponding to the other plans (treasury shares or capital increase). Details of the other allocation plans as at December 31, 2018 are as follows: Maximum number of free shares that can be granted* for: Date of Annual Shareholders’ Date of Board reaching the exceeding the Meeting meeting objective objective Performance condition 2018 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth 27/05/2016 25/07/2016 632,231 822,485 compared to a reference group of companies 2019 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth 27/05/2016 20/07/2017 569,422 740,210 compared to a reference group of companies 2020 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth 29/05/2018 19/07/2018 420,956 547,250 compared to a reference group of companies * Net of free shares granted cancelled. / Registration document 2018 121 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 16 Provisions for contingencies and charges (in € thousands) As of 31/12/2018 As of 31/12/2017 Provision for contingencies Foreign exchange losses 12,635 8,499 Other 0 0 SUB-TOTAL 12,635 8,499 Provisions for charges Provision for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts* 5,545 5,378 Other provisions for charges 1 1 SUB-TOTAL 5,546 5,379 TOTAL 18,181 13,878 * Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits cover the following costs payable by the Company on retirement of employees: c post-retirement benefit obligations; c supplementary pensions paid to some employees. (in € thousands) 2018 2017 Projected beneﬁt obligation 22,143 17,951 Hedging of obligations (11,225) (6,845) Deferred items (5,373) (5,728) PROVISIONS 5,545 5,378 (in € thousands) 2018 2017 Service cost (4,040) (4,126) Interest cost (331) (261) Expected return on plan assets 103 58 TOTAL (4,268) (4,329) Changes in provisions for liabilities and charges in 2018 were as follows: Reversals Payments to Amount as at (surplus retirement Amount as at (in € thousands) 31/12/2017 Additions provisions) funds 31/12/2018 Provisions for currency risks 8,499 12,635 (8,499) 12,635 Provisions for pensions and other employee obligations 5,378 4,268 (4,101) 5,545 Other provisions for charges 1 1 TOTAL 13,878 16,903 (8,499) (4,101) 18,181 122 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 17 Borrowings (in € thousands) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Convertible bonds 0 0 Other bonds 1,400,000 1,400,000 Bank 964,919 206,093 Other borrowings 2,359 4,022 TOTAL 2,367,278 1,610,115 11.5% of the Company’s debt is at variable rates. This debt is hedged using interest-rate caps as described in Note 21.1. The breakdown of the Company’s debt by maturity is as follows: (in € thousands) As of 31/12/2018 Maturing in 2019 431,293 Maturing in 2020 1,448 Maturing in 2021 1,429 Maturing in 2022 835,007 Maturing in 2023 1,048,102 Maturing in 2024 50,000 TOTAL 2,367,278 The main components of Faurecia financing are described The proceeds of these bonds has been used to redeem the below: €700 million bonds due June 15, 2022, carrying annual interest of 3.125%, issued in March and April 2015. This has been done through a tender offer through which 2023 bonds 2022 bond holders could exchange their bonds against new On April 1, 2016, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of 2025 bonds. The rate of exchange has reached over 77%. €700 million due June 15, 2023, carrying annual interest of The bonds that were not tendered in this offer have been 3.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as redeemed (“make-whole”) in accordance with the offering from June 15, 2016. memorandum. The settlement of these two operations has taken place on March 8, 2018. They are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange (Global Exchange Market). The costs related to the bond issue are expensed in The bond premium for bonds tendered in the offer is amortized P&L over the life time of the bonds. over the duration of the new 2025 bonds; the bond premium for bonds redeemed by anticipation has been expensed. costs These bonds include a covenant restricting the additional related to the bond issue are expensed in P&L over the life time indebtedness if the EBITDA(1) after certain adjustments is lower of the bonds. than twice times the gross interest costs, and restrictions on the debt similar to those of the syndicated credit loan. The bonds are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange (Global Exchange Market). The costs related to the bond issue are expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. 2025 bonds On March 8, 2018, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of Syndicated credit facility €700 million due June 15, 2025, carrying annual interest of 2.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as On December 15, 2014, Faurecia signed a syndicated credit from June 15, 2018. facility, with a five-year maturity, for an amount of €1,200 million. This credit facility was renegotiated on June 24, 2016, in order These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the 2023 bonds to extend the maturity to five years from that date, or June 24, and do not benefit from guarantees issued by subsidiaries. 2021 and improve its terms and conditions. (1) Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. / Registration document 2018 123 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements On June 15, 2018, Faurecia signed with participating banks a The tender covers whole Clarion shares (around 56.55 million second agreement to extend again the maturity to five years shares) for a price of ¥2.500 per share, ie a total of around from that date, or June 15, 2023, with two optional one-year ¥141.3 billion, or around €1.1 billion. extensions that can be exercised in June 2019 and June 2020, The total amount of the acquisition is hedged through subject to agreement of participating banks, and that would contingent forwards, which will transform in forward hedging extend the maturity respectively to June 2024 and June 2025. at a given exchange rate when the offer is a success and the This agreement has improved again its terms and conditions acquisition has to be paid for; in the opposite case, hedging and strengthens the Group’s financial structure. is cancelled without Faurecia having to pay (or receive) any In accordance with the credit documentation, all guarantees amount, whatever the exchange rate euro/yen. issued by some Group subsidiaries in favor of banks participating In order to secure the financing of the acquisition, of the in this credit facility were eliminated when the bonds due in repayment of some Clarion debts as well as of integration costs, December 2016 were fully redeemed on April 12, 2016. Faurecia has implemented a bridge loan for an amount of As of December 31, 2018, this credit facility was not drawn. €1.3 billion with one of its main banks. This loan has a maturity of one year, extendable by one year through two six-months This credit facility includes only one covenant, related to extension options. This loan includes some restrictive clauses consolidated financial ratios: Net debt(1)/EBITDA(2) must be lower similar to the ones of the syndicated laon of €1,200 million. than 2.50. Compliance with this ratio is a condition affecting the availability of this credit facility. As of December 31, 2018, As of December 31, 2018, this bridge loan had not been drawn the Group complied with this ratio. down and its amount was reduced to €750 million as a result of the refinancing described below. This credit facility includes some restrictive clauses on asset disposals (disposal representing over 25% of the Group’s In order to anticipate and secure the refinancing of this bridge total consolidated assets requires the prior approval of banks loan, Faurecia has signed on December 17, 2018 a private representing two-thirds of the syndicate) and on the debt level placement under german law (Schuldscheindarlehen) for a of some subsidiaries. total amount of €700 million. This transaction is structured into several tranches in EUR and USD, at fixed and variable rates, Finally, during 2018, Faurecia regularly issued commercial with maturities of 4, 5 and 6 years. €378 million have been papers with a maturity up to one year for investors located received on December 20, 2018 and the remaining amount mainly in France. has been received early January 2019. The USD tranches have been partially converted in euro resources through long term cross-currency swaps. Financing of Clarion Co. Ltd acquisition Finally, during 2018, Faurecia regularly issued commercial Financing of Clarion Co. Ltd acquisition following the binding papers with a maturity date of up to one year to investors agreements reached on October 26, 2018 with Clarion and mainly in France. Hitach, and the authorization received from anti trust authorities, Faurecia has launched on January 30, 2019 a tender offer on Clarion Co. Ltd, (cf Note 2.3). Note 18 Operating payables and other liabilities (in € thousands) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Trade payables 10,094 18,446 Other operating payables 57,312 14,696 SUBTOTAL OPERATING PAYABLES 67,406 33,142 Cash advances from subsidiaries 1,832,000 1,937,569 Other liabilities 854 357 SUBTOTAL OTHER PAYABLES 1,832,854 1,937,926 TOTAL 1,900,260 1,971,068 All operating payables and other liabilities are payable in less than one year. (1) Consolidated net debt. (2) Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. 124 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Note 19 Deferred taxes Deferred taxes relate to:  tax savings arising from the use of tax losses of subsidiaries in the tax group which will have to be restored to them if and  temporary differences between the recognition of income when they return to profit. and tax purposes; Deferred taxes are computed based on the tax rate for the  tax loss carry forwards of the tax group; year in which they are expected to reverse. Deferred taxes can be analyzed as follows: (in € thousands) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Deferred taxes relating to the tax savings ARISING FROM USING LOSSES IN TAX GROUP SUBSIDIARIES (675,536) (662,962) Subtotal, deferred tax liabilities (675,536) (662,962) Tax paid on taxable income that is not yet recognized (2,205) 3,692 Charges recognized that are deductible for tax purposes in future years 6,910 5,655 Future tax savings on tax loss carry forwards of the tax group 437,792 457,974 SUBTOTAL, DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 442,497 467,322 NET DEFERRED TAX (LIABILITIES)/ASSETS (233,039) (195,640) Note 20 Financial commitments Endorsements, sureties and guarantees include commitments to subsidiaries and direct and indirect equity investments for an amount of €76.4 million (€56.4 million as of December 31, 2017 and €56.6 million as of December 31, 2016). Note 21 Financial instruments used to hedge market risks 21.1 Interest-rate hedges The hedges arranged comprise mainly euro-denominated interest rate swaps, designed to hedge interest payable on variable rate borrowings. The notional amounts of the Group’s interest rate hedges break down as follows: Notional amounts by maturity As of 31/12/2018 (in € millions) < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Interest rate options Variable rate/ﬁxed rate swaps 104 25 / Registration document 2018 125 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 21.2 Currency hedges Currency risk on inter-company loans and borrowings to/from the subsidiaries’ functional currency but referenced in euros is subsidiaries outside the eurozone that are denominated in hedged through swaps. As of December 31, 2018, the cross-currency swaps in place relate to the following currencies: Net Position As of 31/12/2018 Equivalent (in millions) Buyer Seller EUR DKK 0.0 166.7 22.3 GBP 110.0 0.0 123.0 JPY 0.0 848.0 6.7 USD 77.6 0.0 67.8 THB 648.3 0.0 17.5 Note 22 Average headcount 2018 2017 Management 8 8 Staff 0 0 TOTAL 8 8 Note 23 Compensation In 2018, total attendance fees paid to directors amounted to €596,000 compared with €512,400 in 2017. Note 24 Identity of the parent company consolidating the company’s ﬁnancial statements Peugeot S.A. – 7, rue Henri Sainte-Claire Deville 92500 Rueil-Malmaison (France) Company Identification (SIRET) No. 552 100 554 00021 126 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.2.2.4. Five-year ﬁnancial summary (in €) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 1 – CAPITAL STOCK AT END OF PERIOD a) Capital stock 966,250,607 966,250,607 966,250,607 960,349,446 867,476,470 b) Number of ordinary shares outstanding 138,035,801 138,035,801 138,035,801 137,192,778 123,925,210 c) Maximum number of future shares to be created: by exercising stock options 0 0 244,200 636,500 931,025 2 – OPERATIONS AND RESULTS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR a) Sales excluding tax 33,439,165 290,857,463 302,199,773 253,055,437 213,600,660 b) Income before tax, employee proﬁt-sharing, depreciation, amortization and provisions 440,662,106 113,474,100 109,966,776 185,983,522 57,503,003 (1) c) Corporate income tax (31,692,192) (18,331,259) (25,573,498) (19,348,402) (39,644,632) d) Employee proﬁt-sharing 0 0 0 0 0 e) Income after tax, employee proﬁt-sharing depreciation, amortization and provisions 415,679,804 94,364,262 99,944,506 226,027,199 92,537,243 (2) (3) f) Total dividend 172,544,751 151,839,381 124,232,221 89,175,306 43,373,824 3 – EARNINGS PER SHARE a) Income after tax and employee proﬁt-sharing, but before depreciation, amortization and provisions 3.40 0.95 0.98 1.50 0.78 b) Income after tax, employee proﬁt-sharing, depreciation, amortization and provisions 3.01 0.68 0.72 1.65 0.75 c) Net dividend per share 1.25 1.10 0.90 0.65 0.35 4 – PERSONNEL a) Average number of employees during the ﬁscal year 8 8 8 16 43 b) Total payroll for the ﬁscal year 19,920,220 16,977,910 8,677,854 9,237,393 12,193,239 c) Total employee beneﬁts paid for the ﬁscal year (social security, other social beneﬁts, etc.) 5,109,349 6,933,157 9,975,137 4,918,450 7,210,631 (1) Amounts in parentheses represent tax savings recognized under the tax consolidation agreement. (2) The 2018 dividend is pending approval by the Ordinary General Meeting of the proposed appropriation of 2018 net income. (3) The part of the 2018 dividend corresponding to shares that the Company holds on its own behalf at the payment date will be allocated to “Retained earnings”. / Registration document 2018 127 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.2.3. Subsidiaries and affiliates Reserves and retained earnings before Share of Gross appropriation capital stock carrying of net owned amount of (in € thousands) Capital stock income (as a %) investment I. Detailed information A. Subsidiaries (at least 50% of capital stock owned by the Company) Faurecia investments 103,567 133,134 100 480,395 Faurecia Automotive Belgium 10,000 18,244 100 60,196 Faurecia USA Holdings Inc. 15 645,037 85 600,699 ET Dutch Holdings B.V. 18 259,101 100 610,550 Faurecia Automotive Holdings 23,423 395,421 100 918,260 Faurecia Exhaust International 7,301 1,103 100 82,301 Faurecia Services Groupe 40 14 100 46 Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Systems Shanghai 6,023 27,530 60 1,212 Faurecia Holdings Espana 3,010 498,464 61 514,183 B. Afﬁliates (10%-50% of capital stock owned by the Company) Faurecia Automotive Espana S.L. 7,138 709,824 11 76,449 Faurecia Automotive GmbH 146,420 (164,532) 26 225,184 FaureciaTongda Exhaust System (WUHAN) Co, Ltd 4,791 27,063 50 2,217 II. Summarized information Subsidiaries and afﬁliates not included in Section A 74 Subsidiaries and afﬁliates not included in Section B TOTAL 3,571,766 * Note : BS (Bilan) ; PL (Résultat). 128 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Outstanding Dividends loans and Amounts of received by advances guarantees Sales excluding Proﬁt or loss the Company Exchange rates Net carrying granted by the and securities sales tax from (-) from the during ﬁscal used for nonamount of Company and given by the the last ﬁscal previous yearyear or to be French subsidiaries investment not yet paid Company year end received and afﬁliates 480,395 862,179 0 0 451,564 171,922 38,700 244 0 0 (6) EUR 1 = 1,1993 USD 600,699 0 0 36,100 (49,101) BS/1,129287 USD PL* 610,550 95,283 0 1,228 15,335 918,260 886,033 0 241,855 (53,411) 140,535 82,301 155,420 0 0 (972) 9,248 0 640 0 331,302 5,790 4,350 EUR 1 = 7,8044 CNY 1,212 0 0 233,841 42,387 19,585 BS/7,626438 CNY PL* 514,183 0 0 0 (59,681) 76,449 7,261 0 254,460 36,584 5,332 159,206 0 0 4,297 10,868 EUR 1 = 7,8044 CNY 2,217 0 0 71,956 13,285 9,958 BS/7,626438 CNY PL 74 0 0 3,484,246 2,007,059 360,930 / Registration document 2018 129 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements 1.2.4. Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report includes information specifically required by European regulations or French law, such as information about the appointment of Statutory Auditors. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, the opinion we formed as expressed above. We do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements. Opinion ASSESSMENT OF VALUE IN USE OF EQUITY INTERESTS In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your (Notes 1.2 and 10 to the financial statements) Annual General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of Faurecia for the year ended DESCRIPTION OF RISK December 31, 2018. The balance of equity interests at December 31, 2018 amounted In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair to €3,484 million, representing 47% of the assets on the balance view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position sheet. of the Company at December 31, 2018 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French As stated in Note 1.2 to the financial statements, the gross value accounting principles. of these investments is equal to contribution value or cost. An impairment loss is recorded if the value in use of these interests The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report falls below their entry value. to the Audit Committee. Value in use is based on the revalued net assets, profitability and the future outlook of the interest. Where appropriate, when the future sale of certain investments is being planned Basis for opinion or considered, data from previous transactions are taken into account along with other evaluation criteria. AUDIT FRAMEWORK We deemed the assessment of the value in use of equity We conducted our audit in accordance with professional interests to be a key audit matter due to the materiality of these standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit assets to the balance sheet and the inherent uncertainty of evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to specific inputs applicable to the assessment of their value in provide a basis for our opinion. use, in particular the likelihood of achieving the discounted Our responsibilities under these standards are further described cash flows forecast by management in its strategic plans. in the “Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors relating to the audit of the financial statements” Section of our report. HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THIS RISK We assessed the methods used by management to determine INDEPENDENCE the value in use of each of these equity interests. We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with We obtained management’s most recent Business Plans and the independence rules applicable to us, for the period from the impairment tests for each of the significant equity interests January 1, 2018 to the date of our report, and, in particular, in order to assess the valuations based on forecasts. we did not provide any non-audit services prohibited by Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014 or the French Code With the support of our asset valuation experts, we assessed of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. the appropriateness of the key assumptions used to determine expected future cash flows and in particular:  we compared the key assumptions used by management Justification of assessments – Key audit with independent market data, such as discount rates and matters the long-term growth rate;  we reperformed the calculations used in the impairment tests In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) performed by management; relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform  we reconciled the main strategic plan data used in you of the key audit matters relating to the risks of material impairment testing with the specific data for each entity. misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were the most significant in our audit of the financial statements, as well as For the valuations based on historical data, we examined how we addressed those risks. the consistency of the equity values used with the financial statements of the entities concerned and considered whether These matters were addressed as part of our audit of the any adjustments to equity were based on documentary financial statements as a whole, and therefore contributed to evidence. 130 / Registration document 2018 Financial statements 1 Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements Specific verifications Report on other legal and regulatory In accordance with professional standards applicable in requirements France, we have also performed the specific verifications required by French legal and regulatory provisions. APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS We were appointed Statutory Auditors of Faurecia by INFORMATION GIVEN IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT the Annual General Meetings held on May 27, 2003 for AND IN THE OTHER DOCUMENTS PROVIDED TO THE PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and on June 17, 1983 for Ernst SHAREHOLDERS WITH RESPECT TO THE COMPANY’S & Young Audit. FINANCIAL POSITION AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31, 2018, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and Ernst & Young Audit were in the sixteenth and thirty-sixth the consistency with the financial statements of the information consecutive year of their engagement, respectively. given in the Board of Directors’ management report and in the other documents provided to the shareholders with respect to the Company’s financial position and the financial statements. Responsibilities of management and We attest to the fair presentation and the consistency with the those charged with governance for the financial statements of the information given with respect to the payment terms referred to in Article D. 441-4 of the French financial statements Commercial Code. Management is responsible for preparing financial statements giving a true and fair view in accordance with French REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE accounting principles, and for implementing the internal control procedures it deems necessary for the preparation of We attest that the Board of Directors’ report on corporate financial statements that are free of material misstatement, governance sets out the information required by Articles L. 225whether due to fraud or error. 37-3 and L. 225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code. In preparing the financial statements, management is Concerning the information given in accordance with the responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as requirements of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related Code relating to remuneration and benefits received by to going concern, and using the going concern basis of corporate officers and any other commitments made in accounting, unless it expects to liquidate the Company or to their favor, we have verified its consistency with the financial cease operations. statements or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements, and, where applicable, with the The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial information obtained by your Company from companies reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and controlling it or controlled by it. Based on this work, we attest risk management systems, as well as, where applicable, any to the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. Internal Audit systems, relating to accounting and financial reporting procedures. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial The financial statements were approved by the Board of Code relating to those items your Company has deemed liable Directors. to have an impact in the event of a takeover bid or exchange offer, we have verified its consistency with the underlying documents that were disclosed to us. Based on this work, we Responsibilities of the Statutory Auditors have no matters to report with regard to this information. relating to the audit of the financial statements OTHER INFORMATION In accordance with French law, we have verified that the OBJECTIVE AND AUDIT APPROACH required information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling interests and the identity of the shareholders Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the management report. the financial statements as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions taken by users on the basis of these financial statements. As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, our audit does not include assurance on the viability or quality of the Company’s management. / Registration document 2018 131 1 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and ﬁnancial statements As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional conclude that a material uncertainty exists, they are required standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditors exercise to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures professional judgment throughout the audit. They also: in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or are inadequate, to issue a qualified opinion or  identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the a disclaimer of opinion; financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures in response to those risks,  evaluate the overall presentation of the financial statements and obtain audit evidence considered to be sufficient and and assess whether these statements represent the underlying appropriate to provide a basis for their opinion. The risk of transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is presentation. higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE or the override of internal control; We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes, in  obtain an understanding of the internal control procedures particular, a description of the scope of the audit and the audit relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the also report any significant deficiencies in internal control that purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the we have identified regarding the accounting and financial internal control; reporting procedures.  evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were the management and the related disclosures in the notes to the most significant for the audit of the financial statements and financial statements; which constitute the key audit matters that we are required to  assess the appropriateness of management’s use of the describe in this report. going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No. 537/2014, related to events or conditions that may cast significant confirming our independence within the meaning of the doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going rules applicable in France, as defined in particular in Articles concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code and obtained up to the date of the audit report. However, future in the French Code of Ethics for Statutory Auditors. Where events or conditions may cause the Company to cease appropriate, we discuss any risks to our independence and to continue as a going concern. If the Statutory Auditors the related safeguard measures with the Audit Committee. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, April 26, 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Ernst & Young Audit Dominique Ménard Jean-Roch Varon 132 / Registration document 2018 2. Internal Controls & Risk Management 2.1. Participants and systems 134 2.1.1. Operations management 134 2.1.2. Functional departments 134 2.1.3. External participants 138 2.2. Description of the main risks 139 2.2.1. Operational and industrial risks 141 2.2.2. Financial and market risks 147 2.2.3. Legal, regulatory, and reputational risks 149 2.3. Insurance and coverage of risks 151 2.3.1. Fire, property damage and business interruption insurance 151 2.3.2. Liability insurance 152 2.3.3. Insurance related to information systems 152 This Section describes the parties involved in managing the Faurecia group’s risks and the main risks to which the Group believes it is exposed as of the date of this Registration Document. However, other risks that the Group is not aware of at the date of this Registration Document, or which are not considered to date as likely to have a significant unfavorable impact for the Group, its businesses, its financial position, its results or its outlook, may exist or occur. / Registration document 2018 133 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems 2.1. Participants and systems The Audit Committee, which is tasked with overseeing the the Group in this realm. Other participants provide information effectiveness of the internal control and risk management to the Audit Committee which conducts every year a formal systems (which are not limited to accounting and financial risks), review of the internal control and risk management systems. informs the Board of Directors of the main actions taken by 2.1.1. Operations management The Group’s Executive Committee examines the major The Executive Management of each Business Group is operational risks inherent to the Group’s business during the responsible for identifying and managing operational risks monthly meetings of the Operations Committees, and at least inherent to its business which are reviewed every month by its once per year it reviews the risk mapping prepared by the Risk Operations Committee. Committee. 2.1.2. Functional departments Focusing on their specific domains, the Group’s functional The Country or Regional Chief Financial Officers that manage departments are responsible for complying with current the shared financial service centers are responsible for: regulations and standards, improving their processes and  the production of the financial and accounting statements working with the other departments in order to improve crossfor all the units within their scope, in compliance with IFRS and functional processes. local standards and the closure dates defined by the Group;  compliance with and improvement to the internal control Finance department procedures specific to their scope;  strengthening the role and skills of the accounting function; PRINCIPLES APPLIED TO THE PREPARATION OF  close collaboration with operational sites within their scope FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in order to work with them to solve internal control issues and The Group Finance department, which reports to the Chief to improve the overall effectiveness of the financial process. Executive Officer, is responsible for outlining the rules and Internal and financial controllers are stakeholders in the Group’s procedures, consolidating the financial statements, managing strategy and sales, R&D and industrial activities at all levels cash and financing, and carrying out management control, and report hierarchically to site, Division and Business Group internal control and Internal Audits. managers and functionally to the Group Finance department. It is responsible for performing the following tasks: Through their function, they are stakeholders in the definition and achievement of the operational objectives.  determining the Group’s accounting and financial standards in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union This organization between, on the one hand, shared services and the tax provisions and accounting standards specific to responsible for producing the financial statements and each country, and ensuring compliance with them; complying with the standards, and on the other, the controllers considered as co-pilots for the management of operational  preparing the annual statutory financial statements, the entities, enables a real separation of tasks and a better monthly consolidated financial statements and, more development of skills in each role, resulting in better overall specifically, the interim and financial information to be effectiveness and reduced risk of fraud. reported; The following principles are implemented across the Group to  outlining, improving and ensuring enforcement of the internal prepare financial statements: control procedures needed to produce reliable accounting information. These procedures include a generalization of  completeness of transaction processing; physical inventory taking at least once a year, the separation  transaction compliance with applicable accounting of tasks, and strict monitoring of access to accounting principles; transactions based on the different businesses;  periodic review of assets.  managing and improving the information systems used to produce accounting and financial data. 134 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Participants and systems FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS Internal control The goal of the reporting process is to provide all the financial At the Faurecia group, internal control is a mechanism that and nonfinancial information needed to manage the Group encompasses a set of resources, behaviors, training, procedures and disclose the financial statements in accordance with and actions that aim to prevent risks that are likely to: applicable accounting standards and the rules decreed by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF). A “reporting glossary”  have an impact on financial and accounting information describes the content of all reporting data, and procedures published by the Group; explain how reporting should be conducted.  cause damage to the Group’s image and reputation;  expose the Group to regulatory or legal sanctions from MONTHLY REPORTING the various jurisdictions and competition authorities of the The HFM consolidation system provides for the reporting of countries in which it operates; both financial information (income statement and balance  threaten the Group’s employees and ecosystem (risk of sheet data) and non-financial information (such as indicators kidnapping, natural disasters, epidemics, environmental risks); relating to quality, production, purchasing, safety, human resources, etc.). Each business unit reports its final results of  prevent the Group’s customers from producing, delaying operations four days after the end of the month in accordance their production or hindering their product and service with Group standards. Every month, the Operations Committee performance (critical equipment breakdown, quality risks, reviews the operational performance and action plans of each delay in product development); Business Group.  prevent the Group from being able to continue to finance its operations (loss of cash); BUDGET AND STRATEGIC PLAN  threaten the confidentiality of the information held by the The Group draws up a five-year sales plan each year, in which Group on its own behalf (intellectual property, data on programs play an essential role. This plan discusses the Group’s technologies, financial data) or with regard to its employees business outlook by business and product line, and the Group’s (personal data). resources and profitability. It is consolidated using the same tool as for monthly reporting and it is also used to define the By helping to prevent and control risks that could negatively budgetary targets for the following year. impact the Group in attaining its goals, the internal control and risk management system plays a key role in conducting and In order to effectively anticipate short-term changes and steering its various business activities. However, as underscored improve responsiveness, monthly reporting includes a rolling by the AMF’s frame of reference, any internal control and risk forecast for the income statement and cash flow statement management system, no matter how well conceived and for the current and subsequent quarters. applied, cannot provide an absolute guarantee that the Group will achieve its goals. In fact, inherent limits exist to any internal INFORMATION SYSTEMS control and risk management system, notably due to the uncertainties of the outside world, the exercise of judgment or In order to manage processing and data, Faurecia relies shortcomings that may arise due to technical or human failure. upon the unique Group ERP based on SAP software, which was implemented in 2007. This solution is now common to all sites and enables normalization and digitalization to occur at SCOPE faster pace. All management processes (orders, inventory, flow The Group’s internal control system is deployed at the Company of parts, receiving, shipping, accounting etc.) are supported and its consolidated subsidiaries through overall integration by this solution. and covers a larger scope than the procedures related to Moreover, Faurecia relies on this base to accelerate the preparation and processing of accounting and financial digitalization in numerous areas such as management of information. workshops and transportation, measuring customer satisfaction, managing maintenance, etc. All these data represent a wealth INTERNAL CONTROL TASKS of information that is beginning to be exploited with the help The main responsibilities of the Internal Control department are: of Artificial Intelligence (AI) type tools, in order to optimize processes.  participating in projects to improve cross-functional processes (transportation, protection of the access and rights associated with IT applications, improving IT tools, etc.);  mobilizing the Group’s co-workers around a common vision of the primary risks and making them aware of the inherent risks of their business activity;  training on internal control, some of which are now offered by Faurecia University, Faurecia’s internal training center, particularly e-learning modules. As of October 2017, the “basic” module is mandatory for all Group executives; / Registration document 2018 135 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems  preparation for COSO certification, which is an internal  Quality and HSE (Health, Safety and Environment), control standard defined by the Committee of the Sponsoring  PMS (Program Management System) and Engineering, Organization of the Treadway Commission. In 2018, Faurecia’s primary participants in internal control prepared the COSO  Sales and Marketing, certificate;  Communication,  self-assessment campaigns touching all corporate  Finance, management cycles (business management, direct and indirect purchases, inventory management, management  Human Resources, of property, plant and equipment, salary management,  Information Technology. tracking of standard costs, information system management, management of expats and other personnel transfers, etc.). Faurecia’s Alert Management System (AMS) immediately A self-assessment questionnaire addressing the most informs Business Group management teams and, if necessary, important control items for operational sites (plants and R&D the Group Executive Committee of any problems encountered centers) was disseminated in 2017, in order to help these sites in production and program management. This system also strengthen their internal control system (methods of proof, ensures a prompt and structured response including problem identification of weaknesses and corresponding action plans, solving which the organization capitalizes. local governance). In 2018, the scope of self-assessment extended to the head office and administrative centers to GOVERNANCE provide Faurecia’s business activities with comprehensive coverage; Internal control reports on its work and sustains the connection between the disciplines in the form of the Internal Control  regular communication with operational entities, functional Governance Committee, which holds monthly meetings departments and the Executive Committee to make all chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer. This committee business lines aware of current topics (fraud, improvement also includes the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Director actions, best practices, etc.); of Internal Audit, the Chief Compliance Officer, the General Internal control representatives are present at several levels Counsel, the Risk Manager and the Chief Financial Officers of of the organization (Group, Business Groups, Divisions, the Business Groups. shared financial service centers) in order to support the Its work is also regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee of approach without taking on the responsibilities of operations the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. management. PROCEDURES Internal Audit Internal control is based on a set of principles and procedures: The Internal Audit department assesses the effectiveness of Group culture (Being Faurecia), which is grounded in six key the internal control and governance mechanism and checks values and the Code of Ethics, the Management Code and that Group procedures are in compliance with local laws and the Faurecia Excellence System (FES), which is its operational regulations. It uses the Group’s risk mapping to shape its tasks. pillar that shapes how Group employees all over the world work and that structures the Group’s identity. The Internal Audit department is under the responsibility of the Group Chief Financial Officer, with an option to directly alert the The documentation on which the internal control system is Group Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Audit based, is made up of the following items, which can all be Committee. Once per year, it submits the audit schedule to the accessed on the Group’s intranet: Group Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer for  the Code of Ethics and the Management Code; approval. Every quarter, it presents completed reports and the achievement of its objectives. It also reports to them regularly  the Managers Empowerment, which defines six crosson the progress of its work and the measures taken to achieve functional general principles for managers in certain key its objectives. It reports to the Audit Committee at least twice areas: Acquire a new program; Assess Managers and per year on the result of its work and its schedule of actions. Skilled Professionals; Decide on Capital Expenditures; Decide on Exceptional Items; Manage Managers and Skilled Located at the Group’s headquarters, it also has regional Professionals Compensation; Staff Managers and Professional teams based in France, Germany, the United States and China. positions; It conducts its assignments wholly independently and  the Faurecia Core Procedures (FCP) are set out within nine systematically substantiates its findings with specific facts that processes developed by each Group division respecting a have been duly verified. The recommendations it sends to the common general framework and apply to all subsidiaries audited sites are monitored through (i) an assessment through controlled by the Group. They are regularly updated and a questionnaire completed six and 12 months after the final continually enhanced. The nine processes are as follows: report, and (ii) an on-site post-audit if one is deemed necessary.  Production Control and Logistics, In 2005, the Internal Audit department drew up an Internal Audit Charter, which was reviewed in 2017 and which defines  Purchasing, its roles and mission, its field of competence, and the audit methodology used. 136 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Participants and systems Compliance and Risk Management Since 2017, the issues monitored by the Risk Committee have been recorded in a risk register, and since 2018, this risk register department is accessible in a dedicated tool where information may be shared in real time with different lines of defense. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is handled by the Group Risk Committee, COMPLIANCE PROGRAM which is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer. The main tasks of the Risk Committee are to update risk mapping, Organization ensure that the corresponding prevention plans are established The Compliance and Risk department was created in 2015. and implemented and, more broadly, ensure that risks are Its matrix structure relies on functional and operational monitored regularly. resources, which allows for wide distribution of its annual plan. The Risk Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by the Group The compliance manager, with her deputy risk manager, Chief Financial Officer. The Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the determines program priorities, which arise from the risk analysis Director of Internal Audit, the Chief Compliance Officer, the of the previous compliance plan. Regional Compliance Officers Risk Manager, the General Counsel and the Head of Internal (RCOs) oversee the compliance program on the regional Control are also members of this committee. Depending on the level (in regions where the Group conducts business: North agenda, the risk prevention plan coordinators are also invited America-Mexico, South America, Asia and EMEA (Europe, to attend meetings. Middle East, Africa). The compliance team also relies on a network of contact people, called Compliance Leaders, in The Risk Committee’s work is also reviewed at least once a year each operational division of the Business Groups. As part of by the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee. The risks the identification and monitoring of non-compliance risks, monitored by this committee are, in particular, associated with the compliance team works closely with the risk officer and personal safety, quality, program management, IT systems, the members tasked with the audit and internal controls. reliability of supplies, asset protection and fire risk, exposure of industrial sites to certain types of natural disasters, international exposure of employees to health and safety risks, the reliability Frame of Reference of financial information, compliance, the environment. In Faurecia is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. addition to an annual review of the entire risk management Consequently, the Group is committed to aligning its operations system, the Audit Committee conducts an in-depth review of and strategy with ten universally accepted principles in the a specific risk during each of its meetings. areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. This commitment is reasserted in Faurecia’s In an effort to progress and improve the mechanism, the risk Code of Ethics, which was updated in 2014 as part of the rollmap is reviewed regularly and the inclusion of new risks is out of the Being Faurecia program, intended to strengthen the submitted to the Audit Committee. Group’s culture and contribute to the creation of long-term In 2016, the Group appointed a risk manager, who reports to value. The Management Code, which was established at that the Group Chief Compliance Officer. With the assistance of time to guide the day-to-day management of teams, customers coordinators who have been appointed for each risk in the and also suppliers, translated many of the principles set out risk map, he oversees the prevention plans that have been in the Code of Ethics into operations. Each new employee established and reviewed by the committee and manages receives a copy of the Code, which is available in the Group’s the network of risks identified by the Group. main working languages and may also be accessed on the Group’s corporate website and intranet site. In 2017, the Group started the Faurecia Enterprise Risk Management Program (ERM) to define and oversee risk The Code of Ethics is structured around four topics: respect management actively and consistently. This program is of fundamental rights, development of economic and social adapted for all types of risk, no matter what their exposure dialogue, skills development, ethics and rules of conduct. It and impacts, and applies to operational, financial, strategic, is part of the Faurecia Core Procedures (FCP), and aims to reputation and legal risks. develop accountability and employee empowerment. In 2018, the Group launched a risk assessment campaign with Furthermore, the Group has an anti-corruption Code of Group management, working with Internal Audit, to challenge Conduct and a best practices guide concerning antithe current risk mapping and identifying potential emerging competitive practices. As a result, internal rules are widely risks. This approach made it possible to identify new potential disseminated to employees. These rules cover, in particular, the risks and establish the Group’s risk universe, with the goal of following subjects: policy on gifts and hospitality; donations and aligning all lines of defense on a single risk baseline. sponsorships; managing conflicts of interest (via an electronic tool); the “golden rules” of competition law. The ERM program has also been translated into five Faurecia Core Procedures; the related process, known as the ERM Internal rules exist related to the risk tracking system for Faurecia’s System, is constructed in a step-by-step approach and provides third parties and their co-contractors, where applicable. the method that must be followed by each risk coordinator and the functions responsible for risks. / Registration document 2018 137 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems Training & Communication compliance program at each level of the Group’s activities in conjunction with priorities defined at the Group level. In order to maintain the Group’s strong culture of ethics and compliance, the Compliance department introduced a Finally, each RCO oversees a quarterly Compliance Committee training program tailored to risks that targeted populations to present the actions and results of the compliance program may pose. at his or her region level. The training and communication program on ethical rules and compliance relies on various internal communication WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE mechanisms. A solid base of mandatory training courses onFaurecia implemented a whistle-blowing system (“Speak up”), line (MOOCs) exists. The pedagogical approach promotes revamped as part of its compliance with the Sapin II and Duty interactive training using short videos and animations. Moreover, of Care laws (see Section 3.2.2). Any Group employee is thus the Group has prepared and disseminated practical guides. called to express his or her concerns or signal a violation of the Periodic hard-copy and electronic reviews as well as blogs and Code of Ethics, the anti-corruption Code of Conduct, internal intranet communities are a source of diverse opportunities for policies and procedures or the law, and to report it to the the Group to communicate widely about Faurecia’s internal Company’s Management: rules.  either by an internal whistle-blowing procedure Moreover, RCOs and Compliance leaders regularly organize, Any Group employee may share his or her concerns or at industrial sites and within divisions of the Business Groups, indicate non-ethical behavior to his or her direct supervisor, on-site training or communication sessions to ensure a close to someone in Human Resources or a compliance team culture of ethics and compliance. These training sessions also member; occur, in particular, in the context of audit duties conducted by the Internal Audit.  or by a dedicated whistle-blowing hotline Any Group employee has the option of using the dedicated Governance whistle-blowing hotline. This channel may, in particular, by used Activities conducted by the Group to prevent breaches, for the most serious cases mentioned above. This mechanism including the risk of corruption, as well as areas for improvement offers enhanced protection through “Legal Confidentiality.” are presented and discussed regularly in various bodies where The dedicated whistle-blowing hotline is accessible at a internet the compliance function is involved. site: http://faurecia.ethicspoint.com/ On the Group level, the Chief Executive Officer chairs a quarterly committee, which is steered by the compliance Legal department function. The primary activities and strategic decisions of the ethics and compliance program are discussed and approved The Legal department consists of a team located in France within this body. and the main countries where the Group conducts business. It relies on legal practitioners who are experts in their field The Group’s Chief Financial Officer chairs the quarterly Risk (competition, M&A, intellectual property, corporate, IT), teams Committee, which is steered by the Risk department. The of legal practitioners who focus on the work of the Business primary risks identified and monitored by the compliance Group and a network of multidisciplinary legal practitioners who function are presented and discussed in this committee. are responsible for the Group’s different regions. Furthermore, Compliance leaders facilitate quarterly The Legal department draws on these diverse skills, constant Compliance Committees, which are chaired by the manager legal oversight and the implementation of control and reporting of each of the Business Groups. They deploy and facilitate the processes to ensure the security of the Group’s operations. 2.1.3. External participants The mechanism outlined above is supplemented by the  engineers from fire and property insurance companies who participation of external participants, including: conduct a biennial audit on each of the Group’s sites to:  the Statutory Auditors;  assess fire risks and any potential impact on production and customers,  third-party organizations which carry out the following certification processes for the entire Group over a three assess whether the prevention and protection measures year cycle: in place are adequate,  environment (ISO 14001),  issue recommendations to reduce risks.  quality (ISO TS/IATF); 138 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Description of the main risks 2.2. Description of the main risks The table below presents a summarized view of the primary risks and the associated control systems. Risk Primary risk control systems Section Operational and industrial risks 2.2.1 Risk associated with the  Diversity of sales by region, by brand and vehicle model 2.2.1.1 automotive supplier  Constant monitoring of the competition business  Innovation and investment in Research & Development  Forward management method enabling ﬁne-tuning of the means of production Supplier failure  Recourse to many local suppliers in different countries 2.2.1.2  Systematic assessment of risks of any new order via a dedicated committee  Awareness of geopolitical, social, ethical, economic and ﬁnancial risks  Constant monitoring of operational and ﬁnancial performance  Operational support of suppliers (logistics, quality, international development...) Program management  Existence of a standard (PMCS) organizing the succession of steps for the duration 2.2.1.3 of a program  Systematic risk assessment using 28 criteria from the initial phase  Monthly review of programs and monitoring of action plans  Regular audit of each development center Product Quality  IATF 16949 Certiﬁcation 2.2.1.4 and Safety EFPD  Existence of a designated Quality Control department at all levels of the organization  Measuring customer satisfaction  Whistle-blowing procedure and culture of documentation and conﬂict resolution (QRCI,...)  World Journal of Quality  Specialized and independent auditors Safety in the workplace  Existence of an HSE network at all levels of the organization 2.2.1.5 EFPD  Systematic analysis of accidents  Mandatory training in HSE rules  Regular audit of all sites and systematic in the event of an alert  Ergonomic analysis of all workstations Security and Continuity  Strategic plan dedicated to Information Systems risks 2.2.1.6 of information systems EFPD  Regular audit of sensitive applications  Precise methodology for management of computer projects  Existence of a “Security Operation Center” (SOC)  GDPR compliance program Fire or explosion  Industrial risk prevention policy based on an internal standard involving 20 check 2.2.1.7 points  Periodic audits conducted by the insurer and issuance of an RHP label  Incorporation of the topic into the early stages of projects  Systematic analysis and sharing of incidents Sites environmental  Analysis and control of local environmental risks based on ISO 14001 2.2.1.8 impact and climate  Monthly “Environment & Energy” Committee presided by the Group’s HSE change EFPD department  Network of HSE Managers at all levels including each Faurecia site  HSE requirements integrated into the Faurecia Excellence System (FES)  Regular internal FES audit of sites Natural events  Systematic veriﬁcation of natural risks when there’s an industrial project 2.2.1.9  Comprehensive diagnosis of our existing industrial facilities  Speciﬁc audit of most vulnerable sites carried out by technical experts  Existence of a surveillance and real-time warning system External Growth  Strategic priorities set by the Board of Directors 2.2.1.10  Control and allocation of necessary resources by a dedicated team  This team involved in the life of entities concerned and takes part in decisionmaking bodies  Constitution of necessary provisions / Registration document 2018 139 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks Risk Primary risk control systems Section Talents attraction  Partnerships with more than 100 post-secondary institutions and retention EFPD  Integration program directed speciﬁcally at new hires  Policy of internal mobility (including abroad)  Regular review of compensation policy  Quantitative indicators through dedicated reporting 2.2.1.11 Social dialogue EFPD  Existence of a European Committee  Integral part of the duties of site HR manager  Annual survey of employee satisfaction, including social climate 2.2.1.12 Financial and market risks 2.2.2. Interest rate risk  Centralized management of interest-rate hedges 2.2.2.1  Decisions taken by a monthly committee on market risks  Existence of a hedge policy implemented to limit the impact of short-term variations in interest rates on the Group’s earnings Currency risk  Centralized management of currency hedging 2.2.2.2 Liquidity risk  Coverage of part of Faurecia’s liquidity requirements through receivables sale programs 2.2.2.3  Regular issuance of commercial paper  Diversiﬁed ﬁnancial resources Risk related to raw  Negotiations with customers and strict inventory management 2.2.2.4 materials  Raw material price ﬂuctuations mainly passed on to customers on a “pass through basis” Customer credit risk  Speciﬁc reporting on customer receivables 2.2.2.5 Legal, regulatory, and reputational risks 2.2.3 Litigation  Regular monitoring through dedicated reporting 2.2.3.1  Adequate provisioning Duty of care  “Buy Beyond” sustainable buying policy 2.2.3.2 and responsible  Systematic CSR analysis of suppliers and new programs purchasing EFPD  Required minimum level score  Quality Audit of our suppliers covering all CSR aspects  Existence of a whistle-blowing system Intellectual Property  Internal network of experts and specialists 2.2.3.3  Global network of external advisors  Performing patent searches and searches on old technologies  Centralized Control of Technical and Legal Matters Regulatory developments  Network of legal, tax and ﬁnancial experts 2.2.3.4  Constant monitoring of laws and regulations in France and abroad Business ethics EFPD  Global network of “compliance ofﬁcers” 2.2.3.5  Training & raising employee awareness  Code of Ethics/internal procedures  Existence of a whistle-blowing system Note: The abbreviation EFPD indicates that this risk presents extra-financial challenges, which are described in detail in Section 4 CSR. Identification of the primary CSR risks & opportunities is based on a CSR risk mapping produced by the Group as a complement to the Group risk mapping. A risk universe (and the associated descriptions) was thus defined during a process that included consultations with internal and external stakeholders. Identified risks were rated by stakeholders. The risks selected are those with high criticality during this rating phase and were approved by the Group’s Executive Committee in December 2018. 140 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Description of the main risks 2.2.1. Operational and industrial risks 2.2.1.1. Risk associated with the The Group also relies on the diversification of its sales by region by vehicle brand and model. automotive supplier business In addition, each Business Group monitors the competition on an ongoing basis so that it can respond in the best possible IDENTIFICATION OF RISK way to calls to tender from automakers and, in particular, to The business of the Faurecia group, which manufactures and their specific demands for the supply of complex equipment. sells original automotive equipment for its automaker customers, In this regard, Faurecia stays competitive through innovation is directly related to the level of sales and automotive production and efficiency in product development. As a result, gross R&D of each of its customers, which depends on many factors: the expenditures totaled €1,093.2 million in 2018 (6.2% of valueoverall level of consumption of goods and services on a given added sales). The share of innovation grew over the same market, trust in the economic actors on this market, level of period. It amounted to €188 million. vehicle buyers’ access to credit and any existing government programs (i.e., programs to support the automotive industry or The Group also uses a forward management method (fivevehicle purchase incentive programs). year sales plan, yearly and half-yearly budget, monthly reviews) which enables it to fine-tune its means of production. Therefore, the Group’s sales and results of operations correlate directly to the performance of the automotive market in the major regions where the Group and its customers are located. 2.2.1.2. Supply failure Faurecia’s risk is also tied to the commercial success of the models for which the Group produces components and modules. At the end of a model’s life cycle, the risk is also linked IDENTIFICATION OF RISK to the uncertainty of whether its products will be taken up again If one or more of the Group’s main suppliers were to go for the replacement model. bankrupt, or experience an unforeseen stock-out, quality In addition, the orders placed with the Group are binding problems, a strike or any other incident disrupting its supplies supply contracts for open orders without any guarantees in for which it were liable, this could impact Faurecia’s production terms of volume, that is to say with no guarantee of minimum output or image, or lead to additional costs that would affect volume. They are generally based on the life of the vehicle the Group’s business, results and overall financial position. model concerned. The Group could therefore be required to In addition, should the Group, or one of its suppliers or service make certain investments which may not be offset by customer providers, default at any stage of the manufacturing process, order volumes. Faurecia could be held liable for failure to fulfill its contractual Thus the Group must continually adapt to the business and obligations or for technical problems. The Group’s driving needs of its customers in terms of supply, production, services motivation and its inherent supplier management strategy and research and development. involve enacting a consistent, ongoing approach that helps not only to reduce, or even avoid, risks, but above all to generate Finally, changes in the automotive sector could accelerate over the medium and long terms a constant improvement in its the concentration of automakers, ultimately resulting in the value chain that, by benefiting Faurecia and its suppliers and disappearance of certain brands or vehicle models for which sub-suppliers, allows them to experience sustainable technical, the Group produces equipment. Major Group customers production and financial growth. may also face a business slowdown resulting from a variety of situations, such as claims against some automakers with regard RISK MANAGEMENT to emissions testing. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a significant impact on the Faurecia group’s The Faurecia group uses a large number of suppliers based in sales, results and future prospects. different countries for its raw materials and basic parts supplies. In 2018, out of total purchases (production and indirect, RISK MANAGEMENT excluding monoliths) of €9,184 million, corresponding to about Given its market share and diversified international presence, 2,500 main suppliers: the Faurecia group has a natural potential to weight its  purchases from the ten biggest suppliers of each of the customer risk. Business Groups together accounted for 30% of total Faurecia thus seeks to optimize the quality and diversity of its purchases and 16% of value-added sales. Purchases from the customer portfolio. five biggest suppliers of each of the Business Groups together accounted for 20% of total purchases and 11% of valueIn 2018, the Faurecia group’s four largest automaker customers added sales. In this same year, purchases from the biggest accounted for 61.3% of value-added sales (VW: 18.6%; Ford: supplier of each of the Business Groups together accounted 16.2%; PSA 13.9% and Renault-Nissan: 12.6%). for 7% of total purchases and 4% of value-added sales. / Registration document 2018 141 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks Faurecia closely monitors the quality and reliability of suppliers’ Program reviews are carried out monthly within each division production operations as well as their credit status and and Business Group to define and monitor action plans, sustainability in order to ensure that the Group’s supply chain including the plans to eliminate the execution risks that are is secure. identified during the acquisition phase. Programs deemed “high risk” are also subject to review by the Group’s Executive Suppliers’ operational and financial performance is monitored Management. on an ongoing basis so that any restructuring and protection measures that may prove to be required in order to achieve For each program: security of supply (quantities and costs) can be successfully  a prospective financial analysis is carried out in the form of taken. a Business Plan regularly updated from the bid phase to the Risk is also managed holistically, taking into account end of product life, which provides profitability indicators for geopolitical, social, ethical, economic and financial risks, and the program over its life cycle; monitoring specific factors related either to the supplier, such as  monthly indicators to measure its operational and financial management of fire risk, or to the management of the supplier performance are monitored. Each of these indicators is then itself, such as monitoring the level of business it handles. consolidated by the Group; Within this context, Faurecia’s purchasing teams help suppliers  from the alert management system (AMS), which helps to expand and to reduce their risks on both an industrial identify any major deviances from the program and the and a financial level, in particular, by providing operational monitoring of their resolution; support to improve their efficiency, quality, logistics, and cost control by means of specialist teams working with suppliers  from reviews at each phase of development, Gate Review, on their own premises. These teams also support suppliers in by the Program Review Committee and throughout the their international expansion. Furthermore, any new order to entire program following the process defined by the PMCS. a supplier is a result of a decision by a sourcing committee Each development center is also audited biannually by the after an a review including a risk assessment of this supplier. The Group on a representation sample of programs at different supply panel’s policy is, additionally, monitored by a specialist stages of development to formally evaluate the compliance product family purchasing organization. of the PMCS. 2.2.1.3. Program management 2.2.1.4. Product quality and safety EFPD IDENTIFICATION OF RISK IDENTIFICATION OF RISK Most of the contracts entered into by Faurecia are awarded Faulty products that are delivered or manufactured may alter after a call for tenders put out by an automaker to supply the production of Group customers or incur additional costs complex equipment, to which Faurecia responds in the form that have repercussions on the Group’s business, results or of a Request for Quotation (RFQ). financial position. In this respect, the Group is, among other Every contract entered into with a customer constitutes a things, exposed to warranty claims, particularly as part of “program” whose production phase, at the outcome of the vehicle recall campaigns. development phase, may last from 5 to 10 years. Every program is subject to control procedures and tools RISK MANAGEMENT throughout its duration that aim to identify and eliminate the The Faurecia group manages quality and safety process risks of implementation and reduction in profitability. and product risks from new order acquisition phases to manufacturing in the plants. The Group Quality department is RISK MANAGEMENT responsible for this management at all stages of the process. It is present at all levels of organization from the multidisciplinary The Program Management Core System (PMCS) lays out a strict team developing new programs or the production plant up to succession of steps for the entire duration of a program, from the Group’s management structure. bid processing to the end of product life. Specific indicators with monthly reports assess the risks, generate As part of the bid procedure, a risk assessment is done in order improvement plans, and mainstream actions to prevent to determine in advance, based on a list of 28 preset criteria major risks at all levels of organization. In 2018, the Group and with an established oversight structure, the nature and strengthened its measurement of Customer Satisfaction in two level of the risks that should be eliminated during the program’s major areas. The first was the implementation of an application development phase. allowing Faurecia’s Customers to evaluate the performance of every function. The second area consisted of integrating the overall rating of each of our customers into Faurecia’s internal reporting. Faurecia sets annual safety targets in order to further reduce accident and quality risks, meet customers’ needs and boost operational efficiency. 142 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Description of the main risks For major problems, the AMS alert system must be used. As such, Faurecia provides specialized internal training to its network of employees, including temporary employees, in 13 A structured problem-solving culture (immediate response within mandatory HSE rules and 13 logistical HSE recommendations. 24 hours and identification of root technical and management The training includes well-targeted theory and practice causes, Alert Closure) is constantly being developed by modules with practical scenarios which allow employees Faurecia’s management: QRCI (Quick Response Continuous to learn or improve their knowledge of the HSE rules. The 13 Improvement). Initially deployed to professionally handle mandatory HSE rules relate to personal safety. These rules were quality problems, it has been extended to all opportunities to implemented at all Faurecia sites. Any plant reporting a serious improve business operations, programs, HSE, scrap, inventory, HSE alert or an abnormally high work-related accident rate is deliveries, etc. audited by the Group’s Quality department. Beginning in 2018, Faurecia is organizing annually “The World An unsatisfactory audit systematically results in a report being Day of Quality” at all of its sites in order to increase appreciation sent to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer. Faurecia ensures of the commitment to Quality vis-à-vis Customers, stockholders that these rules are applied at all other sites by means of and employees. Faurecia Excellence System (FES) production audits. The Group’s industrial management has an auditing structure Moreover, in order to reduce occupational illnesses related that is independent of the operational organizations of the to musculoskeletal problems, Faurecia has taken steps for Business Groups, to conducts reviews on both production plants several years to take the strain caused by workstations into and R&D centers. They use a precise and rigorous questionnaire greater consideration and to remedy the situation to the to assess the application and maturity of enforcement of extent possible. Ergonomic reviews of workstations form part Faurecia’s operational excellence system (FES). Assessment of the FES and the Group systematically carries out audits at guidelines and Group procedures are regularly updated to each of its production plants on an annual basis. As a result of reflect the changing needs of customers and weaknesses these reviews, a variety of solutions have been implemented identified in the organization. for manufacturing workstations. The reviews are also used to Each production site is rated either “Poor/Satisfactory/Excellent/ prepare a list of recommendations that are systematically taken Benchmark”. If a site is rated “Poor”, it is required to prepare a into account during the design of products and manufacturing corrective action plan which is presented directly to Faurecia’s tools. CEO with a view to reaching a “Satisfactory” level within a maximum of three months. Furthermore, the Group’s industrial department also conducts 2.2.1.6. Security and Continuity assessments and/or provides specific coaching in case of of information systems EFPD significant deviations in quality performance on the affected sites. A report and corrective action plan are submitted to IDENTIFICATION OF RISK Executive Management. Among the potential risks confronted by Faurecia would be any compromise to the availability of computer equipment 2.2.1.5. Safety in the workplace EFPD used in plant production, a compromise to the confidentiality of know-how, as well as, more generally, a compromise to the integrity of information systems, particularly those contributing IDENTIFICATION OF RISK to business processes related to ordering, supply and invoicing. As part of Faurecia’s production activities, personnel are The latter use a centralized and seamless management exposed to a variety of risks, including accidents, occupational software package (ERP) based on the SAP solution (called illnesses or illnesses related to the workplace environment in Faurecia Core System) for most of the Group’s entities. In general that may affect their health or physical safety. addition to this ERP, Faurecia uses the Hyperion application to consolidate financial data to have a complete and uniform picture of the accounting and financial data. RISK MANAGEMENT Among the significant emerging risks, one example is any Safety in the workplace is one of the key elements of the compromise of the integrity of products and services designed excellence initiative embodied by the Faurecia Excellence for our customers, especially given the significant growth of the System (FES). Faurecia’s policy on health and safety in the “Cockpit of the Future” solution. workplace at the day-to-day level centers around two main goals: safeguarding staff health and improving staff safety in the workplace. RISK MANAGEMENT The change in the frequency rate of work-related accidents Centralized management systems such as SAP and Hyperion is analyzed in order to measure the effectiveness of actions provide means to check integrity, traceability of data and carried out in this area. After each accident, a “Quick Response separation of tasks for all entities and domains and are subject Continuous Improvement” (QRCI) analysis is performed using to regular audits. Preventive and a posteriori checks make it a problem-solving method based on best practices in terms of possible to control, in particular, access to sensitive data and solving quality problems to ensure that the primary causes of the to ensure a strict separation of functional tasks. Furthermore, all accident are understood, that corrective actions have been projects regarding information systems are subject to a specific effective and that preventative measures are implemented methodology (PRMS for “Program Reporting Management and shared across the various sites. System”) to ensure regular control and monitoring of the / Registration document 2018 143 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks projects associated with the strong governance principles and 2.2.1.7. Fire or explosion the appropriate tools. In addition, particular attention is paid to the protection of data IDENTIFICATION OF RISK and IT systems. In 2018, under the aegis of the new Director Due to its business, the Group’s plants are exposed to fire risk, of Information Systems Security, a strategic plan aimed at mainly linked to the presence of combustible materials (plastic, preventing, detecting and controlling the following risks to the foam). Security of Information Systems was devised:  cyber intrusion, cyber espionage (intrusion into the RISK MANAGEMENT Information System, controlling remotely, potentially followed by exfiltration of confidential data); Faurecia has worked with the Group’s insurer to set out an industrial risk prevention policy. This policy aims to reduce  cyber sabotage (compromise to the availability of data and accidents caused by fire and to encourage Group sites electronic services); to achieve excellence in fire safety by obtaining the Highly  cyber crime (use of data or electronic for criminal purposes); Protected Risk (HPR) label from Faurecia’s insurer. This label assesses the fire prevention management system (human  non-compliance with regulations, norms or policies on resources) and the protection systems that are in place applicable Information Systems Security; (technical resources). In keeping with actions undertaken in 2017, the Group also The Faurecia group’s prevention policy rests on the following continued in 2018 its actions aimed at: foundations:  specifically protecting Industrial Information Systems;  internal guidelines (HPR grid) developed with the Group’s  ensuring that a backup computing system was up and insurer and based on 20 items to apply; running (in the event of a major computing disaster);  a schedule of periodic audits carried out by the insurer,  ensuring operational updates across all workstations; following the HPR grid;  implementing an SOC (Security Operations Center) in order  site classifications based on fire prevention performance, to detect any possible incidents involving the Security of falling into four categories: inadequate/needs improvement/ Information Systems and treating them in a timely manner; pre-HPR/HPR;  controlling the connection of Board members to the systems;  incorporating fire safety factors into the early stages of any plant design or major refurbishing of existing sites, through  preventing data breaches of the Group’s Information fire partitioning and ensuring that adequate fire safety Systems; equipment, such as extinguishers, is available;  strengthening protection of portable terminals;  recording and systematic analysis of fires or outbreaks of  strengthening the governance of Information Systems fire. The results of this analysis are shared with the plants’ HSE Security. network; Finally, in April 2017, the Group initiated its compliance program  the intranet-based fire safety management system, through with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applicable which the prevention policy is relayed to the entire Group since May 25, 2018. The program, in particular, made it possible by placing technical specifications, experience-based to map the processing of personal data within the Group, to information and best practices online; conduct an analysis of associated risks, to define the Group’s A single data platform to manage all audit reports, action plans policy with respect to private life, and lastly as a priority, to for improvements and the audit program in the same place ensure that any applications that may present a significant risk as well as the status and key dates of fire protection projects. are in compliance. The appointment of a DPO (Data Protection The HPR performance indicator is tracked biannually by the Officer) also allowed for implementation of the principle Risk Committee. “Privacy by Design” for products handling personal data. Of Faurecia’s industrial facilities, ninety-one were audited in 2018, including thirty-nine new sites. 88% of active sites have already been audited at least once. The sites that have not yet been audited are recent sites that will be audited in 2019. 53% of the audited sites are classified as HPR or pre-HPR, which covers 65% of total capital. Almost 100% of industrial projects are monitored by the Insurance department and/or Group’s insurer, from design to completion of the facility. An initiative aimed at substantially reducing the number of critical sites (important and insufficiently protected) is in progress as well as specific preventive measures in China. 144 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Description of the main risks 2.2.1.8. Sites environmental impact Since 2012, Faurecia systematically assesses the environmental impact of its industrial projects, by conducting environmental and climate change EFPD audits and subsoil investigations when appropriate. Furthermore, in the context of industrial restructuring resulting IDENTIFICATION OF RISK in plant closures, the Faurecia group systematically assesses the environmental impact and carries out a soil and subsoil In light of its industrial activities, Faurecia may be exposed to investigation when appropriate. In any event, Faurecia ensures environmental risks such as risk of accidental pollution or risk that sites are restored in accordance with local laws and the related to the tightening of environmental regulations, which future use of the land. may incur additional costs and/or investment expenditure. Faurecia could also be exposed to operational risks related to poor energy management (generating CO2 emissions) or poor management of raw materials or waste. 2.2.1.9. Natural events RISK MANAGEMENT IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS In addition to the environmental policies of the Business Groups, Because of its international presence, Faurecia cannot in 2017 Faurecia formalized an environmental policy under eliminate the risk of exposure of its industrial facilities to extreme which the Group commits to reducing the environmental climate events (flooding, cyclones, storms, etc.). impact of its facilities. Environmental risk analysis and control Faurecia has not identified water stress as a material operational are based on ISO 14001. risk because the Group’s processes do not consume a lot of The Environment Committee, which holds monthly meetings water. Nonetheless, the Group has endeavored to map its and is chaired by the Group Environment department and industrial sites based on the world map of water stress published includes business experts, implements and manages the by the World Resources Institute (WRI). Sites identified as being Group’s environmental policy. in high water stress areas and that are therefore vulnerable to climate change receive special attention. This point is discussed Each Business Group has appointed an HSE department, in more detail in Section 4.2 of this Registration Document. which is assisted by a network of HSE Managers at the division level (mainly regional) and HSE coordinators at each Faurecia site. These coordinators bring their expertise to the RISK MANAGEMENT factory management team, are responsible for implementing The prevention of natural risks is incorporated into the Group’s procedures, and ensure compliance with regulations and overall industrial risk prevention policy, aiming to reduce Faurecia standards. This organization also enables best accidents linked to natural disasters in partnership with its insurer. practices to be applied across all sites within a single Business Group and/or across the three Business Groups. In some cases, Since 2014, Faurecia systematically checks the exposure of its this feedback can lead to Group-wide regulations. industrial projects to natural dangers. This is one of the criteria used to determine the location of new sites. Since June 2017, Faurecia expanded the role of the Environmental Committee to problems concerning energy All of the existing industrial facilities are covered by an exposure efficiency in order to share best practices in reducing diagnosis conducted with the technical support of the Group’s consumption, promoting synergies between different entities insurers and reinsurers. The sites that are most exposed to flood of the Group and anticipating future regulations. or earthquake risk undergo a special audit by technical experts (partnership with Allianz for flood risk and AXA for seismic risk). The amount of investments reported by the sites for environmental protection, noise reduction and equipment The indicators for natural risks are tracked biannually by the compliance is indicated in Section 4.2.1.3 of this Registration Risk Committee. Document. In addition, in July 2016, Faurecia set up a real-time and aroundThe amount of the provisions for environmental risks is indicated the-clock hydro-meteorological monitoring system covering in Section 4.2.1 of this Registration Document. all of its industrial facilities. This support service, provided by the company Predict Service, warns sites of coming events via Faurecia has transferred a portion of the risk to the insurance real-time e-mail or SMS alerts. Depending on the alert level, a market in order to hedge against damage that may result from series of reactions is defined in action sheets so that appropriate environmental pollution (see infra, Section 2.3). measures are taken to prepare for the event and to ensure the Environmental risk analysis and control are based on ISO 14001. safety and resilience of employees. The numerical data on the ISO 14001 certified sites are indicated Among sites within the scope of reporting, 45 sites were in Section 4.2 of this Registration Document. Regular audits identified in a flood risk zone, 10 sites were exposed to risk of by the Internal Auditors and accredited testing laboratories tropical storms and 57 sites were in an average or high-risk provide assurance that the environmental management seismic zone. system and pollution prevention actions are properly applied. / Registration document 2018 145 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks Fourteen “flood risk” and eight “seismic risk” site audits were executive Vice-President in charge of strategy. This team is also done in 2018. The purpose of these audits is to define the risks very closely involved in the life of the entities resulting from and identify the technical and organizational actions that growth transactions (joint ventures, acquisitions) and thus takes need to be implemented. The setting up of mitigation measures part in their decision-making bodies. (emergency plan, process safety, building safety, etc.) is Moreover, Faurecia sets aside any provisions that may prove monitored at Insurance department level with a “mitigation to be required under applicable accounting standards, in index.” particular, concerning the impairment of assets. Over the reporting period, 3,600 warning messages were issued by natural event surveillance services, including eightyeight level 5 (the highest level), which included such events 2.2.1.11. Talents attraction as typhoons MANGKHUT in China, SOULIK in South Korea and Japan and floods in France in January 2018. Thanks to and retention EFPD the warning system and activation of emergency plans at production plants, the consequences of these exceptional IDENTIFICATION OF RISK meteorological events were minimized. Sites demonstrated Taking into account the competitive and changing environment great resilience, like the Beaulieu site in France, which was in which Faurecia operates, the Group could face difficulties able to restart production 30 hrs. after a flood thanks to the to attract and retain the (often new) skills required for growth mobilization of Faurecia’s employees. and production of its products and services. RISK MANAGEMENT 2.2.1.10. External growth In 2018, Faurecia continued to focus on recruiting recent graduates and early-career skilled professionals in order to IDENTIFICATION OF RISK ensure that the Group recruits and retains the talent of the As part of its external growth policy, Faurecia has made, and future. Therefore, the Group established preferential partnerships may make in the future, acquisitions of varying sizes, some of with more than 100 schools, post-secondary institutions and which have been and may be significant on a Group-wide universities in the many countries where the Group operates. All scale. new hires benefit from a personal induction program enabling them to find out more about the Company, its values, strategy These acquisitions entail risks, such as: and organization. Within this framework, Faurecia also offers  the assumptions of the Business Plans on which valuations are its employees many international assignments as well as the made may prove incorrect, especially in respect of synergies opportunity to take part in international projects. To prepare and assessments of market demand; the managers of tomorrow, talent identification should start as early as possible. The applicants are offered diverse career  Faurecia may not succeed in integrating the acquired paths to realize their potential. These paths include intercompanies, their technologies, product ranges and functions/inter-divisions mobility, project work or short-term employees; assignments. The plan aims to help employees step out of their  Faurecia may not be in a position to retain some key comfort zone and provide them with general management employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired skills. The Group uses VIE (International Volunteer Program) as companies; a key driver to achieve its young graduate recruitment goals. The number of VIE employees has been constantly increasing  Faurecia may be forced or decide to terminate pre-existing for several years now. Moreover, the Group’s compensation contractual relationships with costly and/or unfavorable policy is subject to an annual review by specialized firms in financial conditions; and order to ensure, in particular, competitiveness with the local  Faurecia may increase its debt with a view to financing market. Compensation depends on several elements related these acquisitions or refinancing the debt of the acquired to individual performance, but also to team performance. companies. The variable portion of compensation rises increasingly with the level of responsibility exercised. As a result, the benefits expected from future acquisitions or those already completed may not be confirmed within the These various subjects are monitored through dedicated Key anticipated time frames and/or the levels expected and, Performance Indicators (KPI). consequently, may affect the Faurecia’s financial position. RISK MANAGEMENT 2.2.1.12. Social dialogue EFPD The Board of Directors determines the Group’s major priorities and strategies. Executive Management oversees this strategy IDENTIFICATION OF RISK and allocates the resources necessary to carry it out. The The absence or poor management of social dialogue could policy of external growth is supported by the team in charge have an impact on the Group’s performance and the wellof Business Development, under the responsibility of the Group’s being of its employees. 146 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Description of the main risks RISK MANAGEMENT implementation of projects. A European Works Council, created in 2003, is the preferred forum for communication with staff Development of economic and social dialogue is a matter of representatives. Moreover, management of social dialogue particular attention within the Faurecia group. In this context, is an integral part of the HR manager’s task. Lastly, each year the Group is in fact committed to communicating in a regular Faurecia organizes a comprehensive survey of satisfaction and structured manner to the various employee representative where it collects employee opinions on many subjects, bodies about its accomplishments, profits and more generally including the social climate. These surveys are then returned about its strategy. Whenever possible, priority is also given to to each site with an action plan, where applicable. research and concluding agreements in the various areas where employee commitment is a gauge for success in the 2.2.2. Financial and market risks Given its level of gross debt, the Group is exposed to significant The main components of long-term fixed rate debt are: risks related to liquidity and changes in interest rates. It is also  bonds at 3.625% maturing in June 2023, issued in April 2016 exposed to currency risks as its production plants are located in for a total amount of €700 million; a large number of countries outside of the euro zone. Faurecia’s counterparty risk in relation to its derivatives is not significant  bonds at 2.625% maturing in June 2025, issued in March 2018 as the majority of its derivatives are set up with leading banks for a total amount of €700 million. that form part of its banking pool and of which rating do not Certain tranches of the Schuldscheindarlehen for €700 million create significant counterparty risk. Any new banking relations issued in December 2018 (see the description of this transaction and the opening of accounts are subject to the Group Finance in Note 26.3 of the Notes to the consolidated financial and Treasury department’s authorization. statements, paragraphs on “Financing the acquisition of Generally, interest rate and currency risks are managed Clarion Co. Ltd”). centrally for the Group as a whole by the Group Finance department. 2.2.2.2. Currency risk 2.2.2.1. Interest rate risk IDENTIFICATION OF RISK Faurecia is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in the IDENTIFICATION OF RISK exchange rates of certain currencies, particularly due to the Rate risk results from interest rate changes, particularly the location of some of its production plants, as well as the fact that impact of a rate hike on the variable portion of the debt which certain subsidiaries purchase raw materials and other supplies would be reflected by a rise in finance costs. or sell their products in a currency other than their functional currency. RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is also subject to currency risk linked to the Faurecia manages the hedging of interest rate risks on a central contribution of the subsidiaries, whose accounting currency is basis. Such management is implemented through the Group not the euro, to the consolidated results of the Group. The sales, Financing and Treasury department, which reports to the results and cash flows of these subsidiaries, when converted into Executive Management. Hedging decisions are made by a euros, are sensitive to fluctuations in their accounting currency Market Risk Management Committee that meets on a monthly against the euro. basis. RISK MANAGEMENT As a significant part of the borrowings (syndicated credit facility – if drawn, short-term loans, commercial paper as applicable) Note 30.2 to the consolidated financial statements gives are at variable rates. The aim of the Group’s interest rate the description of the underlying currency positions and the hedging policy is to reduce the impact on earnings from derivative instruments hedging them, as well as the sensitivity of changes in short-term rates. The Group’s interest rate position the Group’s net income and shareholders’ equity to fluctuations based on the nature of the instruments used and the sensitivity against the euro of the various currencies to which it is exposed. of interest expense to short-term rates are disclosed in Note 30.2 to the consolidated financial statements. Before taking into account the impact of interest rate hedges, 2.2.2.3. Liquidity risk 37.7% of the Group’s financial debt were at variable rates as of the end of December 2018, compared with 24.1% as of yearIDENTIFICATION OF RISK end 2017. The variable-rate financial debt primarily consists of To finance its investments and its other cash requirements, short-term debt. Faurecia is obliged to access finance sourced from both financial institutions and financial markets. / Registration document 2018 147 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks RISK MANAGEMENT 2.50. Compliance with this ratio is a condition affecting the availability of this credit facility. The Group’s liquidity is ensured mainly by its bond issues and its syndicated credit facility. This credit facility includes some restrictive clauses on asset disposals (disposal representing over 25% of the Group’s In 2016 and 2018, Faurecia made two bond issues, each total consolidated assets requires the prior approval of banks €700 million, reaching maturity on June 15, 2023, and June 15, representing two-thirds of the syndicate) and on the debt level 2025. Faurecia also holds a €1.2 billion line of credit with its banks of some subsidiaries. that is scheduled to reach maturity at the end of June 2021. The various components of Faurecia’s long-term debt and the As of December 31, 2018 this credit facility was not drawn. maturities of the Group’s liquidities are described in Notes 26.2 This credit facility contains a single restrictive clause on and 26.3 to the consolidated financial statements. consolidated financial ratios (as opposed to two in the previous credit facility): the net debt*/EBITDA** must be lower than As is noted in Note 26.3 to the consolidated financial statements, as of December 31, 2018, Faurecia was compliant with the financial ratio required by the syndicated credit facility: Carrying amount Ratio Limit as of 31/12/2018 Net Debt*/EBITDA** < 2.50 0,22 * Consolidated net debt. ** Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. FINANCING OF THE ACQUISITION OF with a stable outlook and Fitch Ratings upgraded its rating to CLARION CO. LTD (SEE DETAILS IN NOTE 26.3 BB+ with a stable outlook. OF THE NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL These credit ratings, as well as the outlook, remained STATEMENTS) unchanged following the announcement by Faurecia of its On October 26, 2018, Faurecia announced its intention to intention to acquire Clarion Co., Ltd, on October 26, 2018. launch a friendly takeover bid for Clarion Co. Ltd, a Japanese Thus, in view of the Group’s current situation, and company listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and in which notwithstanding the possible future consequences of any Hitachi, Ltd held a 63.80% stake. The amount of this acquisition deterioration in its operations or outlook, Faurecia does not was approximately €1.1 billion. believe itself to be exposed to significant liquidity risk. In order to secure funding for this acquisition, repayment of certain Clarion debts and integration costs, Faurecia used a €1.3 billion bridge loan from one of its primary banks. As of 2.2.2.4. Risk related to raw materials December 31, 2018, this bridge loan was not drawn. It was partially refinanced by the €700 million private placement IDENTIFICATION OF RISK under German law (Schuldscheindarlehen). The Group is exposed to raw material risk via its direct raw In addition to the above-described bank and bond debt, materials purchases or indirectly through components part of Faurecia’s liquidity requirements is met through purchased from its suppliers. receivables sale programs. Cash from receivables sold came to €992.2 million as of December 31, 2018 (see Note 18 to the The Group’s operating and net income can be adversely consolidated financial statements), including €977.3 million from affected by changes in the prices of the raw materials it uses, receivables that were sold and derecognized (see Note 18 to notably steel and plastics. the consolidated financial statements). In 2018, direct plastics and steel purchases accounted for Finally, in 2018 Faurecia regularly issued commercial paper to approximately 15.0% of the Group’s total purchases. investors, mainly in France, with maturities up to one year. To the extent that the Group’s sales contracts with customers As of December 31, 2018, Faurecia had diversified funds with do not include systematic price indexation clauses linked to the staggered maturities until 2025. At this time, the weighted price of its raw materials, Faurecia is exposed to risks related to average maturity of the Group’s main long-term financial unfavorable fluctuations in raw material prices. resources (namely, the bonds maturing in 2023 and 2025, the syndicated credit facility and the other main long-term RISK MANAGEMENT borrowings, including the Schuldscheindarlehen), is 4.9 years. Efforts are made to reduce this exposure by continually On January 31, 2018, Faurecia group was assigned a BB+ long negotiating conditions with customers and strictly managing term credit rating with a stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s. inventories. Faurecia does not use derivatives to hedge its In February 2018, Moody’s upgraded its rating from Ba2 to Ba1 purchases of raw materials or energy. 148 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Description of the main risks Faurecia still has a low level of exposure to this risk however, 2.2.2.5. Customer credit risk since a large proportion of the raw material price fluctuation is passed on to customers on a “pass through basis”. Faurecia’s remaining exposure is, therefore, around 30% of the total raw IDENTIFICATION OF RISK materials exposure. In view of the economic context in the automotive sector, Faurecia cannot rule out the possibility that one or more of its A 10% fluctuation in the price of raw materials, not including customers may not be able to honor certain contracts or suffer component purchases, would have a 0.3% impact on operating financial difficulties. income (expressed as a percentage of total sales). RISK MANAGEMENT As of December 31, 2018, late payments represented €152.4 million, or 0.9% of consolidated sales for the year. Details of trade accounts receivable and other receivables are provided in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 2.2.3. Legal, regulatory, and reputational risks 2.2.3.1. Litigation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Yann Delabrière, against the decision of the Court of Appeal of Paris on 30 June 2016 rendered on the decision by the Enforcement Committee of IDENTIFICATION OF RISK the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) for having failed As a reminder, on March 25, 2014, the European Commission to meet certain obligations pertaining to information related and the United States Department of Justice, on November 27, to the Company’s objectives for 2012. 2014, the Competition Commission of South Africa, and on Faurecia believes that neither the nature of the known or May 19, 2017, the Brazilian competition authority (CADE), ongoing litigation as of this writing nor the amounts that pertain initiated inquiries covering certain suppliers of emission control to it will materially affect Faurecia’s consolidated financial systems on the basis for suspicions of anti-competitive practices position in the event of an unfavorable outcome. in this market. Faurecia is one of the companies covered by these inquiries. However, Faurecia cannot guarantee that in the future Group’s subsidiaries will not be involved in legal, administrative, or On the status of these inquiries: regulatory proceedings, particularly in view of the complex  the European Commission has announced to close the case, regulatory requirements applicable to the Group; technical as communicated by Faurecia on May 2, 2017; failures, or breaches of contract by customers, suppliers or partners.  an agreement has been reached with the CADE for a non material amount and made public on September 5, 2018 Situations such as those described above could have a putting an end to the inquiry on Faurecia; significant unfavorable impact on the Group’s operations and/ or financial position.  in December 2018, Faurecia has been informed by the United States Department of Justice that it was no more subject to an inquiry; RISK MANAGEMENT  the inquiry of the Competition Commission of South Africa Litigation is tracked quarterly at the Group level and monthly is still ongoing. at the Business Group level through reporting prepared by the Legal department. Moreover, The Group has reached agreements, for non material amounts, with the plaintiffs to settle all three class Adequate provisions have been set aside to cover litigation actions which were filed in the United States District Court for facing the Group, in accordance with the facts and the Eastern District of Michigan against several suppliers of information available at the balance sheet date. Note 24.2 emissions control systems, including group affiliates, alleging to the December 31, 2018, consolidated financial statements anticompetitive practices in regard to Exhaust Systems. These gives a description of claims and litigation currently in process agreements have been validated by the Court. and indicates the total amount of provisions for litigation. Two class actions for similar allegations have also been filed in Canada but are at a very preliminary stage. 2.2.3.2. Duty of care and responsible As of the date of this Registration Document there were no others purchasing EFPD governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings (including any such proceedings which are pending or threatened of which IDENTIFICATION OF RISK the Group was aware) likely to have, or have had a significant impact on the Group’s financial position or profitability in the The Group accords particular importance to the risks related past 12 months. to fundamental rights (child labor, forced labor, non-respect for union freedom, environmental damages…) vis-à-vis its activities, On September 26, 2018, the Court of Cassation acknowledged all of its suppliers and subcontractors. Questioning the Group’s the withdrawal of the appeal lodged by Faurecia and its former / Registration document 2018 149 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks integrity on these issues could have significant consequences RISK MANAGEMENT to its reputation, business activity and financial position. The Group conducts an active research and development policy and stresses protection of the resulting innovations. To RISK MANAGEMENT this end, the Group files patents and designs for technologies, The Group’s Purchasing department established a policy of products and processes in many countries. The Group also uses sustainable buying, called “Buy Beyond,” which reflects the trademark law to protect its name and product ranges. The Group’s commitment to comply with the requirements of the Group holds a large, stable portfolio of intellectual property Law 2017-399 of March 27, 2017, related to the duty of care. This rights thanks to its internal teams of experts and specialists and policy consists, in particular, of systematically review suppliers a global network of advisers who conduct prior art searches that are part of our production process prior to their selection. and technology watches, and monitor the competition. The For existing suppliers, selection among the main suppliers is Group undertakes actions to prevent, terminate and penalize done. This analysis is conducted through our partner Ecovadis infringements of its intellectual property rights. For instance, and addresses the following areas: the Group may act against third parties that use its patents, know-how, designs and models or trademarks without its  Fair Business Practices: assessment of the organization’s ability authorization, or it may file challenges or actions for invalidation to implement tangible actions to ensure data protection, against third-party patents whose issue the Group does not fight against corruption, fraud, anti-competitive practices, deem justified. money laundering and to avoid conflicts of interest; In 2017, to support its innovation policy and strengthen the  Labor Practices: assessment of the organization’s level of protection of its rights, the Group set up a centralized structure maturity in terms of the actions on employee health and that addresses all subjects of intellectual property, both safety, working conditions, social relations, forced labor and technical and legal. child labor, discrimination and respect for fundamental rights;  Environment and Sustainable Procurement: assessment of the formalized policy, verification mechanisms and certification 2.2.3.4. Regulatory developments obtained. A scoring is requested for the year 2018 to make the supplier IDENTIFICATION OF RISK eligible and a minimum threshold of 30 will be requested for Due to the international nature of its business activities, Faurecia 2019.Moreover, supplier quality audits, which are a prerequisite is exposed to economic, political, fiscal, legal and other types to joining Faurecia’s panel of suppliers, also include CSR issues. of risks: Faurecia is committed to building close, long-term relationships  any potential amendments to laws or regulations, or to the with its suppliers, based on mutual growth and benefit. It commercial, monetary or fiscal policies; requires its suppliers to abide by the Buy Beyond purchasing policy by enforcing, within their own organization and their  customs regulations, foreign exchange controls, investment own global supply chain, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers restrictions or requirements or any other constraint such as and Subcontractors, which was implemented by Faurecia in levies or other forms of taxation on settlements and other 2013 and which is always included in the mandatory bidding payment; and documents sent to suppliers.  difficulties in enforcing agreements, collecting payments Lastly, the Group has an external whistle-blowing system that due and protecting property through foreign legal systems, makes it possible to report any breaches related to human in particular, where intellectual property protection is less rights and fundamental freedoms, or to individual health and stringent. safety as well as the environment. RISK MANAGEMENT The Group relies on the expertise of its Legal, Tax and Finance 2.2.3.3. Intellectual Property departments which permanently monitor legislation and regulations in France and abroad via local intermediaries IDENTIFICATION OF RISK (employees, networks of lawyers, tax specialists, etc.). The Group places great importance on employing intellectual property laws to protect its products and processes, especially patents and trademarks, and on complying with third parties’ 2.2.3.5. Business ethics EFPD intellectual property rights. Nonetheless, the Group may be exposed to infringement of its intellectual property rights by IDENTIFICATION OF RISK third parties. Such acts are likely to negatively impact the Group’s business and results, as well as its image and that of The Group places particular importance to the risk related to the quality of its products. It is impossible to rule out involuntary any breach of business ethics. Questioning the Group’s integrity infringement by the Group given that there exist third party on these issues could have significant consequences to its intellectual property rights that have not been published or reputation, business activity and financial position. identified. In such cases, the Group may be required to modify its products or processes or negotiate rights of use with third RISK MANAGEMENT parties. Finally, the Group’s intellectual property rights may be The Faurecia group’s ethical commitments are formalized and disputed by third parties that may dispute validity, for example. detailed in the Code of Ethics, which establishes the essential rules of conduct and ethics applicable to all personnel as well 150 / Registration document 2018 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2 Insurance and coverage of risks as its partners. The Code of Ethics, translated into different (M&P) as well as the “Antitrust MOOC” and “Internal Control languages used by the Group, is provided to each new Basics.” Deployment and monitoring of these training courses employee and is available on the intranet. Each employee continued in 2018. and director of the Group is responsible for complying with In 2018, how-to guides on reporting and managing conflicts the Code of Ethics and ensuring its dissemination to, and its of interest and on the internal whistle-blowing procedure on compliance by, co-workers. allegations of noncompliance with the Code of Ethics were Since 2015, the Group has a Compliance department under issued. the responsibility of the Chief Compliance Officer and her More specifically, a risk management program related to antior her deputy, and which relies upon regional compliance competitive practices was rolled out across the Group with managers in North America, Mexico, Asia and the European, deployment of a guide dedicated to electronic or physical Middle Eastern and African zone. It also relies on a network training with at-risk populations in the various countries where of compliance leaders, who are contact people in each the Group operates. operational division of the Business Groups. The Group has a whistle-blowing system, which was reviewed In 2016, the Compliance department launched an on-line as part of its compliance with the GDPR and the Sapin II law, training program with the “Ethics MOOC” intended for the and which allows any employee or partner to flag a potential Group’s community of Managers and Skilled Professionals breach of rules defined in the Code of Ethics. 2.3. Insurance and coverage of risks As Faurecia does not have any captive insurance entities, its described below, its strategy of transferring its principal risks to system for safeguarding assets is based on the implementation the insurance market. and ongoing adaptation of its risk prevention policy and, as 2.3.1. Fire, property damage and business interruption insurance Faurecia has taken out a fire, property damage and business These claims led to, on July 1, 2018, less favorable contractual interruption insurance policy with a co-insurance group of conditions, which run until July 1, 2020: major insurers led by Allianz.  increase in the premium by +10%; The Group was recently affected by several major losses:  maintenance of the loss guarantee, but an increase in the  January 2017: major claim for a supplier failure related to a deductible from €1 million to €3 million for any customer or fire at the Recticel plant in Czech Republic: the destruction supplier failure. of molds severely disrupted production for several customers. In 2018, the Group’s expenses to cover damages to goods This claim was closed in November 2017 with a co-insurance and operating losses resulting from these damages were about payment of €20 million; €8.7 million, including taxes.  January 2018: The Doubs river overflowed, flooding the FCM The coverage for buildings and equipment is based on new plant in Beaulieu. The flood damaged numerous machines, replacement value. Coverage is organized around a Master destroyed inventories and led to a production stoppage of policy, which includes direct coverage for the freedom of about 24 hrs. The claim is being processed for an amount of services area, with local policies for subsidiaries in countries about €4.8 million less deductible; located outside this area.  May 2018: an explosion at the Meridian plant at Eaton Rapids The premiums applicable to the capital at risk (direct loss in Michigan, which produces magnesium parts, disrupted and annual gross margin) are directly dependent on the several GM, Chrysler, BMW, and Mercedes Benz customers for HPR classification given to the site following an audit by the almost a month and led to a loss in profits for Faurecia. The insurance company. claim is being processed for an amount of about €7 million less deductible. / Registration document 2018 151 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management Insurance and coverage of risks Following the Recticel and Beaulieu losses, two prevention Damage insurance is supplemented by builder’s risk insurance initiatives were introduced: and insurance covering the transportation of goods or equipment and political risk.  implementation with purchases of an assessment routine and reduction of fire or natural risks on critical supplier sites; Transport insurance was renewed with Allianz in 2017.  technical and economical assessment of the costs of securing sites exposed to a high risk of flooding. 2.3.2. Liability insurance Since January 1, 2013, Faurecia’s liability has been covered surge in claims for physical injuries was recorded. This increase by a coinsurance group led by AXA. Liability insurance covers in claims affects the terms of the liability insurance plan. operating liability, product liability after delivery, including The Groups’ liability insurance schedule also includes specific the risk of product recall. Liability insurance takes the form policies such as environmental liability insurance and coverage of a Master policy combined with local policies taken out in of liability for damages resulting from accidents caused by countries where Faurecia has subsidiaries. employees’ occupational illnesses. Several claims were filed in the United States and in Europe In 2018, the Group paid approximately €7.3 million (inclusive of between 2014 and 2018; most of them are still under all tax) in premiums for its civil liability policies. investigation. Following an accident in the United States, a 2.3.3. Insurance related to information systems On January 1, 2017, Faurecia took out a cyber risk policy from following a paralysis of the information systems and Faurecia’s CHUBB and AXA that covers potential business interruption civil liability in the event of a claim following a cyber event. 152 / Registration document 2018 3 Governance and capital stock 3.1 Corporate governance 154 3.1.1. Board of Directors 154 3.1.2. The Executive Committee 203 3.1.3. The Group Leadership Committee 204 3.2. Capital stock and shareholder structure 205 3.2.1. Faurecia’s capital stock 205 3.2.2. Share price 224 / Registration document 2018 153 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance 3.1 Corporate governance 3.1.1. Board of Directors The information below constitutes the corporate governance offer, is shown in Section 3.2, Capital stock and shareholder Section as provided for by the last paragraph of Article L. 225structure, and in Section 6, Other Information, of this Registration 37 of the French Code of commerce in the version arising from Document. Order No. 2017-1162 of July 12, 2017. The AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed Other information included in this Section, as required by companies is the Code adopted by the Board of Directors as Articles L. 225-37-4 and L. 225-37-5 of the French Code of its reference framework. It can be consulted on the MEDEF commerce, in particular, the description of factors likely to have website (www.medef.fr). an impact in the event of a public takeover bid or exchange 3.1.1.1. Composition and conditions for the preparation and organization of the work of the Board of Directors 3.1.1.1.1. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In accordance with Article 11 of the bylaws, Faurecia’s Board The term of office of Board members representing employees, of Directors comprises at least three members and a maximum appointed in accordance with Article L. 225-27-1 of the French of fifteen members, excluding Board members representing Code of commerce, was also set at four years by resolution of employees, appointed in accordance with Article L. 225-27-1 the General Meeting held on May 30, 2017. of the French Code of commerce, in accordance with the Neither the bylaws nor the internal rules of the Board of Directors procedures described in Article 12 of the bylaws. contain rules for staggered terms of office. The General Meeting of May 27, 2015 resolved to reduce the The Board of Directors has no advisors (Censeurs). term of office of the Board members appointed or reappointed from five to four years as from that Meeting, the ongoing terms of office ending on their initial expiry date. 154 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance As of December 31, 2018, Faurecia’s Board of Directors had 15 members: Number of corporate ofﬁces *** in listed companies Length of GenNumber of (excluding Date of 1st time on Age* der Nationality shares* Faurecia) appointment End of term Board** Committees* 1. EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICER Mr. Patrick KOLLER Chief Executive GM in 2021 to Ofﬁcer and Board French/ GM of approve the ﬁnancial member 59 years M German 59,475 1 May 30, 2017 statements for 2020 2 years 2. INDEPENDENT BOARD MEMBERS Mr. Michel de ROSEN Chairman GM in 2020 to Chairman of the Board GM of approve the ﬁnancial of the of Directors 67 years M French 5,944 2 May 27, 2016 statements for 2019 3 years Governance Mr. Éric GM in 2019 to Member of the BOURDAIS DE GM of Feb. 8 approve the ﬁnancial Governance CHARBONNIÈRE 79 years M French 500 0 2010 statements for 2018 9 years Committee GM in 2020 to Chairwoman Mrs. Odile GM of approve the ﬁnancial of the Audit DESFORGES 68 years W French 500 4 May 27, 2016 statements for 2019 3 years Committee GM in 2019 to Member of the Mr. Hans-Georg GM of approve the ﬁnancial Management HÄRTER 73 years M German 726 0 May 26, 2010 statements for 2018 9 years Committee Chairwoman GM in 2020 to of the Mrs. Linda GM of approve the ﬁnancial Management HASENFRATZ 52 years W Canadian 500 2 May 26, 2011 statements for 2019 8 years Committee GM in 2021 to Member of the Mrs. Penelope GM of approve the ﬁnancial Management HERSCHER 58 years W American 500 3 May 30, 2017 statements for 2020 2 years Committee BM of GM in 2021 to 1 year Member of Mrs. Valérie October 12, approve the ﬁnancial and 7 the Audit LANDON 56 years W French 500 1 2017 statements for 2020 months Committee GM in 2019 to Member of the Mrs. Bernadette GM of approve the ﬁnancial Governance SPINOY 56 years W Belgian 1,000 1 May 27, 2014 statements for 2018 5 years Committee 3. BOARD MEMBERS AFFILIATED WITH THE SHAREHOLDER PSA GM in 2020 to Member of Mrs. Olivia GM of approve the ﬁnancial the Audit LARMARAUD 60 years W French 20 0 May 27, 2016 statements for 2019 3 years Committee BD of GM in 2019 to Mr. Grégoire October 10, approve the ﬁnancial 7 OLIVIER 58 years M French 100 0 2018 statements for 2018 months GM in 2021 to Member of the Mr. Robert GM of approve the ﬁnancial Management PEUGEOT 68 years M French 500 4 May 29, 2007 statements for 2020 12 years Committee GM in 2021 to Member of the Mr. Philippe BM of July 19, approve the ﬁnancial 10 Governance de ROVIRA 45 years M French 20 0 2018 statements for 2020 months Committee 4. BOARD MEMBER REPRESENTING EMPLOYEES Mr. Daniel November 1 years 6 BERNARDINO 48 years M Portuguese 0 1, 2017 October 31, 2021 months Mr. Emmanuel November 1 years 6 PIOCHE 53 years M French 0 1, 2017 October 31, 2021 months * As of December 31, 2018. ** As of May 28, 2019, the date of the next Annual General Meeting. *** Excluding permanent representative function. / Registration document 2018 155 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance The following changes were made to the composition of the Board of Directors during the year: Date Departure Appointment Reappointment May 29, 2018 Mr. Jean-Pierre CLAMADIEU Mr. Jean-Baptiste July 19, 2018 CHASSELOUP DE CHATILLON Mr. Philippe de ROVIRA (replacing Mr. Jean-Baptiste 2021 AGM to approve the July 19, 2018 CHASSELOUP de CHATILLON) ﬁnancial statements for 2020 September 27, 2018 Mr. Carlos TAVARES October 10, 2018 Mr. Grégoire OLIVIER 2019 AGM to approve the replacing Mr. Carlos TAVARES) ﬁnancial statements for 2018 Information on the expertise and experience of the corporate officers and details of their terms of office and other positions held by them are provided in Section 3.1.1.2. 3.1.1.1.1.1. Governance structure Separation of the positions of the Chairman of the Board of He must: Directors and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  promote the highest standards of integrity, probity and 2016 was marked by a major change in the Group’s corporate governance across the Group, particularly at the governance, namely the segregation of the duties of the Board level, thus ensuring the effectiveness thereof; Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer as from July 1, 2016.  manage the relations between Board members and the Chairs of the committees and, in this respect: At its meeting on April 13, 2016, the Board of Directors resolved to appoint Yann Delabrière, who had served as Chairman and  promote effective working relations and open Chief Executive Officer since February 16, 2007, as Chairman communication, and foster an environment that enables of the Board of Directors and Patrick Koller, who had served as constructive discussions and the sharing of information Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer between Board members and the Chief Executive Officer, since February 2, 2015, as Chief Executive Officer. during and outside meetings, At its meeting on April 11, 2017, the Board of Directors resolved  lead and govern the Board so as to create the conditions to appoint Michel de Rosen as Chairman of the Board of required for the overall effectiveness of the Board and Directors with effect from the end of the General Meeting of its members, and ensure that all key and relevant issues May 30, 2017, to replace Yann Delabrière, whose term of office are adequately prepared and discussed by the Board of as a Board member, which came to an end on that same date, Directors and the various committees in a timely fashion, was not renewed.  schedule and set the agenda of the Board meetings, During that same meeting, Patrick Koller, the Chief Executive in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the Officer, was appointed as a Board member. Secretary of the Board, to take full account of the Group’s major challenges and issues raised by Board members, and Given the segregation of the duties of the Chairman of the ensure that sufficient time is devoted to thoroughly discuss Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer effective as significant and strategic matters, from July 1, 2016, the internal rules of the Board of Directors were revised to reflect, among others, this new mode of governance.  address any conflicts of interest,  conduct, with the help of the Governance Committee, Role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors assessments of the Board of Directors, searches for new Under the terms of the internal rules of the Board of Directors, Board members and their induction program; the role of the Chairman is defined as follows:  organize, with the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairs The Chairman organizes and directs the work of the Board of the various committees, the preparation of and chair of Directors and ensures the effective operation of the Board General Meetings, oversee the relations and ensure effective and its committees, in accordance with good governance communication with shareholders; principles. 156 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance  manage the relation with the Chief Executive Officer:  reviewing developments in governance-related issues in order to take into account legislative and regulatory  act as a competent advisor for the Chief Executive Officer changes; on all issues regarding the interests and management of the Company,  monitoring the Group’s strategic activities with the Chief Executive Officer.  ensure that the strategies and policies adopted by the Board are effectively implemented by the Chief Executive Officer; without prejudice to the prerogatives of the Board 3.1.1.1.1.2. Diversity policy within the Board of Directors and its committees, regularly informed by the of Directors Chief Executive Officer about significant events concerning Principles the Company’s strategy, in line with the objectives set by the Board of Directors, as well as about major external According to its internal rules, the Board of Directors ensures that growth projects, significant financial transactions, societal the necessary measures are taken to diversify its composition, in actions, or appointments of Business Group managers and accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Governance Code of listed other key positions within the Company. The Chairman corporations and applicable regulations. receives from the Chief Executive Officer all information The Governance Committee, which is responsible for making necessary to coordinate the work of the Board of Directors recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the and its committees; appointment and reappointment of Board members, takes  coordinate or conduct specific projects. In particular, at the following criteria into account: the request of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman  the independence of Board members; may represent the Company before stakeholders, public authorities, financial institutions, major shareholders and/or  the need for Board members to have the necessary expertise key business partners. and experience to carry out their duties successfully; In 2018, Michel de Rosen coordinated the work of the Board  gender balance on the Board of Directors; of Directors in accordance with the bylaws and the internal  international diversity so as to reflect the Group’s global rules and prioritized the introduction of practices to improve footprint; and the way in which the Board operates. He took an active role in the following:  the complementary nature of the skills required for the work of the Board of Directors.  committee work and reviews and attendance at committee meetings; In order to evaluate the skills and profiles required of the membership of the Board of Directors, the Committee refers  the process of recruiting new Board members and, generally to a skills matrix (see below), and to the principles set out above speaking, discussions about changes to the Board of Directors when new candidates are being sought, also taking account and its composition; of the most appropriate size of the Board of Directors.  steering the assessment and the selection process of an external firm to perform this exercise; / Registration document 2018 157 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Implementing the diversity policy within Faurecia’s Board of Directors Skills The table below summarizes the principal areas of expertise and experience of the Board members as of December 31, 2018: Governance/ Speciﬁc Experience in AutomoInternatioBanking/ Artiﬁcial Management knowledge of Faurecia’s core tive technal expeFinance/Risk intelligence/ of large a geographic businesses nologies rience management Industry CSR Digital companies market Mr. Daniel BERNARDINO x x Mr. Éric BOURDAIS DE CHARBONNIÈRE x x x x x Mrs. Odile DESFORGES x x x x Mr. Hans-Georg HÄRTER x x x x x x Mrs. Linda HASENFRATZ x x x x x x Mrs. Penelope HERSCHER x x x x x x Mr. Patrick KOLLER x x x x x Mrs. Valérie LANDON x x Mrs. Olivia LARMARAUD x x x Mr. Grégoire OLIVIER x x x x x Mr. Robert PEUGEOT x x x x x x Mr. Emmanuel PIOCHE x x Mr. Michel de ROSEN x x x x x Mr. Philippe de ROVIRA x x x x Mrs. Bernadette SPINOY x x x x Balanced representation of men and women Independence As of December 31, 2018, the Board of Directors had six women As of December 31, 2018, the Board of Directors had eight members. independent Board members. On that date, the composition of the Board was therefore Future changes to the Board of Directors consistent with the provisions on gender balance on Boards At the General Meeting of May 28, 2019, the nominations of of Directors and equal opportunity as stipulated by the law Yan Mei, Peter Mertens and Denis Mercier will be submitted to of January 27, 2011. Board members representing employees shareholders for approval. within the meaning of Article L. 225-27-1 of the French Code of commerce are not taken into account in this calculation. These nominations will improve the skills of the Board of Directors in the following areas: Employee representation  the German and international automotive industry; As of December 31, 2018, the Board of Directors has two Board members representing employees, in accordance with  the Asian market; Article L. 225-27-1 of the French Code of commerce introduced  leadership, crisis management and digitization. by the French Employment Protection Act of June 14, 2013, as amended by the French Employment and Labor Relations Act The profiles of these three candidate Board members are set of August 17, 2015. out in Section 5.4. Since January 1, 2019, one of these Board members is a member of the Management Committee and the other Board member is a member of the Audit Committee. 158 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance 3.1.1.1.1.3. Independence of members of the Board  not have been the Company’s Statutory Auditor in the past of Directors five years; The composition of the Board of Directors complies with  not be a Company Board member for more than 12 years. the AFEP-MEDEF Code which provides that, in controlled The Board of Directors, based on the Governance Committee’s companies, at least one third of Board members must be report, reviews the independent status of each of its members independent. Board members representing employees are at least once a year and the independence of each new not included when calculating this percentage. member upon their appointment. In addition, at least two thirds of the members of the Audit Regarding more specially the business relationship criteria, at its Committee must be independent, and the committees meeting of December 21, 2016 and on the recommendation responsible for appointments and compensation must have a of the Governance Committee which met on the same date, majority of independent members. the Board decided that the business relationship condition As will be detailed below, the composition of the Board should be examined using a multi-criteria approach including and committees of Faurecia is consistent with these a qualitative analysis which will be detailed in the Registration recommendations. Document when necessary, this being one of the Board’s internal rules. Pursuant to the Code, a Board member is independent when they have no relation of any kind whatsoever with At its meeting of February 15, 2019 and on the recommendation the Company, its Group or its management which might of the Governance Committee which met on February 13, compromise the exercise of their free judgment. 2019, the Board of Directors reviewed the situation of each of its members based on the AFEP-MEDEF Code’s independence The independence criteria provided for in the AFEP-MEDEF criteria. It used the multi-criteria approach, including a Code are reflected in the internal rules of the Board of Directors qualitative analysis, in order to assess the business relationship and are as follows: condition and its materiality.  not be or have been, in the past five years, an employee or The Governance Committee’s recommendation is largely executive corporate officer of the Company; an employee, based on an assessment of the relationships, contracts and executive corporate officer or Board member of a company partnerships existing between Faurecia and the company directly, or indirectly holding over 10% of its capital stock; an or the group in which the Board member has an executive employee, executive corporate officer or Board member of management position, conducted with the following: a consolidated subsidiary; production purchases and non-production purchases, R&D  not be an executive corporate officer of a company in which and finance. the Company directly or indirectly holds the office of Board The Committee also used responses to a specific questionnaire member or in which an employee appointed as such or an directed at Board members considered independent. executive corporate officer of the Company (currently or who has held such an office for less than five years) holds Its assessment revealed that none of the Board members the office of Board member; considered to be independent had material business relationships with Faurecia.  not have a business relationship with Faurecia that would represent a significant business activity with the company or the group in which the Board member has an executive management position;  not have close family ties with a corporate officer; / Registration document 2018 159 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance The conclusions reached by the Board of Directors at its February 15, 2019 meeting as a result of the review are reflected in the summary table below: Independence of Board members* Eric BOURDAIS DE Odile DESFORGES Hans-Georg HÄRTER Linda HASENFRATZ Penelope HERSCHER Patrick KOLLER Valérie LANDON Olivia LARMARAUD Grégoire OLIVIER Robert PEUGEOT Michel de ROSEN CHARBONNIERE Philippe de ROVIRA Bernadette SPINOY Criteria Employee or corporate ofﬁcer, during the past ﬁve years, of a company No No No No No Yes No Yes Yes Yes No Yes No owning directly or indirectly more than 10% of the shares Cross-directorships No No No No No No No No No No No No No Signiﬁcant business relationship and No No No No No No No No Yes No No Yes No executive management position Family relationship No No No No No No No No No No No No No Statutory Auditors No No No No No No No No No No No No No Term of ofﬁce more than 12 years No No No No No No No No No No No No No Status of non-executive corporate No ofﬁcer Situation of the Board member Independent Not independent. * In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, Board members representing employees are not counted when calculating the percentage of independent Board members. Therefore, and according to the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF confidentiality in deliberations as well as diligence when taking Code, as of December 31, 2018 Faurecia’s Board of Directors part in the Board’s work. was made up of 8 independent Board members out of 13, i.e. The internal rules are made available to shareholders at the more than one third of Board members were independent. Company’s registered office and also online at www.faurecia. com. 3.1.1.1.2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The internal rules provide for the following tasks to be performed OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS by the Board of Directors: In accordance with current legal and statutory provisions, the  determining strategic priorities: determination and monitoring Board of Directors is a collective body that determines the of the implementation of decisions regarding the Company’s Company’s business strategy and oversees its implementation. main strategic, economic, financial, technological and Subject to the powers explicitly attributed to shareholder’s environmental strategies. meetings and within the limits of the business purpose, the Board considers any questions affecting the proper operation of the The medium-term direction of the Group’s activities is defined Company, and Board decisions settle matters concerning it. by a strategic plan. The draft of this plan is prepared and The Chairman consults it on all Company and Group strategic presented by the Chief Executive Officer before being decisions. adopted by the Board of Directors. The Board’s internal rules detail the roles and responsibilities In addition, as part of internal procedures, the Chief Executive of the Board of Directors and its committees. They describe Officer must obtain approval from the Board of Directors the roles of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the before carrying out any acquisition, disposal, or joint venture Secretary of the Board. They detail the Board’s modus operandi project representing a total asset value of over €100 million and specify that its work must be assessed on an annual basis. and/or with sales in excess of €300 million. Likewise, any The internal rules specify the rights and responsibilities of Board significant transaction that is not included in the Company’s members, particularly regarding the prevention of conflicts of strategic plan must be approved by the Board beforehand; interest, the holding of multiple offices, and the need for strict 160 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance  governance and management: In this respect, risk monitoring and management are reviewed at least annually following a presentation by the  review of governance structure: determination of Audit Committee; Faurecia’s executive management procedures, creation of committees of the Board of Directors, appointment of  budget and planning: their members, determination of their tasks and operating  approval of the annual budget, procedures,  periodic review of the Group’s business and of budget  co-option of, and proposals to appoint or reappoint, execution, Board members, appointment or reappointment of the Chairman,  approval of planning items and related reports;  preparation and regular monitoring of the succession plan  financial position, financing and security issues: for executive and non-executive corporate officers,  quarterly review of the Group’s financial and cash position  compensation for the Chairman and Board members, as well as contingent liabilities,  governance assessment: work of the Board and its  decision to carry out bond and other complex security committees; assessment of the independence of Board issues that are not likely to involve a capital increase, as members, well as share issues under the authority delegated by the Extraordinary General Meeting,  appointment or reappointment of the Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive Officers and  ocarrying out transactions impacting the capital under the determination of their compensation, authority delegated by the Extraordinary General Meeting;  implementation of stock option plans, performance share  General Meeting: plans and any other type of long-term compensation, and  convening General Meetings and setting the agenda. approval of beneficiaries thereof,  authorization of regulated agreements and undertakings 3.1.1.1.3. ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK within the meaning of French law, OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  notice prior to the acceptance of a new term of office in Under the terms of its internal rules, the Board of Directors a listed company by an executive corporate officer, meets at least four times per year, as provided by the bylaws,  authorization of sureties, endorsements and guarantees, to discuss the agenda items listed by the Chairman. The allocation of an annual amount of sureties to be issued by Chairman convenes the Board meetings and communicates the Chief Executive Officer and determination of the terms their agendas. and conditions thereof, By way of exception, the internal rules specify that it should  monitoring of the implementation of the policy on meet at least once per year without the Chief Executive Officer nondiscrimination and diversity within the Company’s in attendance to assess the performance of said officer and management bodies in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF discuss governance issues. Code and applicable regulations; Sufficient time must be devoted during each Board meeting to  financial statements and relations with Statutory Auditors: usefully and thoroughly discuss the agenda items.  approval of the annual parent company financial The Chairman, assisted by the Secretary of the Board of statements and annual and interim consolidated Directors, is responsible for communicating the information financial statements and preparation of the Company and documents required for the Board meetings to the Board management and Group management reports, members in a timely manner.  verification of the relevance, consistency and proper In this context, the Board’s internal rules provide that each application of the accounting policies used to prepare Board member must inform the Board of Directors of any the financial statements, specific conflict of interests, even if it is only potential, and refrain from voting on the relevant resolution and attending  monitoring of the process for preparing the financial Board meetings during the period in which they find themselves information, in a situation of a conflict of interests, or even resign from their  selection of the Statutory Auditors whose appointment position as a Board member. In case of non-compliance with will be submitted for shareholder approval at the General these rules of abstention or withdrawal, the Board member Meeting, and verification of compliance with the rules that could be held liable. In case of conflict of interest, the Board guarantee their independence especially regarding the member concerned will not receive documentation relating amount of their compensation; to the Board meeting(s) in question.  internal control and risk management: No such situations arose in 2018.  monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control and Outside their meetings, Board members receive from the risk management systems and the regular review of Chairman important or urgent information relevant to the opportunities and risks (financial, legal, operational, social Company and the Group. They also receive press releases and environmental), distributed by the Company.  supervising the introduction of a system to prevent and detect corruption and influence peddling. / Registration document 2018 161 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Any additional information or document requested by a Board To optimize its discussions, the Board of Directors established member is automatically communicated to all other Board committees in accordance with Article R. 225-29 of the members. French Code of commerce. Such information and documents may be provided during a As of December 31, 2018, the following committees were Board meeting should privacy or timeliness considerations so active: require.  a Governance Committee, whose role is to deal with In accordance with the laws, a Board member may specifically all corporate governance issues. In this respect, the designate another Board member to represent her/him at Committee assesses the Company’s governance structure Board meetings. and its executive management procedures, making recommendations where necessary. It may also provide Subject to applicable laws and regulations, the meetings of the opinions at the request of other Board committees. Board of Directors may take place by video conference or any Furthermore, the Committee manages the process for other means of telecommunication, in particular to allow for appointing the Board members and the Chairman of the the actual participation of Board members who are unable to Board of Directors, reviews the overall amount of attendance attend the meetings in person. fees and their allocation among the members, and directs In the situation referred to above: the corporate governance assessment process (assessment of the work of the Board members and committees,  any Board members who attend the meeting by video assessment of the members’ independence status); conference or any other means of telecommunication are deemed present for the purposes of quorum and majority.  a Management Committee, which handles issues related to the selection and compensation, including long-term The Board thus validly deliberates if at least half of its members compensation, of the Company’s Executive Management. attend the Meeting in person or by video conference or any More generally, this Committee deals with issues related to other means of telecommunication; the performance, selection and compensation, including  the video conference or any other means of long-term compensation, of the main executives of telecommunication used must meet the technical the Company (Executive Committee members, Group specifications that guarantee the effective participation Leadership Committee); of each attendee. The deliberations must be transmitted  an Audit Committee whose main role is to review the in a continuous and simultaneous manner. Adequate process for approving the annual parent company financial arrangements are to be made for the identification of each statements and the annual and interim consolidated participant and verification of the quorum; the attendance financial statements, as well as the process for preparing the register for the meetings of the Board of Directors must financial information. It is responsible for maintaining relations mention, where applicable, the participation by video with the Statutory Auditors and managing their selection conference or any other means of telecommunication of and independence. It also monitors internal control and risk the Board members concerned; management procedures. The Audit Committee examines  the meeting minutes must indicate the name(s) of the Board the budget, monitors its execution and reviews planning member(s) participating by video conference or any other documents. Lastly, it reviews the Group’s financial position means of telecommunication. Meeting minutes must also and planned security issues. indicate any technical incident relating to video conference These committees have a purely internal role in preparing some or any other telecommunication means that disrupted the of the Board’s deliberations. They issue proposals, opinions, and Meeting, including any interruption and restoration of the recommendations within their field of competence. remote participation; Each committee has its own internal rules approved by the  in case of a malfunction of the video conference system or Board of Directors which sets their composition, membership means of telecommunications noted by the Chairman of the rules and operating procedures, and specific roles. Meeting, the Board of Directors may validly deliberate and/ or continue the Meeting only with the members attending The committees report on their work to the Board of Directors in person, provided that the quorum requirements are met; after each meeting and perform a self-assessment of their activities on an annual basis.  the above provisions do not apply to the adoption of the decisions referred to in Articles L. 232-1 and L. 233-16 of the French Code of commerce related, respectively, to the preparation of the parent company financial statements and management report, and the preparation of the Group consolidated financial statements and management report. 162 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance 3.1.1.1.4. REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES IN 2018 The table below indicates the attendance of each Member at the meetings of the Board and its committees, as applicable, in 2018. Board of Directors Individual attendance Feb. 15 April 19 Jul. 19 Sept. 10 Oct. 10 Dec. 19 rate % Daniel BERNARDINO X X X X X X 100% Eric BOURDAIS DE CHARBONNIERE X X X X X X 100% Jean-Baptiste CHASSELOUP DE CHATILLON X X X 100% Jean-Pierre CLAMADIEU X X 100% Odile DESFORGES X X X X X X 100% Hans-Georg HÄRTER X X X X X X 100% Linda HASENFRATZ X X X X X Abs. 83.33% Penelope HERSCHER X X X X X X 100% Patrick KOLLER X X X X X X 100% Valérie LANDON X X X X X X 100% Olivia LARMARAUD X X X X X X 100% Grégoire OLIVIER X X 100% Robert PEUGEOT X X X X X X 100% Emmanuel PIOCHE X X X X X X 100% Michel de ROSEN X X X X X X 100% Philippe de ROVIRA X X X 100% Bernadette SPINOY X X X X X X 100% Carlos TAVARES X Abs. X X 75% OVERALL ATTENDANCE RATE (%) 100% 93.75% 100% 100% 100% 93.33% 97.83% Audit Committee Individual Feb. 13 Feb. 22 April 17 Jun. 4 Jul. 18 Oct. 5 Dec. 17 attendance rate % Odile DESFORGES X X X X X X X 100% Valérie LANDON X X X X X X X 100% Olivia LARMARAUD X X X X X X X 100% OVERALL ATTENDANCE RATE (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Governance Committee Individual Feb. 8 April, 13 Jul. 16 Oct. 10 Dec. 17 attendance rate % Eric BOURDAIS DE CHARBONNIERE X X X X X 100% Jean-Baptiste CHASSELOUP DE CHATILLON X X X 100% Jean-Pierre CLAMADIEU X X 100% Michel de ROSEN X X X 100% Philippe de ROVIRA X X 100% Bernadette SPINOY X X X X X 100% OVERALL ATTENDANCE RATE (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% / Registration document 2018 163 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Management Committee Individual Feb. 12 April 13 Jul. 16 Dec. 14 attendance rate % Hans-Georg HÄRTER X X X X 100% Linda HASENFRATZ X X X X 100% Penelope HERSCHER X X X X 100% Robert PEUGEOT X X X X 100% OVERALL ATTENDANCE RATE (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 3.1.1.1.4.1. The Board’s work in 2018 The Board of Directors met six times in 2018. The overall attendance rate was 97.83%. The main items discussed at these meetings are shown below. Given that the discussions were about the amount of compensation paid to the Chief Executive Officer and the assessment of said officer, the meetings were held without the Chief Executive Officer being present: Attendance Date Main items discussed rate February 15, Financial statements and other issues of a ﬁnancial nature 100% 2018  Review and approval of the 2017 parent company ﬁnancial statements and the consolidated ﬁnancial statements;  Proposal to pay a cash dividend of €1.10;  Approval of the press release reporting the results for 2017 and full-year guidance for 2018;  Authorization of a bond issue with a maximum value of €750 million. Strategy  Update on strategic projects. Compensation  Setting the amount of the variable compensation payable to Patrick Koller as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for 2017;  Setting the criteria for determining the variable compensation payable to Patrick Koller as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for 2018;  Setting the ﬁxed compensation payable to Patrick Koller as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for 2018;  Acknowledgment of the fulﬁllment of the 2017 supplementary pension scheme annuities for members of the Executive Committee;  Acknowledgment of the achievement of the internal performance condition contained in Performance Shares Plan No. 7; Governance  Conversion of Faurecia into a European company: agreement on the conversion agreement and draft bylaws;  Acknowledgment of the resignation Jean-Pierre Clamadieu with effect from the General Meeting of May 29, 2018, and decision to change the membership of the Governance Committee from the same date;  Review of the results of the assessment of the work of the Board of Directors and its committees for 2017;  Assessment of the Board members’ independence status;  The decision to propose an increase in the total amount of attendance fees from the 2018 ﬁscal year;  Decision to implement the so-called intercontinental attendance fee for Board members residing outside France;  General Meeting  Review of the ﬁrst draft of the resolutions to be submitted to the General Meeting of May 29, 2018;  Review of the Risks and CSR sections of the 2017 Registration Document. 164 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Attendance Date Main items discussed rate April 19, 2018 Financial statements and other issues of a ﬁnancial nature 93.75%  Review of sales for the ﬁrst quarter of 2018 and approval of the related press release (including full-year guidance for 2018);  Review of forecasts for the 1st half of 2018;  Update on the Capital Markets Day on May 15, 2018; Strategy  Update on strategic projects with particular focus on Cockpit of the Future-related projects and potential targets, including the Japanese company, Clarion. Risk review Governance  Composition of the Board of Directors: review in preparation for the General Meeting of May 28, 2019. Compensation  Speciﬁc review of ex-ante and ex-post Say on Pay mechanisms applicable to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chairman of the Board;  Acknowledgment of the achievement of the external performance condition contained in Performance Shares Plan No. 7. General Meeting  Convening the Combined General Meeting of May 29, 2018, agreeing the agenda and resolutions submitted to shareholders for approval;  Adoption of the 2017 Registration Document. Other topics  Decision to continue the liquidity contract subject to renewal of the share buyback authorization by the General Meeting of May 29, 2018. July 19, 2018 Financial statements and other issues of a ﬁnancial nature 100%  Review and approval of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁrst half of 2018 and the half-yearly management report;  Approval of the press release reporting the half-year results for 2018 and full-year guidance for 2018;  Review of forecasts for the 2nd half of 2018;  Call for tenders for the renewal of the Statutory Auditors: choice of two ﬁrms whose appointment will be submitted for the approval of the General Meeting on May 28, 2019;  Authorization to implement the share buy-back program on the basis of the 12th resolution of the General Meeting of May 29, 2018. Strategy  Update on strategic projects with a particular focus on progress with discussions with the shareholder of the Japanese company, Clarion. Governance  Acknowledgment of the resignation of Jean-Baptiste Chasseloup de Chatillon and the co-option of Philippe de Rovira;  Review of the independence of Philippe de Rovira;  Decision to change the membership of the Governance Committee;  Decision to appoint a Board member representing employees to the Management Committee and Audit Committee and effective date of their appointment. Compensation  Nature of the shares due to be issued in the context of the vesting date of Performance Shares Plan No. 6;  Decision to award a Performance Share Plan Nos. 10 and 10b: approval of plan rules and list of beneﬁciaries. Other topics  Renewal of the authorization given to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer to grant sureties, endorsements and guarantees. / Registration document 2018 165 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Attendance Date Main items discussed rate September 10, Review of the potential acquisition of Clarion and the authorization to complete this transaction. 100% 2018 October 10, Financial statements and other issues of a ﬁnancial nature 100% 2018  Review of sales for the 3rd quarter of 2018 and approval of the related press release (including full-year guidance for 2018). Strategy  Update on the proposed acquisition of Clarion;  Review of the most signiﬁcant trends in the automotive sector;  Review of Faurecia’s strategic and commercial priorities;  Speciﬁc update on the situation in China;  Special update on Faurecia Convictions in the area of CSR. Governance  Acknowledgment of the resignation of Carlos Tavares and co-option of Grégoire Olivier;  Review of the independence of Grégoire Olivier;  Composition of the Board of Directors: review in preparation for the General Meeting of May 28, 2019;  Approval of the launch of the assessment of the operation of the Board and its committees in 2018 carried out by a consultant, and involving an assessment of the individual contribution of each Board member;  Decision to transfer the registered ofﬁce with effect from November 1, 2018. Other topics  Review, in accordance with Article L. 225-37-1 of the French Code of commerce, of the issue of equal opportunities and equal pay. December 19, Financial statements and other issues of a ﬁnancial nature 93.33% 2018  Review of results forecasts for 2018;  Approval of the 2019 budget;  Authorization of a bond issue with a maximum value of €700 million;  Authorization to implement the share buy-back program on the basis of the 12th resolution of the General Meeting of May 29, 2018. Strategy  Progress report on the Clarion acquisition process. Governance  Annual review of regulated agreements and undertakings;  Composition of the Board of Directors: review in preparation for the General Meeting of May 28, 2019;  Amendment of the internal rules of the Board of Directors and of the Audit Committee;  Acknowledgment of the deﬁnitive conversion of Faurecia into a European company. 3.1.1.1.4.2. The Audit Committee particular the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s)). Composition of the Audit Committee The Committee must not include individuals with crossUnder the terms of its internal rules, the composition of the directorships (within the meaning of Article 14.1 of the AFEPCommittee is decided by the Board and it can change the MEDEF Code). composition at any time. At least two-thirds of the committee’s members must be The Committee is composed of at least three members and no independent. The independence of Committee members is more than five members. Members are selected from among assessed according to the independence criteria defined by the Board members. They cannot be represented at committee the internal rules of the Board of Directors and the AFEP-MEDEF meetings. Code. The term of office of Committee members is the same as that Committee members must have special expertise in finance, of their term of office as Board members. The Committee accounting or auditing. Required expertise is assessed based member’s term of office may be renewed at the same time on professional experience, academic training and/or specific as their term of office as Board member. knowledge of the Company’s business. The Board of Directors appoints a committee Chairman from By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chief Financial among its members for a term identical to that of their term Officer, certain representatives of the Finance department of office. The Secretary of the Committee is appointed by the (such as the directors of Financial Control, Internal Audit, Committee Chairman. Internal Control, and Treasury) or members of the Executive The Committee may only be composed of members of Committee attend committee meetings. Faurecia’s Board of Directors who are not executives (in 166 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Upon convening notice sent by the Committee Chairman, The Committee’s composition complies with the two thirds cap the Statutory Auditors attend committee meetings when an recommended by the AFEP-MEDEF Code, as reflected by the agenda item requires their presence. Committee’s internal rules. The Committee may also call on external experts, as necessary, Since January 1, 2019 Emmanuel Pioche, Board member ensuring their competence and independence. representing employees, has joined the Committee. There were no changes to the composition of the Audit Missions of the Audit Committee Committee during the year. As of December 31, 2018, the Audit Committee has three members: The Committee studies and prepares some of the Board’s deliberations. It issues proposals, opinions, and recommendations  Odile Desforges, Chairwoman; within its field of competence. The Committee only has a  Valérie Landon; consultative role and acts under the authority of the Board of Directors to which it reports whenever necessary and for which  Olivia Larmaraud. it cannot serve as a substitute. The Committee therefore has two independent members, In general, the Committee reviews, when necessary, any including its Chair, who, among others, also chairs Safran’s Audit financial or accounting matter submitted to it by the Chairman and Risk Committee. of the Board of Directors. The other two Committee members are also financial/ accounting experts as can be seen from their profiles which appear in Section 3.1.1.2.1. The Committee’s internal rules specifically provide for the following responsibilities: Audits of financial statements  The Committee is responsible for reviewing the annual parent company financial statements and annual and interim consolidated financial statements of the Faurecia group so as to report to the Board on the results of the statutory audit, the contribution of the audit to the integrity of the financial and non-financial information related to the statement of performance contained in the management report and the role the Committee played in this process. In this regard, the Committee must: i. review the financial statements and related management reports; ii. ensure the relevance, permanence and proper application of the accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements, primarily by monitoring their preparation and assessing the validity of the methods selected for processing major transactions; iii. monitor the preparation of the financial information and, where necessary, formulate recommendations to safeguard its integrity; iv. during the review of the financial statements, examine the major transactions likely to give rise to a conflict of interests; v. ensure the adequate processing of major transactions at the Faurecia group level; vi. review the consolidation scope and, where necessary, the reasons for excluding certain companies therefrom; vii. monitor the statutory audits (where applicable, by taking into account the findings and conclusions of the French auditors supervisory body – Haut Conseil du Commissariat aux Comptes), ensure the implementation of Statutory Auditors’ recommendations, and call on Statutory Auditors during the meetings reviewing the financial statements and the preparation of the financial information to report on the execution of their audit and the conclusions of their work; viii. examine the financial communication media and formulate appropriate recommendations to the Board of Directors. The Committee’s review of the financial statements must be supported by (i) a presentation by management describing exposure to risks, including those of a social and environmental nature, and the Company’s off-balance-sheet commitments and (ii) a presentation by the Statutory Auditors highlighting the main items in both the results of the statutory audit, particularly adjustments arising from the audit and significant internal control weaknesses identified during the work, and the accounting options selected. / Registration document 2018 167 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Relationship with Statutory Auditors  The Committee manages the Statutory Auditors selection process and submits to the Board of Directors recommendations on the Statutory Auditors to be appointed or reappointed by the General Meeting, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No. 537-2014 dated April 16, 2014. It develops the Statutory Auditors selection principles and procedure (in particular through a call for tender, if necessary). It oversees any call for tender and approves its technical specification and the list of firms consulted, ensuring that the best and not the lowest bidder is selected.  The Committee ensures that Statutory Auditors meet the independence criteria, in particular those defined in the French Code of commerce and Regulation (EU) No. 5372014 dated April 16, 2014. In this respect, it reviews risks to their independence and the safeguards implemented to mitigate them with the Statutory Auditors. The Committee must specifically ensure that the fees paid by the Company and its Group, or the proportion that they represent of the revenue of the firms and their networks, are not likely to adversely impact the Statutory Auditors’ independence under the terms of Regulation (EU) No. 537-2014 dated April 16, 2014.  The Committee approves the provision of non-audit services.  The Statutory Auditors must give a presentation to the Committee on the following: i. their general work program and the tests performed; ii. changes they believe should be made to the financial statements or accounting records and their observations on the measurement methods used; iii. any non-conformities or misstatements found; iv. conclusions resulting from the observations and corrections mentioned above; v. at the date of presentation of the audit report, a supplementary audit report prepared pursuant (i) to Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No. 537-2014 dated April 16, 2014 and (ii) to Article L. 823-16 III of the French Code of commerce (as amended by Order No. 2016-315 dated March 17, 2016) and that discloses the results of the statutory audit. Every year they provide the Committee with the following: i. a statement of independence; ii. the amount of fees paid to the network of Statutory Auditors by entities controlled by the Company or its controlling entity for non-audit services, as well as the nature of those services; iii. information on other audit-related procedures and services. 168 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Internal control and risk  The Committee must obtain an understanding of and assess the internal control management procedures and more specifically monitor the effectiveness of the systems for internal control and systems to manage risks, including those risks of a social and environmental nature, and, where appropriate, Internal Audit systems, concerning the procedures for the preparation and processing of accounting, financial and non-financial information related to the declaration of performance contained in the management report, without prejudice to its independence.  The Committee must ensure the existence of internal control and risk management systems, the deployment and implementation thereof, and the implementation of corrective actions in the event of material weaknesses or misstatements of which it must inform the Board of Directors. In this context, the Committee is kept informed of the main findings of the Statutory Auditors and internal auditors. Therefore: i. the Statutory Auditors inform the Committee of any material weaknesses identified in the course of their work, concerning the procedures for the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information; ii. the Committee hears the directors of Internal Audit and Risk Management and advises on the organization of their departments. It must be informed of the Internal Audit Program and receive Internal Audit reports or periodic summaries of these reports.  At least once per year, the Committee must make a presentation to the Board of Directors on risk monitoring and control.  The Committee is also required to formulate recommendations to the Board of Directors to assist in the preparation of the Chairman’s report on internal control and risk management procedures. Budget and planning  The Committee examines and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors for the annual budget and carries out periodic reviews of the Group’s business and budget execution.  It reviews planning documents and related reports. Financial position, financing  The Committee carries out periodic reviews of the Group’s financial and cash position and security issues as well as its material contingent liabilities.  It examines and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors required for complex bond and other security issues not involving a capital increase, for share issues, or for carrying out transactions impacting the capital stock. Operation of the Audit Committee any other means of telecommunication. A committee duly The Committee meets at least twice per year, before the deliberates if at least half of its members attend the meeting approval of the annual and interim financial statements and in person or by video conference or any other means of as needed to carry out its duties. telecommunication. The time between the review of the financial statements by the The Committee reports on its work at the next meeting of the Committee and their review by the Board must be at least two Board of Directors. days. Exceptionally, the Committee Chairman may decide to The Secretary is responsible for organizing and attending the shorten this period to take into account the participation of committee meetings, as well as for preparing meeting minutes members who are not based in France. to be submitted to the Committee for approval at the next The Committee informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors meeting. without delay of any issues encountered during the course of The Committee establishes its annual work program based its work. on the results of its prior work and the current context of the Meetings are held at the registered office upon convening Company. notice sent by the Chairman and/or the Secretary of the Committee. They may also be held by video conference or / Registration document 2018 169 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Audit Committee activities in 2018 In 2018, the Audit Committee met six times with an overall attendance rate of 100%. The main items discussed at these meetings were as follows and the Statutory Auditors reported to the Committee at each of these meetings: Attendance Date Main items discussed rate February 13, 2018 Review of 2017 parent company and consolidated financial statements and the 100% (for report and consolidated management report recommendations Review of the proposal to pay a dividend to the Board of Review of the draft press release on the 2017 ﬁnancial statements and full-year guidance Directors’ meeting on for 2018 February 15, 2018) Presentation of the additional report from the Statutory Auditors required by the order of March 17, 2016 and on their 2017 fees Review of the Group’s cash position and update on banking covenants as of December 31, 2017 Review of the option to repay in advance an existing bond and launch of a new bond for a maximum amount of €750 million Review of a speciﬁc risk: cyber security Update on the call for tenders for the renewal of the Statutory Auditors in preparation for the General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Review of the Risks and CSR sections of the 2017 Registration Document. Review of the first draft of the resolutions to be submitted to the General Meeting of May 29, 2018 April 17, 2018 (for report Review of sales for the 1st quarter of 2018 and the related press release (including full-year 100% and recommendations guidance for 2018) to the Board of Review of forecasts for the 1st half of 2018 Directors’ meeting on Discussions in preparation for the Capital Markets Day on May 15, 2018 April 19, 2018) Risk review Review of Internal Control department activity in 2017 and 2018 work Review of the Statutory Auditors’ Audit Plan for 2018 Update on the continuation of the liquidity contract Update on the call for tenders for the renewal of the Statutory Auditors in preparation for the General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Review of the final version of resolutions for submission to the General Meeting of May 29, 2018 June 4, 2018 (for report Call for tenders for the renewal of the Statutory Auditors: interviewing of ﬁrms selected 100% and recommendations to the Board of Directors’ meeting on July 19, 2018) July 18, 2018 (for report Review of the 2018 half-year ﬁnancial statements and the half-year management report 100% and recommendations Review of the press release on the 2018 half-year ﬁnancial statements and full-year to the Board of guidance for 2018 Directors’ meeting on Review of forecasts for the 2nd half of 2018 July 19, 2018) Review of Internal Control department activity Review of a speciﬁc risk: antitrust law Nature of the shares due to be issued in the context of the vesting date of Performance Shares Plan No. 6 Statutory Auditors  Call for tenders for the renewal of the Statutory Auditors: ﬁnal selection for proposal to the Board of Directors;  Update on non-audit services supplied by the Statutory Auditors midway through the year Review of the Committee’s 2019 timetable and work plan October 5, 2018 Review of the acquisition ﬁnancing for Clarion 100% (for report and recommendations to the Board of Directors’ meeting on October 10, 2018) 170 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Attendance Date Main items discussed rate December 17, 2018 Review of results forecasts for 2018 100% (for report and Review of the 2019 budget recommendations Statutory Auditors’ presentation of the work carried out in 2018 and their work on the to the Board of hard close audit Directors’ meeting on Review of the launch of a bond issue with a maximum value of €700 million December 19, 2018) Review of the implementation of the share buy-back program Review of Internal Control department activity Review of Internal Audit department 2019 work plan Review of Compliance department activity Amendments to the internal rules of the Audit Committee and the charter covering non-audit services Report on non-audit services provided by the Statutory Auditors in 2018 and setting the budget for 2019 3.1.1.1.4.3. Governance Committee The Chairman of the Committee must be an independent Board member within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code Composition of the Governance Committee of Corporate Governance for listed companies. The Secretary The composition of the Committee is decided by the Board of the Committee is appointed by the Committee Chairman. and it can change the composition at any time. The Committee should not include any executive corporate The Committee is composed of at least three members and no officer (the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive more than five members. Members are selected from among Officers) or Board members with cross-directorships (within the the Board members. They cannot be represented at committee meaning of Article 14.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code) and must meetings. have a majority of independent Board members. The term of office of Committee members is the same as that By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive of their term of office as Board members. The Committee Officer, certain management representatives (such as the Head member’s term of office may be renewed at the same time of Human Resources) or members of the Executive Committee as their term of office as Board member. attend committee meetings. The Board of Directors appoints a Committee Chairman from among its members for a term identical to that of their term of office. The following changes were made to the composition of the Governance Committee during the year: Date Departure Appointment May 29, 2018 Mr. Jean-Pierre CLAMADIEU (Chairman) May 29, 2018 Mr. Michel de ROSEN (Chairman) July 19, 2018 Mr. Jean-Baptiste CHASSELOUP de CHATILLON October 10, 2018 Mr. Philippe de ROVIRA As of December 31, 2018, the Governance Committee has Given the resignation of Jean-Pierre Clamadieu from his role four members: as a Board member with effect from the end of the GM on May 29, 2018, the Governance Committee has been chaired,  Michel de Rosen, Chairman; as of that same date, by Michel de Rosen.  Éric Bourdais de Charbonnière; Missions of the Governance Committee  Philippe de Rovira; The Committee studies and prepares some of the  Bernadette Spinoy. Board’s deliberations. It issues proposals, opinions, and It was thus made up of three independent Board members and recommendations within its field of competence, in particular chaired by one of them, Michel de Rosen. In accordance with on any matter submitted to it by the Chairman of the Board the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Committee did not include any of Directors. executive corporate officers. The Committee only has a consultative role and acts under the As of the same date, the Committee had no Board members authority of the Board of Directors to which it reports whenever representing employees. necessary and for which it cannot serve as a substitute. / Registration document 2018 171 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance The Committee’s internal rules specifically provide for the following responsibilities: Governance structure  Examining all issues related to the Company’s governance structure, in particular the segregation or combination of the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, and formulation of related recommendations to the Board of Directors;  Ensuring that the Company complies with the laws and regulations relevant to corporate governance and the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code which the Company chose to abide by, and in this respect formulating all recommendations required, as applicable, to amend the bylaws and internal rules of the Board of Directors and its committees;  Reviewing the issues related to the Company’s governance structure submitted to it by the Chairman of the Board of Directors;  Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the creation, composition, tasks and operation of committees of the Board of Directors. Selection, appointment and  Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the appointment succession of Board members and reappointment of Board members, it being speciﬁed that the Committee will and of the Chairman of the Board consider the following: the independence of Board members, the requirement for of Directors; the Board of Directors to have the expertise and experience necessary for their work, international diversity in order to reﬂect the Group’s global footprint, gender balance on the Board of Directors;  Preparing a succession plan for Board members so that it can advise the Board in particular on succession in the event of unforeseen vacancies of one or several Board members;  Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the appointment and reappointment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors;  Preparing a succession plan for the Chairman so that it can advise the Board in particular on succession in the event of an unforeseen vacancy. Compensation of Board members  Formulating annual recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the amount and the Chairman of the Board of attendance fees and their allocation mechanisms to Board members. In addition, it of Directors approves the amount of attendance fees due to Board members every year;  Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’ compensation components. Governance assessment  Carrying out an annual assessment of the operation of the Board of Directors and its committees and a thorough assessment at least every three years (with the potential help of a consulting ﬁrm), and formulating related recommendations to the Board of Directors;  Reviewing the independence status of each of the Board members on an annual basis, prior to the publication of the Company’s Registration Document. Ethics and compliance  Examining the Company’s ethics and compliance policy with respect to best governance practices. Operation of the Governance Committee in person or by video conference or any other means of The Committee meets at least twice per year and as needed telecommunication. to carry out its duties. The Committee reports on its work at the next meeting of the The Committee informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors Board of Directors. without delay of any issues encountered during the course of The Secretary of the Committee is responsible for organizing its work. and attending the Committee meetings, as well as for Meetings are held at the registered office upon convening preparing meeting minutes to be submitted to the Committee notice sent by the Chairman and/or the Secretary of the for approval at the next meeting. Committee. They may also be held by video conference or The Committee establishes its annual work program based any other means of telecommunication. A committee duly on the results of its prior work and the current context of the deliberates if at least half of its members attend the Meeting Company. 172 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Governance Committee activities in 2018 In 2018, the Committee met five times with an attendance rate of 100%. The main items discussed at these meetings were as follows: Attendance Date Main items discussed rate February 8, 2018 Review of the results of the assessment of the work of the Board of Directors and its 100% (for report and committees in 2017 recommendations Assessment of the Board members’ independence status to the Board of Composition of the Board of Directors: Directors’ meeting  acknowledgment of the resignation of Jean-Pierre Clamadieu after the General Meeting on February 15, of May 29, 2018; 2018)  consideration of the composition of the Governance Committee. Attendance fees:  review of the total amount of attendance fees from the 2018 ﬁscal year;  review of the implementation of the so-called intercontinental attendance fee for Board members residing outside France. Review of the ﬁrst draft of governance-related resolutions for submission to the General Meeting of May 29, 2018 April 13, 2018 Consideration of the composition of the Board of Directors in preparation for the General 100% (for report and Meeting of May 28, 2019 recommendations Review of ex-ante and ex-post Say on Pay applicable to the Chairman of the Board of to the Board of Directors Directors’ meeting Review of the ﬁnal version of governance-related resolutions for submission to the General on April 19, 2018) Meeting of May 29, 2018 Review of the governance section of the Registration Document and of the skills matrix Update on the conversion of Faurecia into a European company July 16, 2018 Composition of the Board of Directors: 100% (for report and  consideration of the composition of the Board of Directors in preparation for the General recommendations Meeting of May 28, 2019; to the Board of  proposal to co-opt Philippe de Rovira as a Board member, replacing Jean-Baptiste Directors’ meeting Chasseloup de Chatillon, who resigned; on July 19, 2018)  review of the independence of Philippe de Rovira;  review of the participation of Board members representing employees on committees. Update on the conversion of Faurecia into a European company Review of the Committee’s 2018 timetable and work plan October 10, 2018 Composition of the Board of Directors: 100% (for report and  consideration of the composition of the Board of Directors in preparation for the General recommendations Meeting of May 28, 2019; to the Board of  proposal to co-opt Grégoire Olivier as a Board member to replace Carlos Tavares who Directors’ meeting resigned; on October 10,  review of the independence of Grégoire Olivier. 2018) Review of the external assessment of the operation of the Board and its committees in 2018 carried involving an assessment of the individual contribution of each Board member December 17, 2018 Composition of the Board of Directors: 100% (for report and  review of potential Board member proﬁles; recommendations  review of the diversity policy applicable to the Board of Directors. to the Board of Attendance fees: review of estimated amount due for 2018 Directors’ meeting on Acknowledgment of the deﬁnitive conversion of Faurecia into a European company December 19, 2018) Amendment of the internal rules of the Board of Directors and of the Audit Committee. / Registration document 2018 173 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance 3.1.1.1.4.4. The Management Committee of Human Resources) or members of the Executive Committee attend committee meetings. The Chief Executive Officer does Composition of the Management Committee not attend meetings where his compensation is discussed. The composition of the Committee is decided by the Board There were no changes to the composition of the Management and it can change the composition at any time. Committee during the year. Accordingly, as of December 31, The Committee is composed of at least three members and no 2018, the Management Committee has four members: more than five members.  Linda Hasenfratz, Chairwoman; Members are selected from among the Board members. They  Hans-Georg Härter; cannot be represented at committee meetings.  Penelope Herscher; The term of office of Committee members is the same as that of their term of office as Board members. The Committee  Robert Peugeot. member’s term of office may be renewed at the same time It was thus made up of three independent Board members and as their term of office as Board member. chaired by one of them in the person of Linda Hasenfratz. In The Board of Directors appoints a Committee Chairman from accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Committee did among its members for a term identical to that of their term not include any executive corporate officers. of office. Since January 1, 2019 Daniel Bernardino, Board member The Chairman of the Committee must be an independent representing employees, has joined the Committee. Board member within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code of Corporate Governance for listed companies. Missions of the Management Committee The Committee studies and prepares some of the The Secretary of the Committee is appointed by the Committee Board’s deliberations. It issues proposals, opinions, and Chairman. recommendations within its field of competence, in particular The Committee should not include any executive corporate on any matter submitted to it by the Chairman of the Board officer (the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive of Directors. Officers) or Board members with interlocking directorships The Committee only has a consultative role and acts under the (within the meaning of Article 14 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code) authority of the Board of Directors to which it reports whenever and must have a majority of independent Board members. necessary and for which it cannot serve as a substitute. By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, certain management representatives (such as the Head 174 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance The Committee’s internal rules specifically provide for the following responsibilities: Selection of the Chief Executive  Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the appointment Ofﬁcer and reappointment of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer;  Preparing a succession plan for the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer so that it can advise the Board on succession in particular in the event of an unforeseen vacancy. Selection of the Deputy Chief  Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the appointment Executive Ofﬁcers and reappointment of the Deputy Chief Executive Ofﬁcers;  Preparing a succession plan for the Deputy Chief Executive Ofﬁcers so that it can advise the Board on succession in the event of an unforeseen vacancy. Compensation of members  Formulating, on an annual basis, recommendations to the Board of Directors related to of the Executive Management the ﬁxed component and the performance-based criteria for the variable component of Executive Management members’ compensation with reference to the general compensation practices of equivalent French or foreign groups, as well as other types of compensation and beneﬁts in kind to be awarded;  Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors on the achievement of the criteria for the variable component for Executive Management members;  Formulating recommendations on the other components of Executive Management members’ compensation including pension and provident plans, supplementary pension schemes, beneﬁts in kind and other pecuniary rights, in particular in the event of termination of service;  Ensuring that the commitments falling under the regulated agreements procedure strictly comply with applicable regulations. Long-term compensation policy  Discussing the general policy for awarding stock subscription or purchase options, (long term incentive plans) performance shares and any other type of long-term compensation;  Reviewing proposed stock subscription or purchase option plans, performance share plans and any other type of long-term compensation, as well as their allocation to beneﬁciaries;  Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directions related to the award of stock subscription or purchase options, performance shares and any other type of long-term compensation to executive corporate ofﬁcers and issuing opinions on the lists of other prospective beneﬁciaries. Performance, selection and  Carrying out an annual review of the performance of Group managers (Executive compensation of members of Committee and Senior Management); management (other than members  Carrying out an annual review of the selection and succession plans for members of of Executive Management) the Executive Committee;  Reviewing the compensation of members of the Executive Committee on an annual basis. / Registration document 2018 175 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Operation of the Management Committee The Committee reports on its work at the next meeting of the The Committee meets at least twice per year and as needed Board of Directors. to carry out its duties. The Secretary of the Committee is responsible for organizing The Committee informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors and attending the Committee meetings, as well as for without delay of any issues encountered during the course of preparing meeting minutes to be submitted to the Committee its work. for approval at the next meeting. Meetings are held at the registered office upon convening The Committee establishes its annual work program based notice sent by the Chairman and/or the Secretary of the on the results of its prior work and the current context of the Committee. They may also be held by video conference or Company. any other means of telecommunication. A committee duly Management Committee activities in 2018 deliberates if at least half of its members attend the meeting in person or by video conference or any other means of In 2018, the Committee met four times with an attendance telecommunication. rate of 100%. The main items discussed at these meetings were as follows: Attendance Date Main items discussed rate February 12, 2018 Compensation: 100% (for report and  review of Patrick Koller’s variable compensation as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for 2017; recommendations  review of Patrick Koller’s ﬁxed compensation as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer for 2018; to the Board of  review of the targets used to determine Patrick Koller’s variable compensation as Chief Directors’ meeting Executive Ofﬁcer for 2018. on February 15, Review of the fulﬁllment of the 2017 supplementary pension scheme annuities for members 2018) of the Executive Committee; Review of the achievement of the internal performance condition contained in Performance Shares Plan No. 7. Review of the first draft of the resolutions to be submitted to the General Meeting of May 29, 2018 April 13, 2018 Performance shares: 100% (for report and  review of the achievement of the internal performance condition contained in recommendations Performance Shares Plan No. 7; to the Board of  information about exemptions from the continued employment condition granted by Directors’ meeting the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; on April 19, 2018)  report on the future Performance Shares Plan No. 10; Report on compensation for Executive Committee members; Review of ex-ante and ex-post Say on Pay applicable to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; Review of the ﬁnal version of resolutions for submission to the General Meeting of May 29, 2018. July 16, 2018 Half-yearly review of 2018 qualitative targets attached to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s 100% (for report and variable compensation recommendations Performance Shares Plans Nos. 10 and 10b: review of plan rules and list of beneﬁciaries to the Board of Review of the Committee’s 2018 timetable and work plan Directors’ meeting on July 19, 2018) December 14, 2018 Review of the Executive Committee: composition, development and succession plan for 100% (for report and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer recommendations Review of the Group Leadership Committee: composition and development to the Board of Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s variable compensation: Directors’ meeting  monitoring 2018 qualitative targets; on December 19,  review of an initial proposal for 2019 qualitative targets. 2018) Reminder of existing, duly authorized, regulated agreements in relation to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s compensation 176 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance 3.1.1.1.5. ASSESSMENT OF THE BOARD’S The principal findings of this exercise were as follows: PERFORMANCE  the performance of the Board of Directors is constantly The Board of Directors carries out an assessment of its operation improving: the dynamics of discussions with management every year. and the content of their exchange are of a high quality; Every three years it conducts a detailed assessment with the  the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have been help of an external consultant. separated and each role is clearly defined. The last such assessment was performed for 2015 and, therefore, The main areas for improvement are as follows: an external consultant was again called upon to conduct the  continue the “executive sessions” (sessions without the assessment in 2018. Group’s management) and add a session solely for The external consultant was selected on the basis of a call for independent Board members; tenders.  expand the review of succession plan and risk assessments This assessment was conducted between November 2018 and discussions on strategy. In this context, it has been and January 2019 on the basis of individual interviews. It also decided to organize two sessions dedicated to strategic included an assessment of the individual contribution made by issues: a session devoted to the industry’s long-term trends each Board member. Each Board member was interviewed by and a session devoted to medium-term strategic plan; and the consultant and will have a personal feedback session with  organize more informal meetings between Board and the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the consultant. Executive Committee members. The results of this assessment were presented to the Governance Committee on February 13, 2019 and to the Board of Directors on February 15, 2019. 3.1.1.1.6. SUMMARY OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE As of the end of the 2018 fiscal year, Faurecia did not entirely comply with the recommendations contained in the AFEP-MEDEF Code on the following issues. AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendation Reasons for non-compliance Recommendation 17.1 As of December 31, 2018, none of the committees had Board members It is recommended that there be a Board representing employees as members. It had in fact been decided when member representing employees on the they were appointed as Board members that they have a period of Compensation Committee adjustment before they joined a committee. On January 1, 2019, each of them joined a committee namely, the Management Committee and the Audit Committee. / Registration document 2018 177 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance 3.1.1.2. Faurecia’s corporate ofﬁcers 3.1.1.2.1. INFORMATION ON CORPORATE OFFICERS Composition of the Board of Directors The composition of the Board of Directors as of December 31, 2018 is provided in Section 3.1.1.1.1 above. Expertise, positions and corporate ofﬁces The business address of Board members is that of Faurecia. Daniel BERNARDINO Date of birth: August 9, 1970 Board member representing employees Nationality: Portuguese Date of first appointment: November 1, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: Date of expiry of term of office: October 31, 2021 Member of the Management Committee (as of January 1, 2019) Mr. Daniel Bernardino is a method agent in the Logistics Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside department at Faurecia’s Palmela site (Portugal). of Faurecia He is a sociology graduate. He joined the Group in 1994 as Head of the logistics team. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years He held various employee representation offices between 1997 and which have expired (2014-2018) and 2017 and has been a member of Faurecia’s European Works Council for 14 years.  Member of Faurecia’s European Works Council. Éric BOURDAIS DE CHARBONNIÈRE Date of birth: July 1, 1939 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: February 8, 2010 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2019 GM Member of the Governance Committee Mr. Éric Bourdais de Charbonnière joined JP Morgan in 1965, Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside and held various positions within it. From 1987 to 1990 he was of Faurecia the Executive Vice-President, Head of Europe. In 1990, he joined Michelin as Chief Financial Officer, and subsequently became a member of the Group Executive Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years Council. He was Chairman of the Supervisory Board from and which have expired (2014-2018) September 2000 until May 17, 2013.  Member of the Supervisory Board of ODDO et Cie (France) and member of the Audit Committee. 178 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Odile DESFORGES Date of birth: January 24, 1950 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 27, 2016 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2020 GM Chairwoman of the Audit Committee Mrs. Odile Desforges is an engineer and graduate of École Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside Centrale de Paris. of Faurecia She also holds a diploma from the European Center for Executive French listed companies Development (CEDEP). She began her career in 1973 as a  Board member and member of the Audit Committee research analyst at the Institut de Recherche des Transports of Dassault Systèmes; before joining Renault in 1981, where she held several positions  Board member and Chairwoman of the Audit and Risks of responsibility in planning, product development, and Committee of Safran; purchasing. Subsequently, after serving as Executive Vice Board member of Imerys. President of Renault VI/Mack and as a member of the Executive Committee with responsibility for planning, purchasing and French unlisted companies program development from 1999 until 2001, she was appointed President of the Volvo 3P business unit of AB Volvo, where she remained until 2003. From 2003 to 2009, Mrs. Odile Desforges was Foreign listed companies a member of Renault’s Management Committee and served as  Board member and member of the Audit Committee, Head of Worldwide Purchasing for Renault/Nissan. In 2009, she the Nomination Committee and the Management was named to Renault’s Executive Committee and appointed Development and Remuneration Committee as Group Director of Engineering and Quality. She exercised her of Johnson Matthey Plc. (Great Britain) rights to retire on July 2012. Foreign unlisted companies She was made a Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite and a Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur by the French government. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Board member and member of the Appointments and Compensation Committee of Sequana (France), from 2012 to May 2016 / Registration document 2018 179 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Hans-Georg HÄRTER Date of birth: May 2, 1945 Board member Nationality: German Date of first appointment: May 26, 2010 Number of Faurecia shares: 726 Date of expiry of term of office: 2019 GM Member of the Management Committee Mr. Hans-Georg Härter spent his entire career with the ZF group, Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside which he joined in 1973. of Faurecia He held the position of Chairman of the Executive Board French listed companies of ZF Friedrichshafen AG from January 2007 to May 2012, when he retired. French unlisted companies Foreign listed companies Foreign unlisted companies  Founder of HGH Consulting (Germany);  Member of the Supervisory Board of Klingelnberg AG (Switzerland);  Member of the Europe Advisory Board of Bain Capital LLC. (USA). Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Member of the Advisory Committee of Unterfränkische Überlandzentrale e.G. (Germany) (until August 31, 2018);  Board member of Axega GmbH (Ger many) (until December 31, 2018);  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Knorr-Bremse AG (Germany) (until August 31, 2018);  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Deutz AG (Germany) (until December 31, 2018);  Member of the Board of the Zeppelin University Friedrichshafen Foundation (Germany);  Member of the Board of Association Deutsche Wissenschaft e.G. (Germany);  Member of Institut Deutsche Wissenschaft (Germany);  Board member of Altran S.A. (France);  Member of the Supervisory Board of Kiekert AG (Germany);  Member of the Supervisory Board of Eco 1 Holding GmbH Hilite International (Germany). 180 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Linda HASENFRATZ Date of birth: June 16, 1966 Board member Nationality: Canadian Date of first appointment: May 26, 2011 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2020 GM Chairwoman of the Management Committee Mrs. Linda Hasenfratz has been Chief Executive Officer of Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside Linamar Corporation since August 2002. She was also its President of Faurecia from April 1999 to August 2004, and its Chief Operating Officer French listed companies from September 1997 to September 1999. She has been a Board member since 1998. She has a bachelor’s degree and an Executive MBA from the French unlisted companies Ivey School of business at the University of Western Ontario (Canada) and has an Honors Bachelor of Science degree from the same institution. Foreign listed companies  Chief Executive Officer and Board member of Linamar Corporation (Canada);  Board member of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC) (Canada). Foreign unlisted companies  Member of the Board of Governors, Royal Ontario Museum (Canada);  Chairwoman of the business Council of Canada; formerly the Canadian Council of Chief Executives (Canada) until 28 January 2019, then Director as from this date;  Member of the Catalyst Canadian Board of Advisors (Canada);  Board member of Association of Equipment Manufacturers (USA). Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Board member of Original Equipment Suppliers Association (USA) / Registration document 2018 181 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Penelope HERSCHER Date of birth: July 15, 1960 Board member Nationality: American Date of first appointment: May 30, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Member of the Management Committee Mrs. Penelope Herscher sits on the Board of Directors of Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside Lumentum Operations LLC. (formerly JDSU) where she chairs the of Faurecia Compensation Committee and is a member of the Governance French listed companies Committee. She has also been a Board member of Verint since April 2017 and a member of the Governance Committee. French unlisted companies In January 2018, she became a Board member of Pros, where she is a member of the Governance and Compensation Committees and, in August 2018, became a Board member of Foreign listed companies Delphix, an unlisted company.  Board member of Lumentum Operations LLC;  Board member of Verint (since May 2017); Until April 2018, she was a Board member of the listed company  Board member of Pros (since January 2018). Rambus, Inc., where she chaired the Strategy Committee and the Compensation Committee and was a member of the Foreign unlisted companies Governance Committee.  Board member of Delphix (since August 2018). From March 2016 to October 2017, she chaired the Board of Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years Savonix, Inc., a start-up in the digital health domain. and which have expired (2014-2018) Until July 31, 2017, Mrs. Penelope Herscher was Chairwoman of  Board member of Rambus, Inc. (from 2006 to April 2018); the Board of Directors at FirstRain, Inc., a software company,  Chairman, of the Board of Directors of FirstRain, Inc. (from which she joined in 2004 and ran as President and CEO until 2015. October 2015 to 31 July 2017);  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Savonix, Inc. (US From 2002 to 2003, Ms. Penelope Herscher held the position of private company) (from March 2016 to October 2017); executive vice president and chief marketing officer at Cadence  President and CEO of FirstRain, Inc. (from 2004 to 2015) Design Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation software (from 2004 to 2015). company. From 1996 to 2002, she was president and Chief Executive Officer of Simplex Solutions, which she led through an IPO in 2001 and which was acquired by Cadence in 2002. Before Simplex, she was an executive at Synopsys for eight years and started her career as an R&D engineer with Texas Instruments. Ms. Penelope Herscher holds a BA Hons, MA in Mathematics from Cambridge University (England). 182 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Patrick KOLLER Date of birth: January 2, 1959 Board member Nationality: Franco-German Date of first appointment: May 30, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: 59,475 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Mr. Patrick Koller is Chief Executive Officer Other corporate office within Faurecia of Faurecia since July 1, 2016.  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer He graduated from the École Supérieure Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside of Faurecia des Sciences et Technologies de l’Ingénieur de Nancy (ESSTIN) and Institut French listed companies Français de Gestion.  Board member of Legrand S.A. He has held various management French unlisted companies positions with several major manufacturing groups (Valeo, Rhodia). Foreign listed companies In 2006, he joined the Faurecia group as Executive Vice-President of the Faurecia Foreign unlisted companies Automotive Seating Business Group (now Faurecia Seating), a position he held until February 2, 2015. During this period, he Others held various offices within the Group  Board member (donors’ committee) of the Collège de France Foundation subsidiaries. Positions and corporate offices (held within Faurecia group), in the last five years On February 2, 2015, he was appointed and which have expired (2014-2018) Deputy Chief Executive Officer, a position he held until June 30, 2016.  Deputy Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer until June 30, 2016;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Faurecia (China) Holding Co., Ltd (China) until March 12, 2015;  General Manager of Faurecia Components Pisek, S.r.o. (Czech Republic) until April 21, 2015;  General Manager of Faurecia Plzen (Czech Republic) until April 21, 2015;  Member of the Supervisory Board of Faurecia Automotive GmbH (Germany) until May 31, 2015;  Representative of Faurecia Investments, Board member and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Faurecia Azin Pars Company (Iran) until September 15, 2015;  Member of the Board of Directors of Faurecia NHK Co., Ltd (Japan) until April 28, 2015;  Member of the Supervisory Board of Faurecia Automotive Polska S.A. (Poland) until March 30, 2015;  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Faurecia Walbrzych S.A. (Poland) until March 30, 2015;  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Faurecia Grojec R&D Center S.A. (Poland) until March 30, 2015;  Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Faurecia Asientos Para Automovil España, S.A. (Spain) until November 30, 2015;  Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Teknik Malzeme Ticaret Ve Sanayi Anonim Sirketi (Turkey) until March 26, 2015;  General Manager of Faurecia Automotive Seating, LLC (USA) until March 4, 2015;  Board member of Faurecia Madison Automotive Seating, Inc. (USA) until March 2, 2015;  Board member of Faurecia Automotive Seating UK Limited (UK) until September 16, 2014;  Board member of Orcia Otomotiv Yan Sanayi Ve Anonim Sirketi (Turkey) until June 2, 2014. / Registration document 2018 183 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Valérie LANDON Date of birth: August 17, 1962 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: October 12, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Member of the Audit Committee Ms. Valérie Landon is Vice Chairman Investment Banking Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside & Capital Markets at Credit Suisse. of Faurecia She is an engineering graduate of the École Centrale de Paris. French listed companies She began her career in 1985 at Air France. In 1990, she joined  Independent Director of Albioma, member of the Audit, the Credit Suisse as an investment banker. She held various Accounts and Risk Committee, member of the Commitments positions, serving in particular as Head of Investment Banking & Committee. Capital Markets for France, Belgium and Luxembourg. French unlisted companies Foreign listed companies  Vice Chairman Investment Banking & Capital Markets at Credit Suisse. Foreign unlisted companies Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Member of the European Advisory Board of Catalyst (from 2010 to 2016). 184 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Olivia LARMARAUD Date of birth: April 22, 1958 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 27, 2016 Number of Faurecia shares: 20 Date of expiry of term of office: 2020 GM Member of the Audit Committee Mrs. Olivia Larmaraud is PSA Peugeot Citroen’s Head of Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside Consolidation and Accounting Standards since 2002. of Faurecia She is a certified public accountant and earned an MSTCF (a French listed companies Master’s degree in accounting and finance) from Université  Head of Consolidation and Accounting Standards Paris-Dauphine. She also holds a Company Director Certificate, of PSA Peugeot Citroën (France). awarded by the Institut Français des Administrateurs and the Institut d’Études Politiques in 2013. French unlisted companies  B o a rd m e m b e r a n d C h a i r w o m a n o f t h e A u d i t She began her career at Deloitte, where she worked for three Committee of SNEF (France) since July 2015; years as an external auditor. She followed this position with  Board member of Delachaux S.A. and Chair of the another three-year stint at Compagnie Générale des Eaux as a company’s and Delachaux group’s Audit Committee since member of the consolidation team before joining Sanofi, where November 2018. she served as a financial controller for eight years. Since 1995, she has been working within the Finance department of the PSA Foreign listed companies Peugeot Citroën group, where she was promoted to the rank of senior manager in 2008. Foreign unlisted companies  Member of the IFRS Advisory Council since January 2017. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Board member of ACTEO from 2008 to 2017;  Member of the International Standards Committee of ANC (Autorité des Normes Comptables) from 2010 to 2016;  Member of the Global Preparer Forum of the International Accounting Standards Board from 2008 to 2017. / Registration document 2018 185 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Grégoire OLIVIER Date of birth: October 19, 1960 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: October 10, 2018 Number of Faurecia shares: 100 Date of expiry of term of office: 2019 GM Mr. Grégoire Olivier has been General Secretary of Groupe PSA Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside since January 2018, and a member of the Executive Committee. of Faurecia He is a graduate of École Polytechnique, holds an engineering French listed companies degree from École des Mines de Paris and an MBA from the  General Secretary of Groupe PSA and member of the University of Chicago. Executive Committee. After holding several positions within Pechiney and Alcatel French unlisted companies between 1991 and 2001, he led Sagem between 2001 and 2006.  Board Member Automobiles Peugeot (since February 2018); He was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of  Permanent Representative of Peugeot S.A., Board member Faurecia in 2006. He joined Groupe PSA in 2007 as a member of Automobiles Citroën (since February 2018). of the Managing Board and Executive Vice President of the Automobile Programs and Strategy department and became Foreign listed companies Executive Vice-President, China and ASEAN. In September 2016 he joined the Executive Committee and became Executive Vice-President of Mobility Services. Foreign unlisted companies  Board member of PCMA Holding B.V. – Netherlands – (since July 2018);  Board member of Peugeot Citroën Automoviles Espana S.A. – Spain – (since June 2018). Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Member of the Managing Board, Executive Vice-President, China and ASEAN, Groupe PSA (2010-2016);  Executive Vice-President of Mobility Services, Groupe PSA (September 2016-January 2018);  Board member of DPCA, CAPSA;  Board member of EYSA-PSA Smart City Mobility Services S.A. -Spain(2O16-2018). 186 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Robert PEUGEOT Date of birth: April 25, 1950 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 29, 2007 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Member of the Management Committee Mr. Robert Peugeot is Chairman and CEO of FFP. Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside of Faurecia Robert Peugeot studied at the École Centrale de Paris and INSEAD. He has held various senior positions within the PSA French listed companies Peugeot Citroën group, and was a member of the group  Chairman and CEO of FFP S.A.; Executive Committee from 1998 to 2007, holding the position  Permanent representative of FFP S.A. on the Peugeot S.A. of Vice-President, Innovation and Quality. He is a permanent Supervisory Board; representative of FFP on the Supervisory Board of Peugeot S.A.,  Member of the Hermès International S.C.A. Supervisory a member of the Finance and Audit Committee and chair of Board; the Strategy Committee. He has been Chairman and CEO of FFP  Permanent Representative of F&P SAS on the Board of Safran since February 2002, of which he conducted the development. S.A. He was made Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite (2000) French unlisted companies and a Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur (2010) by the French  Board member of Établissements Peugeot Frères S.A.; Government.  Board member of Tikehau Capital Advisors SAS;  Permanent representative of FFP Invest SAS, as Chairman and member of the Supervisory Board of Financière Guiraud SAS (France);  General Manager of SC Rodom;  General Manager of Sarl CHP Gestion;  Permanent representative of FFP S.A., as President of FFP Invest SAS (France);  Permanent representative of Maillot I, Board member of SICAV ARMENE;  Member of the Soparexo S.C.A. Supervisory Board;  Chairman of F&P SAS. Foreign listed companies  Board member of Soﬁna S.A. (Belgium);  Board member of DKSH S.A. (Switzerland). Foreign unlisted companies  Board member of FFP Investment UK Ltd (Belgium). Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Permanent representative of FFP Invest SAS on the Board of Directors of Sanef S.A. (France);  Member of the Supervisory Board of Peugeot S.A. (France);  Member of the Supervisory Board of IDI Emerging Markets S.A. (Luxembourg);  Permanent Representative of FFP Invest on the Supervisory Board of Zodiac Aerospace (France);  Board member of Sanef (France);  Board member of Imerys (France);  Board member of Holding Reinier SAS;  Permanent representative of FFP Invest on the Supervisory Board of IDI Emerging Markets S.A. (Luxembourg). / Registration document 2018 187 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Emmanuel PIOCHE Date of birth: December 4, 1965 Board member representing employees Nationality: French Date of first appointment: November 1, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: Date of expiry of term of office: October 31, 2021 Member of the Audit Committee (as of January 1, 2019) Mr. Emmanuel Pioche has been Head of R&D Frames at Faurecia Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside (Brières les Scellés site, France) since July 2017. Previously, he was of Faurecia a prototype maker in the R&D trimlab at the same site. He holds the professional title of thin-sheet metal worker, holds an Aerospace TIG Heavy and Light Metal Welding License, Positions and corporate offices held within Faurecia group, obtained a G2 Baccalaureat (management), and a level III in the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018) programmer analyst’s diploma.  Secretary of the Central Works Council of Faurecia Sièges d’Automobile (from 2007 to 2017);  Secretary of the Works Committee at Brières les Scellés (from 2002 to 2017);  Member of the Workplace Health and Safety Committee – CHSCT (from 2000 to 2017);  CFDT union representative and employee representative (from 1999 to 2017) 188 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Michel de ROSEN Date of birth: February 18, 1951 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 27, 2016 Number of Faurecia shares: 5,944 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Chairman of the Board of Directors Date of appointment: May 30, 2017 Chairman of the Governance Committee Mr. Michel de Rosen has been Chairman of the Board of Directors Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside of Faurecia since May 30, 2017. of Faurecia He is a graduate of the École des Hautes Études Commerciales French listed companies (HEC) and the École Nationale d’Administration (ENA).  Chairman of the Board of Directors of Pharnext S.A.; Over the course of his career, he has successively held positions  Board member of DBV Technologies (Non-executive first as a senior public official and then as a senior executive at Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 5, 2019). companies in France and the United States. French unlisted companies He began his career at the Inspectorate General of Finance (IGF), a division of the French Ministry of Finance. He was an advisor to the French Minister of Defense between 1980 and 1981 Foreign listed companies and served as Chief of Staff for the French Minister for Industry and Telecommunications from 1986 to 1988. Foreign unlisted companies Within the Rhône-Poulenc group, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Pharmuka from 1983 to 1986 and of Rhône Poulenc Fibres et Polymères from 1988 to 1993, after which he was Chief Others Executive Officer and then Chairman and Chief Executive  Member of the High Committee of Corporate Governance Officer of Rhône Poulenc Rorer in the United States and in of AFEP-MEDEF France and of Rhône Poulenc Santé from 1993 to 1999. In 2000, Mr. Michel de Rosen was named Chairman and Chief Executive Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years Officer of the US company ViroPharma. In 2008, he became and which have expired (2014-2018) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SGD.  Board member of ABB Ltd (Switzerland) until April 13, 2017; He joined Eutelsat in 2009. On July 1, 2009, Mr. Michel de Rosen  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Eutelsat was appointed as Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Eutelsat Communications S.A. until February 29, 2016 and Chairman and then as Chief Executive Officer and Board member of the Board of Directors until November 8, 2017. on November 9 of the same year. From September 2013 to February 2016, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. From March 1, 2016 to November 8, 2017, Mr. Michel de Rosen was the Chairman of the Board of Directors. / Registration document 2018 189 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Philippe de ROVIRA Date of birth: June 8, 1973 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: July 19, 2018 Number of Faurecia shares: 20 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Member of the Governance Committee Philippe de Rovira is Chief Financial Officer of Groupe PSA, Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside Member of the Executive Committee. of Faurecia He graduated from ESSEC Business School. French listed companies He began his career in Groupe PSA in 1998 as an internal auditor,  Chief Financial Officer of Groupe PSA, following which he held a number of financial or commercial Member of the Executive Committee. positions including Head of Group Control. From August 1, French unlisted companies 2017 to August 1, 2018 he was Vice President Finance, Chief  Chairman of Autobiz; Financial Officer and Member of the Management Board of  Board member of Automobiles Citroën; Opel Automobiles GmbH.  Board member of Banque PSA Finance. Foreign listed companies Foreign unlisted companies  Board member of PSA International S.A. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and Member of the Management Board of Opel Automobiles GmbH (August 2017-August 2018). 190 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Bernadette SPINOY Date of birth: January 25, 1962 Board member Nationality: Belgian Date of first appointment: May 27, 2014 Number of Faurecia shares: 1,000 Date of expiry of term of office: 2019 GM Member of the Governance Committee Mrs. Bernadette Spinoy has been Chief Executive Officer of Total Other positions and corporate offices in 2018 outside Belgium since October 2018. of Faurecia She has a Master of Science in business Engineering from the French listed companies University of Louvain-La-Neuve in Belgium. She began her career with the Belgian PetroFina group in 1985 and since 1999 she has held various positions with Total group, in French unlisted companies the areas of supply and refining of petroleum products, logistics and marketing of natural gas, and petrochemicals. Over the course of her career, she switched between positions responsible Foreign listed companies for internationally active business units such as styrene, base  Board member of ETEX (Belgium). chemicals and East Refining & Chemicals and positions in Foreign unlisted companies cross-divisional units such as strategy, purchasing, management  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Total Belgium. control and HSE. From September 2014 to September 2018, she was Head of HSE, Total group. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2014-2018)  Head of HSE, Total group (September 2014-September 2018);  Board member of the Fondation FONCSI (Fondation pour une culture de sécurité industrielle), – France – (2016). / Registration document 2018 191 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Shares held by corporate ofﬁcers The Board of Directors’ meeting on December 19, 2017 also decided that, in addition to Board members’ obligation to hold Pursuant to the bylaws, each Board member must hold at least shares, the Chairman of the Board of Directors must hold shares 20 Faurecia shares throughout his or her term of office. corresponding to one year’s compensation (including the Furthermore, the internal rules of the Board of Directors, as 500 shares held as a Board member) and must comply with this amended by the Board at its meeting of December 21, 2016 obligation within two years of being appointed as Chairman. upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee The Board of Directors’ internal rules were amended which met on the same date, provides that each Board accordingly. member must hold 500 shares in the Company, including 20 shares provided for in the bylaws, during the entire term of As of December 31, 2018, corporate officers held the following their corporate office. However, Board members receiving interests on the basis of a capital stock of €966,250,607 divided no attendance fees are only required to hold the 20 shares into 138,035,801 shares representing 202,700,644 theoretical provided for in the bylaws and the law does not require Board voting rights and 201,783,484 exercisable voting rights. members representing employees to hold a minimum number of shares. As of December 31, 2018, as shown in the table below, the Board members in question complied with the mechanism set out in the internal rules. Shares held by corporate ofﬁcers Percentage Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of of theoretical exercisable shares capital stock voting rights voting rights voting rights Daniel BERNARDINO 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Éric BOURDAIS DE CHARBONNIÈRE 500 0.00% 600 0.00% 0.00% Odile DESFORGES 500 0.00% 600 0.00% 0.00% Hans-Georg HÄRTER 726 0.00% 1452 0.00% 0.00% Linda HASENFRATZ 500 0.00% 600 0.00% 0.00% Penelope HERSCHER 500 0.00% 500 0.00% 0.00% Patrick KOLLER 59,475 0.04% 74,425 0.04% 0.04% Valérie LANDON 500 0.00% 500 0.00% 0.00% Olivia LARMARAUD 20 0.00% 40 0.00% 0.00% Grégoire OLIVIER 100 0.00% 200 0.00% 0.00% Robert PEUGEOT 500 0.00% 600 0.00% 0.00% Emmanuel PIOCHE 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Michel de ROSEN 5,944 0.00% 6,044 0.00% 0.00% Philippe de ROVIRA 20 0.00% 20 0.00% 0.00% Bernadette SPINOY 1,000 0.00% 2,000 0.00% 0.00% TOTAL 70,285 0.05% 87,581 0.04% 0.04% Conﬂicts of interest Board member. In case of non-compliance with these rules of abstention or withdrawal, the Board member could be The Board’s internal rules provide that each Board member held liable. In case of conflict of interest, the Board member must inform the Board of Directors of any specific conflict of concerned will not receive documentation relating to the interests, even if it is only potential, and refrain from voting on Board meeting(s) in question. the relevant resolution and attending Board meetings during the period in which they find themselves in a situation of a No such situations arose in 2018. conflict of interests, or even resign from their position as a 192 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Board members have also replied to a questionnaire sent Under the measures to prevent insider trading within the Group to them by the Company which, in particular, asked about the Code provides, among others, for blackout periods that conflicts of interest. require corporate officers to refrain from trading in Faurecia shares during certain periods surrounding the publication of Therefore, to the best of the Company’s knowledge and as of interim results, annual results and quarterly sales. These periods the date of this document: are defined as follows:  no conflicts of interest had been identified between the  from the date of the annual December meeting of the duties of each member of the Board of Directors and of Company’s Board of Directors up to and including the third Executive Management vis-à-vis the Company in their day following the announcement of Faurecia’s annual results; capacity as corporate officers and their personal interests or other duties;  within 30 calendar days prior to the announcement of interim results and up to and including the third day following the  there was no arrangement or agreement entered into with announcement; the principal shareholders under whose terms one of the Board members or Executive Management was appointed  within 15 calendar days prior to the publication of quarterly to their role; sales and up to and including the third day following the publication.  no restriction has been agreed to by members of the Board of Directors or of Executive Management regarding the disposal The Code also describes the disclosure requirements for of their equity investments in the Company’s capital stock. securities transactions, which apply to persons with managerial responsibilities within the meaning of the EU Regulation and to Aside from regulated agreements and undertakings, which persons closely associated with them, and lists the transactions are the subject of a report to the General Meeting, no service to be disclosed since the regulation entered into force. agreement has been entered into between a member of the Board of Directors and Faurecia or any of its subsidiaries. In accordance with the European Regulation, corporate officers were informed of disclosure requirements for securities The Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements transactions applicable to them as well as to their close and undertakings can be found in Section 5.6 of this Registration associates. Document. The Code points out the existence of a compliance officer Transactions in the Company’s securities (déontologue) in the person of the Group Chief Financial by corporate ofﬁcers Officer who, if there is doubt about the type of the planned transaction, will be responsible for issuing an opinion thereon. By the Board of Directors’ decision of April 14, 2010, the Company established a Code of Conduct for Group employees and It mentions the corporate officers’ obligation to hold shares in executives who have access to insider information by virtue of registered form. their positions and offices, with provisions on the management, Lastly, more generally, it lists the sanctions for insider trading or ownership and disclosure of such information. disclosure of insider information, with particular reference to This Code was amended by the Board of Directors on Law No. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 on Transparency, the February 8, 2017 to recognize (EU) Regulation No. 596/2014 of Fight against Corruption and Economic Modernization. April 16, 2014, on market abuse, which came into force on July 3, 2016, and Law No. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 on Anti-Corruption and Economic Modernization. The following transactions were carried out by corporate officers in 2018 and duly reported to the AMF: References and Date of date of the AMF Financial Type of Date of receipt of the Transaction Amount of Declarant decision/notice instrument transaction transaction declaration venue Unit price transaction Michel 2018DD586093/ November 28, December 3, Euronext de ROSEN December 3, 2018 Equities Acquisition 2018 2018 Paris €36.8491 €100,192.70 Philippe de Rovira also bought 20 Faurecia shares on August 29, 2018. Other information on corporate ofﬁcers public incrimination and/or sanction by statutory or regulatory authorities. There are no family ties between Faurecia’s corporate officers. None of them has been disqualified by a court from acting as No Board member has been convicted of any fraudulent a member of the administrative, management or supervisory offense, none has managed a company that has filed for bodies of an issuer, or from acting in the management or bankruptcy or gone into receivership or liquidation in the conduct of the affairs of an issuer in the past five years. past five years, and none has received a definitive official / Registration document 2018 193 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance Board members’ compensation By virtue of Board of Directors’ decisions on April 13, 2016 and December 21, 2016, the fee scale applicable to the payment Board members’ compensation is paid in the form of of attendance fees was as follows: attendance fees. On May 29, 2018, the maximum annual amount of attendance fees was set at €700,000 by the Ordinary General Meeting. It is distributed freely by the Board of Directors. Variable attendance Fixed attendance fee fee per meeting Attendance fee for Board members not residing in France Board of Directors €12,000 €3,000 €3,000 per Board meeting attendance Committees  Member €10,000 €2,500  Chairman €15,000 €3,500 Please note that Board members holding executive or Board members received gross attendance fees in respect management positions within PSA waived their right to receive of 2017 and 2018 in the amounts detailed in the table below: attendance fees along with the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia. Table No. 3 (the AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF Recommendation No. 2009-16) Amounts of Of which Amounts of Of which Board members attendance fees variable portion attendance fees variable portion (gross amounts in €) paid for 2017 paid for 2017 paid for 2018 paid for 2018 Daniel BERNARDINO 5,400 3,000 45,000 33,000 Éric BOURDAIS de CHARBONNIÈRE 47,000 25,000 52,500 30,500 Jean-Baptiste CHASSELOUP de CHATILLON 0 0 0 0 Jean-Pierre CLAMADIEU 56,000 29,000 29,000 19,000 Yann DELABRIÈRE 0 0 Odile DESFORGES 51,500 27,000 66,000 39,000 Lee GARDNER 10,800 6,000 Hans-Georg HÄRTER 49,500 27,500 65,000 43,000 Linda HASENFRATZ 62,500 35,500 65,000 38,000 Penelope HERSCHER 38,700 25,500 62,000 40,000 Patrick KOLLER 0 0 0 0 Valérie LANDON 10,400 5,500 73,000 51,000 Olivia LARMARAUD 0 0 0 0 Ross McINNES 25,300 13,000 Amparo MORALEDA 36,600 19,500 Grégoire OLIVIER 0 0 Robert PEUGEOT 46,500 24,500 50,000 28,000 Emmanuel PIOCHE 5,400 3,000 30,000 18,000 Michel de ROSEN 19,800 11,000 0 0 Philippe de ROVIRA 0 0 Bernadette SPINOY 47,000 25,000 58,500 36,500 Carlos TAVARES 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 512,400 280,000 596,000 376,000 194 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Board members are not entitled to any termination benefits of December 9, 2016 on Transparency, the Fight against or deferred compensation for the loss of their corporate office Corruption and Economic Modernization. (see below, however, for the specific situation of Patrick Koller who, as Chief Executive Officer, is entitled to a termination Compensation payable to the Chairman of the Board of payment). Directors Details of fixed and variable compensation, as well as all The elements of the compensation paid, or awarded, to benefits granted by Peugeot S.A., Faurecia’s parent company, Mr. Michel de Rosen for the year ended December 31, to its corporate officers who also hold a corporate office within 2018, which are subject to the shareholders’ vote, pursuant Faurecia, are detailed in Peugeot S.A.’s 2018 Registration to Article L. 225-100, paragraph II, of the French Code of Document. commerce, are shown in the explanatory notes to the resolutions included in Section 5 of this Registration Document. No compensation other than the attendance fees mentioned above was paid to any of its Board members (except for the Fixed compensation for 2018 Board members representing employees) by Faurecia or its The annual fixed compensation of Michel de Rosen for 2018 is subsidiaries during the past year. set at €300,000. This compensation was established with reference to a 3.1.1.2.2. INFORMATION ON EXECUTIVE AND compensation analysis conducted by an external consulting NON-EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICERS firm based on a sample of French listed companies with a segregated governance structure, and by taking into account Restrictions on the powers of the Chief Executive Mr. Michel de Rosen’s responsibilities as Chairman of the Board Ofﬁcer placed by the Board of Directors. Under the terms of the current internal rules, the Chief Executive Fixed compensation from 2019 Officer must obtain approval from the Board of Directors before The Chairman will receive a fixed compensation. carrying out any acquisition, disposal, or joint venture project representing a total asset value of over €100 million and/or with At the recommendation of the Governance Committee of sales in excess of €300 million. These rules also state that any February 13, 2019, the Board of Directors of February 15, 2019, material transaction which is not integrated in the Company’s set the annual fixed compensation for Mr. Michel de Rosen at current strategy plan will be submitted to the prior approval of €300,000, unchanged from 2018. the Board of Directors. From 2019, a portion of this compensation will be paid as a At its meeting of April 19, 2018, the Board of Directors renewed benefit in kind relating to the time of the personal assistant the authorization given to the Chief Executive Officer to grant provided to the Chairman dedicated to his activities other than sureties, endorsements, or guarantees of up to €50 million, those in relation to his chairmanship of Faurecia. capped at €10 million per transaction. If the Group is required The amount of his fixed compensation and of this benefit in kind to provide advance payment guarantees or performance will amount to a total of €300,000 in 2019 (corresponding to the bonds for contracts with successive partial deliveries, the fixed compensation for 2018). Chief Executive Officer is authorized to provide guarantees representing a maximum of €5 million per transaction. Other components of compensation  Benefits in kind: Compensation of executive and non-executive  The Chairman is entitled to a personnal assistant for corporate ofﬁcers activities other than those in relation to his Chairman of The principles and criteria for determining, allocating and Faurecia (as of 2019). awarding compensation to executive and non-executive  The Chairman is entitled to a company car. corporate officers are detailed for each officer concerned in  The Chairman does not receive attendance fees. the explanatory notes to the resolutions included in Chapter 5 of this Registration Document.  The Chairman does not receive any other compensation from the Company. Consequently, Tables 4, 5, 6 and 7 (the These elements will be submitted for shareholder approval AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF Recommendation No. 2009-16) in application of paragraph 1 of Article L. 225-37-2 of the do not apply. Likewise Table 10 (AFEP-MEDEF Code). French Code of commerce resulting from Law No. 2016-1691 / Registration document 2018 195 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION, OPTIONS AND SHARES GRANTED TO MR. MICHEL DE ROSEN Table No. 1 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) (in €) Fiscal year 2017 Fiscal year 2018 Compensation for the year (see Table 2) 302,076 304,982.40 Value of multi-annual variable compensation awarded during the year Value of stock options granted during the year Value of performance shares granted during the year Value of other long-term compensation plans TOTAL 302,076 304,982.40 SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION PAYABLE TO MR. MICHEL DE ROSEN Table No. 2 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Fiscal year 2018 (gross in €) Amount due Amount paid Fixed compensation 300,000 300,000 Annual variable compensation Multi-annual variable compensation Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Beneﬁts in kind 4,982.40 4,982.40 TOTAL 304,982.40 304,982.40 Table No. 11 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Compensation or beneﬁts due or that may be due on Compensation Employment Supplementary termination or change in due under a nonContract pension scheme position competition clause Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Position: Chairman of the Board of Directors since May 30, 2017 End of term: 2020 Annual General No No No No Meeting to approve the 2019 ﬁnancial statements Compensation of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Koller’s fixed annual compensation for 2018 from €750,000 to The elements of the compensation paid, or awarded, to €825,000, an increase of 10%. Mr. Patrick Koller for the year ended December 31, 2018, The Board of Directors set this compensation by assessing which are subject to the shareholders’ vote, pursuant to several factors: Article L. 225-100, paragraph II, of the French Code of commerce, are shown in the explanatory notes to the  Mr. Patrick Koller’s performance in assuming full responsibility resolutions included in Section 5 of this Registration Document. for Faurecia’s Executive Management, demonstrated through results of operations, profitability and market capitalization; Fixed compensation for 2018 before being appointed Chief Executive Officer in July 2016, On the recommendation of the Management Committee, Mr. Patrick Koller was Deputy Chief Executive Officer and which met on February 12, 2018, the Board of Directors, at its Chief Operating Officer since February 2015, and before that meeting of February 15, 2018, decided to increase Mr. Patrick had been responsible for one of the Group’s BGs; 196 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance  the launch of the Group’s transformation, which is based The expected levels of achievement of these targets were set on new strategic priorities centered around clearly defined by the Board of Directors with reference to the 2018 budget but focuses with high technological value, substantial growth, are not made public for confidentiality reasons. changes in the Group’s business, and significant international Qualitative targets have also been set in addition to quantitative expansion benefiting from industrial geographic coverage. targets: The Board of Directors also took into consideration the results of  execution of strategy in terms of Sustainable Mobility and a comparative study prepared by an outside consultant, Willis Smart Life on Board, (40% weighting for this criterion). This Towers Watson, based on a set of twenty manufacturers listed in will largely be a case of defining and deploying clear Paris with comparable revenues, capitalization and headcount, organization and accountabilities, focusing on order book Mr. Patrick Koller’s fixed compensation still being around 8% growth, identifying and implementing external growth below the median, compared with 17% before the increase. requirements, within the new Value Spaces; Variable compensation for 2018  management of program launches (30% weighting for this criterion), with particular attention given to 11 programs On the recommendation of the Management Committee, identified as being at risk; and which met on February 12, 2018, the Board of Directors of February 15, 2018, laid down the rules for determining Mr. Patrick  Being Faurecia (30% weighted on this criterion) with, in Koller’s variable compensation for 2018. particular, the preparation of a medium-term action plan for selected convictions, defining objectives for 2018 and The Board decided that Mr. Patrick Koller’s total variable proposed objectives for 2019 for each of these convictions. compensation would range from 0 to 180% of his fixed annual compensation according to the achievement of quantitative Once all or parts of the quantitative targets are achieved, the and qualitative targets. level of achievement of the qualitative targets will determine a multiplier effect for the achievement of the quantitative targets The achievement of quantitative targets entitles him to variable of between 0.70 and 1.20. compensation ranging from 0 to 150% of his fixed annual compensation. Therefore, if the achievement of the quantitative targets is equal to 0, the multiplier effect of the qualitative targets will The quantitative targets set by the Board of Directors on not be taken into account. February 15, 2018 are linked to the operating income and free cash flow: On February 15, 2019, on the recommendation of the Management Committee which met on February 15, 2019, by  the operating income set by reference to the 2018 budget applying the principles described above and having noted that will give right to a variable compensation ranging from 0 to the qualitative targets had been attained as described above, 150% (maximum percentage) of the fixed compensation. the Board of Directors set Mr. Patrick Koller’s 2018 variable The operating income will be taken into account for 40%; compensation as Chief Executive Officer as follows:  the free cash flow set by reference to the 2018 budget will give right to a variable compensation ranging from 0 to 150% (maximum percentage) of the fixed compensation. The free cash flow will be taken into account for 60%. Corresponding Weighting Maximum as Achieved amount of targets % of target target (%) amount in € Quantitative targets Operating Income 40% 150% 110% 363,000 From 0 to 150% of 100% of the Free cash ﬂow 60% 150% 133% 658,350 ﬁxed annual compensation if the levels of achievement of these targets set with reference to the 2018 budget are reached TOTAL QUANTITATIVE 100% 150% 124% 1,021,350 Qualitative targets Strategy execution 40% 120% 120% 75,580 Multiplier effect (ranging from 0.70 Managing program to 1.20) of the achievement of the launches 30% 120% 115% 56,685 quantitative targets, which may Being Faurecia 30% 120% 120% 56,685 increase or decrease variable compensation TOTAL QUALITATIVE 100% 120% 118.5% 188,950 TOTAL VARIABLE COMPENSATION 180% 146.7% 1,210,300 / Registration document 2018 197 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance With regards to strategy execution, the Board of Directors of The annual fixed compensation as decided by the Board of February 15, 2019 highlighted: Directors corresponds to the median compensation paid by industrial companies listed in Paris.  the acquisition in progress and integration of Clarion;  the completion of several other acquisition transactions (Hug Variable compensation for 2019 Engineering, Parrot Automotive, Coagent Electronics); On the recommendation of the Management Committee, which met on February 15, 2019, the Board also set the  the implementation of New Value Spaces and of its order rules for determining the Chief Executive Officer’s variable book representing 7% of the overall order book; and compensation for 2019 in its meeting of February 15, 2019.  significant developments in the implementation of a strategic The Board decided that the Chief Executive Officer’s total ecosystem with the creation of joint ventures, in particular variable compensation would range from 0 to 180% of his with Liuzhou Wuling Automotive Industry Co., and the fixed annual compensation according to the achievement of conclusion of strategic partnerships (Accenture, FAW group, quantitative and qualitative targets. HELLA) and investments in start-ups (Enogia, Powersphyr, Promethient, SUBPAC). The achievement of quantitative targets gives right to a variable compensation ranging from 0 to 150% of his fixed In terms of managing program launches, the Board of Directors annual compensation. of February 15, 2019, noted that 220 launches were completed in 2018 with no substantial variances, and that only one program The quantitative targets set by the Board of Directors on at risk remained compared with 11 at the beginning of the year, February 15, 2019 are linked to the operating income and free owing to the implementation of the prevention plan. cash flow: Lastly, with regards to Being Faurecia, the convictions were  the operating income set by reference to the 2019 budget approved and presented to the Board of Directors. For will give right to a variable compensation ranging from 0 to each conviction, the indicators, targets and the 2020 plan 150% (maximum percentage) of the fixed compensation. were approved. A Head of Sustainable Development and a The operating income will be taken into account for 40%; Deputy Chief Compliance Officer have been recruited. The  the net cash flow set by reference to the 2019 budget will communications plan for the 2019 deployment has been give right to a variable compensation ranging from 0 to 150% prepared and the general sustainable development approach (maximum percentage) of the fixed compensation. The net approved. cash flow will be taken into account for 60%. In accordance with Article L. 225-100 II, paragraph 2, of the Qualitative targets have also been set in addition to quantitative French Code of commerce resulting from Law No. 2016-1691 targets: of December 9, 2016 on Transparency, Anti-Corruption and Economic Modernization, this compensation will be paid to  integration of Clarion (this criterion has a weighting of 50%). Mr. Patrick Koller after its approval by the shareholders at the This will largely be a case of implementing a clear structure Annual General Meeting to be held on May 28, 2019. and associated accountabilities, identifying and securing talented people, identifying synergies, completing the Fixed compensation from 2019 integration plan in the second half of 2019 and to implement The Chief Executive Officer will receive a fixed compensation. th budget; For information purposes, it is specified that on the  strategy execution (this criterion has a weighting of 50%). This recommendation of the Management Committee of will largely be a case of focusing on the growth, of the order February 15, 2019, the Board of Directors decided to increase book, and in particular the one of the New Value Spaces, the Chief Executive Officer’s annual fixed compensation as and monitoring the corporate, social and environmental Chief Executive Officer from €825,000 to €900,000 with effect convictions announced by Faurecia in 2018. from July 1, 2019, an increase of approximately 9%. Once all or parts of the quantitative targets are achieved, the The Board of Directors set this compensation by assessing level of achievement of the qualitative targets will determine several factors: a multiplier effect of the achievement of 0.70 to 1.20 of the quantitative targets.  the Group’s excellent performance in 2018 and fulfillment of the financial targets set for the fiscal year, which is reflected Therefore, if the achievement of the quantitative targets is in the creation of value for the Group’s partners and equal to 0, the multiplier effect of the qualitative targets will shareholders, despite an unfavorable economic context in not be taken into account. the second half of the year; Other components of compensation  the continuing transformation of the Group with the  The Chief Executive Officer is entitled to a company car. integration of new high value technological activities and in particular the creation of a fourth Business Group,  The Chief Executive Officer does not receive any attendance Faurecia Clarion Electronic Systems, following the acquisition fees as a Board member. of Clarion.  The Chief Executive Officer has no multi-year compensation. The Board of Directors, wishing to ensure that the compensation Consequently, Table 10 (AFEP-MEDEF Code) does not apply. of its Chief Executive Officer is competitive, also took into  The Chief Executive Officer will be a beneficiary of an annual account the results of a comparative study, covering France performance share plan, whose terms and conditions are and Europe, carried out by external consultants on the basis of described on page 220. a group of industrial companies that are comparable in terms of sales, market capitalization and employee numbers. 198 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance The Board also decided that the Chief Executive Officer  Finally, the Chief Executive Officer will be the beneficiary of would retain 30% of his share allocation under this plan a termination payment approved by the Board of Directors until the end of his term of office as Chief Executive Officer, of July 25, 2016, in accordance with the procedures in irrespective of the number of times he is reappointed. Article 225.38 et seq. of the French Code of commerce. This termination benefit was submitted for shareholder approval Furthermore, on October 19, 2018, the Board of Directors at the General Meeting of May 30, 2017 (5th resolution to be decided that this requirement of a per-plan percentage voted upon under ordinary business). threshold will cease to apply once he holds a number of shares that corresponds to three years of gross base compensation, factoring in all the plans already established. SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION, OPTIONS AND SHARES GRANTED TO MR. PATRICK KOLLER Table No. 1 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) (in €) Fiscal year 2017 Fiscal year 2018 Compensation for the year (see Table 2) 2,056,818 2,035,300 Value of multi-annual variable compensation awarded during the year Value of stock options granted during the year Value of performance shares granted during the year (set out in Table 6) 1,369,437 1,237,788 Value of other long-term compensation plans TOTAL 3,426,255 3,378,300 SUMMARY OF MR. PATRICK KOLLER’S COMPENSATION Table No. 2 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Fiscal year 2017 Fiscal year 2018 (gross in €) Amount due Amount paid Amount due Amount paid Fixed compensation 750,000 750,000 825,000 825,000 Annual variable compensation 1,293,750 (1) 962,161.20 (2) 1,210,300 (3) 1,293,750 (4) Multi-annual variable compensation Exceptional compensation Attendance fees (5) (6) Beneﬁts in kind 13,068 13,068 14,400 14,400 TOTAL 2,056,818 1,725,229.20 2,035,300 2,133,150 (1) Amount due for 2017 and paid in 2018. (2) Amount paid for 2016. (3) Amount to be paid subject to the approval of the GM 28 May 2019. (4) Amount paid for 2016. (5) Entitlement to a vehicule. (6) Entitlement to a vehicule. STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO MR. PATRICK KOLLER STOCK OPTIONS EXERCISED BY MR. PATRICK KOLLER BY THE ISSUER AND OTHER GROUP COMPANIES DURING THE FISCAL YEAR DURING THE FISCAL YEAR No stock options were exercised by Mr. Patrick Koller in 2018. No stock options were granted to Mr. Patrick Koller by Faurecia Consequently, Table 5 (the AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF or other Group companies in 2018. Consequently, Table 4 (the Recommendation No. 2009-16) does not apply. AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF Recommendation No. 2009-16) does not apply. / Registration document 2018 199 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance PERFORMANCE SHARES ALLOCATED TO MR. PATRICK KOLLER DURING THE YEAR The table below lists the performance shares allocated to Mr. Patrick Koller in 2018. Table No. 6 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Valuation Maximum of shares number according to of shares the method Number granted used for the and during the consolidated date of relevant ﬁnancial Acquisition Vesting plan period (1) statements date date Performance conditions Plan Plans 27,000 1,237,788 07/19/2022 07/19/2022  Net income after tax of the Group as of No. 10 (2) No.10 December 31, 2020, before taking into account o1 capital gains from the disposal of assets and July 19, changes in the scope of consolidation, as 2018 approved by the Board of Directors, assessed against net income for the same fiscal year as forecast in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed and decided by the Board of Directors on the date when the shares are allocated;  The growth between 2017 and 2020 in the Company’s net earnings per share compared with the weighted growth of a reference group of 12 international automotive suppliers comparable to Faurecia over the same period. TOTAL 27,000 1,237,788 (1) The number of performance shares given in this table is the maximum number and corresponds to 130% of the number of shares used in the valuation. (2) Since it is not known whether the conditions of this plan were met, the value expressed is the target value. According to the rules of the plan in question, Mr. Patrick Koller made a formal commitment not to hedge the risks associated with the performance shares allocated to him. PERFORMANCE SHARES THAT BECAME AVAILABLE TO MR. PATRICK KOLLER DURING THE FISCAL YEAR The situation in terms of shares that became available in 2018 is as follows, these shares having been awarded when Mr. Patrick Koller was not yet a corporate officer: Table No. 7 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Number of shares Number that became and date of available during the plan ﬁscal year Vesting conditions Plan No. 6 of 18,525 Mr. Patrick Koller must retain at least 30% of the shares vested under July 28, 2014 each plan. This percentage threshold obligation for each plan will cease to apply once Mr. Patrick Koller owns a number of shares that corresponds to three years gross base compensation, factoring in all the plans already vested, and will again become applicable in the event that Mr. Patrick Koller no longer holds the target number of shares corresponding to this level of base gross compensation. TOTAL 18,525 The total number of performance shares outstanding as of December 31, 2018 which may vest to Mr. Patrick Koller, minus the number of shares already vested (i.e., a total of 145,138 shares, of which 23,643 were granted before his appointment as a corporate officer) represents 0.10% of Faurecia’s capital as of that date. 200 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Table No. 11 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Compensation or beneﬁts due or that may be due Compensation Employment Supplementary on termination or change due under a nonContract pension scheme in position competition clause Position: Chief Executive Ofﬁcer since July 1, 2016 End of term: Mr. Patrick Koller’s term No* Yes Yes No of ofﬁce as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer is unlimited * Mr. Patrick Koller’s employment contract was terminated on July 1, 2016, when he was appointed Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors held on 25 July 2016 authorized the 4. the amount of the termination indemnity would be equal grant of a termination indemnity to Mr. Patrick Koller as Chief to 24 months of Mr. Patrick Koller’s reference compensation Executive Officer. (fixed compensation and target variable compensation) if the two conditions set out above are met over each of The termination indemnity is subject to the following conditions: the three financial years inquestion, which in practical terms 1. the termination indemnity will be due to Mr. Patrick Koller amounts to meeting six critera; in the event of his being removed from office as Chief 5. should one of the six criteria not be met in a given year, the Executive Officer at the Company’s initiative, except in the termination indemnity would be reduced by one-sixth and event of serious or gross misconduct by Mr. Patrick Koller ; therefore could be equal to zero if none of the six criteria 2. no termination indemnity will be due if Mr. Patrick Koller are met; resigns or retires; 6. should Mr. Patrick Koller’s term of office as Chief Executive 3. the termination indemnity is subject to the following Officer be less than three years, the termination indemnity performance conditions: would be calculated using the same method, but the number of criteria would be adjusted to take into account a. achieving positive operation income over each of the the actual duration of his term of office. three financial years prior to the end of Mr. Patrick Koller’s term of office as Chief Executive Officer; b. achieving positive net cash flow over each of the three financial years prior to the end of Mr. Patrick Koller’s term of office as Chief Executive Officer; / Registration document 2018 201 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance PENSION SCHEMES FOR EXECUTIVE CORPORATE defined contribution pension scheme and a defined benefits OFFICERS pension scheme. (Decree No. 2016-182 of February 23, 2016 in application of Mr. Patrick Koller is also a participant in the supplementary paragraph 5 of Article 229 of the French Growth, Jobs and Equal pension scheme specifically set up on January 1, 2015 for Economic Opportunities Act No. 2015-990 of August 6, 2015) members of Faurecia’s Executive Committee who have an employment contract with the Company (either in progress or Mr. Patrick Koller is a participant in the pension scheme set up suspended), or a term of office in France. for all of Faurecia’s managers in France, which comprises a Deﬁned contribution Deﬁned beneﬁts pension scheme pension scheme Speciﬁc supplementary pension scheme Applicable law Article 83 of the Article 39 of the Article 39 of the French General Tax Code French General French General Tax Code Tax Code Scheme entry conditions One year’s seniority Having an  Having an employment contract (active and other conditions giving in the Group at the employment contract or suspended) or a position as a corporate entitlement to beneﬁt from it time of retirement or a position a ofﬁcer in France corporate ofﬁcer and  Three-year seniority within Faurecia’s ﬁve years’ seniority in Executive Committee as from January 1, 2015 the Group at the time of retirement Method for determining the Contributions Average Tranche C Average total compensation over the past reference compensation used to Tranche A compensation over three years (ﬁxed + variable), excluding special to calculate entitlements and Tranche B the past three years compensation of the current year (amount of contributions paid by the Company in 2018: €7,549.08) Vesting formula 1% of the 1% of the Depending on Faurecia’s per formance, compensation compensation in from 1% to 3% of total compensation (ﬁxed + in Tranche A Tranche C and variable), excluding special compensation and 6% of the performance compensation in conditions linked Tranche B to the degree of achievement of variable compensation targets Ceiling, amount or terms and Not applicable According to the  Eight times the annual French social security conditions for determining it leaving age, between ceiling 65-70% of the average  The total retirement amounts paid by salary of the last three Faurecia must be less than 25% of the years reference compensation  The replacement rate across all pension schemes (mandatory and speciﬁc) must also be less than 45% Funding of rights Outsourced Outsourced Outsourced Estimated amount of the €4,567 per annum €31,791 per annum* €335,834 per annum** pension at the end of ﬁscal year Associated tax and payroll Not applicable Tax on annuity Tax on contribution expenses * Seniority starting from December 18, 2006. ** Seniority starting from January 1, 2015. 202 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Corporate governance Further information on these pension schemes can be found in Table 8 required by these same texts (“History of stock Note 25-2 to the consolidated financial statements. subscription or purchase options”) and table 9 required by AMF recommendation No. 2009-16 (“Stock subscription or Table 3 as required by the AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF purchase options granted during the fiscal year to the top ten recommendation No. 2009-16 (“Attendance fees”) appears non-corporate officer employees and options exercised by in Section 3.1.1.2.1. them during the year”) do not apply. Table 9 required by the AFEP-MEDEF Code and table 10 required by AMF recommendation No. 2009-16 (“History of performance share grants”) appear in Section 3.2.1. 3.1.2. The Executive Committee 3.1.2.1. Executive Committee members The Faurecia group’s executive management function is performed under the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) by an Executive Committee that meets every month to review the Group’s results and consider general matters concerning the Group. At December 31, 2018, it included the following members: Patrick Koller Jean-Michel Renaudie Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice-President, Faurecia Interiors Michel Favre Christophe Schmitt Executive Vice-President, Group Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice-President, Faurecia Clean Mobility Hervé Guyot Jean-Pierre Sounillac Executive Vice-President, Group Strategy Executive Vice-President, Group Human Resources Thorsten Muschal Eelco Spoelder Executive Vice-President, Sales and Program Management Executive Vice-President, Faurecia Seating Kate Philipps François Tardif Executive Vice-President, Group Communications Executive Vice-President, Faurecia China Hagen Wiesner Executive Vice-President, Group Operations 3.1.2.2. Executive Committee compensation The total amount of compensation paid during fiscal year 2018 receive contractual severance pay of up to 12 months’ to the Executive Committee members in office at December 31, compensation, depending on their position. This amount is not 2018, including the Chief Executive Officer, was €11,286,938. payable in the event of gross or serious misconduct. The compensation of the Executive Committee, excluding the Members of the Executive Committee also benefit from the Chief Executive Officer, includes a variable bonus. Performing performance share plan instituted by the Board of Directors. on target can result in a bonus worth 50% of the base salary. As of December 31, 2018, plan Nos. 7, 8, 9, 10 and 10b are onShould targets be exceeded, this percentage can rise to 100% going. They were granted by the Board of Directors’ decisions of the base salary. 80% of the bonus is based on targets related of July 28, 2014, July 23, 2015, July 25, 2016, July 20, 2017 to operating income and cash generation within the scope of and July 19, 2018. responsibility, and 20% on the same targets measured across The Board of Directors’ meeting of October 12, 2017, decided the Group. Within the Corporate departments, 100% is based that starting with plan No. 6 and for all plans established on targets measured across the Group. subsequently, all Executive Committee members must retain In 2017, this bonus changed to be better aligned with the at least 20% of the shares acquired under each plan. This corporate officer’s compensation: it switched from a half-yearly requirement of a percentage threshold for each plan will cease payment to an annual payment, and a multiplier factor ranging to apply once the Executive Committee member in question from 0.7 to 1.2 and based on four or five individual weighted holds a number of shares that corresponds to one year of targets was added. Consequently, the total amount of base gross compensation, factoring in all the plans already compensation paid in 2018 reflects only a half year of variable established, and it will again become applicable in the event compensation, corresponding to the second half of 2017, that the member no longer holds the target number of shares which was paid in February 2018. The variable compensation corresponding to one year of base gross compensation. for 2018 will be paid in early 2019. In any event, this ownership requirement will no longer apply If the employment contract of an Executive Committee when the Executive Committee member in question steps member (excluding the CEO) is terminated, he or she may down from the Committee. / Registration document 2018 203 3 Governance and capital stock Corporate governance 3.1.3. The Group Leadership Committee Each of the three Business Groups is organized into geographic As of December 31, 2018, Faurecia’s Group Leadership divisions – Europe, divided when appropriate into North and Committee had 258 members. This is Faurecia’s operational South Europe, North America, South America, and Asia (China) management, responsible for the Company’s operations, – which manage operations in their region and also coordinate growth and performance. As such, the members of this team operations with customers headquartered in their region. have an interest in the short-term results, through a system of variable bonuses. 80% of the bonus is based on targets related The three Business Groups also have a central staff that handles to operating income and cash generation within their scope of the main operational functions (sales and marketing, programs, responsibility, and 20% on the same targets measured for the manufacturing support, purchasing, quality, Human Resources scope immediately above. For operation management, the and finance). These functions are also managed within the targets are based at the Group’s level for 100%. geographic divisions by equivalent teaMs. Additionally, some specialized areas are managed by worldwide product lines Since 2018, a multiplying factor has been added in order to within the three businesses, such as seat mechanisms, acoustic increase the variable compensation by maximum 1.2 on the treatments and decorative interior trims. basis of individual weighted targets. Faurecia’s Group Leadership Committee (known, prior to Members of this team also benefit from the performance share January 1 2018, as Senior Management) consists of all the plan instituted by the Board of Directors. As of December 31, aforementioned management teams along with the Executive 2018, plan Nos. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10b are on-going. They were Committee and the key headquarters managers of the granted by the Board of Directors’ decisions of July 28, 2014, manufacturing and quality staff and from the Human Resources July 23, 2015, July 25, 2016, July 20, 2017 and July 19, 2018. and Finance departments. 204 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure 3.2. Capital stock and shareholder structure 3.2.1. Faurecia’s capital stock No shares have been issued that do not represent the purposes of this Registration Document and in compliance with Company’s capital stock. AMF Recommendation No. 2009-16 (amended on April 13, 2015), it shows the total number of theoretical voting rights, As of December 31, 2018, the Company’s capital stock excluding shares (such as treasury shares) with no such rights, amounted to €966,250,607, divided into 138,035,801 fully paidand the total number of votes that may be cast in the General up shares with a par value of €7 each, all in the same class. Meeting. The distribution of Faurecia’s capital stock and voting rights at December 31, 2018 is shown in the following table. For the Voting rights % voting rights % capital Theoretical % theoretical exercisable at the at the General Shareholders at 12/31/2018 Shares stock voting rights* voting rights General Meeting* Meeting Peugeot S.A. 63,960,006 46.34 127,920,012 63.11 127,920,012 63.39 Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate Mutual fund 333,480 0.24 640,598 0.32 640,598 0.32 Corporate ofﬁcers 70,285 0.05 87,581 0.04 87,581 0.04 Treasury stock 917,160 0.66 917,160 0.45 0 0 o/w liquidity contract 191,500 0.14 191,500 0.09 0 0 Other shareholders (registered and bearer) 72,754,870 52.71 73,135,293 36.08 73,135,293 36.24 TOTAL 138,035,801 100% 202,700,644 100% 201,783,484 100% * Calculations based on information from the Caceis Corporate Trust Register on December 31, 2018. The following disclosures were made to the Company in 2018 concerning the crossing of legal thresholds. Number % capital % voting Shareholder References and date of the Upwards/ of shares stock rights name AMF decision/notice Date crossed downwards Threshold afterwards afterwards afterwards BlackRock, Inc. 218C0664/March 29, 2018 March 27, 2018 Upward 5% of capital stock 6,905,561 5.003% 3.41% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0670/March 29, 2018 March 28, 2018 Downward 5% of capital stock 6,846,543 4.96% 3.38% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0703/April 10, 2018 April 6, 2018 Upward 5% of capital stock 7,017,662 5.08% 3.46% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0713/April 11, 2018 April 10, 2018 Downward 5% of capital stock 6,895,768 4.00% 3.40% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0724/April 13, 2018 April 11, 2018 Upward 5% of capital stock 7,123,347 5.16% 3.51% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0755/April 19, 2018 April 18, 2018 Downward 5% of capital stock 6,892,846 4.99% 3.40% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0772/April 20, 2018 April 19, 2018 Upward 5% of capital stock 6,999,193 5.07% 3.45% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0791/April 25, 2018 April 23, 2018 Downward 5% of capital stock 6,898,426 4.99% 3.40% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0794/April 26, 2018 April 24, 2018 Upward 5% of capital stock 7,041,037 5.10% 3.47% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0798/April 26, 2018 April 25, 2018 Downward 5% of capital stock 6,790,465 4.92% 3.35% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0924/May 25, 2018 May 23, 2018 Upward 5% of capital stock 6,964,840 5.05% 3.44% BlackRock, Inc. 218C0953/May 29, 2018 May 25, 2018 Downward 5% of capital stock 6,687,876 4.85% 3.30% BlackRock, Inc. 218C1213/July 5, 2018 July 4, 2018 Upward 5% of capital stock 6,948,852 5.03% 3.43% BlackRock, Inc. 218C1323/July 20, 2018 July 18, 2018 Downward 5% of capital stock 6,861,622 4.97% 3.38% BlackRock, Inc. 218C1377August 1, 2018 July 30, 2018 Upward 5% of capital stock 7,129,612 5.17% 3.52% / Registration document 2018 205 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure The following disclosures were made to the Company in 2018 concerning the crossing of thresholds provided for in the bylaws: Number % capital % voting Upwards/ of shares stock rights Shareholder name Date crossed downwards Threshold afterwards afterwards afterwards AXA Investment Managers March 7, 2018 Downward 2% of capital stock 2,615,369 1.89% 1.29% Amundi June 18, 2018 Upward 2% of capital stock 2,762,051 Amundi June 19, 2018 Downward 2% of capital stock 2,756,374 Amundi July 2, 2018 Upward 2% of capital stock 3,044,933 Amundi December 12, 2018 Downward 2% of capital stock 2,752,402 1.99% Amundi December 13, 2018 Upward 2% of capital stock 2,789,754 2.02% To the best of the Company’s knowledge, as of December 31, To the best of the Company’s knowledge, no shareholder 2018, no other shareholder directly or indirectly, individually or made a pledge on the Faurecia securities that he/she/it holds. in concert, owned more than 2% of the Company’s capital There are no agreements of those referred to in Article L. 233-11 stock or voting rights. of the French Code of commerce. The Company is entitled to ask the central depository at any Changes in ownership structure over the last three years are time for the names of holders of securities carrying immediate or presented in Section 3.2.1.4. future voting rights at General Meetings, the number of securities held by each, plus details of any restrictions applicable to the securities. 3.2.1.1. Authorized capital stock The table below summarizes the status of the current financial authorizations, as voted by the General Meetings on May 30, 2017, and May 29, 2018, and how they were used during 2018. Type of authorization Amount in €/par value Term Use in 2018 General Meeting of May 30, 2017 Twentieth resolution  €250 million 26 months No Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors  €1 billion for debt securities (ceiling to issue ordinary shares and/or securities giving common to the twenty-ﬁrst and access to ordinary shares and/or the allocation twenty-second resolutions of this of a debt security with preferential subscription same meeting) rights (including capital increases through the capitalization of proﬁts, premiums and reserves) Twenty-ﬁrst resolution  €95 million (ceiling common 26 months No Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to to the twenty-second resolution) issue ordinary shares and/or securities giving access  €1 billion in the case of debt to ordinary shares and/or the allocation of a debt securities security without preferential subscription rights by means of a public offering Twenty-second resolution  €95 million (ceiling common 26 months No Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to to the twenty-ﬁrst resolution) issue ordinary shares and/or securities giving access  €1 billion in the case of debt to ordinary shares and/or the allocation of a debt securities security without preferential subscription rights in the context of a private placement Twenty-third resolution Up to a limit of 15% of the initial issue 26 months No Authorization of the Board of Directors to increase and at the same price as that for the the number of securities to be issued in the event initial issue of a capital increase, with or without preferential subscription rights with an overallotment option 206 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure Type of authorization Amount in €/par value Term Use in 2018 Twenty-fourth resolution 3% of the Company’s capital stock 26 months No Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors at the date on which the Board of to decide upon a capital increase reserved for Directors decides to use the authority employees in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 3332-19 of the French Labor Code by issuing shares and/or securities giving access to ordinary shares of the Company General Meeting of May 29, 2018 Fourteenth resolution With a maximum limit of 2 million 26 months Authorization Authorization to the Board of Directors to award free shares on the date of the Board of used by the shares Directors’ decision and within the Board of Directors limit, within the aforementioned total of July 19, 2018 amount, of 10% for awards made which awarded a to executive and non-executive maximum of corporate ofﬁcers 557,290 shares 3.2.1.2. Potential capital stock The performance conditions are the following: As of December 31, 2018, the potential capital stock was  60% fulfillment of an internal performance condition related comprised only of performance shares. since 2016 to the Group net income after tax (before 2016, Group net income before tax), before taking into account On that same date, there were no outstanding stock option any exceptional events. This internal condition is assessed plans in force as the last stock subscription option plan had by comparing the net result of the third fiscal year after the expired on April 16, 2017. Therefore, Table 8 (“History of grant date of the performance shares against the one as allocations of stock subscription options”) as mandated by the forecasted in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed and AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16 is approved by the Board of Directors on the grant date of the not applicable. performance shares; and Furthermore, no option was exercised by any group employee  40% fulfillment of an external performance condition, i.e., during fiscal year 2017. Therefore, Table 9 (“Stock subscription growth of the Company’s net earnings per share assessed or purchase options granted during the fiscal year to the top 10 between the last fiscal year before the grant date of the non-corporate office employees and options exercised by them performance shares and the third fiscal year ended after during the fiscal year”) as mandated by AMF recommendation the grant date of the performance shares. This condition is No. 2009-16 is not applicable. assessed against the weighted growth of a reference group Performance shares made up of twelve comparable international automotive suppliers over the same period. The Chief Executive Officer, as well as the Group Leadership Committee of around 258 people as at December 31, 2018, The reference group is made up of the following European and were beneficiaries of performance share plans established by North American automotive suppliers: the Company.  Autoliv (Sweden); The Company’s policy in this regard is based on simple,  Autoneum (formerly Rieter) (Switzerland); transparent, enduring principles. Therefore:  Borg Warner (United States);  performance shares have been granted annually since 2010 at the same periods, involving, since that year, an internal  Continental (Germany); performance condition and a presence condition applicable  Delphi (United States); to all French and foreign beneficiaries of the plans;  GKN (United Kingdom);  since 2013, the conditions have also included an external performance condition applicable to all French and foreign  Adient (United States); beneficiaries of the plans;  Lear (United States);  since 2013, the vesting period applicable to the plans has  Magna (Canada); been four years as from their allocation date for all French and foreign beneficiaries; the plans comprise no holding  Plastic Omnium (France); period;  Tenneco (United States);  the number of shares that may be granted to the beneficiary  Valeo (France). under each plan is determined using an external benchmark from which are deducted a minimum number of shares (50%) This group generally remains stable even it may be modified in and a maximum number (130%). the event of a major change concerning one of its members. In all cases, the final allocation depends on the fulfillment of performance and presence conditions. / Registration document 2018 207 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure Method used for the award of performance share plans Internal condition (net income) July/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N+1 12/31/ﬁscal year N+2 July/ﬁscal year N+4 Assessment of the fulﬁllment Acquisition date of of the internal condition performance shares X = Grant date of performance shares in July of ﬁscal year N, (vesting date deﬁnition of target amount and minimum where applicable) and maximum amounts for the internal condition External condition (net earnings per share) Fiscal year N-1 July/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N+1 12/31/ﬁscal year N+2 July/ﬁscal year N+4 Assessment of external condition Assessment of the fulﬁllment Acquisition date of the external condition of performance shares (vesting date X = Grant date of performance shares in July of ﬁscal year N, where applicable) deﬁnition of target amount and minimum and maximum amounts for the external condition 208 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure Summary of the achievement of performance share plan conditions Plans Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Comments Plan No. 1 Internal condition: Group net income before Group net income Group net income before Maximum of June 23, Net income before tax of tax at December 31, 2011 before tax at tax at December 31, 2011, performance 2010 the Group as of December equal to 78% of that of the December 31, 2011 equal to 126% of that of condition 31, 2011, before t king into 2011 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2011 medium-term fulﬁlled. account capital gains from the 2011 mediumplan. The maximum the disposal of assets and term plan. number of changes in the scope of shares was consolidation, as approved awarded to by the Board of Directors, beneﬁciaries assessed against net income employed at for the same ﬁscal year the vesting as forecast in the Group’s date. medium-term plan reviewed by the Board of Directors on the date when the shares are allocated. Plan No. 2 Internal condition: Group net income before Group net income Group net income before Condition not of July 21, Net income before tax of tax at December 31, 2012, before tax at tax at December 31, 2012, met. The plan 2010 the Group as of December equal to 75% of that of the December 31, 2012, equal to 125% of that of was cancelled. 31, 2012, before taking into 2012 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2012 medium-term account capital gains from the 2012 mediumplan. the disposal of assets and term plan. changes in the scope of consolidation, as approved by the Board of Directors, assessed against net income for the same ﬁscal year as forecast in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed by the Board of Directors on the date when the shares are allocated. Plan No. 3 Internal condition: Group net income before Group net income Group net income before Condition not of July 25, Net income before tax of tax at December 31, 2013, before tax at tax at December 31, 2013, met. The plan 2011 the Group as of December equal to 75% of that of the December 31, 2013, equal to 125% of that of was cancelled. 31, 2013, before taking into 2013 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2013 medium-term account capital gains from the 2013 mediumplan. the disposal of assets and term plan. changes in the scope of consolidation, as approved by the Board of Directors, assessed against net income for the same ﬁscal year as forecast in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed by the Board of Directors on the date when the shares are allocated. / Registration document 2018 209 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure Plans Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Comments Plan No. 4 Internal condition (60%): Group net income before Group net income Group net income before of July 23, Net income before tax of tax at December 31, 2014, before tax at tax at December 31, 2014, 2012 the Group as of December equal to 75% of that of the December 31, 2014, equal to 125% of that of 31, 2014, before taking into 2014 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2014 medium-term account capital gains from the 2014 mediumplan. the disposal of assets and term plan. changes in the scope of consolidation, as approved by the Board of Directors, assessed against net income for the same ﬁscal year as forecast in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed by the Board of Directors on the date when the shares are allocated. Conditions not External condition (40%): If the reference group’s If the reference If the reference group’s met. The plan Growth in Faurecia’s net weighted growth in net group’s weighted weighted growth in net was cancelled. earnings per share between earnings per share is below growth in net earnings per share is below ﬁscal year 2011 and ﬁscal -20%, therefore negative, earnings per share -20%, therefore negative, year 2014, assessed against the minimum external is in line with the the maximum external the weighted growth of a condition will be fulﬁlled if growth in Faurecia’s condition will be fulﬁlled if reference group comprised of the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per the growth in Faurecia’s 12 comparable international net earnings per share share, the target net earnings per share automotive equipment is equal to 125% of this external condition is is equal to 75% of this suppliers. weighted growth. fulﬁlled. weighted growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is between -20% and +20%, between -20% and +20%. the minimum external the external condition will condition will be fulﬁlled if be completely fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s Faurecia’s net income is 5 net earnings per share is 5 points above this weighted points below this weighted growth. growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is above +20%, therefore above +20%, therefore positive, the maximum positive, the minimum external condition will be external condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings Faurecia’s net earnings per share is equal to 125% per share is equal to 75% of this weighted growth. of this weighted growth. 210 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure Plans Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Comments Plan No. 5 Internal condition (60%): Group net income before Group net income Group net income before of July 24, Net income before tax of tax at December 31, 2015, before tax at tax at December 31, 2015, 2013 the Group as of December equal to 75% of that of the December 31, 2015, equal to 125% of that of 31, 2015, before taking into 2015 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2015 medium-term account capital gains from the 2015 mediumplan. the disposal of assets and term plan. changes in the scope of consolidation, as approved by the Board of Directors, assessed against net income for the same ﬁscal year as forecast in the Group’s Maximum medium-term plan reviewed performance by the Board of Directors on condition the date when the shares are fulﬁlled. The allocated. maximum External condition (40%): If the reference group’s If the reference If the reference group’s number of Growth in Faurecia’s net weighted growth in net group’s weighted weighted growth in net shares was earnings per share between earnings per share is below growth in net earnings per share is below awarded to ﬁscal year 2012 and ﬁscal -20%, therefore negative, earnings per share -20%, therefore negative, beneﬁciaries in year 2015, assessed against the minimum external is in line with the the maximum external employment the weighted growth of a condition will be fulﬁlled if growth in Faurecia’s condition will be fulﬁlled if at the vesting reference group comprised of the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per the growth in Faurecia’s date. 12 comparable international net earnings per share share, the target net earnings per share automotive equipment is equal to 125% of this external condition is is equal to 75% of this suppliers. weighted growth. fulﬁlled weighted growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is between -20% and +20%, between -20% and +20%, the minimum external the maximum external condition will be fulﬁlled if condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share is 5 net earnings per share is 5 points below this weighted points above this weighted growth. growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is above +20%, therefore above +20%, therefore positive, the minimum positive, the maximum external condition will be external condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings Faurecia’s net earnings per share is equal to 75% per share is equal to 125% of this weighted growth. of this weighted growth. / Registration document 2018 211 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure Plans Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Comments Plan No. 6 Internal condition (60%): Group net income before Group net income Group net income before of July 28, Net income before tax of tax at December 31, 2016, before tax at tax at December 31, 2016, 2014 the Group as of December equal to 75% of that of the December 31, 2016, equal to 125% of that of 31, 2016, before taking into 2016 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2016 medium-term account capital gains from the 2016 mediumplan. the disposal of assets and term plan. changes in the scope of consolidation, as approved by the Board of Directors, assessed against net income for the same ﬁscal year as forecast in the Group’s Maximum medium-term plan reviewed performance by the Board of Directors on condition the date when the shares are fulﬁlled. The allocated. maximum External condition (40%): If the reference group’s If the reference If the reference group’s number of Growth in Faurecia’s net weighted growth in net group’s weighted weighted growth in net shares was earnings per share between earnings per share is below growth in net earnings per share is below granted to the ﬁscal year 2013 and ﬁscal -20%, therefore negative, earnings per share -20%, therefore negative, beneﬁciaries year 2016, assessed against the minimum external is in line with the the maximum external present on the the weighted growth of a condition will be fulﬁlled if growth in Faurecia’s condition will be fulﬁlled if vesting date. reference group comprised of the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per the growth in Faurecia’s 12 comparable international net earnings per share share, the target net earnings per share automotive equipment is equal to 125% of this external condition is is equal to 75% of this suppliers. weighted growth. fulﬁlled weighted growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is between -20% and +20%, between -20% and +20%, the minimum external the maximum external condition will be fulﬁlled if condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share is 5 net earnings per share is 5 points below this weighted points above this weighted growth. growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is above +20%, therefore above +20%, therefore positive, the minimum positive, the maximum external condition will be external condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings Faurecia’s net earnings per share is equal to 75% per share is equal to 125% of this weighted growth. of this weighted growth. 212 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure Plans Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Comments Plan No. 7 Internal condition (60%): Group net income before Group net income Group net income before of July 23, Net income before tax of tax at December 31, 2017, before tax at tax at December 31, 2017, 2015 the Group as of December equal to 75% of that of the December 31, 2017, equal to 125% of that of 31, 2017, before taking into 2017 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2017 medium-term account capital gains from the 2017 mediumplan. the disposal of assets and term plan. changes in the scope of consolidation, as approved by the Board of Directors, assessed against net income The internal for the same ﬁscal year condition as forecast in the Group’s was reached medium-term plan reviewed at 107.5%. by the Board of Directors on The external the date when the shares are condition allocated. was reached at 130%. The External condition (40%): If the reference group’s If the reference If the reference group’s conditions of Growth in Faurecia’s net weighted growth in net group’s weighted weighted growth in net the plan are earnings per share between earnings per share is below growth in net earnings per share is below then fulﬁlled up ﬁscal year 2014 and ﬁscal -20%, therefore negative, earnings per share -20%, therefore negative, to 116.5%. The year 2017, assessed against the minimum external is in line with the the maximum external veriﬁcation of the weighted growth of a condition will be fulﬁlled if growth in Faurecia’s condition will be fulﬁlled if the presence reference group comprised of the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per the growth in Faurecia’s condition will be 12 comparable international net earnings per share share, the target net earnings per share performed at automotive equipment is equal to 125% of this external condition is is equal to 75% of this the end of the suppliers. weighted growth. fulﬁlled weighted growth. vesting period If the reference group’s If the reference group’s on July 23, 2019. weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is between -20% and +20%, between -20% and +20%. the minimum external the external condition will condition will be fulﬁlled if be completely fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s Faurecia’s net income is net earnings per share is 5 5 points higher than this points below this weighted weighted growth. growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is above +20%, therefore above +20%, therefore positive, the maximum positive, the minimum external condition will be external condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings Faurecia’s net earnings per share is equal to 125% per share is equal to 75% of this weighted growth. of this weighted growth. / Registration document 2018 213 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure Plans Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Comments Plan No. 8 Internal condition (60%): Group net income after Group net income Group net income after of July 25, Group net income after tax tax at December 31, 2018, after tax at tax at December 31, 2018, 2016 (excluding exceptional tax equal to 75% of that of the December 31, 2018, equal to 125% of that of credits) at December 31, 2018, 2018 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2018 medium-term before taking into account the 2018 mediumplan. the capital gains from asset term plan. disposals and change in scope of consolidation, as decided by the Board of Directors, assessed against the same income anticipated for the same ﬁscal year by the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed by the Board of Directors on the date of the The internal share grant. condition was External condition (40%): If the reference group’s If the reference If the reference group’s reached at 93%. Faurecia’s growth in net weighted growth in net group’s weighted weighted growth in net The external earnings per share measured earnings per share is below growth in net earnings per share is below condition between the 2015 and 2018 -20%, therefore negative, earnings per share -20%, therefore negative, was reached ﬁscal years and compared the minimum external is in line with the the maximum external at 130%. The with the weighted growth condition will be fulﬁlled if growth in Faurecia’s condition will be fulﬁlled if conditions of of a reference group made the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per the growth in Faurecia’s the plan are up of twelve comparable net earnings per share share, the target net earnings per share then fulﬁlled up international automotive is equal to 125% of this external condition is is equal to 75% of this to 108%. The suppliers over the same weighted growth. fulﬁlled. weighted growth. veriﬁcation of period. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s the presence weighted growth in net weighted growth in net condition will be earnings per share is earnings per share is performed at between -20% and +20%, between -20% and +20%. the end of the the minimum external the external condition will vesting period condition will be fulﬁlled if be completely fulﬁlled if on July 25, 2020. the growth in Faurecia’s Faurecia’s net income is net earnings per share is 5 5 points higher than this points below this weighted weighted growth. growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is above +20%, therefore above +20%, therefore positive, the maximum positive, the minimum external condition will be external condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings Faurecia’s net earnings per share is equal to 125% per share is equal to 75% of this weighted growth. of this weighted growth. 214 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure Plans Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Comments Plan No. 9 Internal condition (60%): Group net income after Group net income Group net income after of July 20, Group net income after tax tax at December 31, 2019, after tax at tax at December 31, 2019, 2017 (excluding exceptional tax equal to 91% of that of the December 31, 2019, equal to 110% of that of credits) at December 31, 2019, 2019 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2019 medium-term before taking into account the 2019 mediumplan. the capital gains from asset term plan. disposals and change in scope of consolidation, as decided by the Board of Directors, assessed against the same income anticipated for the same ﬁscal year by the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed by the Board of Directors on the date of the share grant. External condition (40%): If the reference group’s If the reference If the reference group’s Faurecia’s growth in net weighted growth in net group’s weighted weighted growth in net Plan in vesting earnings per share measured earnings per share is below growth in net earnings per share is below period. between the 2016 and 2019 -20%, therefore negative, earnings per share -20%, therefore negative, ﬁscal years and compared the minimum external is in line with the the maximum external with the weighted growth condition will be fulﬁlled if growth in Faurecia’s condition will be fulﬁlled if of a reference group made the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per the growth in Faurecia’s up of twelve comparable net earnings per share share, the target net earnings per share international automotive is equal to 125% of this external condition is is equal to 75% of this suppliers over the same weighted growth. fulﬁlled. weighted growth. period. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is between -20% and +20%, between -20% and +20%, the minimum external the maximum external condition will be fulﬁlled if condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share is 5 net earnings per share is 5 points below this weighted points above this weighted growth. growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is above +20%, therefore above +20%, therefore positive, the minimum positive, the maximum external condition will be external condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings Faurecia’s net earnings per share is equal to 75% per share is equal to 125% of this weighted growth. of this weighted growth. / Registration document 2018 215 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure Plans Performance conditions Minimum Target Maximum Comments Plan No. Internal condition (60%): Group net income after Group net income Group net income after 10 of July Group net income after tax tax at December 31, 2020, after tax at tax at December 31, 2020, 19, 2018 (excluding exceptional tax equal to 91% of that of the December 31, 2020, equal to 110% of that of credits) at December 31, 2020, 2020 medium-term plan. in line with that of the 2020 medium-term before taking into account the 2020 mediumplan. the capital gains from asset term plan. disposals and change in scope of consolidation, as decided by the Board of Directors, assessed against the same income anticipated for the same ﬁscal year by the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed by the Board of Directors on the date of the share grant. External condition (40%): If the reference group’s If the reference If the reference group’s Faurecia’s growth in net weighted growth in net group’s weighted weighted growth in net earnings per share measured earnings per share is below growth in net earnings per share is below between the 2017 and 2020 -20%, therefore negative, earnings per share -20%, therefore negative, ﬁscal years and compared the minimum external is in line with the the maximum external with the weighted growth condition will be fulﬁlled if growth in Faurecia’s condition will be fulﬁlled if of a reference group made the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per the growth in Faurecia’s Plan in vesting up of twelve comparable net earnings per share share, the target net earnings per share period. international automotive is equal to 125% of this external condition is is equal to 75% of this suppliers over the same weighted growth. fulﬁlled weighted growth. period. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is between -20% and +20%, between -20% and +20%, the minimum external the maximum external condition will be fulﬁlled if condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share is 5 net earnings per share is 5 points below this weighted points above this weighted growth. growth. If the reference group’s If the reference group’s weighted growth in net weighted growth in net earnings per share is earnings per share is above +20%, therefore above +20%, therefore positive, the minimum positive, the maximum external condition will be external condition will be fulﬁlled if the growth in fulﬁlled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings Faurecia’s net earnings per share is equal to 75% per share is equal to 125% of this weighted growth. of this weighted growth. 216 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure DETAILED HISTORY OF PERFORMANCE SHARE PLANS Table No. 9 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and table No. 10 of AMF recommendation No. 2009-16 Information on awards of performance shares Plan No. 1 of July 23, 2010 Plan No. 2 of July 21, 2010 Plan No. 3 of July 25, 2011 Plan No. 4 of July 23, 2012 Date of General Meeting (GM)/  GM February 8, 2010  GM February 8, 2010  GM May 26, 2011  GM May 26, 2011 Board of Directors meeting (BM)  BM June 23, 2010  BM of July 21, 2010  BM of July 25, 2011  BM of July 23, 2012 Minimum number of shares granted 436,920 450,450 473,880 403,500 during the relevant period Maximum number of shares granted 860,600 887,250 933,400 1,049,100 during the relevant period Maximum total number of shares 37,050 37,050 52,000 52,000 that may be granted to Yann Delabrière Total maximum number of shares Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable that may be granted to Michel de ROSEN Total maximum number of shares 14,950 14,950 19,500 19,500 that may be granted to Patrick KOLLER* Target number of shares awarded 662,000 682,500 718,000 807,000 during the ﬁscal year Acquisition date June 23, 2012 for July 21, 2013, for July 25, 2014, for June 23, 2015, for beneﬁciaries working and beneﬁciaries working and beneﬁciaries working and beneﬁciaries working and tax resident in France/ tax resident in France/ tax resident in France/ tax resident in France/ June 23, 2014 for all other July 21, 2014, for all other July 25, 2015, for all other June 23, 2016, for all other beneﬁciaries beneﬁciaries beneﬁciaries beneﬁciaries Vesting date June 23, 2014 for all plan July 21, 2015, for July 25, 2016, for June 23, 2017, for beneﬁciaries working and beneﬁciaries working and beneﬁciaries working and beneﬁciaries working and tax residents in France or tax resident in France/ tax resident in France/ tax resident in France/ abroad June 21, 2014, for all other July 25, 2015, for all other June 23, 2016, for all other beneﬁciaries beneﬁciaries beneﬁciaries Performance conditions Net income before Net income before Net income before  Net income before tax of the Group as of tax of the Group as of tax of the Group as of tax of the Group as December 31, 2011, before December 31, 2012, before December 31, 2013, of December 31, taking into account capital taking into account capital before taking into account 2014 before gains on gains from the disposal of gains from the disposal of capital gains from disposal disposals of assets assets and changes in the assets and change in the of assets and change in and changes in the scope of consolidation, as scope of consolidation, as scope of consolidation, Group’s structure, as approved by the Board of approved by the Board of as decided by the Board approved by the Board Directors, assessed against Directors, assessed against of Directors, assessed of Directors compared net income for the same net income for the same against the net income with net income ﬁscal year as forecast ﬁscal year as forecast anticipated for the same forecast for the same in the Group’s mediumin the Group’s mediumﬁscal year in the Group’s year in the Group’s term plan reviewed and term plan reviewed and medium-term plan, medium-term Plan decided by the Board of decided by the Board of which was reviewed and reviewed and decided Directors on the date when Directors on the date when voted on by the Board by the Board at the the shares are allocated. the shares are allocated. of Directors on the share time the shares are grant date; and allocated; and  Growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share between ﬁscal year 2011 and ﬁscal year 2014, assessed against the weighted growth of a reference group comprised of 12 comparable international automotive equipment suppliers. / Registration document 2018 217 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure Information on awards of performance shares Plan No. 1 of July 23, 2010 Plan No. 2 of July 21, 2010 Plan No. 3 of July 25, 2011 Plan No. 4 of July 23, 2012 Number of shares granted 707,200 0 0 0 at December 31, 2018 Accumulated number of shares 153,400 682,500 718,000 807,000 canceled or forfeited at December 31, 2018** Shares allocated free of charge 0 0*** 0**** 0***** remaining at end of period * Shares granted to Patrick Koller under Plans No. 1 to 6 were awarded before he became a corporate officer. The number of shares mentioned in the 2016 Registration Document, related to Plan No. 1 (14,250) and plan No. 2 (19,500), were wrongly reported. This information has been corrected in the present document. ** The maximum performance conditions for Plan No. 1 were fulfilled, so this plan is based on the maximum number of shares. The other plans are based on the target number. *** The performance condition for Plan No. 2 was not fulfilled: no share was granted to any beneficiary under this plan. **** The performance condition for Plan No. 3 was not fulfilled: no share was granted to any beneficiary under this plan. ***** The performance conditions for Plan No. 4 were not fulfilled: no share was granted to any beneficiary under this plan. Information on awards of performance shares Plan No. 5 of July 24, 2013 Plan No. 6 of July 28, 2014 Plan No. 7 of July 23, 2015 Plan No. 8 of July 25, 2016 Date of General Meeting (GM)/  GM May 30, 2013  GM May 30, 2013  GM May 27, 2015  GM May 27, 2016 Board of Directors meeting (BM)  BM of July 24, 2013  BM of July 28, 2014  BM of July 23, 2015  BM of July 25, 2016 Minimum number of shares 467,500 368,125 342,201 380,480 granted during the relevant period Maximum number of shares 1,215,500 957,125 889,981 989,945 granted during the relevant period Maximum total number of shares 71,500 68,900 55,798 0 that may be granted to Yann DELABRIÈRE Total maximum number Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable of shares that may be granted to Michel de ROSEN Total maximum number 26,000 18,525 26,383 55,095 of shares that may be granted to Patrick KOLLER* Target number of shares granted 935,000 736,250 684,674 760,961 during the relevant period Acquisition date July 24, 2017 for all of July 28, 2018 for all of July 23, 2019 for all of July 25, 2020 for all of the plan beneﬁciaries, the plan beneﬁciaries, the plan beneﬁciaries, the plan beneﬁciaries, working and tax resident working and tax resident working and tax resident working and tax resident in France and abroad in France and abroad in France and abroad in France and abroad Vesting date July 24, 2017 for all of July 28, 2018 for all of July 23, 2019 for all of July 25, 2020 for all of the plan beneﬁciaries, the plan beneﬁciaries, the plan beneﬁciaries, the plan beneﬁciaries, working and tax resident working and tax resident working and tax resident working and in France and abroad in France and abroad in France and abroad tax resident in France and abroad 218 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure Information on awards of performance shares Plan No. 5 of July 24, 2013 Plan No. 6 of July 28, 2014 Plan No. 7 of July 23, 2015 Plan No. 8 of July 25, 2016 Performance conditions  Net income before  Net income before  Net income before  Net income after tax tax of the Group as tax of the Group as of tax of the Group as of of the Group as of of December 31, December 31, 2016, December 31, 2017, December 31, 2018 2015 (before gains before taking into before taking into (before gains on on disposals of assets account capital gains account capital gains disposals of assets and changes in the from disposal of assets from disposal of assets and changes in the Group’s structure), and change in scope and change in scope Group’s structure), as approved by the of consolidation, as of consolidation, as as approved by the Board of Directors decided by the Board decided by the Board Board of Directors compared with net of Directors, assessed of Directors, assessed compared with the income forecast for against the net against the net net income forecast the same year in the income anticipated income anticipated for the same year in Group’s medium-term for the same ﬁscal for the same ﬁscal the Group’s mediumplan reviewed and year in the Group’s year in the Group’s term plan reviewed decided by the Board medium-term plan, medium-term plan, and decided by the at the time the shares which was reviewed which was reviewed Board at the time the are allocated; and and voted on by the and voted on by the shares are allocated;  Growth in Faurecia’s Board of Directors on Board of Directors on and net earnings per the share grant date; the share grant date;  Growth in Faurecia’s share between ﬁscal and and net earnings per year 2012 and ﬁscal  Growth in Faurecia’s  Growth in Faurecia’s share between ﬁscal year 2015, assessed net earnings per net earnings per year 2015 and ﬁscal against the weighted share between ﬁscal share between ﬁscal year 2018, assessed growth of a reference year 2013 and ﬁscal year 2014 and ﬁscal against the weighted group comprised year 2016, assessed year 2017, assessed growth of a reference of 12 comparable against the weighted against the weighted group comprised international growth of a reference growth of a reference of 12 comparable automotive group comprised group comprised international equipment suppliers. of 12 comparable of 12 comparable automotive international international equipment suppliers. automotive automotive equipment suppliers. equipment suppliers. Number of shares granted 949,650 2,015 1,231 at December 31, 2018 Accumulated number of shares 265,850 193,245 113,321 73,250 cancelled or forfeited at December 31, 2018** Shares allocated free of charge 0 761,865 570,122 687,711 remaining at end of period * Shares granted to Patrick Koller under Plan Nos. 1 to 6 were awarded before he became a corporate officer. ** The maximum performance conditions for Plan Nos. 5 and 6 were fulfilled, so these plans are based on the maximum. The other plans are based on the target number. / Registration document 2018 219 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure Information on the allocation of performance shares Plan No. 9 of July 20, 2017 Date of General Meeting (GM)/Board of Directors meeting (BM)  GM May 27, 2016  BM of July 20, 2017 Minimum number of shares granted during the relevant ﬁscal year 313,962 Maximum number of shares granted during the relevant ﬁscal year 816,300 Total maximum number of shares that may be granted to Michel de ROSEN 0 Total minimum number of shares that may be granted to Patrick KOLLER 15,154 Total target number of shares that may be granted to Patrick KOLLER 30,308 Total maximum number of shares that may be granted to Patrick KOLLER 39,400 Target number of shares awarded during the relevant ﬁscal year 627,924 Acquisition date July 20, 2021 Vesting date July 20, 2021 Performance conditions  Net income after tax of the Group as of December 31, 2019 (before gains on disposals of assets and changes in the Group’s structure), as approved by the Board of Directors compared with the net income forecast for the same year in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed and decided by the Board at the time the shares are allocated; and  Growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share between ﬁscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2019, assessed against the weighted growth of a reference group comprised of 12 comparable international automotive equipment suppliers. Number of shares granted at December 31, 2018 Accumulated number of shares cancelled or forfeited as of December 31, 2018* 10,329 Shares allocated free of charge remaining at end of period 617,595 * Plan based on the target number. Information on the allocation of performance shares Plan No. 10 of July 19, 2018** Date of General Meeting (GM)/Board of Directors meeting (BM)  GM May 29, 2018  BM of July 19, 2018 Minimum number of shares granted during the relevant ﬁscal year 209,136 Maximum number of shares granted during the relevant ﬁscal year 543,760 Total maximum number of shares that may be granted to Michel de ROSEN 0 Total minimum number of shares that may be granted to Patrick KOLLER 10,385 Total target number of shares that may be granted to Patrick KOLLER 20,770 Total maximum number of shares that may be granted to Patrick KOLLER 27,000 Target number of shares awarded during the relevant ﬁscal year 418,272 Acquisition date July 19, 2022 Vesting date July 19, 2022 Performance conditions  Net income after tax of the Group as of December 31, 2020 (before gains on disposals of assets and changes in the Group’s structure), as approved by the Board of Directors compared with the net income forecast for the same year in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed and decided by the Board at the time the shares are allocated; and  Growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share between ﬁscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2020, assessed against the weighted growth of a reference group comprised of 12 comparable international automotive equipment suppliers. Number of shares vested at December 31, 2018 Accumulated number of shares canceled or forfeited as of December 31, 2018* 7,186 Shares allocated free of charge remaining at end of period 411,086 * Plan based on the target number. ** The Board of Directors of 19 July 2018, based on the authorization given by the shareholders’ meeting of 29 May 2018, decided to grant a complementary plan (plan 10b) to four beneficiaries (who are not corporate officers of Faurecia SE) in relation to a geographical zone of the Group, for a maximum number of shares of 12,830 and subject to specific performance conditions in relation with the said geographical zone. The other characteristics of this complementary plan and the acquisition date are the same as the ones of plan 10. All shares allocated free of change remaining at December 31, 2018 (2,720,697 shares) represent 1.97% of the Company’s capital stock at this date. 220 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure 3.2.1.3. Trading by the Company DESCRIPTION OF THE BUY-BACK PROGRAM in its own shares during 2018 (Defined according to Article 241-2 of the AMF’s General (Article L. 225-211 of the Regulation) French Code of commerce) A new share buyback authorization will be submitted to the General Meeting of May 28, 2019, with the following terms and The General Meeting of May 29, 2018, authorized the conditions: implementation of a share buy-back program, superseding that authorized in the tenth resolution of the General Meeting Resolution sixteen – Authorization to the Board of of May 30, 2017. Directors aiming to allow the Company to buy back its own shares pursuant to Article L. 225-209 SHARES ACQUIRED BY THE COMPANY (EXCLUDING of the French Code of commerce, duration of THE LIQUIDITY CONTRACT) authorization, purposes, terms and conditions, In 2018, the Company bought back 650,000 shares at an ceiling, suspension during public offerings average price of €56.34 (weighted gross price) on the basis The General Meeting, after having read the report by the of the authorization of the General Meeting of May 29, 2018. Board of Directors, authorizes the latter, for a period of eighteen Trading costs amounted to €73,424 excluding VAT. months, in accordance with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Code of commerce, to purchase company shares, The value of these shares, measured at their purchase price, in one or several installments, at such times that it deems totals €36,621,586. appropriate, capped at 10% of the total number of shares in These 650,000 shares were purchased to cover the performance the Company’s capital stock, adjusted to take into account share plans. any possible increase or decrease in the share capital that may occur during the program. None of these 650,000 shares was used in 2018. This authorization terminates the authorization granted to the LIQUIDITY CONTRACT Board of Directors by the General Meeting of May 29, 2018 in its twelfth ordinary resolution. Since April 27, 2009, Faurecia has been implementing a liquidity contract that complies with the AMAFI Code of Ethics. Acquisitions are authorized in order to:  support the secondary market or the liquidity of Faurecia The current liquidity contract was signed on November 20, 2015 between Faurecia and Rotschild & Cie Banque. It was shares, through an investment service provider under a initially contracted for a duration of 12 months, starting liquidity contract, in accordance with practices permitted from December 1 st , 2015, renewable each year by under the regulations, with the stipulation that in this context, tacit reconduction. the number of shares used to calculate the aforementioned cap corresponds to the number of shares purchased, less the In 2018, under this liquidity contract, 253,416 shares were number of shares resold; purchased, i.e., 0.18% of the Company’s capital stock, for a  retain the shares purchased and use these shares for total of €15,657,107, while 61,916 shares were sold for a total of €4,401,968. exchange or payment at a later stage, as part of any possible external growth transactions; As of December 31, 2018, assets in the liquidity account  hedge stock option plans and/or free grant of shares plans relating to the liquidity contract comprised 191,500 shares and €2,744,861 in cash. (or similar plans) to the benefit of employees and/or Group corporate officers, as well as all allocations of shares as part In 2018, the capital loss made through the liquidity contract of a group or Company savings plan (or similar plan), under amounted to €51,519. Management fees for the liquidity a profit-sharing plan and or any other form of allocation contract came to €100,000 in 2018. of shares to the benefit of the Group employees and/or At December 31, 2018, the Company held 917,160 treasury corporate officers; shares (including 191,500 under the liquidity contract) i.e., 0.66%  hedge securities giving access to the allocation of Company of the Company’s capital stock on that same date. shares subject to the regulations in force;  cancel the shares acquired, if applicable, in accordance with the current or future authorization of an Extraordinary General Meeting. Such shares may be purchased by any means, including by acquiring blocks of shares, and at such times deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may not, without the prior authorization of the General Meeting, use this authorization during a public offering launched by a third party, involving Company shares, until the end of the offering. / Registration document 2018 221 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure The Company reserves the right to use optional mechanisms or On this basis, and for information only, the maximum amount, derivatives subject to the applicable regulations. which the Company would pay, assuming a maximum purchase price of €110, would amount to €1,417,506,200 on the The maximum purchase price per share is defined as €110. basis of the share capital on December 31, 2018 (consisting of In the event of transactions affecting the capital stock, in 138,035,801 shares), taking into account the 917,160 Company particular a division of shares, a reverse stock split or allocation treasury shares on this date. of free shares, the aforementioned amount will be adjusted in the same proportions (multiplication coefficient equal to the The General Meeting grants all powers to the Board of Directors ratio of the number of company shares prior to the transaction to proceed with such transactions and determine the terms to the number of shares after the transaction). and conditions applicable thereto, and to enter into any agreements and carry out any formalities required in that regard. 3.2.1.4. Other information on the capital stock CHANGE IN FAURECIA’S CAPITAL STOCK OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS Amount of the capital stock Resulting Resulting increase/decrease (in €) amounts of share New Nominal capital stock premium number of Year and type of transaction amount Premium (in €) (in €) shares 06/2014 Capital stock increase resulting from the creation of 1,102,775 shares in connection with the payment of the 2013 dividend in shares, the creation of 221,000 shares in connection with Performance Shares Plan No. 1, and the creation of 13,300 shares following the exercise of stock subscription options under Plan No. 18 9,359,525 22,152,382 867,476,470 893,010,889 123,925,210 06/2015 Capital stock increase resulting from the creation of 800,251 shares in connection with the payment of the 2014 dividend in shares, the creation of 96,960 shares in response to requests for the conversion of OCEANE bonds, and the creation of 93,600 shares following the exercise of stock subscription options under Plan No. 18 6,935,677 28,224,379 874,412,147 921,235,268 124,916,021 11/2015 Capital stock increase resulting from the creation of 4,341,813 shares in response to requests for the conversion of OCEANE bonds 30,392,691 52,527,572 904,804,838 973,762,840 129,257,834 12/2015 Capital stock increase resulting from the creation of 7,933,744 shares in response to requests for the conversion of OCEANE bonds on January 1, 2018 and the creation of 1,200 shares following the exercise of stock subscription options under Plan No. 18 55,544,608 96,008,745 960,349,446 1,069,771,585 137,192,778 01/2016 Capital stock increase resulting from the creation of 690,123 shares in response to requests for the conversion of OCEANE bonds on January 1, 2018 4,830,861 8,349,171 965,180,307 1,078,120,756 137,882,901 07/2016 Capital stock increase resulting from the creation of 152,900 shares following the exercise of stock subscription options under Plan No. 18 1,070,300 3,269,002 966,250,607 1,081,389,758 138,035,801 222 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure CHANGE IN SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS Voting rights % voting rights exercisable at exercisable at Shareholders % capital Theoretical % theoretical the General the General as of December 31, 2018 Shares stock voting rights* voting rights Meeting* Meeting Peugeot S.A. 63,960,006 46.34 127,920,012 63.11 127,920,012 63.39 Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate Mutual fund 333,480 0.24 640,598 0.32 640,598 0.32 Corporate ofﬁcers 70,285 0.05 87,581 0.04 87,581 0.04 Treasury stock 917,160 0.66 917,160 0.45 0 0 o/w liquidity contract 191,500 0.14 191,500 0.09 0 0 Other shareholders (registered and bearer) 72,754,870 52.71 73,135,293 36.08 73,135,293 36.24 TOTAL 138,035,801 100% 202,700,644 100% 201,783,484 100% * Calculations based on information from the Caceis Corporate Trust Register on December 31, 2018. Voting rights % voting rights exercisable at exercisable at Shareholders % capital Theoretical % theoretical the General the General as of December 31, 2017 Shares stock voting rights* voting rights Meeting* meeting Peugeot S.A. 63,960,006 46.34 127,920,012 63.09 127,920,012 63.34 Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate Mutual fund 318,394 0.23 636,788 0.31 636,788 0.32 Corporate ofﬁcers 49,525 0.03 66,905 0.03 66,905 0.03 Treasury stock 814,320 0.59 814,320 0.40 0 0 o/w liquidity contract 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other shareholders (registered and bearer) 72,893,556 52.81 73,320,842 36.16 73,320,842 36.31 TOTAL 138,035,801 100% 202,758,867 100% 201,944,547 100% * Calculations based on information from the Caceis Corporate Trust Register on December 31, 2017. Voting rights % voting rights exercisable at exercisable at Shareholders % capital Theoretical % theoretical the General the General as of December 31, 2017 Shares stock voting rights* voting rights Meeting* Meeting Peugeot S.A. 63,960,006 46.34 127,340,515 62.94 127,340,515 63.20 Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate Mutual fund 352,305 0.25 661,420 0.33 661,420 0.33 Corporate ofﬁcers 93,658 0.06 154,182 0.07 154,182 0.08 Treasury stock 807,216 0.58 807,216 0.40 0 0.00 o/w liquidity contract 0 0 0 0 0 0.00 Other shareholders (registered and bearer) 72,822,616 52.76 73,343,730 36.25 73,343,730 36.40 TOTAL 138,035,801 100% 202,307,063 100% 201,499,847 100% * Calculations based on information from the Caceis Corporate Trust Register on December 31, 2016. / Registration document 2018 223 3 Governance and capital stock Capital stock and shareholder structure 3.2.2. Share price Faurecia’s share (EO.PA) is listed on compartment A of the (-10.95%) and the SBF120 (-11.65%) but also, more specifically, Euronext Paris market. It is on the CAC Next20 index (since to the Stoxx600 Auto & Parts (-28.14%) and other French December 18, 2017) and the MSCI France (since November 30, automotive equipment suppliers (Plastic Omnium -46.77% 2017). and Valeo -59.03%) or foreign suppliers (Continental -46.35%, Tenneco -53.66% and Adient -80.13%). At the end of 2018, it was valued at €33.070 (December 31, 2018 closing quotation), compared with €65.130 at the 2017 The average price of Faurecia’s share over 2018 was €58.322. closing (December 29, 2017 closing quotation). It therefore fell The price peaked at €76.980 on May 22, 2018, and hit its lowest by 49.22% over the year, sharply penalized in the second half point of the year, €30.060, on December 11, 2018. of the year by the automotive industry, particularly automotive The average number of monthly trades was 11,177,797 shares, equipment suppliers, being out of stock market favor. This representing €615.71 million. reduction in annual terms can be compared to the CAC40 3.2.2.1. Share price and trading volume (source: Euronext) Price (in €) Trading volume Capital 2018 share price and trading volume High Average Low Close Equities (in € millions) January 74.50 70.85 63.72 72.38 9,304,422 659.24 February 74.32 69.63 66.26 69.28 10,117,892 704.56 March 69.26 65.58 62.72 65.72 9,400,982 616.46 April 69.96 67.02 62.32 67.80 7,713,275 516.92 May 76.98 72.17 67.82 72.50 7,732,282 556.76 June 74.68 68.36 60.44 61.12 8,198,913 560.48 July 65.20 60.13 57.54 58.14 10,857,757 652.89 August 58.56 53.94 50.34 52.78 10,030,512 541.09 September 57.68 52.61 50.00 51.84 12,026,430 633.13 October 52.78 44.94 37.72 42.91 19,633,321 882.40 November 47.17 40.53 33.76 34.42 14,509,904 588.09 December 37.45 32.36 30.06 33.07 14,607,878 476.56 Price (in €) Trading volume Capital 2017 share price and trading volume High Average Low Close Equities (in € millions) January 42.13 39.76 36.67 40.18 11,196,029 445.17 February 43.68 41.32 37.56 41.49 12,281,034 507.47 March 44.61 42.21 40.58 44.59 10,986,745 463.74 April 45.04 43.18 40.62 44.82 10,182,739 439.70 May 47.99 46.03 43.58 46.73 13,837,171 636.90 June 49.01 46.49 43.73 44.47 12,134,198 564.01 July 49.07 46.96 44.52 46.93 10,468,299 491.54 August 49.75 48.22 46.42 48.86 7,803,920 376.31 September 59.07 55.28 48.86 58.73 11,158,818 616.81 October 62.59 60.83 58.89 62.41 12,737,402 774.85 November 65.46 63.29 60.00 64.28 16,751,317 1,060.23 December 67.49 64.79 62.23 65.13 10,281,388 666.13 224 / Registration document 2018 Governance and capital stock 3 Capital stock and shareholder structure 3.2.2.2. Stock market data 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Stock market capitalization at end of period (in € millions) 4,564.8 8,990.27 Share price (in €)  High 76.98 67.49  Low 30.06 36.67 Share price at end of period (in €) 33.07 65.13 Shareholders’ equity per share (in €) 26.87 23.03 Number of shares in circulation 138,035,801 138,035,801 3.2.2.3. Dividends Number of shares Fiscal year compensated Dividend for the year 2015 138,035,801 €0.65 per share 2016 138,035,801 €0.90 per share 2017 138,035,801 €1.10 per share 2018 138,035,801 €1.25 per share* * Subject to approval by the General Meeting of May 28, 2019. 3.2.2.4. Dividend payment policy The Company pays dividends in line with the practices of other similar companies, based on the Group’s results for the year. 3.2.2.5. Per share ﬁgures (in €) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Non-diluted earnings (loss) per share – Attributable to equity holders of the parent 5.11 4.37 Cash ﬂow per share from operating activities 11.90 12.98 The method used to calculate the weighted average number of shares before dilution to determine per share data is explained in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. 3.2.2.6. 2019 ﬁnancial calendar February 18, 2019 Before market hours 2018 annual earnings announced April 23, 2019 Before market hours First-quarter 2019 sales announced May 28, 2019 10 am General Meeting of shareholders July 23, 2019 Before market hours First-half 2019 interim results announced October 17, 2019 Before market hours Third-quarter 2019 sales announced November 26, 2019 Investor day (Paris) Relations between Faurecia and the financial community are described in Section 4.3.2. / Registration document 2018 225 3 Governance and capital stock 226 / Registration document 2018 4 CSR 4.1. Social Responsibility 228 4.1.1. Safety at work EFPD 228 4.1.2. Engaging employees 232 4.1.3. Talents attraction and retention EFPD 236 4.1.4. Social dialogue EFPD 240 4.1.5. Promotion of diversity 242 4.1.6. Social indicators (not included in the EFPD) 243 4.2. Environmental Responsibility: introduction 252 4.2.1. Environmental policy 253 4.2.2. Environmental impact of production plants and climate change EFPD 254 4.2.3. Innovation of products and services promoting air quality and reduced carbon footprint EFPD 260 4.2.4. Circular economy 264 4.2.5. Reporting process 266 4.3. Societal responsibility 268 4.3.1. Business ethics EFPD 268 4.3.2. Product quality and safety EFPD 271 4.3.3. Duty of care and responsible purchasing in the supply chain EFPD 273 4.3.4. Risk of supplier failure 275 4.3.5. Commitment to communities 276 4.4 Independent veriﬁer’s report on consolidated non-ﬁnancial statement presented in the management report 278 / Registration document 2018 227 4 CSR Social Responsibility In a world that is increasingly connected, more transparent the regulatory requirements related to the Extra-financial and more aware of sustainable development issues, Faurecia Performance Statement. For more information, please refer to is faced with unprecedented challenges. As a full member of the cross Reference table in Chapter 6. the communities in which it carries out its businesses, the Group This chapter also includes the regulatory requirements related is firmly convinced that all companies have a strong societal to the Duty of Care, so the vigilance plan of Faurecia follows duty and is committed to ensuring that the future generations the 5-part structure detailed in Law No. 2017-399 of March 27, benefit from its decisions today. 2017 on the duty of care of parent companies and companies This chapter presents an evolution compared to the 2017 order givers. Registration Document, due to the entry into force of 4.1. Social Responsibility Human resources represent a key success factor for Faurecia. working, by attracting and developing their talents and through The Group must be able to depend on competitive teams constructive social dialogue. around the world to challenge the best competitors. The It is also convinced that employee commitment and promotion Group’s performance is inseparable from its corporate social of diversity are key performance levers, representing significant responsibility. With that in mind, Faurecia conducted an analysis competitive advantages for the Group. to identify the extra financial risks and opportunities. The Group therefore guarantees a healthy and safe work environment, by its commitment to the safety of people Corporate Social Risks and Opportunities Indicators 2018 2017 2016 Safety in the FR0t (Accidents leading to lost time by millions per 0.95 1 0.8 workplace million hours worked) by employees and temporary workers FR1t (Accidents with or without lost time per millions of 2.35 1.9 1.8 hours worked) by employees and temporary workers Talents attraction Rate of managers and professionals hired recently 32.4% 39.3% 39.2% and retention graduate Turnover rate of managers and professionals 9.1% 8.3% 8.4% Social dialogue Number of company agreements signed 350 (in 18 308 (in 22 345 (in 24 countries) countries) countries) Employee Workers commitment index 54 commitment Commitment index of managers and professionals 61 4.1.1. Safety at work EFPD Safety in the workplace is one of the key elements of the In the context of the Company’s production activities, excellence initiative embodied by the Faurecia Excellence employees as well as contractors are exposed to the risk System (FES). It forms part of the personal respect requirement of work-related accidents. The Company is committed to which every site must satisfy. Faurecia’s policy on health and implementing policies and active measures (prevention, safety in the workplace at the day-to-day level centers around assessment, training) in order to prevent risks that could affect two main goals: safeguarding employee health and improving employee safety, regularly monitor their proper application and their safety in the workplace. measure their effectiveness. 228 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility 4.1.1.1. Deployment of a Safety and 4.1.1.2. Safety initiatives for safer environmental culture operations In 2018, Faurecia launched a new work safety management  The thirteen mandatory HSE rules: program, “CARE”, whose goal is raising awareness and  three mandatory HSE rules apply to the control of engaging all employees based on four fundamentals: non-production operational risks. The first two cover  compliance with rules: consignment operations (stopping processes, locking and draining energy and blocking gravitational energy), Faurecia educates all of its employees on thirteen mandatory the third requires the application of a “Personal ID” label HSE regulations and thirteen HSE logistical recommendations when working with equipment. This prevents machines through specific internal training sessions. The training includes being restarted by others, the owner of the personal ID well-targeted theory and practice modules with practical label being the only person entitled to remove it from the scenarios which allow employees to learn or improve their machine; knowledge of the HSE rules.  four other rules apply to the protection of personnel The 13 mandatory HSE rules relate to personal safety. These during production operations. They cover protection rules are applied at all of Faurecia’s sites. By engaging against access to moving parts of machines through the employees through the CARE program, Faurecia reminds establishment of protective devices such as light curtains, everyone of the requirement to not deviate from rules and safety mats, radars and fixed barriers. The plant must ensure to complete audits at each business division level to ensure that the failure of one component of the safety loop will proper application; stop the machine automatically. Protective equipment  it takes everyone to ensure the safety of every Faurecia is tested before production begins. If the protective employee equipment has any faults, the machine must not be used; The attitude of every employee is key to managing safety,  the other rules focus on the prevention of falls, finger pinch whether it concerns lost time in the event a dangerous point injuries, traffic accidents, the bursting of hydraulic situation is detected, an investigation into the safety culture circuits, and fires and explosions. with any related activity, safety campaigns in every plant or  The three rules about personal protective equipment: even competition between teams to promote security. The mutual assistance of Faurecia’s employees is crucial and will  in addition to the 13 mandatory HSE rules, Faurecia thus increase the level of everyone’s safety; defined 3 rules on personal protection equipment (3PPE) for all Group sites. The application of these rules and their  reducing risks monitoring via FES production audits is contributing to the Faurecia’s safety policy relies heavily upon prevention. The prevention of work-related accidents not resulting in lost Group regularly initiates daily risk detection programs time (FR1t). These rules related to protective equipment concerning work safety in all its plants. Proper application of require the wearing of helmets during maintenance these prevention programs is then audited by the Faurecia operations, gloves and cut-resistant sleeves when using Excellence System (1). Best practices are shared between cutting elements or handling metal and thermal protection different organizations in the Group; when working with hot materials. These rules also make it mandatory to wear ear protectors in noisy environments;  management’s commitment  furthermore, each Faurecia plant defines, on an individual The commitment of Management is crucial to the deployment basis, the personal protection equipment to be used by of the Group’s HSE policy. A program with 14 areas for its employees or visitors. Safety footwear and Faurecia progress was created with the systematic participation of uniforms are mandatory in all the plants. For plants with a all business units. This program will be expanded throughout high noise level, ear protectors, as well as safety glasses, 2019. For example, two areas of progress aim to implement are mandatory. one systematic safety point at the start of each meeting, and an observation report on the HSE situation after a site visit by A video has been produced about the 13 mandatory HSE a Director. At its main office, Faurecia has also hired an HSE and the 3 PPE rules to increase awareness among Faurecia manager who leads the HSE network in the business units. employees. This video presents practical examples of different rules, and is used during FES training (five training programs given in 2018, each with 100 people on average) for managers in all geographic regions where the Group has plants: Europe, North and South America and Asia. In particular, these training courses focused on learning about the Group problem-solving technique, QRCI (Quick Response Continuous Improvement) regarding HSE. (1) The Faurecia Excellence System (FES) governs the organization of Faurecia’s production and operations. It is designed to continuously improve the quality, cost, delivery and safety performance of the Group. The FES complies with the requirements of the quality, environment and safety standards of the automotive industry (ISO/TS 16949, IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001). It benefits from the capitalization of more than fourteen years of Faurecia’s experience and has been continuously enriched with the best internal and external practices of lean manufacturing. The FES makes it possible to secure an appropriate operational performance of Faurecia’s production sites, whatever their geographical position and their local activity specificities, thanks to common working methods and language. / Registration document 2018 229 4 CSR Social Responsibility Faurecia is also continuing fire safety initiatives, especially with An Ergonomics memorandum is available to all Group the installation of sprinklers, which enables workforce safety to process engineers and managers in charge of efficiency in be strengthened and the risk of production downtime to be manufacturing systems, to provide additional information on reduced in the event a fire should break out. analyzing workloads and how to take into consideration the ergonomic constraints of workstations. This memorandum is Analysis of accidents has shown that proven cases of fire are aimed at providing basic training in this area for people such as related to work outside of standard production processes. For members of Health and Safety Committees, who are involved this reason, the plants will now systematically review potential in organizing work schedules or designing workstations. risks for this type of work. For example, within the Faurecia Seating Business Group, a Regarding initiatives to safeguard the work of contractors new ranking software tool was deployed in 2016 for analyzing working at heights, the contractor and subcontractor dangerous gestures and their impact on workplace strain requirement levels have been raised and now require risk (AGREPT – Analyse des Gestes à Risque et leur Effet sur la assessment, training and verification. A risk assessment is Pénibilité au Travail). This software simplifies the rating actions for conducted with the contractor in order to detect all risks ergonomists while facilitating the consolidation work at Division and devise preventive measures. Contractors are asked to and Business Group level. guarantee that all employees (including temporary staff) carrying out tasks at high levels have been trained and are fully qualified. Each contractor must appoint a security manager who will guarantee that all measures devised during the risk 4.1.1.3. Workplace safety indicators assessment are applied and adhered to. As a result, only the The change in the frequency rate of work-related accidents contractors who have followed this process are authorized to is analyzed in order to measure the effectiveness of actions work on the roofs at Faurecia plants. carried out in this area. To guarantee the same level of  Ergonomics and working conditions workplace safety for all employees, temporary workers are included in the same manner as permanent staff in the Most occupational illnesses reported by employees involve following indicators: musculoskeletal disorders. To reduce this, Faurecia has taken steps for several years to consider the strain caused by  Key performance indicators: workstations and to remedy the situation as much as possible.  FR0t: 0.95 (Accidents leading to lost time by millions per Ergonomic analysis of workstations is part of the FES tools and million hours worked) by employees and temporary this point is systematically checked during production site workers. FR0t measures the number of work-related audits. accidents involving a Faurecia employee or temporary worker, with lost time, per million hours worked; As a result of these reviews, a variety of solutions have been implemented for manufacturing workstations. The reviews  FR1t: 2.35 (Accidents with or without lost time per millions of are also used to prepare a list of recommendations that are hours worked) by employees and temporary workers. FR1t systematically taken into account during the design of products measures the number of work-related accidents involving and manufacturing tools. a Faurecia employee or temporary worker, with or without lost time, per million hours worked. A number of recommendations from professional ergonomists and Group HSE coordinators are being factored into the Both indicators are calculated on a rolling six-month basis. Program Management System (PMS). After each FR0t and FR1t accident, a Quick Response All of the Group’s operations managers and plant managers Continuous Improvement (QRCI) analysis is performed using a have received training in ergonomics as part of accelerating problem-solving method based on the best practices in terms the FES deployment, which was launched during the second of solving quality problems to ensure that the root causes of the half of 2009 and continued since then. The goal of this program accident are understood, that corrective actions have been is to ensure that these managers play a real leadership role in effective and that preventative measures are implemented the continuous improvement process, notably for ergonomicsand shared across the various sites. related issues. 230 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility Number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked (FR0t) 18 16.1 16 14 12 10 8.7 8 6 5.6 4.2 4 4 2.7 2.4 1.7 2 0.8 0.8 0.8 1 1 0.6 0.5 0.8 0.9 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 H1 H2 2018 2018 The rates shown above, calculated on a rolling six-month basis, In 2018, the FR0t accident frequency rate remained stable and indicate the accident incidence rates approved as of the end Faurecia remains at the level of worldwide best practices. The of each fiscal year. For 2017, the results for the first and second CARE project goal is to return to the 2013 level, when Faurecia half of the year are shown separately. beat its all-time accident rate Number of accidents with or without lost time per million hours worked (FR1t) 60 55.2 50 40 30 28.4 25.2 20 19.4 15.8 11.9 10 9 6.2 3.2 2.6 2.2 2.3 2 1.8 1.9 2.3 2.4 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 H1 H2 2018 2018 In 2018, the FR1t accident frequency rate rose slightly, but without lost time, to focus on accident prevention and relevant Faurecia remains in the range of the worldwide best practices. priorities. The rates shown above, calculated on a rolling six-month basis, The monitoring of first aid concerns all autonomous production indicate the accident incidence rates approved as of the end units, combined with application of the QRCI problem-solving of each fiscal year. method. This has enabled production managers to take greater responsibility for accident investigations and to increase their In its plants, Faurecia also monitors the FR2t indicator, of responsiveness. which stability recorded especially vs. 2016, is a strong sign of the absence of aggravation of FR0t and FR1t indicators. The Group will complete its analysis of the average accident This indicator measures the number of first aid procedures severity rate to have a complete understanding of accidents performed following an incident per million hours worked. This in order to identify action priorities in prevention. monitoring enables plants that have few accidents, with or / Registration document 2018 231 4 CSR Social Responsibility 4.1.2. Engaging employees Faurecia’s employees progress within a meritocratic person is better able to learn new situations in order to initiate environment where their advancement is dependent on transformation projects, while guaranteeing operational their potential and performance. The Group’s growth and execution on a daily basis. Faurecia is positioning itself as a development is directly dependent on the commitment levels company that is focused on creating value, is customerand skills of its teams and its ability to set up the best teams oriented, innovative and has management principles based of managers and skilled professionals, on a worldwide level. on self-control, the pursuit of excellence and entrepreneurship. Effective management of Human Resources is, therefore, right The corporate values are now broken down into managerial at the heart of the Faurecia group’s strategy and is based on values (entrepreneurship, autonomy and accountability) and three principles: involvement, performance and development. behavioral values (respect, exemplarity and energy). The Group Internal promotion is a key priority. It is based on individual developed a Management Code to encourage exemplary development and makes it possible to capitalize on automotive behavior within the organization. Relying on practical know-how, expertise and a high level of customer insight. situations that managers face during their daily activities, this  Key performance indicators 2018: management guide defines the exemplary behavior that is expected from managers.  21.1 training hours on average per employee per year; It has reinforced the decentralized organizational principles.  11.3 ideas for improvement on average per employee All decision-making processes have been reviewed. The per year; number of such processes has been reduced significantly  worker commitment indicators in 2018: 54 (nearly and their content has been pared down in order to validate 50,000 employees surveyed); the autonomy of the teams at the different levels of the organization.  commitment indicators for managers and skilled professionals 2017: 61 (nearly 14,000 employees surveyed); In 2018, new initiatives were launched within the framework of Being Faurecia. Special attention is maintained in the Corporate  absenteeism: 2.7% of registered employees; Training offering, whether through leadership training, Diversity  turnover: 10% of employees with Open-ended contracts Management modules and in the area of Compliance. As part (CDI). of this, the digital learning platform has been a key distribution driver. Finally, a program to expand collaboration has flourished through the advent of many learning communities set up to 4.1.2.1. Being Faurecia: a strong promote horizontal cooperation within the organization. There are now 1,600 working communities across the various business company culture lines and geographic locations. The Faurecia group has inherited a long tradition of Furthermore, the fifth anniversary of Being Faurecia was technological innovation and manufacturing excellence, celebrated at all Group sites. They have encouraged all although it was created in 1997. Since then, the Group has staff to take on Board the Group values and bear witness to grown rapidly both organically and through major acquisitions. the Group’s strong commitment to the success of its cultural Today, it is among the world’s leading automotive suppliers transformation. with revenues of €17,524.7 million and a headcount of nearly 115,000 people in 37 countries. To measure commitment and practices, a survey was conducted in 2018 with employees to measure the level of During the first phase of its history, the Group focused on adherence and attachment to Being Faurecia within the developing systems and processes necessary to ensure that it teams. A high level of engagement resulted in more than provides the same level of quality and operational performance an 80% response rate among the 50,000 non-management to all of its customers around the world. employees. The very encouraging results demonstrated For several years now, the Group has entered a new phase of significant changes, representing 65 points, an increase of development, characterized by steadier growth and a greater 7 points over 2015 in employee attachment to Being Faurecia emphasis on value creation. with growth in changes to expectations for behavior, through team involvement or improvement and simplification of Under these new circumstances, in 2018 the Faurecia group processes. continued to advance its cultural transformation program, Being Faurecia, which was launched in 2014. Being Faurecia aims to To thoroughly analyze particular points of resistance reported by redefine the corporate culture and its management model. employees, the Executive Committee decided to continue to The program seeks to create an environment that promotes appoint collaborative working groups comprised of managers an entrepreneurial spirit and autonomous operating teams. from different regions and functions and tasked with offering As part of this approach, the human resources development concrete recommendations for improvements. Two working strategy has been recalibrated and tasks have been realigned. groups, sponsored by a member of the Executive Committee, The priority given to internal promotion has been reaffirmed continued working on the following themes: improvement in and most of the Human Resources development processes attaining plant goals, better management of operational crises have been reviewed and improved. The goal is to strengthen and improved reporting. Improvement initiatives continue to understanding of the transformation issues so that each be implemented. 232 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility One consideration, initiated during 2018, concerning Corporate,  on-line employees: Faurecia University organizes a digital Social and Environmental Responsibility, made it possible for training course offering more broadly for the 45,000 Group the Executive Committee to validate six beliefs regarding the employees who perform jobs in which teams have a digital environment, innovation, performance, business ethics, diversity tool (computer or smartphone). and communities. This first step will allow the Group, in 2019, Training also facilitates the development of the organizational to develop an approach based on sustainable development structure and operational principles prevailing within the that aims at creating value for all stakeholders, by combining Group. In this context, the changes induced by the Being financial and extra-financial performance. In order to allow for Faurecia strategy are gradually incorporated into the Group’s implementation of this continuous improvement approach, a training programs. Lastly, training is a management tool. It list of indicators will be posted, accompanied with progress is the responsibility of supervisors (identification of needs, goals. (see also the introductory chapter). communication with interested parties) and is implemented with the support of the Group’s Human Resources network. 4.1.2.2. Training to support the Group’s 4.1.2.2.1. KEY AREAS OF TRAINING transformation The priorities identified in training plans are used to achieve the Within the Group, training is an investment in support of strategic goals set for different business units. They are structured around directions. In this context, the Group supports the development the following themes: and employability of employees at all levels of responsibility as a part of Faurecia’s rapid and ambitious transformation.  improving plant performance (safety, quality, costs and deadlines) and ensuring optimal production start-up; It’s a key tool in the implementation of genuine continuous improvement, supported by the Faurecia Excellence System  enhancing the attractiveness of customer offerings; (FES), which shapes the culture of performance and constant  increasing technological expertise in products and learning. Training plans are managed on different levels within processes; the organization according to the practices in the different countries in which the Group operates.  increasing the professional qualifications of employees, fostering their career development and enhancing their Faurecia uses the 70:20:10 model or learning: employability;  70% of employees learn in performing their daily tasks;  developing managerial skills in line with Faurecia’s  20% while working with their co-workers and managers; Leadership Competency Model;  10% as part of organized training sessions (in class or on anticipating and managing identified skills requirements line). over the medium term; In this context, training activities, internal training, using adapted  strengthening a shared culture focusing on value digital tools, workshops centered on sharing experience and creation and entrepreneurial spirit, while respecting the skills are the preferred methods, so that Faurecia’s training fundamentals of Faurecia’s internal codes (ethics and system is in line with the pace and demands of its business lines. management), in particular compliance with competition law; Training being at the center of each employee’s development, specific actions are implemented as much to promote  ensuring the use of common working methods to increase individual change as to increase team effectiveness. efficiency; Faurecia’s training courses cover largely three key employee  developing people’s ability to work in an international needs, through a 3-level structure: setting.  ror all employees (production plants, Research Centers, administrative headquarters), there is regular organized 4.1.2.2.2. FAURECIA UNIVERSITY training to support implementation of the Faurecia At the end of 2018, to complete several years of continuous Excellence System. In addition the Skills Academies cover and quality investments, Faurecia University gained CLIP the necessary job skills in the 3 major Business Groups international accreditation granted by the European (Faurecia Seating, Faurecia Interiors and Faurecia Clean Foundation for Management Development, an agency that Mobility) and an IT Academy trains our employees in certifies the most stringent training standards for Business Schools the use of the tools deployed in digital transformation and Corporate Universities. Faurecia University thus joins a group applications; of some twenty players on the world stage, including Siemens,  managers and skilled professionals: Faurecia University is Cap Gemini, Engie, Telecom Indonesia, etc. which implement in charge of a training system for 20,000 managers and ambitious goals in the training of their employees. executives covering the managerial skills required for With more than 9,000 employees trained, the year 2018 was transformation; once again a year of extensive deployment for Faurecia University in the interests of best serving the needs for developing / Registration document 2018 233 4 CSR Social Responsibility managers. The three regional campuses (Europe, Asia, North this training by sharing testimonials and stories about their America) continued to fulfill their mission of rolling out Corporate experiences. The quality of presenters, the in-depth work training and creating specific programs for each region. In combining e-learning, courses and collaborative learning addition to the Nanterre campus, the network of universities situations, have made it possible for these training sessions and their dedicated facilities in Auburn Hills (Michigan, USA), to become a key transit point for Group managers, Puebla (Mexico) and in Shanghai (China) fulfilled their mission ensuring their successful roll out on the campus in Nanterre of supporting employees. (France), Auburn Hills (USA), Puebla (Mexico) and also in India, Poland and Brazil;  Role and responsibilities of Faurecia University  the IGNITE program, conceived and implemented Faurecia University aims to support the development of with the London Business School, was rolled out for all managerial skills and offer a firm foundation for the cultural executives, who were able to follow a basic module transformation undertaken by the Company. Its role is also focused on “transformation.” Another module on key in the commitment of employees so that they remain “team management” had increased success and has loyal to the transformation undertaken. To do this, Faurecia already reached 30% of managers. Finally, a module on University supports managers throughout their careers so that innovation in Silicon Valley benefited 50 key managers, they are able to satisfy their need to grow within the strategic and made it possible in particular to increase our teams’ process of the Company’s transformation, by: capacity for growth and creativity. These modules gave  ensuring their full integration into the Group’s culture; executives the tools to deepen their ability to operate in the new ecosystem of the automotive industry, whose  helping them to acquire functional skills necessary for their technological wealth is expanding, and to engage their professional growth; teams as their environment changes around them. The  offering training to help them acquire and improve their continued presence of members of Faurecia’s Executive managerial skills and to develop their leadership skills; Committee, who shared their stories during training and interacted with managers, is one of the many ways in  preparing them for key positions (plant manager, program which the organization demonstrates that it is committed manager, R&D manager); to and responsible for helping its managers grow;  anticipate taking responsibility in positions of leadership.  the C3 Program (Commercial, Competitiveness, Clients): in partnership with IESE Barcelona, which developed a  Mode of governance program for all business executives on negotiating skills for Faurecia University has an Advisory Board comprising the purchasing and sales, in parallel with a progressive and members of the Group’s Executive Committee. The Advisory significant overhaul of the training of plant managers, Board met twice in 2018. In addition to attending these program teams and logistics functions, was launched in plenary meetings, the Advisory Board members are closely order to improve the industrial performance of our teams. involved in creating new programs and are especially active During 2018, digital training offerings saw critical success in certain key programs. thanks to a combination of using the digital learning platform, the Learning Lab and the internal collaborative learning  A firmly established training offer equal to the best practices network Faur’us. of major international groups  THE LEARNING LAB: is an internal digital training platform Training courses cover the major leadership and functional open to all the Group’s managers and skilled professionals. skills (sales, purchasing, HR, etc..) and operational skills Training sessions, in the form of short, dynamically animated through several programs: videos with questions, have been a success both internally  Leadership Development, initiated in 2016, had an and externally. Internally, multi-media access (PC, tablet increasing impact on 1400 managers in 2018 (compared and smartphone), and a library of more than 200 digital with 700 managers in 2016). It covers a full range of courses that use technological innovations like virtual leadership skills broken down by themes and levels of reality, have best served the needs of varied development. responsibility. This effort was recognized as being at the Therefore: offerings cover Faurecia’s fundamentals (FES, best practice level worldwide in terms of quality and scope, Management System Program, basic operations, gender making the Group a major player in the transformation of diversity, ethics and compliance), and also leadership, the automotive industry; management, as well as numerous domains of business transformation (digital, technology, etc.). The learning  the DRIVE program, which involves two separate levels for lab has become the most valuable key training tool for managers and experienced managers and is broken down employees and also constitutes an important vehicle for into different modules on leadership, is thriving, especially their commitment. through its modules on change management, innovation and team dynamics. This program has benefited from the The numbers bear witness to a doubling of its use in 2018: growing experience of trainers from our partner, Impact more than 43,000 managers and skilled professionals took International (a renowned English firm that specializes in training courses on the Learning Lab in 2018 (compared managerial training), as well as the regular involvement to 20,000 in 2017). of dozens of Faurecia managers, who have enhanced 234 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility Since the opening of the Learning Lab in 2016: to contribute to the operational performance of the teams. Therefore, the effective deployment of FES tools in our sites will  more than 6.2 million knowledge-testing questions were have a direct impact on the service supplied to our clients. answered with a supported response; As a cornerstone of the continuous improvement mindset,  more than 810,000 videos were viewed; Employees are encouraged to actively contribute  more than 250,000 hours were spent learning (includes trial improvements ideas based on daily activity. The number of and confirmation phases of learner training sessions). improvement ideas implemented by Group employees remains stable at 12 per employee in 2018. Ideas can cover any subject Hoping to benefit from this expertise, the FIEV (Federation from process, safety to team improvement. of Vehicle Equipment Industries, which includes 120 Business Groups) concluded a partnership with Faurecia University Following the success of previous year’s overhaul of EE training, to help the French equipment manufacturing sector 2018 has seen further evolution and training of internal trainers. benefit from digital content created by Faurecia University. This support to Managers to equip them to take their people These training courses may benefit employees from development role continues to see impact in the operational businesses that are often much smaller, and which don’t performance of the business: have the ability to develop their own digital learning tools.  Employee Empowerment Fundamentals Program:  THE DIGITAL PLATORM FAUR’US further adds to the This blended two-day training for plant management collaborative and social dimension of this learning committees develops their role in the daily management process by significantly offering the possibility of sharing of teams, clearly linking the seven EE basics to the business knowledge throughout the professional community. It impact. In 2018 two train the trainer session took place also enables collaborative and open work methods giving twenty additional trainers to the regions. Targeting to be spread, providing access to rich and diverse multiple management positions in a plant all site HR knowledge by increasing the collective effectiveness of Managers 2018 saw an additional 350 trained and 2,500 employee work. This tool is pivotal in a worldwide group since the inception of the program in 2014; with hundreds of working communities across more than  Site Human Resources Manager Program: This blended 35 countries. On a daily basis, more than 30,000 employees program helps current and future Site HR Managers use this platform in their professional activities (sharing understand the link between their day-to-day information, exchanging best practices, discussions, responsibilities and Employee Empowerment. 80 HR etc...). More than 1,600 active professional communities professional benefited from it in 2018 targeting all site HR exist (on management and leadership, Human Resources, Managers (320), 2018 saw an additional 90 trained and 400 logistics, industrial operations, etc.) and the network since the inception of the program in 2014; generates more than 20 million interactions a year, which is a major contribution to team performance thanks to  Our Employee Empowerment MOOC (Mass Online their engagement in these collaborative and instructive Open Course) of 10 modules dedicated to EE, has now professional communities. had 3,000 employees participate. This program is again aimed at 3,000 managers but is open to all 45,000 people internally with a Faurecia email address; 4.1.2.3. Employee empowerment  following the launch in 2017 of the new MOOC linking The continued success of the Group depends on its ability EE to impacting Plant Performance (Managing Plant to maintain the active involvement all its employees in their Performance): 1,700 training courses have been passed. daily work to build efficient and autonomous working teams. This program is aimed at an internal population of Embedded at the heart of the Faurecia’s Pragmatic Operations 3,000 managers, but is open to all; System (FES, Faurecia Excellence System), with its goal of  new in 2018 was a significant change to the approach Total Customer Satisfaction linked with sustainable business to the way the Group trained the leadership teams in performance, is the subsystem of Employee Empowerment (EE). the mandatory annual regional FES Workshops run by the EE, which is one of the fifth subsystems of FES, is a key lever for Group FES team. These regional workshops (5 in total), Faurecia’s management to drive performance achievement lasting 4 days each and covering 5,000 half day training and improvement as part of the daily life of our teams. At the places saw two new workshops: heart of EE are the seven EE basics: Organization structure  driving plant performance (0.5 days) was an extension (OHP); Daily Communication; GAP Leader & Supervisor roles; of the above bullet, Mastery of workstations; Improvement Ideas; Task Transfer and the Training/development process.  delivering Daily performance (1 day) made the clear link between the engagement of the team and business As such, these tools give the Plant management Teams, led by performance on a daily basis. the Plant Manager, pragmatic process’ to engage the teams / Registration document 2018 235 4 CSR Social Responsibility In 2018 a major project was launched by the CEO to significantly  development Plan for current and future Team (GAP) upgrade the FES system which strengthens the EE subsystem. Leaders and Supervisors; Over the course of the year, a team, in excess of 100, from all  participation in improvement activities; and levels and regions have been working on this project. Known as FES X.0., the goal is to launch in 2019 and significantly reinforce  submitting of ideas. the understanding and application of FES (our DNA) in Faurecia. Faurecia has put in place through FES individual annual performance reviews for every employee including individual development actions (except some restrictions in a small 4.1.2.4 Development of nonnumber of sites due to Union/works council requirements). management employee In addition the Corporate Human Resources department performance manage since 2012 a bi annual global exercise, with the objective to run a full employee survey to gage both people’s Faurecia focus on people management and development view of the organization as well as their view of their immediate is built into the Faurecia Excellence System (FES). Specifically management. This is shared in each plant and Management within Employee Empowerment, the Group ensures: has the goal to improve their results each survey.  training at workstations; 4.1.3. Talents attraction and retention EFPD Faurecia integrates and develops the potential of its skilled  32,4% of managers & professionals hired are recently professionals and managers to improve their performance graduate and skills and offer them attractive career paths. The effective  Other performance indicators: development of engineers’ and managers’ potential is at the core of the Being Faurecia program. The Group seeks to  48% of VIE (International Corporate Volunteer program) continuously improve the performance of its managers and hired; ensure their professional development so that they can realize  1,178 potential talents for the Group Leadership Committee their potential. (GLC), or nearly 3 potential candidates (278%) identified At the same time, the Group constantly adapts its allocation of per position; Human Resources to meet short-term business demands and  2,370 potential talents for key posts (Plant Manager or prepares for the medium-term to ensure that the Group always Program Manager or equivalent) or more than 1 potential has best-in-class in terms of managers and technical experts, candidate (144%) per position. driven by the pursuit of excellent customer service. It should be noted that recruitment of employees with potential Anticipation of business needs, short and medium term and the earliest recognition of the potential of each manager management of resources, the effectiveness of individual and skilled professional continued to grow in 2018 compared development of managers and skilled professionals, allows to 2017, an increase of 30% for GLC positions and 24% for other Faurecia to offer its employees opportunities in career key positions. advancement and better retain its teams, thus constantly reducing the risk of losing talent. Effective implementation of a collective and individual resource 4.1.3.1. Attracting and retaining talents management method is guaranteed by respect for common principles: Faurecia has grown substantially in recent years, and now has a headcount of just over 115,000 people, more than 20,300  investing in recruitment of employees having growth of whom were managers and skilled professionals with openpotential; ended contracts (CDI) as of the end of 2018.  measuring performance in an equitable and factual In 2018, 3,127 managers and skilled professionals were recruited manner, allowing each individual to demonstrate the externally, a net increase with respect to the average of the ability to deliver results; last 4 years, which was slightly below 2,300.  continually developing technical and managerial skills; In 2018, reinforcements came mainly in Asia (1,583 compared  identifying individual potential as early as possible in order to 1,001 in 2017), the countries with the highest recruitment in to develop the necessary skills in the medium to long term; the region being China (954 compared to 583 in 2017), India (520 compared to 329 in 2017).  offering diverse career opportunities while considering the technical and managerial paths as equal in importance. Other regions; Europe, North America continue to strengthen in numbers equal to or slightly higher than those realized in 2017.  Key indicators of performance in 2018 The number of recruits has remained relatively stable in France (406 compared to 354), was slightly down in Mexico (142  9.1% turn over resignation rate for all managers and compared to 183 in 2017) as well as in Germany (96 compared professionals to 120 in 2017), and in contrast, continued to grow in the United States (435 compared to 348 in 2017) 236 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility External Recruitment for Open-ended contracts (CDI) 2018 2017 change Asia 1,583 1,001 +582 Europe 744 684 +60 North America 581 537 +44 South America 50 40 +10 Other 169 122 +47 TOTAL 3,127 2,384 +743 43% of new employees were assigned to production, 30% Developing and promoting international exposure is essential to sales, R&D and program functions, and 27% to support for a Group that employs 56% of its skilled professionals functions. and managers outside of Europe and carries out 66% of its recruitment outside this region. Within this framework, Faurecia In 2018, Faurecia continued to focus on recruiting recent can offer its people many international assignments as well as graduates and early-career professionals in order to ensure that the opportunity to take part in international projects. the Group recruits and retains the talent of the future. Programs and partnerships with more than 100 schools, universities and A stable employee base is essential for safeguarding our post-secondary institutions are in place in many countries investment in human capital. In 2018, the turnover rate of where the Group operates so as to publicize internship and job managers and skilled professionals increased slightly (9.1% opportunities among students. This is particularly true in France, compared to 8.3% in 2017 and 8.4% in 2016). This rate remains with professional schools and universities such as the ESTACA, overall stable in Europe (7.3% compared to 6.9% in 2017); ENSAM, EDHEC, Centrale Supelec, ITECH, Kedge Business however, it increased in North America (12.1% compared to School, École Centrale Nantes. 10.9% in 2017 and 11.8% in 2016), and in Asia (9.8% compared to 8.7% in 2017). These increases, mainly apparent in the United To ensure the success of newly recruited employees, Faurecia States (13.5% compared to 11.6%) and in China (9.9% compared offers all new hires a personal induction program enabling them to 8.4% in 2017), are in the context of a very competitive job to find out more about the Company, its values, strategy and market. organization, and to become acquainted with its culture and operating systems. Some countries have organized special The resignation rate for senior management significantly events, such as orientation days, to expedite the integration decreased, falling to 1.4% in 2018 compared to 4.5% in 2017. of new hires. Resignation rate 2018 2017 change Comments Asia 9.8% 8.7% +1.1 China +1.5% Europe 7.3% 6.9% +0.4 North America 12.1% 10.9% +1.2 USA +1.9 Senior Management 1.4% 4.5% -3.1% TOTAL 9.1% 8.3% +0.8 4.1.3.2. The employees of tomorrow set up and tasked with identifying the action the Group could take globally and locally to help it find a way to quickly increase In 2018, the Group continued to implement two Faurecia the recruitment rate of young graduates. Talent Initiatives in order to attract and retain the employees of tomorrow, two key factors in sustaining the Group’s growth. To help it reach its target to recruit more young graduates, including female graduates, the Group relies heavily on the The first project’s goal is to improve gender diversity at the time VIE international corporate volunteer program. In 2018, the of recruitment and for career development in general (see number of international corporate volunteer (VIE) contracts chapter on diversity). continued to grow, with 282 signed, compared with 294 in 2017 The goal of the second project is to recruit more young and 280 in 2016. It is noteworthy that almost 48% of the young graduates. Although 32.4% of new recruits to entry-level skilled professionals and managers who completed their VIE management positions were young graduates, in line with assignments in 2018 were recruited by Faurecia, mainly in the sector average, this figure is insufficient to fuel the Group’s France (34%), Germany (26%), and the rest of Europe (15%). growth with the employees of tomorrow. Working groups were Furthermore, 16 VIEs were hired in Asia and 11 in North America. / Registration document 2018 237 4 CSR Social Responsibility 4.1.3.3. Developing our talent, a powerful 4.1.3.4. Consolidating the Group’s ambition performance culture and having To prepare the managers of tomorrow, talent identification exemplary leaders should start as early as possible. A fair, objective performance assessment is a cornerstone of Faurecia has more than 5,600 identified talents, a net increase employee development and a key Being Faurecia concept. in comparison to 2017 (4246). The applicants are offered diverse This assessment leads to an annual performance review career paths to realize their potential. These paths include between manager and skilled professional and their supervisor. inter-functions/inter-divisions mobility, project work The goal, beginning with the self-assessment prepared by or short-term assignments. The plan aims to help employees the employee, is both to measure attainment of individual step out of their comfort zone and provide them with general annual goals and to assess managerial and behavioral skills. management skills. This factual, measurable assessment allows not only to identify high-performing managers and skilled professionals, but also to External assessments are offered to current and future leaders. validate and implement actions for individual development in The aim is to help all individuals better understand their order to continually increase short-term performance as well as development potential so they can make the best career develop each person’s potential over the medium to long term. choices. Individual development plans are defined as part of this process. In all, 20 assessments were carried out in 2018 (total  Performance indicators 2018: since the beginning: 276).  98.7% of managers assessed through a performance Alongside these internal activities, a reinforcement plan was review. rolled out in France, Germany, the United States and China to recruit high-potential applicants for whom an accelerated In 2018, the Group launched the fourth campaign of career path is defined and implemented. At the end of 2018, its performance appraisal system, STAR (Setting Targets, 25 people were participating in this program. Achieving Results) for all managers and professionals, a comprehensive approach combining three components: The Group also places great importance on the international  a management by objective component that aligns dimension of its Senior Management team, while taking steps to attract, develop and retain local talent across the globe. Thus, individual performance with business objectives; 34% of the Group’s senior management is today composed  lastly, the managerial skills assessment makes it possible to of non-Europeans (18% from North America, 15% from Asia, identify each individual’s strengths as well as areas where 1% from South America) and 66% European (46% French, there is room for improvement to construct practical and 11% German). effective individual development plans. The Code, which 36% of managers and skilled professionals identified as potential describes the managerial skills that must be mastered Senior Managers come from non-European countries. at each level of the organization, is at the center of performance management and the identification of the The Executive Committee strengthened its involvement in potential and development of future leaders; managing talent. Twice a year, the Committee now reviews  the assessment of behavior enables the measurement the Group’s top performers with a particular focus on potential executive managers. Furthermore, beyond People Reviews of commitment to the Group’s values. They consist of normally organized at the Business Group, Division and three managerial values (entrepreneurship, autonomy functional levels, Key Reservoir Reviews were carried out in and accountability) and three individual values (respect, North America, Asia and South America in order to develop exemplarity and energy). A Management Code was internal mobility and to optimize local talent management. developed to illustrate the behavior expected from Since 2016, a new process called “Cross BG Point HR” was also managers in the main situations they might face. This set up at Group level in order to develop the mobility of Senior Code is intended to be a practical guide for managers Managers between Business Groups. to develop exemplary behavior. Following audits carried out in 2017 by the Top Employer In 2018, the quality of reviews and managerial involvement Institute, Faurecia is among the 31 companies which were remained a goal of the STAR campaign. In order to reinforce awarded the “Top Employer Europe” label for 2018. This global the message, the three priorities identified the previous year recognition can be added to the Top Employer certification were retained: improve the quality of feedback, strengthen received by key countries of the Group in Europe: France, internal equity in terms of performance reviews and improve Germany, Spain, Czech Republic, Poland; in Asia: China, India the robustness and follow-up of development actions. and on the American continent, in the United-States. In order to be more consistent with internal managerial The Top Employer label rewards companies for the excellence practices, the scale of performance levels was trimmed from of their practices in terms of management of human capital five to four levels since 2017. Identifying and giving recognition especially in the field of attraction and development of to the best-performing employees is especially encouraged. talents, compensation and social advantages, training and development of competences. 238 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility 4.1.3.5. Developing skills and optimizing €3,306.7. million in 2018, compared with €3,243.4 million in 2017. Meanwhile, the number of employees at the end of the year career management increased by 7.6% (+11.6% % for managers and professionals). The Group’s internal promotion policy revolves around The Group adheres to current minimum wage legislation in offering career opportunities to employees who succeed and each country. Wage negotiations are held in the majority of demonstrate their potential. countries. In 2018, worldwide, 70 agreements were concluded Despite a significant recruitment, the rate of vacancies filled on salary/bonus/compensation components and 91 on profitinternally for managers and skilled professionals was at an overall sharing/incentives. rate of 46.1% in 2018, a slight decrease with respect to 2017 (50.6%). The rate is 83% compared to 74% in 2017 for Senior 4.1.3.6.2. VARIABLE COMPENSATION Management positions (Top 300). These results for managerial FOR MANAGERS positions were achieved through the implementation of solid planning for succession and individual development plans, At Faurecia, variable compensation systems are aligned with based on individual reviews made at least once a year at all the Group’s strategic objectives. For executives, in particular, a levels of the Company (sites, divisions, Business Groups, Group) system of short-term, variable compensation, based essentially and based on a rigorous use of Faurecia’s managerial skills on business unit performance, applies in all countries in which model. Faurecia operates. At the end of 2018, about 4,200 executives, out of a total of more than 18,000, had open-ended contracts. Furthermore, the implementation of solid succession plans made it possible to develop and fill internally 81% (compared Simultaneously, in 2018, the Group implemented a local bonus to 73% in 2017) of the required Plant Manager positions and 66% policy, which applies to all countries in compliance with local (compared to 64% in 2017) of the required Program Manager regulations. positions. Lastly, a medium-term variable compensation plan was In 2018, 14.5% (compared to 15.6% in 2017) of managers and introduced for Managers who are members of the former skilled professionals benefited from internally mobility. Senior Management Group (now the Global Leadership Management Group) and who are not eligible in 2018 for In line with the Group’s expertise management policy, the free shares award program. The benefits of this scheme Faurecia particularly rewards performance in technical are subject to continuing employment and performance and technological areas. The Group offers its experts a conditions tied to the Group’s net income (loss) after taxes specific career program, which has the added advantage in 2020 and to the growth in the Company’s basic earnings of allowing it to enhance business-specific skills within each (loss) per share between 2017 and 2020. product line. In 2018, Faurecia had 354 experts compared to 308 in 2017, including 48 senior experts and 4 master experts. The benchmarks for targeted fields of expertise were reviewed 4.1.3.6.3. STOCK SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS during 2018, in order to include competencies, in particular, AND PERFORMANCE SHARE PLANS in the areas of “Human Sciences” (ergonomics, on-board Faurecia has set up performance share plans for its Global comfort, bio-mechanics, Neurosciences, psycho-acoustics). Leadership Management Group, with a view to promoting motivation and fostering loyalty. It follows a procedure established by the Board of Directors at its meeting of 4.1.3.6. Compensation Policy December 17, 2009. In order to attract, retain and motivate talent, Faurecia’s The Combined General Meeting of May 29, 2018 authorized the compensation policy is determined in a way to ensure it is Board of Directors to grant a maximum of 2,000,000 performance competitive with the internal compensation practices of the shares. local market for each of the Group’s business units and complies Based on this authorization, on July 19, 2018, the Board of with legal regulations. To this end, each year Faurecia examines Directors granted a maximum of 556,590 performance shares to market practices with firms specialized in compensation. 273 beneficiaries, including fifty-one high-potential managers. For managers and skilled professionals, compensation depends The benefits of these shares are subject to a continuing on several components, in particular the level of responsibility employment condition and two performance conditions: an exercised. Therefore, the greater the level of responsibility, internal requirement relating to the Group’s net income (loss) the more variable components represent a greater portion of after taxes in 2020, and an external requirement comparing total compensation. For non-manager and skilled professionals, basic earnings (loss) per Faurecia share between 2017 and Faurecia has tools at the local level which enable it to link their 2020 with reference to a group of 12 comparable international contributions to the value generated. automotive suppliers. It should be noted that the grants from the last seven plans were awarded in the same calendar period. Finally, Faurecia is committed to guaranteeing a compensation policy in line with the Group’s culture and values. As at December 31, 2018, there were 2,637,293 performance shares that could be granted through July 2022 subject to the 4.1.3.6.1. CHANGES IN COMPENSATION fulfillment of the corresponding performance conditions. AND BENEFITS The total amount of compensation paid, including social contributions, increased by 1.95% across the Group as a whole: / Registration document 2018 239 4 CSR Social Responsibility  Focus France incentive payouts are calculated based on two sets of indicators:  Company savings plan  financial indicators at Company level. This part accounts In France, the Group has over the past few years for about 40% of the overall payout and is calculated implemented several mechanisms to allow employees to annually; accumulate savings.  operational performance indicators calculated at site Since 2004, employees have had access to a Group level and selected from among Faurecia Excellence employee savings plan (PEG) open to amounts distributed System indicators. This part accounts for about 60% of under profit-sharing and incentive plans, as well as the overall payout and is calculated half-yearly. voluntary contributions. Under these agreements, the payout is capped at 5 to Thirteen funds are available, including Faurecia 6% of payroll – although in exceptional cases it may be Actionnariat, a mutual fund investing exclusively in Faurecia raised to 6.7 to 8% if objectives are exceeded – and is stock. At end-2018, total funds managed in the employee allocated partly in proportion to salary and partly applied savings plan (PEG) stood at €51.3 million, of which 21% on a uniform basis depending on hours worked. were invested in Faurecia Actionnariat (2,995 employees). In 2018, €22.6 million was paid out to employees under Employees also have access to the Group retirement the incentive plan (versus €18.5 million in 2017), of which savings plan (PERCO), set up in late 2012. Like the €10.02 million was invested in Group employee savings employee savings plan, payments into the Group pension plans in France (PEG or PERCO). savings plan can be made from discretionary and nondiscretionary profit-sharing plans as well as voluntary  Profit-sharing employee contributions. At end-2018, total funds managed The mandatory profit-sharing agreements of the various in the retirement savings plan (PERCO) stood at €4.8 million. group companies stipulate, for the most part, that employee A defined-contribution pension scheme was also profit-sharing calculated in accordance with the legal introduced in 2006 for group executives and was opened formula must be allocated among employees prorated up to voluntary contributions from employees in 2013. on the basis of their compensation for the year in question, The various retirement savings plans have more than subject to compliance with regulatory limits. €101.4 million under management. The amounts allocated to the profit-sharing reserve may be held in a no-access account or invested in the corporate  Incentive Plans mutual funds set up in connection with the Group employee The incentive agreements entered into by the Group’s savings plan (PEG) or retirement savings plan (PERCO). various French companies mostly establish how voluntary In 2018, €6.2 million was paid out to employees under the profit-sharing plan (versus €7.6 million in 2017), of which €2.6 million was invested in Group employee savings plans in France (PEG or PERCO). 4.1.4. Social dialogue EFPD Pursuant to the development of economic and social dialogue 4.1.4.1. An environment of contrasting of the Code of Ethics, in force since 2007 and supplemented in 2014 by the Being Faurecia program, the Group’s various business activity by region entities continued an active policy of dialogue and negotiation In 2018, with constant change and despite the short-term with employee’s representative bodies. difficulties of the second half of the year in Europe and Considered as a true lever for improving operational Asia, Faurecia’s worldwide business grew strongly with a efficiency and defining the Group as an integral player in performance level generally above the growth of automobile sustainable development, development of economic and production across all regions. social dialogue is accorded special attention. In this context, This trend was reflected by continued growth in headcount the Group is committed to communicating in a regular and which rose from 86,319 at the end of 2017 to 92,884 at the end structured manner to the various employee representative of 2018 (up 7.6%). bodies about its accomplishments, profits and more generally about its strategy. Whenever possible, priority is also given to Industrial redeployment initiatives affected 19 sites in 2018, research and concluding agreements in the various areas impacting 1,364 jobs in 8 countries, mostly in Europe, Asia, North where employee commitment is a gauge for success in the America and South America. implementation of projects. In this context, thanks to the commercial success of a certain It is also a preferred vehicle of communication to share number of vehicles, Europe saw its headcount grow by 5.7%, about safety and improvement of working conditions while despite restructuring in Western European countries and the emphasizing concrete achievements and best practices. difficulties encountered in some Central European countries in recruiting permanent employees. 240 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility In North America, thanks to Faurecia’s robustness in a region for exchanges with employee representatives on the Group’s affected by lower automobile production in the 1st half and strategy, results and outlook. growing business with some clients, headcount grew by 2.2%. The European Council met in plenary session twice during the In South America, in the context of an upswing beginning year, on April 17 and 18, 2018, in an ordinary meeting, and on in 2017, confirmed by new orders in 2018 and a good level November 23 in an extraordinary meeting, for the purposes of business activity with major manufacturers thanks to of an acquisition project of the Japanese company Clarion. productivity efforts achieved at various sites, the number of The Council Board, comprising representatives of the six biggest registered employees decreased slightly by 1.5%. countries in terms of headcount (i.e., France, Poland, Germany, Finally, despite a clear slowdown observed at the end of Czech Republic, Spain and Portugal), met three times during the year in China, thanks to significant gains in market share, the year. Under the existing agreement, the monthly meeting notably with Chinese automakers, and the consolidation of joint was held on site on November 28, 2018. On this occasion ventures with Wuling, Coagent and BYD, Faurecia continued members of the Board visited the Faurecia Seating plant in its growth in Asia where the number of registered employees Lozorno (Slovakia) as well as the Volkswagen assembly plant grew by 32.4%. in Bratislava. Hoping to better reflect its European dimension and strengthen its international image, Faurecia S.A., parent company of the 4.1.4.2. Greater social dialogue and Group, decided to adopt the corporate form of European consultation with employee Company (SE). For this purpose, in accordance with legal representative provisions, a Special Negotiating Group (GSN), composed of representatives from European countries where Faurecia Implementation of an active policy of consultation and group has employees, was set up in order to negotiate the negotiation in 2018 resulted in a record number of signed establishment of a European employee representative body. agreements. 350 agreements with facilities or companies were This body replaces the current one created in 2003 for the thus concluded in 18 countries, including 187 in particular in purpose of sharing information, exchanging viewpoints and France, 78 in Germany, 32 in Brazil, 12 in Argentina, 7 in Mexico dialogue on the European level. and 5 in the Czech Republic and Uruguay. An agreement was concluded on October 22, 2018, signed Among the agreements, 26% were related to employee by 18 of the 19 members of the GSN. It defines the areas incentive plans and profit-sharing, 20% concerned work time, of intervention, the operating mode and the means of 20% related to salaries and other forms of compensation and implementation as part of the Comité de Société Européenne, 17% dealt with working conditions. which will be called the “Faurecia European Company Committee (FE2C).” Under terms of this agreement and More specifically, negotiations about the organization of work as part of what has already been undertaken to date, the and working hours allowed sites to adapt to fluctuations in work signatory parties agreed to maintain in the future a regular and loads due to changes in customer needs or the closing and/or constructive dialogue; information, and as the case may be, start-up of new programs, in such a way to maintain or even consultations on the European level about industrial goals, the grow, the flexibility needed to safeguard competitiveness. Group’s strategy and their potential impact on employment In the continuum of all the agreements on competitiveness and shall continue in a spirit of trusted cooperation. performance since 2012, which concern 46 sites, the constant This agreement stipulated that members of this body shall be search for competitiveness is a key issue to keeping the business named during the 1st trimester 2019 and that they shall meet for going or to winning new programs, thereby avoiding any new the first time during the plenary meeting of spring 2019. plans for industrial redeployment. Furthermore, it is expressly noted that the transformation of In addition, in all the countries in which it operates, the Group Faurecia into a European company has no impact on the is keen to implement existing plans so as to reduce the impact attendance of Board members representing employees on on jobs arising from a slowdown in business. At the same time, the Board of Directors. The two Board members who have sat in the event of any industrial redeployments, the Group prefers on Faurecia’s Board of Directors since November 1, 2017, will to make use of internal mobility, both on a geographical and continue to serve their 4-year term of office until it expires. cross-divisional level, as well as voluntary redundancy plans. In the event that a site closure is required, the Group endeavors, The end of 2018 also saw, after more than 18 months of work, where this is possible, to put in place re-industrialization projects the move by the Executive Committee, all of the Corporate by providing financial and/or operational assistance to industrial teams and the Business Group management, as well as players that are likely to propose redeployment solutions to its Faurecia University, to a new building located in Nanterre, employees. In cases where compulsory redundancies cannot near the Group’s previous headquarters. More reflective of its be avoided, providing support for those employees seeking international standing and its technological leadership, meeting redeployment is a priority. the most current and demanding standards with respect to the environment, interior design and technical equipment, Created in 2003, the European Works Council is a key body in this building, henceforth the Group’s new headquarters, was the Group’s economic and social dialogue, the preferred forum specially designed to offer its employees a pleasant and productive work setting. / Registration document 2018 241 4 CSR Social Responsibility 4.1.5. Promotion of diversity Faurecia is stepping up the promotion of diversity as a true of concierge-type services, in order to promote a better strength and asset, generating both a positive impact on balance between personal and professional life; performance and also a source of innovation and motivation  cultivating women’s careers: the People Review was for all of the Group’s employees. Diversity, guided on a daily adapted and now includes a section on female talent. basis by the Group’s values, convictions and Code of Ethics, Simultaneously, an effort was launched to support addresses all aspects whether it is origin, gender, age or spouses of expatriate employees thanks to external and disability. personalized support that helps with moving, facilitates Particular emphasis is brought to bear on strengthening the cultural and professional adaptation and helps to find gender balance with the goal of increasing the presence local employment; of women as senior executives within the Group and more  the talent acquisition strategy was also reviewed: country generally throughout the entire population of managers and recruitment officers reviewed the list of target schools, skilled professionals. giving preference to those with balanced gender representation. The list of Ambassadors was completed  Goals to ensure that women are sufficiently represented. The The goal is to increase by 2% per year the ratio of women recruitment agencies were also made aware of the to men and to reach 30% by the end of 2021 as compared Group’s ambition to welcome more female talent. Lastly, to 23.8% in 2018. the internal training on recruitment now covers the issue of diversity awareness;  Key performance indicators 2018:  training is a lever to speed up this cultural change: Faurecia  20.7% of women are members of a plant management University ensures that diversity management is an integral team; part of the training delivered to managers, and it has  15.3% of women on the Group Leadership Committee(GLC); handled the establishment of training programs targeting women in order to help them bolster their influence,  23.8% of women managers and skilled professionals; impact and visibility;  34% non-Europeans on the GLC.  studies have been launched in key countries to ensure pay During 2018, as part of the pursuit of deploying its “Faurecian equity. The results of the two statistical studies carried out Talent Initiatives” effort, the Group established a project on show no major differences; gender balance and diversity, with regard to recruitment  the women@faurecia network was created to support and career development. initiatives in favor of gender diversity. With the support of An action plan was defined by working groups, covering both local representatives, the members of the network organize Group-wide Human Resources issues and the introduction of internal events and also participate in associations and dedicated social networks, while respecting local cultural activities. particularities. It covers six areas:  improvement of working conditions, in particular through the deployment of teleworking and the implementation 2018 2017 2016 % of women on the Group Leadership Committee 15.3% 11.6% 9.2% % of women are members of a plant Management team 20.7% 20.8% 19.7% % of women managers and skilled professionals 23.8% 23.3% 23% In order to adapt to new economic conditions in new markets, Implemented in 2018, additional actions to speed up the Faurecia reorganized the Group Leadership Committee. Thus, promotion of Male/Female equality and diversity will bear fruit the ratio of women to men improved in 2018 compared to 2017. in 2019 and 2020. 242 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility 4.1.6. Social indicators (not included in the EFPD) This report was prepared in accordance with Decree 2002-221 Based on the 68 indicators that were established, the reporting dating from February 20, 2002 and in accordance with the main units answered 100 questions that were answered at the level guidelines proposed by the “Global Reporting Initiative” and of the Group’s HR Management department. relating to corporate social data. Social reporting is articulated around two complementary axes It meets the requirements of the legislator regarding the social of analysis: data of listed companies, the wishes of the Management of A quantitative part concerning some of the main types of the Faurecia group and the requests of the main shareholders effects passed by gender, age and occupational category, of the Company. and then by the absenteeism rate indicators, the number of In the 34 countries in which the Group is implemented, 400 applications received or training expenditure spent. The return reporting units have been declared to the Human Resources of this information was completed on January 8, 2018 via the department. These units were defined according to an Group’s usual consolidation system (Métis). analytical breakdown of the Group’s activities, allowing The scope remains in line with the statutory scope. consolidation by product, geographical area and legal entity. Social data is then consolidated globally, by geographical area: Europe, North America, South America, Asia and other countries. Total workforce 2018 vs. 2018 2018 2017 2018 vs. 2017 Of which Of which Of which % Regis% openRegisopen-ended Registered TempoNumber open-ended -tered TempoNumber ended -tered TempoNumber contracts Emrary Emof Emcontracts Emrary Emof Emcontracts Emrary Emof Em(CDI) ployees ployees ployees (CDI) ployees ployees ployees (CDI) ployees ployees ployees (in points) Europe 44,785 8,844 53,629 76,3% 43,302 11,027 54,329 73,4% 3,4% -19,8% -1,3% 2,9 North America 20,026 970 20,996 84,5% 19,590 1,100 20,690 85,2% 2,2% -11,8% 1,5% -0,6 South America 5,560 169 5,729 95,3% 5,647 248 5,895 88,6% -1,5% -31,9% -2,8% 6,7 Asia 16,176 9,577 25,753 61,3% 12,221 8,495 20,716 54,8% 32,4% 12,7% 24,3% 6,5 Others 6,337 2,249 8,586 59,7% 5,559 2,086 7,645 57,6% 14,0% 7,8% 12,3% 2,2 FAURECIA 92,884 21,809 114,693 74,2% 86,319 22,956 109,275 71,8% 7,6% -5,0% 5,0% 2,4 Number of employees: of the Coagent company in China, and in Europe (+3.4% or +1,483 people) with integration of Hug Engineering and The Group’s total workforce saw growth of more than 5,400 people, or +5% in 2018, due to sustained business activity, Parott Automotive and hires in Central Europe. further strengthening of skills and integration of new business Temporary employees: activity in Europe and China. The number of temporary employees decreased by more than The proportion of short-term contracts declined over the period, 1,100 people in 2018, or -5.0% in order to improve the stability going from 7.2% to 6.8%. The proportion temporary employees of our workforce in Central Europe and adapt to fluctuations also declined from 21.0% to 19.0%. in business activity in Western Europe. The proportion of open-ended employment contracts thus At the end of December 2018, the percentage of temporary automatically increased from 71.8% to 74.2% through the employees was 19.0%, 2 points lower than in 2017. combined effect of these two factors. In Europe, the rate rose from 20.3% to 16.5%. It reached 15.0% Total employment increased mainly in Asia in 2018 at the end of 2018 in Western Europe, compared to 18.3% in (+5,037 people), in North America (+306 people) as well as in Central Europe. other countries (+941 people Reliance on temporary workers decreased across all the mainly in Morocco and Tunisia). It decreased in Europe (-1.3%), countries in this region. impacted by lesser recourse to temporary work. This rate remains high in Asia (37.8%), with the proportion of Registered employees: temporary labor being structurally high in China. The Group’s registered employees increased by 6,565 people in 2018 (+7.6%). This increase was particularly noticeable in Asia (+32.4% or +3,955 people), mainly due to the integration / Registration document 2018 243 4 CSR Social Responsibility Registered employees 2018 vs. 2017 2018 2017 Technicians, Technicians, foremen & Managers foremen & Managers Operators administra& skilled Operators administra& skilled Change & workers tive staff professionals Total & workers tive staff professionals Total ‘18 vs. ‘17 Europe 28,926 6,618 9,241 44,785 28,299 6,431 8,572 43,302 3,4% North America 14,792 1,300 3,934 20,026 14,422 1,286 3,882 19,590 2,2% South America 4,221 840 499 5,560 4,004 1,145 498 5,647 -1,5% Asia 8,125 1,505 6,546 16,176 6,110 1,013 5,098 12,221 32,4% Others 4,984 640 713 6,337 4,259 601 699 5,559 14,0% FAURECIA 61,048 10,903 20,933 92,884 57,094 10,476 18,749 86,319 7,6% The number of registered employees rose by 7.6% in 2018: 11.6% In North America, the number of registered employees rose by for managers and professionals, 4.1% for technicians, foremen +2.2%, or +436 people. and administrative staff, and 6.9% for operators and workers. The number of workers increased by 2.6%, whereas the number The changes concerning operators is due in particular to of technicians, foremen and administrative staff increased by external growth in China and the growth of business in Central 1.1% and that of managers and skilled professionals increased Europe and Morocco. by 1.3%. In Europe, the number of registered employees rose by +3.4% In South America, in the context of economic difficulties, including +7.8% for managers and professionals, +2.2% for registered employees decreased by -1.5%, mainly in Argentina. operators and workers, and +2.9% for technicians, foremen In Asia, the number of registered employees climbed by 32.4%, and administrative staff. mainly in China (+4,137 people), integrating the consolidation In Western Europe, registered employees increased by +1.1%, of three new joint ventures. notably in France (+221 people), in Portugal (+201 people) and Numbers were up 33.0% for operators and workers, +48.6% for in Switzerland (+168 people), mainly due to our acquisitions of technicians, foremen and administrative staff and +28.4% for Parott Automotive and Hug Engineering. technicians and managers. In Central Europe, the number of registered employees Other countries recorded a rise in their registered employees jumped by 7.1%, mainly in Romania (+570 people), Slovakia of 14.0%, mainly in Morocco (+672 people) and Tunisia (+382 people) and Poland (+208 people). (+349 people). Registered employees by type of contract 2018 vs. 2017 2018 2017 2018 vs. 2017 Fixed-term Open-ended Fixed-term Open-ended Fixed-term Open-ended contracts contracts contracts contracts contracts contracts (CDI) (CDD) Total (CDI) (CDD) Total (CDI) (CDD) Total Europe 40,945 3,840 44,785 39,884 3,418 43,302 2,7% 12,3% 3,4% North America 17,752 2,274 20,026 17,620 1,970 19,590 0,7% 15,4% 2,2% South America 5,460 100 5,560 5,224 423 5,647 4,5% -76,4% -1,5% Asia 15,775 401 16,176 11,346 875 12,221 39,0% -54,2% 32,4% Others 5,129 1,208 6,337 4,400 1,159 5,559 16,6% 4,2% 14,0% FAURECIA 85,061 7,823 92,884 78,474 7,845 86,319 8,4% -0,3% 7,6% Open-ended contracts rose by 8.4% (+6,587 people). Over the It also increased by +236 people in South America, mainly in same period, the workforce with fixed-term contracts remained Brazil, across all business activities. stable at more than 7,800 people. The changes in North America showed contrasting trends. The Open-ended contracts accounted for 91.6% of the registered number of open-ended contracts rose in the United States employees as opposed to 90.9% in 2017. (+598 people) but fell in Mexico (-462 people). essentially due to the closure of our Saltillo site. The number of Open-ended contracts increased by 4,429 in Asia (+39.0%, essentially in China) and 1,061 in Europe (+2.7%, The number of fixed-term contracts declined by 0.3% compared essentially in Romania, Portugal and France) supporting the to 2017. growth of business and our acquisitions in these two regions. They accounted for 8.4% of employees at the end of 2018, compared with 9.1% at the end of 2017. 244 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility 2018 age pyramid by gender < 20 20 -29 30 -39 40 -49 > 50 Total Registered employees M W M W M W M W M W M W Operators & workers 1,111 478 12,664 5,815 11,011 6,087 8,917 5,416 6,503 3,046 40,206 20,842 Technicians, foremen & administrative staff 116 66 2,185 1,204 2,091 908 1,787 601 1,527 418 7,706 3,197 Managers & skilled professionals 0 0 3,871 1,449 5,737 1,970 3,742 1,121 2,601 442 15,951 4,982 TOTAL 1,227 544 18,720 8,468 18,839 8,965 14,446 7,138 10,631 3,906 63,863 29,021 20,000 18,720 18,839 18,000 16,000 14,446 14,000 12,000 10,631 10,000 8,468 8,965 8,000 7,138 6,000 4,000 3,906 2,000 1,227 544 0 M W M W M W M W M W < 20 20 29 30 39 40 49 > 50 Women accounted for 31.2% of the Group’s registered 14,537 or 15.7% of employees are more than 50 years old, a employees, an increase of 1 point compared with 2017. stable ratio as compared to 2017. They accounted for 34.1% of operators and workers, 29.3% of For all age brackets, the breakdown by staff category remained technicians, foremen and administrative staff, and 23.8% of stable, with operators and workers accounting for 66% of managers and skilled professionals at the Group level. registered employees, technicians, foremen and administrative staff representing 12%, and managers and skilled professionals Faurecia is a relatively young Group with 61.1% of employees accounting for 22%. under the age of 40 and 31.7% under 30. External hires 2018 vs. 2017 2018 2017 2018 vs. 2017 Hires on Hires on Hires on Hires on Hires on Hires on open-ended ﬁxed-term open-ended ﬁxed-term open-ended ﬁxed-term contracts contracts contracts contracts contracts contracts Registered employees (CDI) (CDD) Total (CDI) (CDD) Total (CDI) (CDD) Total Europe 4,987 4,158 9,145 4,550 3,585 8,135 9,6% 16,0% 12,4% North America 2,813 8,334 11,147 2,131 7,262 9,393 32,0% 14,8% 18,7% South America 1,190 90 1,280 1,168 374 1,542 1,9% -75,9% -17,0% Asia 4,006 907 4,913 2,677 1,199 3,876 49,6% -24,4% 26,8% Others 1,049 1,085 2,134 479 798 1,277 119,0% 36,0% 67,1% FAURECIA 14,045 14,574 28,619 11,005 13,218 24,223 27,6% 10,3% 18,1% This table shows year-on-year changes in hiring, excluding the In Europe, open-ended contract hires rose by 9.6% compared impact of transfers from fixed-term to open-ended contracts. with 2017, mainly in Romania (1,427 new hires), in Poland (889 new hires) and in Czech Republic (932 new hires). Western For all registered employees, the number of hires rose by +18.1% Europe registered a volume of 1,163 new hires. as compared with 2017, or +27.6% for open-ended contracts and +10.3% for fixed-term contracts. Hires on fixed-term contracts rose by 16.0% over the period in Europe. / Registration document 2018 245 4 CSR Social Responsibility In North America, 2,813 hires were made on open-ended This change should be considered in view of the substantial contracts, compared with 2,131 in 2017 (+32.0%), mainly in slowdown in hires since 2015 in response to the economic the United States. Hires of fixed-term contracts rose, from 7,262 downturn in this region. in 2017 to 8,334 in 2018, mainly in the United States, in order to In Asia, the number of hires on open-ended contracts jumped respond quickly to fluctuations in business activity. by 49.6%, especially in China, with more than 3,300 hires. In South America, the volume of hires fell as compared to 2017 In other countries, hires on open-ended contracts rose (-17.0% all contracts combined), mainly due to a net decline from 2017. These hires primarily occurred in Morocco. in fixed-term contact hires. External hires 2018 vs. 2017 2018 2017 Technicians, Technicians, foremen & Managers foremen & Managers Registered Operators administrative & skilled Operators administrative & skilld employees & workers staff professionals Total & workers staff professionals Total Europe 6,852 1,326 944 9,122 6,092 1,125 918 8,135 North America 10,016 392 739 11,147 8,330 362 701 9,393 South America 985 245 50 1,280 1,038 464 40 1,542 Asia 2,921 406 1,586 4,913 2,500 368 1,008 3,876 Others 1,739 214 181 2,134 970 150 157 1,277 FAURECIA 22,513 2,583 3,500 28,596 18,930 2,469 2,824 24,223 Operators and workers represented 78.7% of hires in 2018, In North America, hires of operators and workers increased by compared with 9.1% for technicians, foremen and administrative 20.2%. The number of hires of structural and managerial staff staff, and 12.2% for managers and skilled professionals, was up by 6.4% mainly in the USA. compared with 78.1%, 10.2% and 11.7% respectively in 2017. In South America, hires registered a decline of -17.0%, across The 18.1% increase in external hires in 2018 encompasses a all categories. 18.9% increase for operators and workers, a 4.6% increase for technicians, foremen and administrative staff, and a 23.9% In Asia, the volume of hires by professional category rose by increase for managers and skilled professionals across all +16.8% for operators & workers, +10.3% for technicians, foremen types of contracts. There were 3,500 managers and skilled & administrative staff Technicians, foremen & administrative professionals hired, 3,127 of them on open-ended contracts. staff and +57.3% for managers & skilled professionals. This growth applied mainly to China. In Europe, hires of operators and workers rose by 12.5%, increasing mainly in Romania, Czech Republic and Slovakia. In other countries, hires of operators and workers increased by 79.3%, primarily in Morocco. Hires of technicians, foremen and administrative staff increased by 17.9%, and hires of managers and skilled professionals increased by 2.8% (mainly in Portugal and France). Transfers from ﬁxed-term to open-ended contracts 2018 vs. 2017 2018 2017 Technicians, Technicians, foremen & Managers foremen & Managers Operators administra& skilled Operators administra& skilled Registered employees & workers tive staff professionals Total & workers tive staff professionals Total Europe 1,110 262 238 1,610 995 217 144 1,356 North America 2,818 69 126 3,013 2,975 100 230 3,305 South America 0 1 0 1 1 16 0 17 Asia 57 6 2 65 72 7 0 79 Others 246 19 11 276 93 18 7 118 FAURECIA 4,231 357 377 4,965 4,136 358 381 4,875 The number of transfers from fixed-term contracts to open-ended contracts increased by 1.8% in 2018. These transfers almost exclusively involved operators and workers. 246 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility Departures by reason 2018 vs. 2017 2018 2017 Resignations Resignations Registered (open-ended Individual Group (open-ended Individual Group employees contracts) layoffs layoffs Others Total contracts) layoffs layoffs Others Total Europe 3,446 1,978 369 2,334 8,127 2,894 1,715 240 1,969 6,818 North America 2,327 5,322 116 2,958 10,723 2,145 3,850 6 2,546 8,547 South America 164 762 10 413 1,349 134 658 21 270 1,083 Asia 2,285 1,425 23 1,146 4,879 1,422 979 47 579 3,027 Others 340 306 0 473 1,119 252 153 30 226 661 FAURECIA 8,562 9,793 518 7,324* 26,197 6,847 7,355 344 5,590 20,136 * Of which 2,679 end of fixed-term contracts, 4,015 resignations from fixed-term contracts, and 630 retirements or deaths. The number of employees who left the Group totaled 26,197 Czech Republic Romania, Mexico and China), for 8.4% in 2018, compared with 20,136 in 2017, an increase of 30.1%. technicians, foremen & administrative staff and for 21.6% managers and skilled professionals (mainly France, United 10.2% of them were at the end of a fixed-term contract. States and China). Resignations of employees with open-ended contracts represented The proportion of individual and collective layoffs decreased, 32.6% of departures in 2018 compared with 34.0% in 2017. from 40.0% to 39.4% of the total recorded departures, mainly They increased in Central Europe, Asia and the United States. in the United States and in Mexico. 70% of them concerned operators & workers (mainly Poland, Training hours 2018 vs. 2017 2018 2017 Training Training hours Training Training hours hours per employee hours per employee Europe 615,391 14,9 661,353 16,8 North America 560,135 28,1 541,354 28,6 South America 101,556 19,0 78,550 16,4 Asia 428,229 29,2 324,423 28,2 Others 133,553 22,4 115,693 22,2 FAURECIA 1,838,864 21,1 1,721,373 21,5 The average number of training hours remains stable in 2018 at more than 21 hrs. per employee Group-wide. The total number training hours delivered in 2018 increased by 6.8% over the period, mainly in Romania, Mexico, Brazil and China. Expatriates by region of deployment on 12/31/2018 2018 2017 Europe 79 83 North America 56 68 South America 7 11 Asia 61 58 Others 15 20 FAURECIA 218 240 The change in number of expatriates and the great diversity of their nationalities are aimed at supporting the Group’s international growth. The number of expatriates declined by nearly 9.2% in 2018 in view of the strong increase in local managerial teams. / Registration document 2018 247 4 CSR Social Responsibility Employees with disabilities 2018 vs. 2018 2018 2017 Europe 892 852 North America 15 13 South America 98 97 Asia 36 13 Others 47 41 FAURECIA 1,088 1,016 Faurecia employs more than 1,000 people with disabilities, voluntaristic in Europe and particularly in France and Germany, mainly in Europe. This figure increased by 7.1% compared than in other countries. to 2017. In France and Germany, the proportion of employees The criteria used to define employees with disabilities are with disabilities was unchanged at nearly 5% of registered defined by legislation in each country, legislation that is more employees. 2018 Work schedules Two 8-hr Three 8-hr Registered employees shifts (1) shifts (2) Weekend (3) Others Total Europe 10,227 15,914 349 18,295 44,785 North America 3,282 9,315 6 7,423 20,026 South America 942 310 0 4,308 5,560 Asia 4,537 1,136 10 10,493 16,176 Others 2,852 2,119 4 1,362 6,337 FAURECIA 21,840 28,794 369 41,881 92,884 (1) Work in two shifts. (2) Work in three shifts. (3) Reduced weekend hours. Work schedules are organised to meet the needs of our customers in light of the production capacity of our plants. The fixed shift work schedules ((1), (2) and (3)), which concern primarily our production plants, represent nearly 55.0% of our registered employees. Part-time staff 2018 2018 2017 Europe 613 690 North America 6 0 South America 4 0 Asia 0 0 Others 0 0 FAURECIA 623 690 Part-time employment contracts only apply to Europe, and in particular to France, Germany and Spain. They represent, in 2018, 2.2% of registered employees in France compared with 2.1% in 2017, 3.4% in Germany compared with 3.3% in 2017 and 3.5% in Spain compared with 5.2% in 2016. 248 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility Overtime (in hours) 2018 vs. 2017 2018 2017 Overtime (in hours) % hours worked Overtime (in hours) % hours worked Europe 3,233,782 4,6% 2,857,192 4,2% North America 5,057,029 11,9% 4,125,524 10,4% South America 595,523 5,7% 708,406 7,3% Asia 6,072,529 20,7% 4,487,966 19,6% Others 846,224 7,1% 867,476 8,1% FAURECIA 15,805,087 9,6% 13,046,564 8,7% Overtime hours are determined in accordance with the Recourse to overtime hours increased in Romania, as well as in legislation of each country. China, the USA and Mexico. The amount of overtime hours in 2018 increased by 0.9 point compared with 2017 and represents 9.6% of hours worked across the Group. Absenteeism on 12/31/2018 vs. 12/31/2017 2018 Absence as a result of workOther Abs. rate Abs. rate Sick leave related accidents absences Total 2018 2017 Europe 2,376,961 125,518 189,137 2,691,616 3,8% 3,6% North America 215,991 26,357 860,679 1,103,027 2,6% 2,1% South America 146,730 29,622 34,481 210,833 2,0% 2,1% Asia 74,964 7,756 61,410 144,130 0,5% 0,7% Others 217,543 10,786 17,075 245,404 2,1% 1,9% FAURECIA 3,032,189 200,039 1,162,782 4,395,010 2,7% 2,5% Absenteeism reported was due to illness, workplace accidents At the same time, the number of hours worked increased by and various unauthorized absences. 9.2% from 150.6 million to 164.3 million hours over the same period. The number of hours of employee absence was up 14.9% in 2018 compared with 2017, to reach nearly 4.3 million hours That led to an increasing rate of absenteeism at 2.7% for 2018. in total. Sick leave accounted for nearly 69% of absences recorded across the Group. This percentage was over 88% in Europe. / Registration document 2018 249 4 CSR Social Responsibility Maternity/paternity/parental leave at December 31, 2018 Maternity leave Paternity leave Parental leave Total TechniTechniTechnicians, cians, cians, ManaTechnicians, Managers foremen Managers foremen Managers foremen gers & Operaforemen & & skilled & admi& skilled & admi& skilled Opera& admiskilled tors & administraprofessioOperators nistrative professioOperators nistrative professiotors & nistrative profesworkers tive staff nals Total & workers staff nals Total & workers staff nals Total workers staff sionals Total Europe 629 117 230 976 499 129 263 891 532 133 160 825 1,660 379 653 2,692 North America 220 10 49 279 194 5 43 242 7 0 1 8 421 15 93 529 South America 45 17 4 66 124 15 9 148 0 0 0 0 169 32 13 214 Asia 85 31 94 210 221 58 242 521 38 24 31 93 344 113 367 824 Others 191 26 21 238 41 4 6 51 0 0 0 0 232 30 27 289 FAURECIA 1,170 201 398 1,769 1,079 211 563 1,853 577 157 192 926 2,826 569 1,153 4,548 The number of employees taking maternity leave grew by 15.2% in 2018, mainly in Europe. Those benefitting from paternity leave increased respectively by 21.8%, mainly in Asia. Parental leave declined by 17% (mainly in Europe). The conditions and durations of maternity/paternity and parental leave are governed by legislation in each country. Occupational illnesses by type at December 31, 2018 2018 Deafness Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal back Exposure to or hearing disorders of the arms disorders asbestos impairments Others Total Europe 157 24 2 1 29 213 North America 15 5 0 14 11 45 South America 11 13 0 14 9 47 Asia 0 0 0 0 0 0 Others 0 0 0 0 0 0 FAURECIA 183 42 2 29 49 305 0.3% of the Group’s registered employees had an occupational The conditions for recognition of these different pathologies are illness in 2018, a decline of 2 points compared with 2017. governed by legislation in each country. Musculoskeletal disorders of the arms accounted for almost More than 35% of these disorders were recorded in France. 60% of the occupational illnesses recorded within the Group. 250 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Social Responsibility Subcontracting 2018 vs. 2018 2018 2017 One-off One-off subcontracOngoing subcontracOngoing ting projects subcontracting Total ting projects subcontracting Total Europe 638 1,459 2,097 789 1,490 2,279 North America 193 709 902 177 681 858 South America 368 258 626 261 343 604 Asia 214 703 917 196 745 941 Others 71 231 302 60 199 259 FAURECIA 1,484 3,360 4,844 1,483 3,458 4,941 The use of subcontractors decreased by 2.0% in 2018. This change is explained mainly by a lower usage of subcontractors in Western Europe. Social and cultural activities in 2018 (for registered employees) Supplementary Accomhealth and personal (in thousands of euros) modation Transportation Catering Medical care risk insurance Subsidies Total Europe 8,617 16,798 10,068 5,547 21,653 4,682 67,364 North America 9,840 9,780 5,291 5,689 3,534 569 34,704 South America 398 4,869 4,911 4,676 4,931 150 19,935 Asia 13,619 11,516 12,476 18,891 26,594 1,746 84,841 Others 396 3,205 1,300 780 632 103 6,416 FAURECIA 32,870 46,169 34,045 35,584 57,344 7,250 213,260 The total amount for 2018 was up 8.5% over 2017, factoring in the increase in our registered employees. / Registration document 2018 251 4 CSR Environmental Responsibility: introduction 4.2. Environmental Responsibility: introduction As a major player in pollution control systems and sustainable basis in both internal and external relations. It contains a mobility, Faurecia has long been committed to weighing paragraph devoted to respect for the environment. environmental issues as it engages in activities spanning  2015: completion of the materiality assessment of product design to product end-of-life, management of environmental issues in order to identify Faurecia’s material the environmental impact of its production plants, and issues with regard to its stakeholders. collaboration with suppliers. Reducing environmental impact is central to the Group’s product approach. It encompasses  2016: formation of the Environment Committee. lowering vehicle emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) thanks  2016: strengthening of the materiality assessment by to weight and volume reduction and improvements to energy initiating dialog with the Group’s external stakeholders. efficiency (for example, by using energy recovery techniques), and controlling emissions of polluting gases.  2017: formalization of a Group environmental policy and launch of the “Green Attitude” campaign.  Key dates in the Group’s commitment to environmental  On December 11, 2017, on the sidelines of the One Planet performance Summit, Faurecia exhibited its shared ambition to help fight  2000: 1st group site certified ISO 14001. global warming by joining the list of French companies  2004: accession to the UN Global Compact. Through signing the “French business Climate Pledge.” this signature, Faurecia committed to respecting and  2018: Assessment of environmental issues from a risk promoting, in its business practices, a set of values and perspective. 1 environmental risk, sites environmental principles derived from international texts or conventions impact and climate change (including energy efficiency), relating to human rights, labor standards and the and 2 opportunitiesCircular economy and responsible environment. innovation of products that promote air quality and  2005: creation of Faurecia’s Code of Ethics, which outlines reduced carbon footprint. For more information on the the principles of conduct that must be applied on a daily methodology of identifying extra financial risks, please refer to Chapter 2 dealing with risk analysis. The environmental risks and opportunities for Faurecia and their key performance indicators Key performance indicators (actual Environmental Risks and Opportunities scope between 2015 and 2017) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Environmental impact of sites and  Share from production plants 75.7% 76.3% 78.1% 77.7% climate change certiﬁed ISO 14001  Tons of waste/€m of sales 15.12 13.81 13.23 14.07  Ton of plastic used/€m of sales 45.43 43.44 39.27 40.80 Faurecia Interiors  Tons of metal used/€m of sales NA 107 102 103.22 Faurecia Seating & Faurecia Clean Mobility  Energy consumption (MWh)/€m 134.8 118.1 112.5 116 of sales  Tons of CO2 equivalent/€m 55.75 42.12 39.25 40.92 of sales (scope 1 and 2) Innovation of products and services  Report of GHG emissions not promoting air quality and reduced quantiﬁed (including those produced carbon footprint throught of product sold) Circular economy (responsible use of  Rate of waste recycling (externally) 56% 58% 61% 58% resources; waste management and recycling/recovery) Sales from November 1 to October 31 for the reporting year (in € millions) 14,279 15,754 17,401 17,672 252 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Environmental Responsibility: introduction 4.2.1. Environmental policy 4.2.1.1. Governing policies and bodies 4.2.1.2. Training employees and In 2017, Faurecia formalized an environmental policy under temporary workers on the which the Group commits to reducing the environmental environmental impact of sites impact of its products and processes by developing new solutions that fit with a circular economy approach. Upon being on-boarded, new employees, both permanent and temporary, attend an education session on environmental This policy draws on the Company’s Code of Ethics and its impact management on the certified sites so they can Being Faurecia culture of value creation. The launch of this immediately learn about the environmental best practices of policy coincided with the “Green Attitude” campaign, which is the site where they work. In 2018, more than 71,851 Training currently being rolled out at all of Faurecia’s sites. This campaign hours were dedicated to the environment. aims to strengthen the environmental culture of the teams and educate them about behaviors in their daily work that can For the most part, environmental training is done internally. The help improve the Group’s environmental performance. It is sessions deal with environmental impact and risk management, organized around four themes: protection of the soil and subsoil, waste classification and management, chemicals energy management, the quality of air emissions as well as management, implementation of natural disaster emergency waste management. It consists of posters illustrating 10 proper response plans and also the environmental monitoring of environmental attitudes to adopt; an on-line training module subcontractors’ sites. and a self-assessment questionnaire. The latter enables the Training focusing on the environmental impact of the product is progress of employees adopting good environmental attitudes also planned for the employees of the Faurecia Clean Mobility to be assessed. The Seating Business Group asks each of its sites Business Group. to conduct a quarterly self-assessment. The assessment is done internally by the site’s HSE coordinator. Progress indicators for The training provided by external organizations consists mainly each of the attitudes are monitored at the division and branch in acquiring in-house expertise, such as mastering the ISO 14001 level of the business. For Interior System Branch, 100% of plants certification process. conducted this self-assessment during the reporting period. In 2019, monitoring of action plans from this self-assessment will be evaluated during FES (Faurecia Excellence System) audits 4.2.1.3. The investment related to in production. protecting the environment To implement and manage the environmental policy, the The main investments in environmental protection pertain Group relies on an Environment and Energy Committee that to three environmental commitments: waste management, includes business experts and is led by the Group’s QHSE pollution control with the improvement of treatment systems department and comprised of the HSE departments of the for pollutants discharged into the atmosphere and water, Business Groups and the Purchasing, Strategy & Innovation, Risk and energy efficiency of the sites. In 2018, investments in Management, Loss Control and Communication departments. environmental protection amounted to €10.6 million, of which It meets monthly. €4.3 million went to energy efficiency. Amount of investments related to environmental protection (actual scope) 2015 (€) 2016 (€) 2017 (€) 2018 (€) Amount for environmental protection, Seating 514,376 602,211 586,084 679,303 by BG (excluding investments Clean Mobility 1,230,075 1,148,548 1,199,470 2,357,365 in energy efﬁciency) Interiors 1,446,411 685,153 1,760,193 3,289,077 TOTAL AMOUNT 3,190,862 2,435,911 3,545,746 6,325,744 Amounts earmarked for energy Seating 1,047,697 780,585 927,644 efﬁciency, by BG Clean Mobility 1,599,091 316,189 375,099 Interiors 1,767,555 1,328,939 3,031,794 TOTAL AMOUNT 4,414,343 2,425,713 4,334,537 TOTAL AMOUNT OF INVESTMENTS 3,190,862 6,850,254 5,971,459 10,660,281 / Registration document 2018 253 4 CSR Environmental Responsibility: introduction 4.2.1.4. The amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks In 2018, provisions for environmental risks were established for an amount of €3,102 thousand. Provisions are mainly related to site remediation costs. 4.2.2. Environmental impact of production plants and climate change EFPD The business activity of Faurecia’s production plants has impacts Number of production plants certiﬁed ISO 14001 on the environment. Risk management concerns soil, water and or having an action plan for ISO 14001 certiﬁcation air pollution, waste, limited use of dangerous chemical products (100% of the actual scope) and noise pollution. 180 Key performance indicators:  proportion of ISO 14001-certified production plants; 160  tons of waste/€m of sales; 140  tons of plastic used/€m of Faurecia Interiors sales; 120  tons of metal used/€m of Faurecia Seating & Faurecia Clean Mobility sales. 100 108 125 122 112 116 4.2.2.1. Improving the sites’ 80 environmental performance 60 through ISO 14001 certiﬁcation 40 As part of the implementation of Faurecia environmental 25 policy, some of the Business Groups have included in the review 20 19 23 of their HSE policy, the objective of an ISO 14001 certification for 20 26 all of their production sites. Through this certification, Faurecia 21 16 17 12 9 commits to responding to its customers’ requirements and 0 thereby to demonstrating its environmental performance. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, 77.7% of production plants held ISO 14001 certification, Number of ISO 14001 certiﬁed production plants an increase of 0.6% at constant scope. Five new plants were certified during the reporting year. Number of production plants with an action plan for ISO 14001 certiﬁcation In addition, in 2018, 36 assembly sites (known as Just in Time sites) and R&D sites were ISO 14001 certified. Number of production plants with no action plan for ISO 14001 certiﬁcation The percentage of sites with ISO 14001 certification is tracked every six months by the Risk Committee. 254 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Environmental Responsibility: introduction 4.2.2.2 Energy efﬁciency and carbon  Key performance indicators 2018: emissions  energy consumption (MWh)/€m of turnover;  tons of CO2 equivalent/€m of sales (scope 1 and 2). The automotive supplier industry has a role to play in fighting climate change. Faced with this global challenge, Faurecia committed, along with 88 other French companies, by signing 4.2.2.2.1. IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF SITES the French Business Climate Pledge in 2017. Together, these Electricity and natural gas are the two most used energy companies have called for massive investments to move to a sources (respectively 71% and 25%) by Faurecia sites for low-carbon society. industrial and home uses. Fossil fuels represent 27.6% of use; Faurecia sites are encouraged to improve their energy there was a decline of 10% in fuel consumption between 2017 efficiency by optimizing the energy efficiency of their buildings and 2018 at constant scope. The share of direct renewable and production equipment, by reusing energy sources and energy produced on site (solar, wind, hydraulic…) still remains promoting the consumption of renewable energy in order to anecdotal. In 2018, energy consumption was 2,049,713 MWh reduce their carbon footprint. (calculation at constant scope: +4% compared to 2017). This increase is in particular related to a growth in business activity and the launch of new products at several sites. Energy consumption, overall and by source, in MWh (99% of 2018 actual scope) 2,000,000 26.2% 25.5% 24.8% 24.9% Natural Gas 1,500,000 0.5% 2.3% 0.5% 2% 0.4% 2.2% 0.4% 2.3% LPG Fuels Electricity 1,000,000 Steam 69.6% 70.5% 71.1% 71.1% Other energies Renewable energies 500,000 0 0.5% 1.2% 0.3% 1.2% 0.3% 1.1% 0.3% 1.1% 2015 2016 2017 2018 Breakdown of total energy consumption To capitalize on the results of these audits and share best by Business Group (99% of 2018 actual scope) practices, the Group has, on the basis of the action plans issued to each site, drawn up a document listing all the FAS recommendations relating to a site’s energy management. 23% Among the document’s recommendations are installing a variable-frequency drive with an electric motor that can produce energy savings of 10% to 60%, and adjusting water temperature based on the outside temperature, an action FIS that can also save energy (10% on average). The rational 56% use of the energy resource can also involve the recovery of condensation heat from a boiler room or an air compressor, previously equipped with a heat transformer, to produce FCM domestic hot water. 21% In 2018, 72 sites (of which 54 were production plants), or 31% of the sites included in the reporting scope, implemented initiatives to increase energy efficiency in their buildings and production tools. In total, more than €4.3 million was invested.  Encouraging energy savings at site level Faurecia conducts energy audits at production plants in order The actions most commonly mentioned by the sites to maximize to identify ways to save energy. Over the last 3 years, the Group energy efficiency were the installation of intelligent lighting has held 67 audits. and heating systems, the use of LEDs, putting machines and equipment in sleep mode, insulating buildings and buying or / Registration document 2018 255 4 CSR Environmental Responsibility: introduction refurbishing production machines that consume less energy. Graphic summary of GHG emissions in tons CO2 In particular, as an example, air compressors with frequency equivalent – Scope 1 and scope 2 convertors consume energy depending on use rather than (99% of 2018 actual scope) running at a constant speed. 900,000 In conjunction with the energy mix in countries with production sites and the last publication of the REN21 database of 800,000 798,271 June 2018 (Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 723,121 21st Century), we estimate that consumption of electricity from 700,000 684,580 renewable resources by sites in 2018 was about 25%. 665,029 Among the best practices implemented by certain sites, we 600,000 also include the installation of solar panels, energy recovery from chiller units to heat buildings and heat recovery from heat 500,000 exchangers on the paint lines. This last cited best practice thus made it possible to decrease 10-fold the consumption of gas for 400,000 operating paint booths for the Pisek site in the Czech Republic, part of the Faurecia Seating Business Group. 300,000 An entire section of the “Green Attitude” campaign is devoted to energy savings in order to bolster these actions at the sites. 200,000 4.2.2.2.2. REDUCE AND CONTROL CARBON 100,000 EMISSIONS AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES 0 Since 2012, Faurecia has estimated its direct (scope 1 (1) and 2015 2016 2017 2018 indirect emissions (scope 2 (2) and since 2016 includes its emissions related to all the Company’s entire value chain, Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) including upstream and downstream from its business activity (Scope 3) (3). In 2018, Faurecia’s direct and indirect emissions Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) amounted to 723,121 tons (scope 1 + scope 2). Scope 1 and 2 represent less than 5% of Faurecia’s total carbon emissions. The increase of scope 2 for 2018 is explained by the increase in The estimates made since 2016 across the entire value chain, electricity consumption of sites particularly linked to growth in according to the GHG protocol (4), highlighted three significant business activity and the launch of new products. emission sources for the Group:  scope 2, which corresponds to the sum of indirect emissions caused by the purchase or production of electricity (see 2.2.1.);  use of products sold (5);  Purchased products and services. All the other sources are considered immaterial because each one accounts for less than 2% of emissions. Emission sources CO2 emissions Degree of uncertainty Responsibility Scope 1 (actual scope) + Low Direct responsibility Scope 2 (actual scope) ++ Low Direct responsibility Use of products sold +++++ Medium Limited responsibility Purchased products and services ++++ Low Limited responsibility (1) Scope 1: Direct emissions corresponding to consumption of the primary energy source (natural gas, domestic heating oil…) (2) Scope 2: indirect emissions corresponding to energy consumption (electricity, heat) that the Company uses but does not produce. (3) For more information, see Subsection 2.7.3. Carbon emissions calculation methodologies. (4) The Green House Gas protocol (GHG protocol) is an international standard that accounts for Greenhouse Gas emissions that take into account scope 1, 2 and 3. (5) Emissions to be allocated to Faurecia products out of the total emissions of the equipped vehicles. 256 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Environmental Responsibility: introduction Faurecia group is working to reduce its major sources of Breakdown of total amount of waste generated, emissions: in tons, by treatment method (100% of 2018 actual  Scopes 1 and 2: scope) Faurecia is actively reducing its energy consumption (see 250,000 248,664 Subsection 2.2.1). In order to reduce its carbon footprint, some 230,216 sites have put in place solar panels like the Ningbo Cixi site in 217,606 215,921 China (installed capacity 79.5 KW) and 8 more sites took the initiative to sign green energy contracts or guarantee of origin 200,000 contracts. For example, the Hagenbach R&D site in Germany, 58% from the FIS Business Group, is supplied with electricity from 100% renewable sources. This approach has made it possible 61% 56% 58% to reduce the site’s carbon footprint by 2,400 tons of CO2. 150,000  Scope 3:  use of products sold: in order to lower the carbon impact 100,000 of its products, Faurecia is taking steps to reduce the weight and volume of components and subassemblies, 19% improve energy efficiency (e.g., by using energy recovery 25% 23% 20% technologies) and use bio-based or recycled natural 50,000 materials. For more information, please refer to Section 2.6 13% concerning the innovation of products and services 14% 13% 14% promoting air quality and reduced carbon footprint;  purchased products and services: As much as possible, 0 Faurecia tends to promote recycled products to 2015 2016 2017 2018 reduce the environmental impact of its purchases (see Subsection 2.3.4.2.). Recycled externally Disposed of in landﬁll Incinerated with energy recovery 4.2.2.3. Preventing and managing waste Incinerated without energy recovery In 2018, the sites generated 248,663 tons of waste (calculation at Eliminated by other treatments constant scope: +8% compared to 2017). This increase resulted Unknown treatment sector in particular from increased business activity. Non-hazardous waste constitutes 63% of the waste generated by the Group. Reused externally, without transformation The Faurecia Seating Business Group, which represents 36% of the Group’s total waste, has committed its sites, since June 2015, to eliminating waste going to landfill. This branch of business activity started off by taking stock of the available disposal lines in the countries in question and identifying technical and economical alternatives to landfill. Faurecia Seating drew on this analysis to set targets for reducing landfill waste, with a first step in 2019 (reference year 2017):  80% reduction of hazardous waste going to landfill;  60% reduction of nonhazardous waste going to landfill. In 2018, we observed a reduction of 30% of hazardous waste going to landfill by Faurecia Seating’s activity, and 7% reduction for non-hazardous waste. / Registration document 2018 257 4 CSR Environmental Responsibility: introduction 4.2.2.4. Limiting accidental discharge into Distribution of water consumption, by use the water and soil (93% of the real 2018 scope) This risk, inherent in the industrial activity of a site, is well understood by the Faurecia sites and their operators, who are 33% trained to react in the event of accidental spillage. In addition, all the ISO 14001– certified sites include prevention of this risk in their management system. Destination of released water, in % (2018 actual scope) 2% 67% 27% Domestic use of water Industrial use Industrial use does not account for the water consumption of open-circuit cooling systems. 58% 13% Water consumption by source of supply in m3 (100% of the real 2018 scope) 400,000 3,112,587.92 Released into the environment without on-site treatment 350,000 3,506,747.52 3,398,475.85 3,367,442 Released into the environment without on-site treatment (used for open loop water cooling system) 300,000 Released into the environment after on-site treatment Released to the Public Wastewater network 250,000 Since 2012, Faurecia has been assessing the environmental 200,000 risks of its industrial projects, by systematically conducting environmental audits and subsoil investigations research 150,000 when appropriate. Furthermore, in the context of industrial restructuring resulting in plant closures, the Faurecia group systematically assesses the environmental impact and carries 100,000 out a soil and subsoil investigation. Pursuant to French Decree No. 2012-633 of May 3, 2012, 50,000 Faurecia has identified two French sites subject to the obligation to provide financial guarantees for their safety. At July 1, 2018, 0 the amount of guarantees established was €369,692 for the 2015 2016 2017 2018 sites in question. Public water (m3) Groundwater (m3) 4.2.2.5. Using resources in a responsible Surface water (m3) manner REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION  Identification of sites located in high water stress areas Sanitary use represents 67% of water consumption at Faurecia’s Faurecia did not identify the water stress risk as material to its sites (See the diagram breaking down consumption by use). business activity given that its production processes do not Faurecia’s total water consumption in 2018 was 3,367,442 m3, consume much water (67% of water consumed is for sanitary an increase of 8% compared to 2017 at constant scope. use). Nevertheless, beginning in 2017, the Group committed to mapping its sites on the world map of water stress zones, published by the World Resources Institute (WRI). In 2018, there are 3 sites within the scope of localized reporting in zones of very high water stress and 47 sites in zones of high water stress. For these sites, HSE managers of the Business Group were alerted to implement measures to improve water consumption. For 258 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Environmental Responsibility: introduction example, at the Port Elisabeth site in South Africa, rainwater to manage variability thus avoiding high scrap levels and collection tanks were installed to supply sanitary facilities. breakdowns are tangible examples. MANAGING CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS 4.2.2.6. Limiting the use of dangerous  Raw material consumption by Faurecia sites chemical products To produce automotive equipment, Faurecia’s three Business The three Business Groups have a formalized policy for Groups use a variety of raw materials that come from managing chemicals and hazardous products. nonrenewable resources: metal, plastic, fibers and synthetic fabrics. CONTROLLING THE USE OF CHEMICALS: THE REACH Distribution sumption of raw materials purchased REGULATION in 2017 by type of material, in Ktons (100% of the real Substance management systems are put in place across 2018 scope) the entire supply chain, from suppliers to manufacturing customers, for all products delivered by Faurecia. Among other 2% 1% benefits, this approach gives the Group access to complete information on the substances entering into its products, in 19% order to ensure that all actors in the supply chain comply with regulatory frameworks on chemicals and their safe use, such as the European Union’s REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) regulation. Thanks to this approach, Faurecia also keeps a close watch on new developments in its supply chain in order to investigate substitutes for certain substances when necessary. Among its initiatives in this area, Faurecia has developed an anticipatory approach to the identification and sharing of information within the supply chain on chemicals or constituents 79% of concern, based on a list of chemicals or constituents considered as potentially of concern for its products and their Metal: 1,250 KT use. In some cases, such as catalyst protectors in exhaust systems (ceramic fibers), Faurecia has defined an internal Plastics (noble and recycled): 293 KT procedure that is more stringent than REACH. Synthetic ﬁbers: 25 KT Faurecia also takes part in work carried out alongside automakers and various industry federations or associations Natural ﬁbers: 10 KT in order to anticipate possible restrictions on the use of substances in the coming years and coordinate efforts to Consumption of natural fibers used as biomaterials in products propose alternatives where necessary. The federations and is growing at Faurecia (for more information, please refer to associations involved include the French Vehicle Equipment Subsection 2.6.3.). Developing solutions for ultra-low vehicle Industries Alliance (FIEV), the French Automotive Industry Cluster emissions. For example, hemp, which in addition to its technical (PFA), the German Automotive Industry Association (VDA), and performance, makes it possible to reduce the environmental the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA). impact (confirmed by a life cycle analysis based on the Faurecia leads the task force on REACH as well as the one international standards, ISO 14040 and ISO 14044). Apart from formed to address issues raised by the Global Automotive automotive biomaterials, other parts of hemp are valued such Declarable Substance List (GADSL). as by-products intended for insulating buildings and food oils. To date, more than 17 vehicles are equipped with this technology. In 2018, natural fibers represent 28% of the total quantity of fibers 4.2.2.7. Limiting VOC emissions (Volatile used by the Group, a stable rate compared with 2017. Organic Compounds) For operations over which Faurecia has operational control, controlling consumption of raw materials begins with optimizing PROCESS EMISSIONS (1) product design, and optimizing the material commitment Faurecia is committed to limiting airborne emissions of during industrial production of parts as well as controlling regulated Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) which are manufacturing processes. The use of product simulation has subject to specific rules as they contribute to the formation enabled considerable reductions in the number of prototypes and accumulation of harmful compounds such as ozone in the used for destructive testing over the last few years. On the environment. In 2018, VOC emissions amounted to 2,086 tons manufacturing side, the simulation of parts transformation (i.e., +3% from 2017 at constant scope). processes and the digitalization of production resources (1) For more information, see 2.7.4. VOC emissions calculation methodologies. / Registration document 2018 259 4 CSR Environmental Responsibility: introduction The Faurecia Interiors Business Group sites are the Group’s 4.2.2.9. Reducing the impact of sites main source of VOC emissions (75%), due to activities requiring significant use of glues and paints. Four production plants (5% of on the local environment Faurecia Interiors sites) account for nearly 30% of VOC emissions and preserving biodiversity Group-wide. To reduce VOC emissions, the AST division is developing a new REDUCE THE IMPACT OF SITES CLOSE TO A PROTECTED technology using electrostatic guns in applying release agents. AREA This technology, combined with the use of a new release agent 23 sites, comprising 14 production plants, 7 assembly sites composed of less solvent, has reduced VOC emissions by 55%. and 2 research and development sites, are located less than This process is used at a pilot site and should expand to other 3 kilometers from a protected area. These protected areas division sites during 2019. close to the Faurecia sites are Natural Areas of Ecological Fauna and Flora Interest type 1 or 2, areas that protect species becoming or already endangered (leopards, ground 4.2.2.8. Limiting noise pollution of the squirrels, terrestrial squirrels…), and natural water area (rivers local environment by sites and streams) protection zones. 78% of these sites are located in Europe, 17% in Latin America and 4% in South Africa. LIMIT NOISE AND OLFACTORY NUISANCE In 2018, no official complaints were recorded concerning noise or olfactory nuisances. 4.2.3. Innovation of products and services promoting air quality and reduced carbon footprint EFPD As a world leader in clean technologies, Faurecia is committed STATE-OF-THE-ART FUEL CELL SYSTEMS to promoting emission-free mobility and industry, and to Fuel cell technology offers an attractive and complementary offering innovative solutions in three domains: zero emissions alternative to electric battery cars. The range and recharging mobility; solutions for improving urban air quality and reduction time of electric cars with fuel cells approaches that of a of emissions from all types of vehicles. For each project in gasoline-powered car, the difference being that they are innovation and in development, recyclability, environmental emission-free. By 2030, it is estimated that at least 2 million new impact and interior air quality are systematically verified by vehicles and more than 350,000 trucks will be equipped with the designer with an eco-design checklist. If necessary, an infuel cell technology. depth study may be carried out (example: life cycle analysis for an innovation that aims to reduce weight, VOC and odor Faurecia is utilizing its experience in integrating systems and tests, etc.). As part of its strategic plan “0 emissions”, Faurecia its partnerships with Stelia Composites, the CEA and Adis positioned at 60 to 80% of the value chain of the Group using Venta, to marry hydrogen tank and fuel cell technologies as fuel-cell or battery powered vehicle technology. This allows it to a comprehensive solution for light-duty and utility vehicles. develop and control a greater proportion of those technologies In partnerships with Stelia Aerospace Composites, Faurecia benefiting the environment, compared to the Group using is developing light and efficient hydrogen tanks of 350 & traditional combustion engine technology. 700 bars. Moreover, Faurecia signed an agreement with the Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) for Faurecia’s innovation ecosystem is an open network with global the development, mass production and commercialization of reach, concerned with accelerating innovation, developing a high-performance fuel cell. imaginative technological solutions and transforming the Group. Through worldwide strategic partnerships, Faurecia is Faurecia’s first goal is to halve the cost of a fuel cell so that responding to the underlying trends and consumer expectations this solution becomes more attractive to automakers and they of today’s automotive industry – connectivity, sustainable equip their vehicles as technology evolves and recharging mobility, zero emissions, etc. infrastructure grows. For Faurecia, hydrogen is at the heart of tomorrow’s energy systems. Produced from a multitude of energy sources, it is 4.2.3.1. Developing solutions for zero a storable energy carrier that generates no CO2 emissions. emission mobility Faurecia is convinced that within 10 to 15 years fuel cell technology will assume a predominant place in the energy Faurecia’s technologies for zero emission sustainable mobility mix for powering engines. are a key component of the Group’s worldwide solutions on behalf of an emission-free world, which is the beauty of fuel cells and battery “packs.” Faurecia expects to expand its initiatives for a future of emission-free mobility. 260 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Environmental Responsibility: introduction BATTERY SYSTEMS A PARTNERSHIP WITH CLEAN AIR ASIA TO ACCELERATE Faurecia is working on the development of a range of battery THE ADOPTION OF AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT “packs” and comprehensive solutions for accommodating SOLUTIONS IN ASIA batteries for electric and rechargeable hybrid vehicles, and is In 2018, Faurecia and Clean Air Asia joined together to improve expanding offerings that integrate the thermal management air quality and make the industry aware of the importance functions of batteries and battery modules. Faurecia’s goal of more technologically efficient solutions for the benefit of is to offer innovative solutions for battery systems by using its cleaner cities. Founded in 2001 by the Asian Development Bank, skills and know-how in systems integration, composite materials the World Bank and USAID, the Clean Air Asia NGO intends to and thermal management. Faurecia’s composite and hybrid reduce atmospheric pollution and greenhouse gas emissions in offerings (composite/metal) are providing exceptional results more than 1000 Asian cities, thanks to a set of innovative policies in terms of weight and volume, which means an overall and programs concerning air quality, emissions generated by improvement in a vehicle’s autonomy and energy efficiency. vehicles and industry, and energy consumption. This collaboration covering Asia is built around three strategic priorities: 4.2.3.2. Developing solutions for cleaner  “Clean Cities” initiative: relying on the important regional urban mobility and improving air network of Clean Air Asia, as well as its years of experience quality in reducing pollution within its cities, Faurecia will provide Faurecia’s technologies for sustainable mobility are contributing leading-edge solutions in air quality management; to significantly reducing emissions in urban settings. In order  “Clean Fleets” initiative: Faurecia will bring to bear its expertise to meet the challenge of improving air quality, especially in in eco-driving and its emission reduction solutions for the cities where the issue is ever more critical, the industry must purpose of supporting Clean Air Asia’s “Logistics and Green continue to improve the performance of traditional vehicles Freight Program,” which is a priority for national and regional and accelerate their electrification. implementation to promote sustainable transportation; Faurecia is proposing solutions for clean mobility adapted to all  communication: Faurecia and Clean Air Asia will participate types of vehicles and is developing a range of digital services in multiparty initiatives intended to manage pollution of the in order to consolidate its position as a leader in technological atmosphere in cities. solutions for cleaner and more intelligent mobility, particularly in cities. Efficient management of air quality also requires rigorous monitoring, which provides reliable data for the purposes of assessing risks and prevention. Faurecia and Clean Air Asia are DEPOLLUTING TECHNOLOGY FOR BUSES AND TRUCKS therefore studying the possibility of ensuring such monitoring With ASDS™ technology, Faurecia developed a highwith sensors and software. performance system to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) for buses and trucks, which can eliminate up to 99% of nitrogen REDUCING EMISSIONS OF VOLATILE ORGANIC oxide’s polluting emissions. The method, which consists of storing COMPOUNDS FROM PRODUCTS pure ammonia in solid form in vehicles, improves the values of exhaust gases thanks to a more efficient conversion of NOx, For several years Faurecia has been studying VOC (Volatile especially at low temperature. Organic Compound) emissions that impact vehicle interior air quality (VIAQ). As part of its commitment to reducing these This solution has already been deployed as part of emissions, the Group is developing or designing low-emission modernization projects concerning numerous fleets of urban materials or products for Faurecia Interiors and Faurecia buses and trucks in Copenhagen, London and South Korea. Seating. In collaboration with its suppliers, the Faurecia With 60 million kilometers on the road, ASDS™ technology has Composite Technologies division, within Faurecia Clean proven its effectiveness and its cost-efficiency in reducing NOx Mobility, is developing new polyester resin or styrene-free vinyl emissions and improving air quality in cities. ester based materials with the aim of reducing VOC associated emissions both in its plants during part manufacturing and in DIGITAL SOLUTIONS FOR CITIES vehicle interiors. Backed by strong technological expertise in post-treatment In this context, Faurecia also takes part in working groups on and real-time monitoring systems for NOx emissions, Faurecia VIAQ (Vehicle Interior Air Quality) at the United Nations level, in designed a Clean Drive application that can analyze driver collaboration with manufacturer representatives; these groups behavior and offer personalized advice to reduce one’s aim to monitor the health of people on-board and continuously ecological footprint with regard to mobility. The application improve Faurecia’s and the automotive industry’s knowledge can coach drivers and offer alternative directions to avoid the in measurement methodologies and the impact of group most polluted areas. products present inside vehicles. The Group also developed a digital dashboard that maps air quality in the city and interacts with users of the “Clean Drive” application. These two solutions make up a digital ecosystem intended to help cities and residents to adopt more sustainable practices in mobility. / Registration document 2018 261 4 CSR Environmental Responsibility: introduction 4.2.3.3. Developing solutions for ultra-low also make it possible to attain high performance in reducing environmental impact: the proportion of natural fibers in plastics vehicle emissions is renewable, the sustainability of plastics as well as the lesser A world leader in solutions for improving air quality and energy weight of products allows for responsible consumption and use efficiency of passenger vehicles for 15 years, Faurecia is of these materials. Plastic materials strengthened with hemp are expanding this expertise to utility vehicles and high horsepower recognized as compatible with industrial recycling processes engines. already in place and are thus as of now recoverable. Three technologies patented by Faurecia utilize biomaterials. 4.2.3.3.1. PASSENGER VEHICLES AND LIGHT-DUTY Lignolight technology, using compressed fibers for between 50% VEHICLES and 90% of the resin, applied to door panels, improves density by 40% compared with traditional components. NAFILean The regulations governing CO2 emissions have already imposed technology (Natural Fiber Injection), which combines natural significant reductions on light-duty vehicles around the world: hemp fibers with polypropylene resin, reduces weight by 25% the goal of 180 g CO2/km in force ten years ago has yielded a compared with talc-loaded polypropylene. new lower target of 100 g CO2/km for Europe, the United States and China, to reach between 2021 and 2025. Since their first mass application by Peugeot PSA, biomaterials are used in automotive components of six carmakers. One of  Emission reduction systems the latest to have done it is Byton for its electric SUV. To date, more than 17 vehicles are equipped with NAFILean technology. Faurecia is providing systems to reduce emissions and noise pollution that promote compliance with these new emissions NAFILITE, a second generation of this product, is currently being standards, as well as post-treatment systems for internal manufactured. This technology can further reduce weight by combustion and hybrid powered type engines, in order to 10%. Faurecia’s portfolio includes natural fibers combined with reduce their emissions and noise levels and recover lost energy. polypropylene fibers. In particular, we note: Natural fibers currently account for 30.5% of the total amount  recirculation of low-pressure exhaust for gas engines (EGR of fibers used by the Group. This percentage increased by 2.6% BP): This technology re-injects a precise volume of cooled compared with 2017. exhaust into the engine for the purpose of improving combustion cycle efficiency, and thus reducing fuel 4.2.3.3.2. UTILITY AND TRANSPORT VEHICLES consumption by up to 6% (WLTP procedure); Powered by diesel for the most part, utility vehicles will have  the exhaust gas heat recovery compact system (EHRS): to reduce their emissions levels in the years to come in This solution makes it possible to improve a vehicle’s energy order to adapt to strict regulations. Faurecia is developing performance by recovering up to 75% of exhaust heat to new architectures for post-treatment of habitual pollutants heat the passenger cabin or the engine, and thus reduce like nitrogen oxide (NOx), in order to comply with ultra-low fuel consumption by 5-6% in cold weather on all types of international emission standards such as CARB and Euro 7. hybrid vehicles; In 2018, Faurecia offered an innovative solution to an important  the gas particle filter: This system allows for the reduction General Motors program to save fuel and reduce CO2 emissions. of particulate emissions from hybrid gas engines in order Recently launched and already rewarded, this “Resonance to comply with regulatory standards. Faurecia was the first Free Pipe™” (RFP™) will equip two of General Motors’ major on the market, in 2014; pickups, the Chevrolet Silverado and the GMC Sierra. Among  the EHC electrically heated catalyst: Faurecia developed the primary advantages for the carmaker, the RFP™, without this key technology so that vehicles would comply with a muffler, reduces the weight and architectural complexity of new regulations and optimize the removal of pollutants exhaust by eliminating resonance. emitted by internal combustion engines. EHC technology is a state-of-the-art system that activates the low4.2.3.3.3. EXTREMELY HIGH-POWERED ENGINES temperature catalyst and uses electric energy to raise the temperature of exhaust gases. This system optimizes With the goal of extending its expertise in the sustainable post-treatment performance by heating gases and the mobility of passenger and light-duty vehicles to extremely highceramic catalyst block. powered vehicles, Faurecia strengthened its technological offerings in the interests of clean mobility with its acquisition Making parts lighter of Hug Engineering in 2018. Hug Engineering is a leader in whole systems for exhaust gas purification of extremely highFaurecia offers bio-sourced materials that can reduce the powered engines (more than 750 CV), which are used in marine weight of parts. This innovation, whose environmental impact propulsion, production of electricity, the rail industry, agriculture was assessed by a life cycle analysis according to ISO 14040 and other industrial sectors. and ISO 14044 international standards, makes it possible to decrease scope 3 carbon emissions on both the products As for marine propulsion, only vessels built after 2014 and and services purchased and at the use of products sold. The operating within the United States must have a post-treatment main characteristic of these materials is the use of vegetable system (approx. 1% of an estimated fleet of 250,000 vessels). fibers as reinforcement, mixed with a resin (which itself may Over the course of the coming years, Europe and China will be bio-sourced or not). Natural hemp fibers used by Faurecia follow suit with similar regulations and will apply stricter emissions standards concerning polluting emissions (NOx, PM, CO, HC). 262 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Environmental Responsibility: introduction Therefore, Faurecia, through Hug Engineering, can help 4.3.4.5. Responsible innovation shipyards and OEMs to develop cleaner vessels with its Clean4Marine & NautiClean technologies. and competitiveness Today, about 1,300 marine engines are already equipped with ISSUES RELATED TO RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION a Faurecia system. AND COMPETITIVENESS By 2030, the Group expects to achieve €800 million in sales of In an environment with significant technological change and extremely high horsepower engines, a worldwide market share faced with the challenges of today and the future, innovation estimated at 21%. is a key development vector for Faurecia, both to differentiate itself from competitors, and to offer products and services that meet new uses and have a positive impact on society. 4.2.3.4. Making tools available for Faurecia has committed to designing innovation responsibly, by environmental innovation developing innovative solutions and products that benefit both For each innovation and development project, the different the Group and all its stakeholders. Faurecia has implemented components of eco-design – the presence of substances of a cutting-edge global ecosystem, enabling it to develop concern, recyclability, the environmental impact and interior partnerships with leading players worldwide, in order to extend air quality – are systematically checked by the designer using its technological expertise and improve its innovation ability. an eco-design checklist. Therefore, the possibilities for recycling end-of-life products are studied with a view to integrating the RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION best solutions, ensuring reduced environmental impact and taking into account all utilization cycles at the design stage. Faurecia’s strategy priorities – Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future – are the result of the Group’s Based on need, an in-depth study can be done, for example, interpretation of global and sectorial megatrends. Faurecia by conducting a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). develops innovations for a better world and offers responsible Circumscribed by ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 international value creation to all its stakeholders. standards, the LCA consists of assessing the environmental The Sustainable Mobility approach symbolizes Faurecia’s impact of products that Faurecia designs and manufactures contribution for over 10 years to reducing emissions worldwide for automotive use: taking into account extraction of materials, through its products. In 2018, the Group became a partner manufacturing of products, delivery to the OEM, consumer of Clean Air Asia to accelerate the adoption of air quality use, up until and including the end of lifecycle. It involves the improvement solutions in Asia, based on the NGO’s networks fullest possible impact assessment, including climate change and programs. (including CO2), the consumption of non-renewable resources (oil and coal) and eutrophication. The Group’s expertise and innovation ability work every day to improve air quality and energy efficiency worldwide. Faurecia is an active participant in developing LCA with automakers and partners in the automotive sector in order to Against this background, Faurecia has positioned itself as a have a shared understanding of the environmental issues. world leader in solutions to improve air quality and energy efficiency for passenger vehicles, and extends this expertise to As environmental regulations tighten, especially for the commercial vehicles and high horsepower engines. automotive industry, the Life Cycle Assessment working group led by the collective industry organization Plateforme de la For example, Faurecia has developed a decontamination Filière Automobile (PFA) endeavors to share assumptions on the technology for buses and trucks, which can eliminate up to methodology of life cycle assessment in the automotive industry 99% of polluting emissions, a recirculation technology for low and engage in dialog on the main assessment results that are pressure exhaust gases for gasoline engines, which can reduce available. Through its active involvement in this Group, which fuel consumption by up to 6%, and a compact exhaust heat will continue its work in 2019, Faurecia has gained a holistic recovery system which can reduce fuel consumption by 5-6% approach in partnership with its customers and in anticipation in cold weather for all types of hybrid vehicles. of possible future regulatory requirements. Faurecia has accelerated its strategy as part of the growing Under the auspices of the Verband der Automobilindustrie (1) electrification of vehicles by developing lightweight battery (VDA), Faurecia also participates in the Eco-design working packs with integrated thermal management, efficient fuel cell group, which aims to stimulate dialogue and deepen systems and lightweight fuel cell tanks. knowledge on this topic for the automotive industry. The Within the Cockpit of the Future approach, Faurecia continues subjects addressed include the different LCA methodologies, to develop technologies to make today’s and tomorrow’s the business impact of environmental issues, and the exchange vehicles safer. The Group expects radial change, notably in of information on ecodesign. autonomous vehicles, and consequently has imagined solutions to adapt seat belts and airbags to the new seat positions within the cockpit. Faurecia’s major innovation is the design of a (1) German Automotive Industry Union. / Registration document 2018 263 4 CSR Environmental Responsibility: introduction seat integrating all safety elements (airbag, new generation Faurecia also continued its strategic investments in start-ups this pretensioners, etc.) able to move to positions to improve year investing, for example, in the ESP Consulting laboratory comfort or offer new user experiences whilst guaranteeing a to acquire more in-depth knowledge of the human factor, high level of safety. and thus offer new innovative well-being solutions, notably to improve posture comfort, reduce fatigue and stress and COMPETITIVENESS AND PARTNERSHIPS eliminate travel sickness, and in Promethient, to accelerate the development of innovative thermal management solutions. Faurecia is convinced that its innovation ecosystem is a key This US start-up designs and produces Thermavance, a thermal component in the success of its transformation and a crucial regulation technology that meets different uses, and will enable innovation and competitiveness driver. In 2018, the Group Faurecia to facilitate the individual, customized thermal continued to develop its technological platforms, strategic management for each passenger in the vehicle. partnerships, its Faurecia Ventures program and its university partnerships. In addition to the existing partnerships with recognized institutions, including the Collège de France and the CEA, This year, Faurecia has strengthened new technology the Group has also developed new academic partnerships, development by opening a new tech center in Yokohama, in particular by joining the European Foundation for to be more customer centered and form new partnerships in Management Development network, an international notJapan. for-profit association of business schools and companies, In 2018, the Group announced a strategic partnership with bringing together 900 university, commercial, public service the German equipment manufacturer Hella following a and consulting organizations via the CLIP certification issued previous strategic partnership with ZF for interior safety. This new to Faurecia University. partnership will enable it to develop interior lighting solutions for its Cockpit of the Future and interior heat treatment solutions,  Others Indicators to monitor results and to strenghten its positions as an integrator of vehicle  Amount dedicated to innovation: €188 million. interiors. The Group also launched a new joint venture with its  403 new patents or First Filing. Chinese partner, Wuling Industry, with the aim of developing new innovations in sustainable mobility, adapted to the Chinese  398 extensions (real increase in the protected territory). automotive market.  Number of on-going partnerships: 25 academic research In October 2018, in order to offer unique autonomous establishments in the open innovation network. driving solutions to car manufacturers, Faurecia announced  Share of GHG emissions linked to products usage: see agreements with Clarion and Hitachi, the controlling Chapter 2.2.2.2 reduce and control carbone emissions shareholder with 63.8% of Clarion, with the intent of acquiring and their consequences. 100% of Clarion’s shares. Clarion is a Japanese company and a major player in connectivity and onboard infotainment systems. 4.2.4. Circular economy The circular economy designates an economic model whose 4.2.4.1. Inclusion of recycled materials goal is to produce goods and services in a sustainable manner, by limiting consumption and the waste of resources (raw Faurecia offers an increasing number of recycled plastic parts. materials, water, energy) as well as production of waste. It Within Faurecia Seating, depending on the type and category means breaking with the linear economic model (extract, of vehicle, various components are now partly made of produce, consume, toss) in favor of a “circular” economic recycled polypropylene. Taking all these components together, model (1). The automotive industry, dependent on natural recycled plastics can now account for 15-20% of the materials resources, is facing a scarcity of resources. Committed to the comprising the seats manufactured by Faurecia. circular economy, Faurecia is using natural and processed resources in its production by optimizin;g: Within Faurecia Interiors, the incorporation of recycled material is taken into account and validated in new product  supply sources and production processes; development, with the same constraints and specifications as  the use of by-products and waste treatment methods virgin materials. (reuse, recycling and recovery); In addition, Faurecia maximizes the incorporation of recycled  end-of-life product recyclability. natural fibers (mainly cotton) in its vehicle soundproofing systems. (1) Extract from the Official Source of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Solidarity 264 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Environmental Responsibility: introduction Life cycle analysis studies show that the use of recycled recycled. Consumption of reused fibers on this site thus went materials can reduce the environmental impact of from 734 tons to 480 tons. manufactured products. Faurecia, like its automaker customers, has considerably extended its panel of suppliers of recycled materials. This allows us today to offer increasingly technical 4.2.4.2. Waste reclamation applications with increasingly wide material grades. In order to best preserve the resources needed for their In 2018, 8% of all plastics purchased by the Group were recycled production process (energy and raw materials), Faurecia’s plastics. This percentage increased by 1.5 points compared industrial sites try to recycle and recover a maximum amount with 2017. of the waste generated throughout the production chain. Part of Faurecia’s industrial sites recycles internally on a daily In 2018, Faurecia sites recorded the following waste reprocessing basis; whenever the production waste can be recycled, it is rates: directly reintegrated into the production process. Plastics and fibers can be subject to this.  58% of waste was recycled (1) externally (calculation at constant scope -3.4% from 2017); In 2018, an average of 6% of fibers were reused internally as raw materials, i.e., a decrease of 1.9% compared to 2017. This  13% of waste was reclaimed through energy recovery (2) decline can be explained in particular by the breakdown (calculation at constant scope +0.9% compared to 2017); of the shredder on the Marckolsheim site in France and the  2% of waste was reused externally, without transformation, impossibility of storing fibers for reuse internally (no storage a slight increase of 1 point compared to 2017. room). This shredder enabled 100% of the site’s felt fibers to be In total, 73% of waste from Faurecia sites was recycled, recovered or reused externally in 2018. Breakdown by % of generated waste by treatment method and by continent where Faurecia sites are located 2018 North South Rest of the Europe America America Asia World Externally recycled 52,7% 69,2% 74,2% 65,2% 45% Incinerated with energy recovery 18,9% 1,1% 0,3% 2,2% 35,3% Reused externally, without transformation 1,6% 1,3% 2,5% 3,7% 0% SUBTOTAL OF RECYCLED AND RECOVERED WASTE 73,2% 71,6% 77% 71,1% 80,2% Disposed of in landﬁll 17,7% 26,7% 18,2% 12,4% 17,5% Incinerated without energy recovery 0,9% 0,1% 1,9% 6,2% 0% Eliminated by other treatments 4,8% 1,5% 2,6% 0,9% 2,3% Unknown treatment sector 3,4% 0,1% 0,3% 9,3% 0% SUBTOTAL OF NON-RECOVERED WASTE 26,8% 28,4% 23% 28,9% 19,8% Distribution of Faurecia’s production plants by continent 43% 15% 6% 31% 5% Sites are implementing local initiatives that improve the than landfill, this site reduced its environmental impact, while sorting of waste, recovery of waste as energy or material, and realizing savings of US$1,300 on the expense of waste disposal reincorporating production scraps into processes or reusing compared with the previous year. The Brières site in France waste. of the FAS Business Group has organic waste collected by a contracted company that produces, through mechanization, In particular, we note: thermal energy and electricity. In the domain of energy recovery: the Auburn Hills site in the In the area of material recovery: the Quatro Barras Frames site United States, part of the FIS Business Group, which chose to of the FAS Business Group in Brazil began recycling its metallic convert solid waste to energy by using a service provider. drums, which allowed it to sell 666 units for reuse after processing This approach made it possible to produce 223 MWh or from October 31, 2017 to October 2018, generating revenues electricity and 819 M tons of steam from November 2017 to of 3,996 Brazilian dollars. September 2018. By using methods for waste disposal other (1) Waste recycled off-site must be retreated/retransformed by an outside company. (2) Energy recovery involves using the waste’s calorific value by burning it and recovering this energy in the form of heat or electricity. / Registration document 2018 265 4 CSR Environmental Responsibility: introduction In the area of reuse: The Bavans site of the FCM Business Group to ensure that end-of-life products are processed as efficiently in France donated 450 shirts to a local social action association as possible in the future. and 8 well-worn workbenches to local business, giving them As regards current solutions, an innovative product must be a second life. The Nelas site from the FAS Business Group in measurable both in terms of improved technical and economic Portugal delivers its waste from wood packaging to a wood performance and its environmental impact. Faurecia is plant in the same industrial park, which reuses it in its production committed to a process of forecasting and recovering future process. For 6 years, Faurecia China has organized the “Green IT end-of-life products. Selective trials overseen by Faurecia classroom,” which enabled Faurecia to donate 155 computers comprise the first phase of a comprehensive approach by the for which it had no further use to local schools. In 2018, 25 PCs automotive sector in partnership with industrial firms, academia were donated to Baiyan Primary School. and auto “clusters”, to forecasting volumes of materials available for recycling in the future. 4.2.4.3. Product recyclability Faurecia Interiors, after performing tests on the recycling and recovery of complex products via disassembly, has Faurecia incorporates recyclability in its ecodesign approach begun similar operations after shredding vehicles. Industrialby anticipating the end-of-life phase and optimization of scale recyclability studies and tests have been undertaken production waste recovery. with certain car-shredding plants, both on existing products European Directive 2000/53/EC of September 18, 2000 on and materials being developed, including agro-composites. end-of-life vehicles stipulates inter alia that vehicles will have For example, the NAFCORECY (NAtural Fiber COmposites to be 95% recoverable by weight, of which 85% will have to be RECYcling) project was able to demonstrate, with the help actually reusable or recyclable, by January 1, 2015. of European companies specialized in recycling, that parts made of NAFILean (polypropylene with natural fibers) can Given such onerous regulatory requirements, automakers are be processed with post-shredding technologies for end-of-life placing ever-greater demands on their suppliers in terms of vehicles or recycling technologies used for industrial waste. end-of-life product recyclability. All of Faurecia’s Business Groups are affected by these obligations and, depending on the characteristics of the component in question, have implemented plans and solutions 4.2.5. Reporting process 4.2.5.1. Scope and dates of environmental reporting The scope of this reporting covers 157 production plants Reporting covers the period from November 1 to October 31, (technological plants), 60 assembly sites (called “Just in Time” to allow sites to collect, validate and provide data within the sites) and 20 R&D sites, i.e., a total of 237 sites. Compared allotted time to Group PSA, the primary shareholder of Faurecia. to 2017, 12 new sites (1) were included in the reporting scope and 12 sites (2) were removed. (1) This inclusion corresponds to site openings, the addition of employees at some sites or Faurecia’s becoming the majority partner in some joint ventures. (2) This corresponds to site closures, mergers at the same collection site or Faurecia no longer being the majority partner in some joint ventures. (3) The coverage rate corresponds to the number of sites that have provided numerical data compared to the number of sites affected by the subject. 266 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Environmental Responsibility: introduction Distribution of Faurecia’s production plants 4.2.5.2. Carbon emissions calculation by continent (2018 scope) methodologies 5% Scopes 1 and 2: 6% Rest of the World South Direct greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in CO 2 America equivalent. Emissions from fuel consumption are calculated using the international emission factors recommended by 15% the French Administration (Decree of October 31, 2012 and North European Decision No. 2012/601 for CO2 and Circular of April 15, America 43% 2002 for other gases). Europe Fugitive emissions are calculated using emission factors from the 5th report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Indirect electricity-related emissions are calculated from emission factors published by the IEA (International Energy Agency version 2014). The carbon base is used for emission 31% factors from French sites. New factors of electricity emissions Asia for France were taken into consideration in the calculation of Faurecia’s scope 2 in 2017 and 2018. Coverage rates (3) for environmental indicators from November 1, 2017, to October 31, 2018 4.2.5.3. Calculation methodology for VOC emissions 100% (Volatile Organic Compounds) Raw materials 100% The annual reference emissions on Volatile Organic Compounds 90% (VOCs) is calculated using the Solvent Management Plan (SMP) required by the European Council Directive No. 1999/13/ 97% 80% CO2 98% EC of March 11, 1999 on the reduction of volatile organic 70% Water compounds emissions caused by the use of organic solvents emissions 60% in certain activities and facilities. The SMP is a mass balance for 50% quantifying the inputs and outputs of solvents in an installation. 97% 98% VOCs Energy 100% Waste / Registration document 2018 267 4 CSR Societal responsibility 4.3. Societal responsibility Faurecia is committed to adopting responsible business ethics, presented by investment in responsible innovation and while guaranteeing the safety and quality of all its products value-added partnerships. Lastly, the commitment to local and services. It has also implemented procedures intended populations and dialogue with stakeholders are at the core of to prevent the failure of its suppliers and apply its duty of Faurecia’s operations. care. Beyond this, the Group is convinced of the opportunity The issues in this chapter are summarized in the summary table of societal risks and opportunities: Societal risks and opportunities Identiﬁcation Faurecia’s response Business ethics Failure to comply with regulations and internal Faurecia is committed to responsible business rules on ethics and compliance by Faurecia ethics by preparing and implementing a strong could expose the Group to legal, ﬁnancial and ethics and compliance culture with robust risk reputational risks. monitoring procedures and internal risk control systems. Product quality and safety Quality and safety failures would involve Faurecia considers safety as an imperative in legal, ﬁnancial and reputational damage for its product offering and has implemented an Faurecia. internal system to continuously improve its quality, cost, delivery and safety performance Duty of care and Faurecia’s businesses, suppliers and subFaurecia is committed to basing its growth on responsible purchasing contractors involve risks in terms of Human socially responsible actions and behaviors in all (including environmental Rights and fundamental freedoms, personal its businesses and in all the countries where the criteria) in the supply chain health and safety, and respect for the natural Group has domestic and international business. environment. In view of this, Faurecia is committed to building close, long-term relationships with its suppliers and sub-contractors, based on mutual growth and beneﬁt. Commitment Faurecia’s positive impact on society The Group and its employees are involved locally to communities requires an approach of local presence and in issues of local employment, education and relationships with civil society. solidarity, 4.3.1. Business ethics EFPD 4.3.1.1. Ethics commitment issues Management Code and the other systems, such as the anticorruption code of conduct and the best practices guide in Faurecia has committed to responsible business ethics. As the fight against anti-competitive practices, translate many a signatory to the UN Global Compact, it has committed of the principles set out in the Code of Ethics into operations. to aligning its operations and strategy with ten universally accepted principles including the fight against corruption. This commitment is reaffirmed in Faurecia’s Code of Ethics. 4.3.1.2. Action to prevent corruption This Code, created in 2005, revised in 2007 and updated in 2014, includes the changes resulting from the latest updates CODE OF ETHICS in Faurecia’s compliance systems and tools as a result of the requirements of the Sapin II Law. The Code of Ethics is structured around four topics, including ethics and rules of conduct. It also includes a whistle-blowing The Code is intended to strengthen the Group’s ethics culture procedure if one of the values in the Code is breached. and contribute to the creation of long-term value. The 268 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Societal responsibility The ethical principles and rules of conduct apply to: Depending on the nature and importance of the events reported, additional investigations may be launched, an  Use of funds, services or Group assets inquiry may be set up or an Internal Audit decided upon. Any funding of political activity is forbidden, as are any unlawful  The employee also has another whistle-blowing method, payments to public authorities or officials. in particular for the most serious cases: the dedicated alert Assets, liabilities, expenses and other transactions made by line via an interactive link (http://faurecia.ethicspoint. Group entities must be recorded in the books and financial com/) directs the employee to an online questionnaire, statements of these entities, and should be kept truthfully and which is then reviewed by the compliance team so that it accurately, in accordance with the applicable principles, rules is treated according to a specific procedure. and laws. The employee’s identity and all the details enabling him/ her to be identified are protected and kept confidential  Relationships with customers, providers or suppliers by the people responsible for it within Faurecia and Gifts and entertainment accepted from/given to customers the supplier operating the tool. These represent a and/or service providers are subject to limits. It is prohibited to limited number of people, specially trained to receive accept any gift or gratuity from customers or suppliers worth and investigate this type of alert, and subject to strict over €100 per year, regardless of the type; this is managed by confidentiality obligations. an internal monitoring and control system. Furthermore, the payment of any amount in cash, in kind or TRAINING, IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MONITORING otherwise to any customer or supplier representative in order to The Compliance department, the organization of which obtain either a contract or a business or financial advantage is described in Chapter 2, is responsible for improving is prohibited. understanding of the Group’s Code of Ethics and Management Code. The selection of suppliers must be based on quality, need, performance and cost. As stated in the current Purchasing The Compliance department continues to deploy online procedures, agreements between the Group and its authorized training (MOOC) on Ethics and Antitrust targeting the Group’s representatives, agents and consultants or any other contractor community of Managers & Skilled Professionals Along with must clearly state the actual products/services to be supplied, the Human Resources, Internal Audit and control teams, the the basis for compensation or price and all other terms and Compliance department ensures that all the identified people conditions. This rule also prohibits any investment in suppliers are effectively trained in the internal rules, in order to maintain and any purchase of property or service from providers or a strong ethics and compliance culture in the Group. customers for personal use. Employees also have access to practical guides on anticompetitive practices, reporting and managing conflicts  Conflicts of interest of interest and the internal whistle-blowing procedure on Employees shall not draw any personal advantage from a allegations of non-compliance with the Code of Ethics. transaction carried out on behalf of a group company, notably Significant communication efforts have ensured that these with customers and suppliers. guides are widely distributed. An employee must also not attempt to select or organize the Reminder training sessions are regularly organized at the selection of a company, in particular as a supplier, in which industrial sites and at the level of Business Group divisions, in either the employee, an associate or a family member has, particular on the risks of failure to comply with best practices in directly or indirectly, a financial interest. terms of the fight against anti-competitive practices. An annual on-line statement is required from employees with a In addition to these actions, and in the context of the Sapin II higher risk of finding themselves in a conflict of interest situation. Law in particular, the non-compliance risk mapping and the A statement and processing system for potential or real conflicts risk of corruption in particular was updated based on interviews of interest is available to all employees. and questionnaires sent to people exposed to the identified corruption risks. The non-compliance risk mapping takes into WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE account various numerical data to prepare remediation plans suited to the level of residual risk. Identification of these risks is The Code of Ethics provides a mechanism for the purpose of incorporated into Faurecia’s overall risk mapping process (see managing violations. Any employee who becomes aware Section 2.1). of a breach of the rules set out in the Code, the rules issued to implement this Code or a regulation to which the Group is The Compliance department works closely with the legal subject, may use the whistle-blowing procedure. experts in antitrust practices and the permanent and periodic control functions to ensure an effective control of the identified  For this, the employee is encouraged to seek the risks. assistance of his/her hierarchical manager, HR manager or a Compliance manager (including the Compliance Leaders chosen within each Business Group), orally or in writing. / Registration document 2018 269 4 CSR Societal responsibility 4.3.1.3. Actions to prevent tax evasion 4.3.1.4. Commitments to respect In support of its overall business strategy and objectives, the Faurecia adhered to the UN Global Compact in 2004. By doing Faurecia group (hereafter referred to as the “Group”) has so, the Group committed to abiding by and promoting, in its established the following principles governing its tax policy. business practices, a set of values and principles drawn from international texts and conventions relating to human rights, A tax strategy that is aligned with our business strategy, labor standards and the environment. Changes within the transparent, sustainable in the long term and conforms with Group, the new requirements of customers and new guidelines our Code of Ethics. bearing on corporate social responsibility and sustainable We act at all times in accordance with all applicable laws or development prompted Faurecia in 2007 to prepare a regulations and are guided by relevant international standards new version of its Code of Ethics mirroring the International (for example OECD Guidelines). We aim to comply with the spirit Labour Organization’s (ILO) Core Conventions. This Code as well as the letter of the law. of Ethics was updated in 2014 as part of the roll out of the Being Faurecia program, intended to strengthen the Group’s We ensure tax filings and payments are made in accordance culture and contribute to the creation of long-term value. with all local regulations and maintain all tax records and The Management Code, which was established at that time perform tax reporting as required by any law in countries in to guide the day-to-day management of teams, customers which the Group operates. and also suppliers, translated many of the principles set out We are committed to acting with integrity in all tax matters. in the Code of Ethics into operations. Faurecia developed an We seek to operate under a policy of full transparency and e-learning tool on Compliance that lets managers and skilled endeavour to maintain constructive partnerships with the tax professionals test their knowledge on the Group’s Code of authorities as this can result in the more timely resolution of Ethics and Management Code. After its 2016 launch in North any disputes. Nevertheless we recognize that tax legislation America and China, in 2017 this MOOC was rolled out in Europe and procedure are complex areas and when it is not possible and in the rest of the regions where the Group operates. to resolve quickly and professionally a disagreement with the tax authorities, we should challenge the Group’s position, if PROHIBITION OF CHILD LABOR necessary, in appropriate instances, using the full extent of our resources to test the Group’s interpretation of the law. Faurecia complies with national laws and regulations relating to child labor. It will not employ children under the age of 16, We manage the tax affairs in a pro-active manner and do not under any circumstances, and complies with the provisions use contrived or abnormal tax structures that are intended for of the ILO regarding the health, safety and morality of young tax avoidance, have no commercial substance and do not people aged between 15 and 18. The Group ensures that its meet the spirit of local or international law. Secrecy jurisdictions suppliers and partners adhere to the same principles. or so-called ‘tax havens’ are not used for tax avoidance. In forming our own assessment of the taxes legally due for ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED LABOR each of our business around the world, we have two important Faurecia is committed to the free choice of employment and objectives: to protect value for our shareholders and to comply the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. It fully with all relevant legal and regulatory obligations, in line with ensures that its suppliers and/or partners adhere to the same our stakeholders’ expectations. principles. We aim to pay an appropriate amount of tax according to where value is created within the normal course of industrial or FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND RECOGNITION commercial activity. Consequently, all transfers of goods and OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING services between companies within the Group are conducted on an arm’s length basis. The pricing of such transactions Faurecia recognizes the existence of trade unions worldwide between Group companies is based on fair market terms and and the right of workers to form the union organization of reflects the commercial nature of the transactions. their choice and/or to organize workers’ representation in accordance with the laws and regulations in force. The Group Within this governance framework, the conduct of the Group’s undertakes to protect union members and leaders and not to tax affairs and the management of tax risk are delegated to a make any discrimination based on the offices held. global team of tax professionals. The Group is also committed to promoting a policy of dialogue and negotiation. Given its decentralized legal and managerial structure, this policy is implemented through collective bargaining agreements signed with the sites, on the one hand, and companies, on the other. 270 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Societal responsibility ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT to work in a healthy environment, free from any form of hostility AND OCCUPATION or harassment qualified as unlawful under the regulations and practices in force in the countries where the Faurecia group The Group is committed not to discriminate against anyone, operates. notably on the basis of age, sex, skin color, nationality, religion, health status or disability, sexual orientation, political, In particular, Faurecia forbids any unlawful conduct construed philosophical or union-related opinion in its recruitment and as sexual or moral harassment, including in the absence of any career development initiatives. Every employee has the right hierarchical or subordination relationship. 4.3.2. Product quality and safety EFPD 4.3.2.1. Product quality and safety issues Faurecia and ZF have thus developed an active safety management system connecting the seat structures, safety Product quality and safety have become major issues and electronic components. A central control unit monitors the for automotive suppliers. The upswing in connected and occupants and analyzes the situation in order to propose and autonomous vehicles and their related new uses, identified by implement an optimal seating position, including an automatic Faurecia as part of the megatrends in the automotive sector, emergency action to bring seats back to the safest position in also involve new challenges to guarantee the protection and the event of an accident. safety of users. At the IAA 2018, Faurecia presented Active Wellness Express™, a The globalization of the automotive market requires revolutionary innovation designed to provide increased safety automakers’ suppliers to guarantee the same level of quality and comfort to professional drivers. This connected seat cover and service throughout the world. integrates sensors that analyze the data on the driver’s physical Faurecia puts these concerns at the core of its strategic and psychological state. The system can detect fatigue or stress thinking. The Group is committed to ensuring that its products upstream and apply counter-measures for increased safety, have impeccable quality and safety. It also considers safety comfort and well-being behind the wheel. to be an integral part of its Smart Life on board approach and Autonomous driving will broaden the field of uses within the sees quality through its ability to meet and exceed its direct and vehicle interior. As seats may no longer be fixed facing forward final customers’ expectations, throughout the product lifecycle. and upright, new solutions for seat-belts and air bags will be needed. Faurecia is working on adapting and developing safety systems that enable passengers to continue to travel in 4.3.2.2. Measures taken for safety complete safety whatever the seat position, in driving, work or relaxation mode. The Group has a leading role to play within the automotive sector, as it is a supplier of components that play an important Faurecia’s commitment to safety is also shown by its role in passive safety, and thus help save lives or limit injuries to participation in working groups on VIAQ (Vehicle Interior Air drivers and passengers. Quality) at the United Nations level, in collaboration with manufacturer representatives. These groups aim to monitor the Over the years, Faurecia has become a key partner for health of people on-board and continuously improve Faurecia’s automakers in this area, by placing safety at the core of its and the automotive industry’s knowledge in measurement innovation strategy and by developing products and expertise methodologies and the impact of Group products present that allow it to effectively anticipate coming changes. Each inside vehicles. part that enters into the safety chain is associated with design rules that guarantee the system’s performance and its longevity. Faurecia has developed strong expertise in the “interior 4.3.2.3. Measures taken for quality architecture” and “safety and comfort” segments, which have become key components in the Cockpit of the Future, Faurecia aims to exceed its customers’ expectations, allowing and continues to build an ecosystem that allows it to continue it to create even more value for all its stakeholders. For this to innovate in this direction. In 2017, Faurecia notably signed purpose, discussions on Group risks are conducted and a partnership with the German automotive equipment coordinated by the Compliance department, under the manufacturer, ZF, to work on integrating interior safety in vehicles authority of the Risk Committee. and on developing the technological building blocks needed Faurecia’s executive managers are determined to constantly for new use scenarios, specifically through the Advanced provide the resources required for the correct functioning of Versatile Structure (AVS) that integrates the safety systems into the Group’s quality systems, presented below, achieving quality the seat with the increasing perspective of vehicle automation. targets and maintaining the Group’s performance culture. / Registration document 2018 271 4 CSR Societal responsibility  The Faurecia Excellence System Breakthrough Plan, as well as to specific actions related to the The Faurecia Excellence System (FES) governs the organization application of the quality basics. In 2017, a reinforcement plan of Faurecia’s production and operations. It is designed to has been implemented in order to guarantee the application continuously improve the quality, cost, delivery and security of the quality fundamentals, and of the 20 rules related to the performance of the Group. Safety and Regulation, which involve each of the Group’s employees on a daily basis. For this, the number of quality The FES complies with the requirements of the quality, audits conducted at the production sites has been increased. environment and safety standards of the automotive industry Faurecia is now recognized by its main customers for having (ISO 9001, IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001). It benefits from achieved one of the highest levels in the world in terms of more than fifteen years of Faurecia’s experience and has been quality. continuously enhanced with the best internal and external practices of lean manufacturing. In 2018, Faurecia launched an annual “World Quality Day” event at all its sites to increase awareness of the Quality The FES makes it possible to secure an appropriate operational commitment by customers, shareholders and employees. performance of Faurecia’s production sites, whatever their geographical position and their local activity specificities, During 2018, the Group introduced an application to measure thanks to common working methods and language. and ensure customer satisfaction. Faurecia has benefited from its experience in solving quality  Faurecia’s Program Management System problems to continually evolve its methodology, the Quick Faurecia maintains close relationships with almost all of the Response Continuous Improvement (QRCI). The QRCI is a world’s leading automakers, with whom the Group works to management attitude according to which any defect must design and develop the products suited to each brand’s be the subject of a corrective action within twenty-four hours, specific requirements. Once in the production phase, the new then of a complete and factual analysis to determine the program managers supervise their teams to ensure that the causes of the problems encountered the technical solutions expected schedule, costs and level of quality are met. This and their roll-out across functions. The QRCI is applied at all is carried out using Faurecia’s Program Management System levels of the Group, from the operator on the production line (PMS), which includes five phases, each subject to periodic to the supervision of the workshops and site management, but interim reviews so that its progress can be validated: also within the project development teams and development centers.  acquisition and verification of the client’s needs;  product development;  product validation and development of the manufacturing 4.3.2.4. Indicators to monitor results process; Faurecia’s quality performance is measured in rejected parts  industrialization and validation of the means of production; per million parts delivered to customers (ppm) calculated on average half-yearly. This performance indicator has now  ramp-up and start of serial production. stabilized at a result below the target of 15 ppm set by the Faurecia has also implemented the concept of program Group. management excellence, to track quality throughout the 13 13 10 8 8 12 development process. This new approach involves the foregoing elements plus:  system audits of the program requirements to ensure disciplined implementation;  performance indicators, reviewed monthly, to signal future risks. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 QUALITY RESULTS The quality performance of Faurecia measured in rejected parts per million pieces delivered to customers (ppm) calculated on average half-yearly is now stabilized at a result below the target of 15 ppm set by Group. This quality performance is mainly due to the rigorous application of the method defined in Faurecia’s Quality 272 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Societal responsibility 4.3.3. Duty of care and responsible purchasing in the supply chain EFPD 4.3.3.1. Issues related to the Duty of care (World Economic Forum publications) as well as historical exchange rate and inflation data; In order to meet the requirements of the Law 2017-399 of March 27, 2017, Faurecia has implemented a duty of care plan 2. Financial Screening: Assessment based on the financial to identify risks and prevent serious breaches in human rights performance of the company in question (via a general and fundamental freedoms, the health and safety of people screening or more in-depth ad hoc studies); and the environment resulting from the activities of the Group, 3. CSR Screening, with the partner EcoVadis, covering: and those of its sub-contractors and suppliers with which it has an established commercial relationship. This plan applies to  Fair Business Practices: assessment of the organization’s the entire group as Faurecia uses a large number of suppliers ability to implement tangible actions to ensure data based in different countries for its raw materials and basic parts protection, fight against corruption, fraud, anti-competitive supplies. practices, money laundering and avoid conflicts of interest, The aspects of this Duty of Care plan relating to Faurecia’s own  Labor Practices: assessment of the organization’s level activities are described in Section 4.1 for the social aspects, in of maturity in terms of the actions on employee health Section 4.2 for the environmental aspect, and Section 3.1 on and safety, working conditions, social relations, forced Business Ethics. labor and child labor, discrimination and respect for fundamental rights, Faurecia has a Group Purchasing department, which has implemented a sustainable purchasing policy, called Buy  Environment and Sustainable Procurement: assessment Beyond, reflecting Faurecia’s commitment to comply with of the formalized policy, verification mechanisms and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International certification obtained; Labor Organization (ILO) on the principles and fundamental 4. Economic Dependency: assessment of the level of mutual rights in the workplace, the Rio Declaration on Environment dependency with suppliers, allowing the level of the action and Development and the United Nations’ Convention against plan to be implemented to be weighted. Corruption. All these criteria enable the buyers to build a detailed action In accordance with the law, this section presents a summary plan. of Faurecia’s duty of care plan, and its implementation, in five separate areas: (1) risk identification and mapping, (2) The Group relies on this assessment and the related assessment procedures for subsidiaries, sub-contractors and documentary audit to enact Law No. 2017-399 of March 27, suppliers, (3) actions to mitigate risks and prevent serious 2017, on the duty of care by parent companies and instructing breaches, (4) implementation of a whistle-blowing system and companies. receipt of alerts and (5) monitoring system for the implemented Supplier quality audits, which are a prerequisite to joining measures. Faurecia’s panel of “direct” suppliers, also include CSR issues. Against this backdrop, Faurecia’s purchasing teams are assisted by an external CSR partner, EcoVadis, in order to better 4.3.3.2. Reminder about the risk mapping understand, verify and optimize the practices of its suppliers Faurecia’s extra-financial risks and opportunities is presented in terms of social, environmental and economic responsibility. in detail in Chapter 2 on Risks, in accordance with the This external assessment of CSR compliance by the Group’s requirements of the Extra-Financial Performance Declaration. suppliers, and the related documentary audit, are in keeping This section also contains a description of the internal control with the organization and requirements set out in the Code and risk management players and systems of Faurecia. of Conduct and ascertain compliance with REACH and conflict minerals regulations. In addition to the partnership with EcoVadis, Faurecia has implemented a screening process to 4.3.3.3. Subsidiary, sub-contractor and assess the level of protection against fire, as well as the level of risk associated with natural disasters. supplier assessment procedures For example, at the end of 2018, Faurecia group had assessed The Buy Beyond purchasing policy is applied firstly through a the CSR performance of around 1,705 suppliers, or around 70% risk assessment procedure applicable to Group subsidiaries and of its suppliers. to all key suppliers. This procedure consists of 4 quantitative criteria used by all Faurecia’s buyers, to which they add a This assessment is incorporated into the purchasing process, qualitative assessment based on their own experience or view is routinely taken into account in the award of contracts and of the supplier: is also included in the criteria for performance evaluation of suppliers. 1. Overall Assessment: This assessment takes into account the general business environment in the concerned country / Registration document 2018 273 4 CSR Societal responsibility 4.3.3.4. Actions to mitigate risks Along with the measures implemented as part of the Buy Beyond purchasing policy, Faurecia has established substance or prevent serious breaches management systems throughout the supply chain, from Faurecia has implemented processes to guarantee the proper suppliers to the customer, for all products delivered by Faurecia. operation of the risk management systems at all levels: Change in subcontracting is quantified by indicators provided  the comprehensive assessment of risks, including the CSR in Section 4.1.6 of this Registration Document. assessment, is part of the entry process for suppliers to In 2018, Faurecia was rewarded by EcoVadis for its Buy Beyond Faurecia’s panel; program, as part of the “Sustainable Procurement Leadership  a supplier’s qualification level depends on its final risk level, Awards”. throughout its lifecycle;  precise management of substances via the systematic participation in the “International Material Data System” 4.3.3.5. Implementation of a (IMDS) from the design stage enables Faurecia and its whistle-blowing system customers to avoid all unauthorized uses. and receipt of alerts Faurecia’s risk mitigation system is also based on its Buy Beyond Faurecia’s whistle-blowing system, presented in detail in policy, by which the Group is committed to basing its growth on Section 3.2.2 and reviewed as part of compliance with the socially responsible actions and behaviors in all activities and Sapin II Law, may be used by Group employees to report in all the countries where the Group has internal and external breaches of human rights and fundamental freedoms, health activities. In view of this, Faurecia is committed to building and safety of people and the environment. To date, Faurecia close, long-term relationships with its suppliers, based on mutual does not have a specific whistle-blowing system for suppliers. growth and benefit. For suppliers at risk, on all criteria, an action plan has been requested since 2018. The goal in 2019 will be to monitor and ensure that these action plans are effective. 4.3.3.6. Monitoring system for It requires its suppliers to abide by the Buy Beyond purchasing implemented measures policy by enforcing, within their own organization and their own global supply chain, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers The procedure, officially implemented in November 2018, has and Subcontractors, which was implemented by Faurecia already been tested on around 250 of Faurecia’s key suppliers. in 2013 and which is always included in the mandatory bidding Deployment is on-going. documents sent to suppliers. After creating the methodology, a training plan has been The fundamental commitments demanded of Faurecia’s prepared for the purchasing teams. It will be gradually suppliers relate to compliance with laws and responsible supply deployed throughout 2019. chain management, as illustrated in the diagram below: Business monitoring has also been put in place to deal with areas of risk in an appropriate way. Monitoring is carried out according to the different areas listed in 3.4.3. Environment Social Environmental policy No child labour Innovation and product life cycle No forced labour Presentation of resources Fair wages Prohibited substances Appropriate work hours Reduction of CO2 emissions Non-discrimination Freedom of association Health and safety Ethic Total ban on corruption Transparency and good faith in commercial practices 274 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Societal responsibility 4.3.4. Risk of supplier failure 4.3.4.1. Issues related to the risk competitive, robust products that meet its expectations in terms of quality, cost and delivery, thanks to a structured approach. of supplier failure The Program Management System (PMS) is the management Faurecia is faced with major supplier challenges. Bankruptcy, tool that Faurecia uses during these phases. unforeseen stock-outs, quality problems, a strike or any other Faurecia closely monitors the quality and reliability of suppliers’ incident disrupting the supplies for which they are liable would production operations as well as their credit status and lead to financial risks, through the potential impact on the sustainability in order to ensure that the Group’s supply chain Group’s business and financial position, and could also lead is secure. Suppliers’ operational and financial performance is to image risks and legal risks due to non-compliance with monitored on an ongoing basis so that any restructuring and contractual obligations. protection measures that may prove to be required in order The quality of Faurecia’s relationships with its suppliers is a key to achieve security of supply (quantities and costs) can be value for the Group. Faurecia creates and develops sustainable successfully taken. relationships with a reduced number of supplier partners Risk is also managed holistically, taking into account worldwide, based on trust, high standards and mutual benefits. geopolitical, social, ethical, economic and financial risks, and The Group’s motivation and its inherent supplier management monitoring specific factors related either to the supplier, such as strategy involve enacting a consistent, ongoing approach management of fire risk, or to the management of the supplier that helps not only to reduce, or even avoid, risks, but above itself, such as monitoring the level of business it handles. all to generate over the mediumand long-term a constant Faurecia’s purchasing teams help suppliers to develop and improvement in its value chain This improvement, while reduce their industrial and financial risks, in particular by benefiting Faurecia and its suppliers and sub-suppliers, allows providing operational support to improve their efficiency, them to experience sustainable technical, production and quality, logistics and cost control. These teams also support financial growth. suppliers in their international expansion. In addition, any new order placed with a supplier is the result of a Sourcing Committee decision following an investigation which includes 4.3.4.2. Measures taken for suppliers an assessment of the risks associated with said supplier and supplier panel policy is, furthermore, monitored by a specialist The formalized relationship management enables Faurecia to product family purchasing organization. integrate a sustainable shared value thanks to solid relationships with strategic suppliers. The Group focuses on sustainable value creation thanks to the sophisticated organization of the whole supply chain, by selecting the best suppliers in terms of overall 4.3.4.3. Indicators to monitor results cost, including quality, reliability and fast delivery. PF4 (“quality” incidents detected at the Customer) as well as As the performance of the final product is determined during the other types of incidents are monitored and consolidated. the development phase, the effective management of the PPMs are also tracked. Suppliers generating incidents or PPMs program is the key to shared success. Faurecia’s aim is to must implement safeguarding actions and actions to resolve work closely with its suppliers through partnerships. Faurecia the problem. An internal reporting process enables us to aims to provide a shared framework for all its business during provide a suitable level of support to the supplier to help resolve the development phase, enabling the Group to develop the problem. / Registration document 2018 275 4 CSR Societal responsibility 4.3.5. Commitment to communities  Issues associated with the commitment to communities  Initiatives to support neighboring and local populations The Group is committed to communities through the issues of Faurecia has a world initiative called FUELS (“Faurecia Unites local employment, volunteering, sponsorship and education, its Employees around Local Solidarity actions”). This program whilst being careful to develop and maintain a constructive regularly mobilizes Faurecia’s sites and employees in many local and positive dialogue with all its stakeholders, in particular those community-based initiatives. concerned by the local presence of its businesses. The Group The FUELS program was created in North America in 2010, facilitates and promotes its employees’ solidarity and citizenship where it first took the form of an annual food collection. Rolled initiatives via voluntary approaches. out at Group level in 2014, the program was also expanded to include more local economic, social and cultural issues.  On employment and regional development Faurecia has a significant social and economic impact on the Over the last two years, around twenty FUELS campaigns were regions in which it is located, mainly through its employment carried out in twelve countries worldwide, Faurecia’s sites policy. The Group’s approach is coordinated on a worldwide launched over 25 other corporate initiatives, and the Group level by the Human Resources department, but the different continues to extend the program. geographical departments have autonomy for local initiatives. In addition, more and more volunteer programs are being Thus, some countries have created specific programs to instituted, such as road safety awareness days (Mexico), facilitate the integration of recent graduates whose first job lifesaving (Poland) and recycling and the environment (China). is in the Group. The rotation program in the United States, for example, lets  Conditions for dialogue with stakeholders graduates rotate through assignments in several Company Dialogue with stakeholders is at the core of Faurecia’s departments with individual support from a mentor in upper commitment and is a key driver in its local presence. It involves management. The “Innovation Challenge” in China is available the Group’s different business lines and functions, which for all recent graduates who have joined the Company during contribute to the proactive, constructive approach. the year, in order to speed up their integration and create a Faurecia communicates on a daily basis with several key sense of community. The Group also offers the VIE international contacts, such as: corporate volunteer program open to recent graduates from France and other EU countries.  suppliers; In the many countries in which the Group operates, Faurecia has  customers; established privileged partnerships with schools, universities and  research partners; other higher education establishments, whose geographical locations and training offer best meet its requirements.  industrial or commercial partners; Ambassador networks made up of alumni of these institutions  financial community; who now work at Faurecia play a central role in telling students about internship and job opportunities, and in explaining to  certification bodies; future employees the career paths and jobs at the Company.  the Education sector. 276 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Societal responsibility In 2018, Faurecia developed and maintained various conditions and tools for dialogue adapted to the specifics of the countries in which it operates with a number of interested parties or stakeholders in its business. Stakeholders Forms of dialogue Highlights/Actions Suppliers Continuous collaborative work In 2018, Faurecia was rewarded by EcoVadis Organization of conventions for its Buy Beyond program, as part of the Awards “Sustainable Procurement Leadership Awards”. Strategic monitoring meetings Innovation meetings Corporate internet site for communicating CSR Information Customers Continuous collaborative work “Innovation” award as part of the “2018 Faurecia Program Management System Groupe Renault Suppliers event” Hyundai 5 Star Quality certiﬁcation and “best supplier of 2017 Award” from Hyundai in South Korea Research partners Industrial chairs in association with universities Collaboration with Clean Air Asia and Technological Research Institutes to accelerate the adoption of solutions Speciﬁc cooperation actions to improve air quality in Asia Research and start-up assessment Innovation partnerships Industrial or commercial Strategic partnerships Partnership with Hella, new joint venture with partners Joint ventures Wuling Industry, deﬁnitive acquisition of Parrot Acquisitions Financial community Communication of documentation covering Capital Markets Day 2018 with presentation the business, strategy and regulatory ﬁnancial of 10 mobility experiences reporting Targeted communication to ﬁnancial analysts and institutional investors Meetings between Executive Management and ﬁnancial market players Free hotline for individual shareholders The Education sector Ambassador network Faurecia Innovation Challenge Student rallies at the 2018 Paris Motor Show Job fairs “Top Employer Europe” certiﬁcation Workshops for its human capital management Case studies “Happyindex® Trainees” labelling Partnerships in France Site visits for students / Registration document 2018 277 4 CSR Independent veriﬁer’s report on consolidated non-ﬁnancial statement presented in the management report 4.4 Independent veriﬁer’s report on consolidated non-ﬁnancial statement presented in the management report This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in the French language and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, including key performance indicators, and the actions related to the main risks, hereinafter the “Information”. In our quality as an independent verifier, accredited by the COFRAC under the number n° 3-1050 (scope of accreditation Nonetheless, it is not our responsibility to express any form of available on the website www.cofrac.fr), and as a member conclusion on: of the network of one of the statutory auditors of Faurecia  compliance by the entity with other applicable legal and (hereafter “entity”), we present our report on the consolidated regulatory provisions, particularly regarding the vigilance non-financial statement established for the year ended on plan and the fight against corruption and tax evasion; December the 31st (hereafter referred to as the “Statement”), presented in the management report pursuant to the provisions  compliance of products and services with applicable of the article L. 225 102-1, R. 225-105 et R. 225-105-1 of the French regulations. Commercial code (Code de commerce). Nature and scope of the work Responsibility of the entity Our work described below has been carried out in accordance It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to establish with the provisions of articles A. 225 1 et seq. of the French the statement in compliance with the legal and regulatory Commercial Code determining the procedures in which the provisions including a presentation of the business model, a independent third party conducts its mission and according description of the main non-financial risks, a presentation of to professional standards as well as to the international ISAE the policies applied regarding these risks as well as the results standard 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or of these policies, including key performance indicators. reviews of historical financial information. The Statement has been established by applying the procedures The work that we conducted enables us to assess the of the entity (hereinafter referred to as the “Criteria”), the compliance of the Statement with the regulatory provisions significant elements of which are presented in the Statement and the fairness of the Information: and available on request at the Entity’s headquarters.  We took note of the activity of all the companies included in the scope of consolidation, the statement of the main social and environmental risks related to this activity, and, Independence and quality control if applicable, its effects regarding compliance with human Our independence is defined by regulatory requirements rights, the fight against corruption, tax evasion as well as the pursuant to the provisions of the article L. 822-11-3 of the French resulting policies and their results; Commercial code (Code de commerce) and the Code of  We assessed the suitability of the Criteria in terms of its Ethics of our profession. In addition, we have implemented a relevance, comprehensiveness, reliability, neutrality and quality control system, including documented policies and understandability by taking into consideration, if relevant, procedures to ensure compliance with ethical standards, the best practices of the industry; professional standards and applicable laws and regulations.  We verified that the Statement covers each category of information provided in III of article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code regarding social and environmental Responsibility of the independent verifier matters, as well as respect of human rights and the fight It is our role, based on our work, to express a limited assurance against corruption and tax evasion; conclusion on:  We verified that the Statement includes an explanation  the compliance of the Statement with the provisions of Article justifying the absence of the information required by the R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; 2nd paragraph of III of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code;  the fairness of the information provided pursuant to paragraph 3 of I and II of Article R. 225 105 of the French  We verified that the Statement presents the business model Commercial Code, namely the results of the policies, and the main risks related to the activity of all the entities 278 / Registration document 2018 CSR 4 Independent veriﬁer’s report on consolidated non-ﬁnancial statement presented in the management report included in the scope of consolidation; including if relevant consumed; 21% of fibers consumed; 17% of emitted volatile and proportionate, the risks created through its business organic compound, 15% of total waste); relationships, products or services, policies, actions and  We consulted documentary sources and conducted results, including key performance indicators; interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (actions  We verified, when relevant to the main risks or the policies and results) that we considered the most important presented presented, that the Statement presents the information in Appendix 1; provided for II in Article R. 225-105 II of the French Commercial  We assessed the overall consistency of the Statement with Code; our knowledge of the entity.  We assessed the process of selecting and validating the main We consider that the work we have done by exercising our risks; professional judgment allows us to express a limited assurance  We inquired about the existence of internal control and risk conclusion; an assurance of a higher level would have required management procedures put in place by the entity; more extensive verification work.  We assessed the consistency of the results and the key performance indicators selected regarding the main risks and policies presented; Means and resources  We verified that the Statement includes a clear and Our verification work mobilized the skills of five people and took reasonable explanation for the absence of a policy regarding place between September 2018 and February 2019 on a total one or more of these risks; duration of intervention of about ten weeks.  We verified that covers the consolidated scope, i.e. all We conducted fifteen interviews with the persons responsible the companies included in the scope of consolidation in for the preparation of the Statement including in particular accordance with Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial the sustainable development direction, human resources Code, with the limits specified in the Statement; direction, social relations direction, risks direction, quality and environment, health and safety direction, technical direction  We assessed the collection process put in place by the entity and purchasing direction. for the completeness and fairness of the Information;  We implemented the key performance indicators and other quantitative results that we considered the most important Conclusion presented in Appendix 1: Based on our work, we have not identified any significant  analytical procedures to verify the correct consolidation misstatement that causes us not to believe that the nonof the collected data as well as the consistency of their financial statement complies with the applicable regulatory evolutions; provisions and that the Information, taken together, is fairly presented, in compliance with the Criteria.  detailed tests based on samples, consisting of checking the correct application of the definitions and procedures and reconciling the data with the supporting documents. This work was carried out with a selection of contributing Comments entities listed below: NAO division including the sites of Without calling into question the conclusion expressed above Columbus North (United States) and Hermosillo (Mexico) and in accordance with the provisions of Article A. 225-3 of the for the Faurecia Clean Mobility BG, SER IB division including French Commercial Code, we make the following comment: the sited of Vigo and Ourense (Spain), as well as the site of Puebla Techno (Mexico) for the Faurecia Interiors BG, The prevention of the “duty of care risk in operations” is based, Magny Vernois site (France) for the Faurecia Seating BG for its fundamental rights component, on the entity’s Code of which cover between 8% and 21% of consolidated data Ethics. The results presented in the Declaration do not cover all selected for these tests (8% of headcount, 16% of energy sub-risks identified. consumption, 15% of metals consumed, 10% of plastics Paris-La Défense, April the 17th 2019 French original signed by: Independent Verifier ERNST & YOUNG et Associés Eric Mugnier Jean-François Bélorgey Partner, Sustainable Development Partner / Registration document 2018 279 4 CSR Independent veriﬁer’s report on consolidated non-ﬁnancial statement presented in the management report Appendix 1 : The most important information SOCIAL INFORMATION Quantitative Information (including key performance indicators) Qualitative Information (actions or results)  Total number of registered employees and breakdown  Recruitment, development, career management and retention of by contract type talents  Resignation rate for the population of managers and  Processes for evaluating employee performance professionals  Social dialogue (organization, context and agreements summary)  Percentage of managers and professionals who have  Occupational health and safety (organization, procedures and results recently graduated at the time of hiring of policies implemented at Group and Business Group level)  Number of entity or company agreements signed during the ﬁnancial year  Number of training hours  Frequency rate of work accidents with lost time  Frequency rate of work accidents with and without lost time ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION Quantitative Information (including key performance indicators) Qualitative Information (actions or results)  Number and percentage of ISO 14001 certified  The organization of the company to take into account environmental production sites issues and the resources devoted to the prevention of environmental  Tons of waste and their ratio per unit of turnover risks and pollution  Tons of plastic used and their ratio per unit of turnover  Employee training and information initiatives in the field of  Tons of metal used and their ratio per unit of turnover environmental protection  The percentage distribution of waste quantities by  Measures and results of the actions implemented to improve the treatment type according to continents, the waste energy efﬁciency and carbon footprint of the sites recycling rate (externally)  Environmental impacts of production sites and the resources devoted  Energy consumption and ratio per unit of turnover to their mitigation (waste prevention and management, rational use  Greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1 and 2) and ratio of resources and limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds per unit of turnover and of the use of hazardous products)  Emissions of volatile organic compounds  Signiﬁcant items for greenhouse gas emissions generated by the company’s activities, in particular the use of the goods and services it produces (scope 3)  Solutions and products developed to contribute to improve air quality and carbon footprint of products (emission reduction systems, tools used to develop environmental innovations)  Challenges related to responsible innovation and competitiveness SOCIETAL INFORMATION Quantitative Information (including key performance indicators) Qualitative Information (actions or results) Total number of suppliers assessed regarding CSR Actions undertaken to ensure respect of fundamental rights performance Measures implemented for product quality and safety and their results Rejected parts per million parts delivered to Faurecia’s CSR evaluation procedures for subcontractors and suppliers customers 280 / Registration document 2018 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5.1. Agenda 282 Ordinary resolutions 282 Extraordinary resolutions 283 5.2. Explanatory notes to the resolutions 284 5.2.1. Explanatory notes to the ordinary resolutions 284 5.2.2. Explanatory Notes to the extraordinary resolutions 297 5.3. Resolutions 301 Ordinary resolutions 301 Extraordinary resolutions 304 5.4. Proﬁles of the Board members whose candidates appointment is put to the vote 310 5.5. Proﬁles of the Board members whose cooptation is put to the vote 312 5.6. Reports 313 5.6.1. Statutory Auditors’ reports 313 / Registration document 2018 281 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Agenda 5.1. Agenda Ordinary resolutions Resolution one – Approval of the financial statements for the Resolution eleven – Appointment of Mr. Denis Mercier as Board fiscal year ending December 31, 2018 – Approval of non-taxmember. deductible expenses and costs. Resolution twelve – Approval of the principles and criteria used Resolution two – Approval of the consolidated financial to determine, allocate and award the compensation of the statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. Chairman of the Board of Directors. Resolution three – Appropriation of income for the fiscal year, Resolution thirteen – Approval of the principles and criteria used setting of dividend. to determine, allocate and award the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer. Resolution four – Statutory Auditors’ special report on relatedparty agreements and undertakings – Statement of absence Resolution fourteen – Approval of the fixed, variable and of new agreement. exceptional components comprising the total compensation and all benefits in kind paid or granted for the past fiscal year Resolution five – Reappointment of Ernst & Young Audit as acting to Mr. Michel de Rosen, Chairman of the Board of Directors. Statutory Auditors, no reappointment and no replacement of Auditex as alternate Statutory Auditors. Resolution fifteen – Approval of the fixed, variable and exceptional elements comprising the total compensation and Resolution six – Appointment of Mazars to replace all benefits in kind paid or granted for past fiscal year to Patrick PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, as acting Statutory Auditors, Koller, Chief Executive Officer. no reappointment and no replacement of Mr. Etienne Boris as alternate Statutory Auditor. Resolution sixteen – Authorization to the Board of Directors aiming to allow the Company to buy back its own shares Resolution seven – Ratification of the interim appointment of pursuant to Article L. 225-209 of the French Code of commerce, Mr. Philippe de Rovira as Board member. duration of authorization, purposes, terms and conditions, Resolution eight – Ratification of the interim appointment of ceiling, suspension during public offerings. Mr. Grégoire Olivier as Board member and renewal of his term Resolution seventeen – Ratification of the transfer of the of office. registered office from 2, rue Hennape, 92000 Nanterre to 23-27 Resolution nine – Appointment of Ms. Yan Mei as Board member. avenue des Champs-Pierreux, 92000 Nanterre. Resolution ten – Appointment of Mr. Peter Mertens as Board member. 282 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Agenda Extraordinary resolutions Resolution eighteen – Authorization to the Board of Directors Company or a direct or indirect subsidiary), and/or securities in order to cancel the shares bought back by the Company giving access to ordinary shares (of the Company or a direct pursuant to Article L. 225-209 of the French Code of commerce, or indirect subsidiary) without preferential subscription rights by duration of authorization, ceiling. an offer defined in Section II of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, duration of the delegation, Resolution nineteen – Delegation of powers to the Board of maximum nominal value of the increase in the share capital, Directors to issue ordinary shares giving access, if applicable, to issuing price, option to limit the amount of subscriptions or ordinary shares or allotment of debt securities (of the Company distribute unsubscribed securities, suspension during public or a direct or indirect subsidiary), and/or securities giving access offerings. to ordinary shares (of the Company or a direct or indirect subsidiary) with preferential subscription rights, or to increase Resolution twenty-two – Authorization to increase the amount capital by incorporating reserves, profits and/or premiums, of shares issued in the event of surplus demand, suspension duration of the delegation, maximum nominal value of the during public offerings. capital increase, outcome of fractional shares, option to offer Resolution twenty-three – Authorization to be given to the unsubscribed securities to the public, suspension during public Board of Directors to grant, for free, existing shares and/or offerings. shares to be issued in the future to employees and/or certain Resolution twenty – Delegation of powers to the Board of corporate officers of the Company or of affiliated companies Directors to issue ordinary shares giving access, if applicable, or economic groups, waiver by the shareholders of their to ordinary shares or allotment of debt securities (of the preferential subscription rights, duration of the authorization, Company or a direct or indirect subsidiary), and/or securities ceiling, duration of the vesting period, particularly in the event giving access to ordinary shares (of the Company or a direct of disability. or indirect subsidiary) without preferential subscription rights, Resolution twenty-four – Delegation of powers to the Board of by public offering and/or in consideration of securities within Directors to increase the share capital by issuing ordinary shares the framework of a public exchange offer, duration of the and/or securities giving access to the share capital, without delegation, maximum nominal value of the increase in the preferential subscription rights in favor of the beneficiaries of share capital, issuing price, option to limit the amount of a Company savings plan in application of Articles L. 3332-18 subscriptions or distribute unsubscribed securities, suspension et seq. of the French Labor Code, duration of the delegation, during public offerings. maximum nominal value of the increase in share capital, Resolution twenty-one – Delegation of powers to the Board of issuing price, option to allocate free shares in application of Directors to issue ordinary shares giving access, if applicable, Article L. 3332-21 of the French Labor Code. to ordinary shares or an allotment of debt securities (of the Resolution twenty-five – Powers for formalities. / Registration document 2018 283 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions 5.2. Explanatory notes to the resolutions 5.2.1. Explanatory notes to the ordinary resolutions The first three resolutions that are submitted to your vote nondeductible portion of the leases on passenger vehicles and concern the approval of the financial statements for the 2018 the corresponding tax, which amounts to €48,495.36. fiscal year and the appropriation of income. The fourth resolution concerns related party agreements and APPROVAL OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL undertakings. STATEMENTS FOR 2018 (2nd RESOLUTION) The fifth and sixth resolutions concern the reappointment/ You are asked to approve these financial statements, which appointment of the acting Statutory Auditors (Ernst & Young show a net profit (Group share) of €700,838,109 million. Audit and Mazars) for a duration of six fiscal years. The purpose of the fifth and sixth resolutions is also to acknowledge the end APPROPRIATION OF INCOME (3rd RESOLUTION) and absence of reappointment of the alternate Statutory Auditors (Auditex and Mr. Etienne Boris) as it is no longer a legal The proposed appropriation of income complies with French obligation to have alternate Statutory Auditors. law and our bylaws. The seventh to eleventh resolutions concern governance. As such, you are asked to approve the appropriation of the net The seventh resolution concerns the ratification of the coincome for 2018 as follows: option of Mr. Philippe de Rovira as Board member and the eighth resolution concerns the ratification of the co-option of Origin Mr. Grégoire Olivier as Board member and the renewal of his  Profit for the fiscal year €415,679,803.69 term of office. The ninth, tenth and eleventh resolutions concern the appointment of three new Board members.  Retained earnings €1,170,906,436.63 In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article L. 225-37-2 of the Total to be appropriated €1,586,586,240.32 French Code of commerce, resolutions twelve and thirteen ask you to vote on the principles and criteria for determining, Appropriation allocating and awarding compensation for executive and non Dividends €172,544,751.25 executive corporate officers.  Retained earnings €1,414,041,489.07 Resolutions fourteen and fifteen ask you to vote on elements of compensation for executive and non-executive corporate Total appropriated €1,586,586,240.32 officers paid or granted for the past fiscal year, in accordance The Board of Directors has decided to suggest distributing a with Article L. 225-100 paragraph II of the French Code of gross dividend of €1.25 per share. commerce. When dividends are paid to private individuals resident for Resolution sixteen concerns the share buy-back program. tax purposes in France, they are subject to a single 12.8% flatLastly, resolution seventeen concerns the ratification of the rate levy on the gross dividend (Article 200 A, 1 of the French transfer of the registered office. General Tax Code), or, at the express, irrevocable and overall option of the taxpayer, to income tax on a sliding scale after a 40% tax allowance (Article 200 A,2 and 158 of the French General Tax Code). This option must be exercised when the 5.2.1.1. Approval of the ﬁnancial income tax return is filed and, at the latest, before the deadline statements and appropriation for the filing of said return. Dividends are also subject to social of income (1st to 3rd resolutions) security contributions at a rate of 17.2%. Should the number of shares carrying dividend entitlement APPROVAL OF THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL change compared to the 138,035,801 shares that made up STATEMENTS FOR 2018 (1st RESOLUTION) the capital stock as of December 31, 2018, the total dividend will be adjusted accordingly and the amount of the retained You are asked to approve these financial statements, which earnings account will be determined based on the dividend show a profit of €415,679,803.69. effectively distributed. You are also asked to approve the total charges and The ex-dividend date will be May 31, 2019, and the dividend expenses mentioned in paragraph 4 of Article 39 of the French will be paid on June 4, 2019. General Tax Code, i.e., €140,852.06, which corresponds to the 284 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Explanatory notes to the resolutions In accordance with Article 243 bis of the French General Tax Code, we remind you that the following dividends were distributed in respect of the last three fiscal years: Income eligible for reduction Income not eligible For the ﬁscal year Dividends Other distributed income for reduction 2015 €89,274,690.70*, i.e. €0.65 per share 2016 €124,232,220.90*, i.e. €0.90 per share 2017 €151,839,381.10*, i.e. €1.10 per share * Includes the amount of the dividend corresponding to treasury shares held by the Company not paid and allocated to the retained earnings account. 5.2.1.2. Related-party agreements General Meeting to be held in 2025 to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024. and undertakings (4th resolution) You are also asked to acknowledge that Mr. Etienne Boris, In light of the Statutory Auditors’ report on related-party whose mandate expires on conclusion of this General Meeting, agreements and undertakings, you are asked to acknowledge is not reappointed and not replaced as the alternate Statutory that there have been no new agreements like those referred to Auditor, under the law. in Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Code of commerce. The Statutory Auditors’ report also refers to the agreements and undertakings that were authorized prior to 2018 and that 5.2.1.4. Governance (7th, 8th, 9th, continued during that year, namely: 10th and 11th resolutions)  a defined contributions pension scheme (Article 83 of the Under the terms of resolution seven, you are asked to ratify the French General Tax Code) and a defined benefits pension interim appointment by the Board of Directors on July 19, 2018 scheme (Article 39 of the French General Tax Code) of Mr. Philippe de Rovira to serve the remainder of the term of established for the whole Group in France and authorized office of Mr. Jean-Baptiste Chasseloup who resigned at the end for Mr. Patrick Koller, as Deputy Chief Executive Officer, of the Board of Directors meeting of the same date. Mr. Philippe then Chief Executive Officer, by decisions taken by the de Rovira would remain in office until the end of the meeting Board of Directors on April 13, 2016, and July 25, 2016, and, convened in 2021 to approve the financial statements for the in accordance with a decision by this last Board meeting, previous fiscal year. subject to a specific performance condition for Mr. Patrick Koller for the defined benefits pension scheme; Under the terms of resolution eight, you are asked to ratify the interim appointment by the Board of Directors on October 10,  an additional specific defined benefits pension scheme 2018 of Mr. Grégoire Olivier to serve the remainder of the (Article 39 of the French General Tax Code) in favor of the term of office of Mr. Carlos Tavares who resigned at the end members of Faurecia’s Executive Committee, authorized for of the Board of Directors meeting of the same date, i.e. until Mr. Patrick Koller in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer, by conclusion of this General Meeting. You are also asked to a decision of the Board of Directors on July 25, 2016; renew the term of office of Mr. Grégoire Olivier, as a director,  a termination payment for Mr. Patrick Koller as Chief Executive for a further period of four years. This term of office will expire Officer, authorized by the Board of Directors’ decision of on conclusion of the General Meeting to be held in 2023 to July 25, 2016 and subject to performance conditions. approve the financial statements for the previous fiscal year. Under the terms of resolution nine, you are asked to appoint Ms. Yan Mei, as a director, for a period of four years. This term 5.2.1.3. Statutory Auditors (5th and of office will expire on conclusion of the General Meeting to 6th resolutions) be held in 2023 to approve the financial statements for the previous fiscal year. Under the terms of the fifth resolution, you are asked to reappoint Ernst & Young Audit, whose mandate expires on Information on Ms. Yan Mei’s expertise and career path is set conclusion of this General Meeting, as acting Statutory Auditors out in Section 5.4 of the 2018 Registration Document. for a term of six fiscal years, i.e. until conclusion of the Ordinary Under the terms of resolution ten, you are asked to appoint General Meeting to be held in 2025 to approve the financial Mr. Peter Mertens, as from November 1, 2019, as director, statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024. for a period of four years. This term of office will expire on You are also asked to acknowledge that Auditex, whose conclusion of the General Meeting to be held in 2023 to mandate expires on conclusion of this General Meeting, is approve the financial statements for the previous fiscal year. not reappointed and not replaced as the alternate Statutory As of November 1, 2019, he will have left the Audi group. Auditors, under the law. Information on Mr. Peter Mertens’ expertise and career path is Under the terms of the sixth resolution, you are asked to appoint set out in Section 5.4 of the 2018 Registration Document. Mazars, selected pursuant to a call for tender, to replace Under the terms of resolution eleven, you are asked to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, whose mandate expires upon Mr. Denis Mercier, as a director, for a period of four years. This conclusion of this General Meeting, as acting Statutory Auditors term of office will expire on conclusion of the General Meeting for a term of six fiscal years, i.e. until conclusion of the Ordinary / Registration document 2018 285 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions to be held in 2023 to approve the financial statements for the PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING, previous fiscal year. ALLOCATING AND AWARDING THE COMPENSATION Information on Mr. Denis Mercier’s expertise and career path is OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS set out in Section 5.4 of the 2018 Registration Document. (12th RESOLUTION) The Board of Directors decided that Ms. Yan Mei, Mr. Peter In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Mertens and Mr. Denis Mercier qualify as independent Board Directors ensures in particular that the compensation of the members under the independence criteria set out in the AFEPChairman of the Board of Directors is adapted to the missions MEDEF Corporate Governance Code of listed companies, given, consistent with best market practices and aligned with which your Company has chosen as a reference Corporate the interests of all stakeholders in the Company’s business. Governance Code. Fixed compensation Consequently, at the end of this General Meeting, your The Board of Directors has decided that the fixed annual Company’s Board of Directors will have fifteen members, compensation is the only component of compensation of including two Board members representing employees. the Chairman of the Board of Directors, excluding any other Not including Board members representing employees, eight compensation. members of your Board of Directors, or more than one third, will From 2019, a position ot this compensation will be paid as a be independent, in accordance with the recommendations of benefit in kind relating to the time of the personal assistant the AFEP-MEDEF Code, and six members of your Company’s provided to the Chairman dedicated to his activities other Board of Directors will be women. The Board of Directors’ those in relation to his chairmanship of Faurecia. composition would then be in accordance with the January 27, 2011 French Act related to balanced representation of women The amount of his fixed compensation and of this benefit in and men on Boards of Directors and to professional equality. kind will amount in total to the fixed compensation for 2018. The Board of Directors has not set any rules regarding the frequency at which fixed compensation of the Chairman of 5.2.1.5. Principles and criteria for the Board of Directors is reviewed; however, it is understood that determining, allocating and in practice the Board of Directors reviews this compensation regularly. awarding compensation to the executive and non-executive To do this, the Board of Directors refers to a comparative compensation analysis prepared by an outside consultant corporate ofﬁcers (12th and based on a sample of French listed companies that have a 13th resolutions) separated governance structure, and it takes into account the current Chairman’s profile and his role as it appears in the The principles and criteria for determining, allocating and Board of Directors’ internal rules and that is described as follows: awarding compensation to the executive and non-executive corporate officers as required by paragraph 1 of Article L. 225“The Chairman organizes and directs the work of the Board 37-2 of the French Code of commerce derived from French of Directors and ensures the effective operation of the Board Act No. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016, on transparency, and its committees, in accordance with good governance anti-corruption measures and the modernization of the principles. economy are described below; these paragraphs constitute The Chairman must: the report referred to in paragraph 2 of the aforementioned Article presenting the twelfth and thirteenth resolutions for the  promote the highest standards of integrity, probity and Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive corporate governance across the Group, particularly at the Officer respectively. Board level, thus ensuring the effectiveness thereof; In this regard, Faurecia’s Board of Directors, acting on  manage the relations between Board members and the the recommendations of the Governance Committee Chairs of the committees and, in this respect: for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and on the  promote effective working relations and open recommendations of the Management Committee for the communication, and foster an environment that enables Chief Executive Officer, with both committees being comprised constructive discussions and the sharing of information of a majority of independent Board members, ensures the between Board members and the Chief Executive Officer, enforcement of the principles of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate during and outside meetings, Governance Code of listed corporations regarding the determination of the compensation of executive and non lead and govern the Board so as to create the conditions executive corporate officers of companies whose securities required for the overall effectiveness of the Board and are traded on a regulated market. its members, and ensure that all key and relevant issues are adequately prepared and discussed by the Board of Accordingly, these principles and criteria are reviewed and Directors and the various committees in a timely fashion, discussed annually by the Board of Directors, which, at its meeting on February 15, 2019, decided to continue the policy  schedule and set the agenda of the Board meetings, begun in 2017. in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the Secretary of the Board, to take full account of the Group’s major challenges and issues raised by Board members, and ensure that sufficient time is devoted to thoroughly discuss significant and strategic matters, 286 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Explanatory notes to the resolutions  address any conflicts of interest, Directors makes sure to structure the various elements of the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer so as to view his  conduct, with the help of the Governance Committee, actions on a long-term basis and enable an alignment of his assessments of the Board of Directors, searches for new interests with the interests of the Company and its shareholders. Board members and their induction program; On this basis, the Board of Directors has decided that the  organize, with the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairs compensation of the Chief Executive Officer, who is not an of the various committees, the preparation of and chair employee, shall be structured as follows: General Meetings, oversee the relations and ensure effective communication with shareholders; Compensation  manage the relation with the Chief Executive Officer: The compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is based on  act as a competent advisor for the Chief Executive Officer three main components: on all issues regarding the interests and management of  fixed compensation; the Company,  short-term variable compensation representing 100% of the  ensure that the strategies and policies adopted by the fixed annual compensation at target and up to a maximum Board are effectively implemented by the Chief Executive of 180%; Officer; without prejudice to the prerogatives of the Board of Directors and its committees, the Chairman is regularly  long-term variable compensation that has a weighting within provided information by the Chief Executive Officer about the overall compensation which is equal to the short-term significant events concerning the Company’s strategy, in variable compensation at maximum; line with the objectives set by the Board of Directors, as being understood that within this compensation, the variable well as about major external growth projects, significant portion is predominant and the Board of Directors does not financial transactions, societal actions, or appointments anticipate paying any exceptional compensation. of Business Group managers and other key positions within the Company. The Chairman receives from the Chief Fixed compensation Executive Officer all information necessary to coordinate The Board of Directors has not set any rules regarding the the work of the Board of Directors and its committees, frequency at which the fixed compensation of the Chief  coordinate or conduct specific projects. In particular, at Executive Officer is reviewed; however, it is understood that the request of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman in practice the Board of Directors reviews this compensation may represent the Company before stakeholders, public regularly. authorities, financial institutions, major shareholders and/ The Board of Directors, which is mindful of ensuring that the or key business partners.” compensation of its Chief Executive Officer is competitive, also Other components of compensation took into account the results of a comparative study, covering France and Europe, carried out by external consultants on the  Benefits in kind: basis of a group of industrial companies that are comparable  entitlement to a personal assistant for his activities other in terms of sales, market capitalization and employee numbers. than those in relation to his chairmanship of Faurecia (as Annual variable compensation of 2019), For annual variable compensation, the performance conditions  entitlement to a company car. incorporate quantitative targets, which are predominant, and  The Chairman does not receive any attendance fees. qualitative targets that may increase or reduce the variable compensation, it being understood that the award of variable  The Chairman of the Board of Directors does not receive compensation subject to performance conditions is not any variable compensation, termination payment or nonreserved solely for the Chief Executive Officer. competition indemnity. Moreover, the Board of Directors does not plan to pay any exceptional compensation. Therefore, the Chief Executive Officer’s variable compensation may range from 0% to 180% of his fixed annual compensation PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING, depending on the achievement of the quantitative and ALLOCATING AND AWARDING THE COMPENSATION qualitative targets: OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (13th RESOLUTION)  the quantitative targets entitle the Chief Executive Officer to In accordance with the principles of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate variable compensation ranging from 0% to 150% of the fixed Governance Code of listed corporations, the Board of annual compensation. / Registration document 2018 287 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions These quantitative targets are connected to operating income The Company’s policy in this regard is based on simple, and net cash flow: transparent, enduring principles. Therefore:  operating income set with current reference to the budget  performance shares have been granted annually since 2010 for the current year entities to a variable compensation at the same periods, involving, since that year, an internal of between 0% and 150% (maximum percentage) of performance condition and a presence condition applicable the fixed annual compensation, being understood that to all French and foreign beneficiaries of the plans; achievement of budget means the target being realized  since 2013, the conditions have also included an external at 100%. Operating income accounts for 40%; performance condition applicable to all French and foreign  net cash flow set with reference to the budget for the beneficiaries of the plans; current year entitles to a v ariable compensation of  since 2013, the vesting period applicable to the plans has between 0% and 150% (maximum percentage) of the been four years as from their allocation date for all French fixed annual compensation , being understood that and foreign beneficiaries; the plans comprise no holding achievement of budget means the target being realized period; at 100%. Free cash flow accounts for 60%.  the number of shares that may be granted to the beneficiary The expected levels of achievement of these targets are set under each plan is determined using an external benchmark by the Board of Directors with reference to the budget for a from which are deduced a minimum number of shares given year but are not made public for confidentiality reasons. (50%) and a maximum number (130%). In all cases, the final  the qualitative targets are set each year by the Board of allocation depends on the fulfillment of performance and Directors. They encompass strategic, business development, presence conditions. and managerial targets, and/or connect with the Group’s The performance conditions are the following: values or convictions when it comes to CSR; a weighting is given to each of them and wherever possible, they are tied  60% fulfillment of an internal performance condition related to quantitative indicators. since 2016 to the Group net income after tax (before 2016, Group net income before tax), before taking into account If some or all of these operating income and free cash flow any exceptional events. This internal condition is assessed quantitative targets are met, the qualitative targets met are by comparing the net result of the third fiscal year after the used to determine a multiplier of the quantitative targets of allocation date of the performance shares against the one between 0.70 and 1.20. If the achievement of the quantitative as forecasted in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed targets is equal to 0, the multiplier effect of the qualitative and approved by the Board of Directors on the allocation targets will not be taken into account. date of the performance shares; and It must be noted that in accordance with paragraph 2 of  40% fulfillment of an external performance condition, i.e., Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Code of commerce, the growth of the Company’s net earnings per share assessed payment of the variable compensation elements outlined between the last fiscal year before the grant date of the above depends on the approval of the Ordinary General performance shares and the third fiscal year ended after Meeting approving the compensation elements in question the grant date of the performance shares. This condition is for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, under the terms assessed against the weighted growth of a reference group and conditions stipulated by Article L. 225-100-II-2 of said Code. made up of twelve comparable international automotive Long-term variable compensation (performance shares) suppliers over the same period. The Chief Executive Officer is eligible for the performance share The reference group is made up of the following European and plans established by the Company, subject to performance North American automotive suppliers: and presence conditions identical to those set for all the  Autoliv (Sweden) beneficiaries of the plans (i.e. the 258 members of the Group Leadership Committee on December 31, 2018).  Autoneum (formerly Rieter) (Switzerland) As stated above, the Chief Executive Officer’s long-term  Borg Warner (United States) variable compensation has a weighting within the overall  Continental (Germany) compensation equal to the short-term variable compensation at maximum.  Delphi (United States) This mechanism was made stricter in 2018 through the  GKN (United Kingdom) establishment of a rule stipulating that from plan No. 6 and for  Adient (United States) all plans established subsequently, the Chief Executive Officer must retain at least 30% of the shares acquired under each  Lear (United States) plan. This threshold requirement ceases to apply when the Chief  Magna (Canada) Executive Officer holds a number of shares corresponding to three years of base gross compensation, factoring in all the  Plastic Omnium (France) previously established plans, and becomes applicable again if  Tenneco (United States) the Chief Executive Officer no longer holds the number of target shares corresponding to this level of base gross compensation.  Valeo (France) This group is identical to last year’s and is intended to be stable, even if it may be altered in the event of a major change affecting one of the players. 288 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Explanatory notes to the resolutions The plans are constructed as follows: Internal condition (net income) July/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N+1 12/31/ﬁscal year N+2 July/ﬁscal year N+4 Assessment of the fulﬁllment Acquisition date of of the internal condition performance shares X = Grant date of performance shares in July of ﬁscal year N, (vesting date deﬁnition of target amount and minimum where applicable) and maximum amounts for the internal condition External condition (net earnings per share) Fiscal year N-1 July/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N+1 12/31/ﬁscal year N+2 July/ﬁscal year N+4 Assessment of external condition Assessment of the fulﬁllment Acquisition date of the external condition of performance shares (vesting date X = Grant date of performance shares in July of ﬁscal year N, where applicable) deﬁnition of target amount and minimum and maximum amounts for the external condition The Company’s long-term compensation practices are who have completed at least one year of service at the time reexamined on a regular basis to ensure their compliance with of their retirement. best market practices. This scheme applies to the A and B brackets, amounting to 1% for the A bracket and 6% for the B bracket of the pay without Pension the beneficiary’s participation. The Board of Directors also decided to grant to the Chief Additional defined benefits pension scheme (Article 39 of the Executive Officer the same pension scheme as for the members French General Tax Code) subject to performance conditions of the Executive Committee. The Chief Executive Officer is eligible for an additional defined This scheme is made of an additional defined contributions benefits pension scheme that includes two parts: pension scheme available to all Group executives in France and an additional defined benefits pension scheme.  a part that is available, subject to eligibility conditions, to all Group managerial staff in France who have at least five In accordance with French law, this additional defined benefits years’ seniority upon their retirement. pension scheme is subject to performance conditions.  Benefits are calculated solely on the basis of bracket C and The Board of Directors has also decided that the annual potential rights increase each year by 1% of this bracket amount of the total pension annuity paid to the Chief Executive being understood that the reference compensation taken Officer in accordance with the compulsory and additional into account upon retirement is the average of the annual Faurecia group schemes may not exceed 45% of his reference compensation collected during the preceding three years compensation, defined as being equal to the annual average in bracket C. of the total gross compensation collected within the Company during the three calendar years preceding the termination of  With regard to the Chief Executive Officer, the benefit of service or departure from the Executive Committee. this scheme is backed up by the following performance condition, which is tied to his annual variable compensation: In this regard, the total annual gross compensation includes the annual base compensation and all bonuses and variable  in the case of 80% or greater achievement of the annual elements of compensation pertaining to the three calendar variable compensation targets, a 1% increase in potential years preceding the date of the termination of service, aside rights (restricted to bracket C of the compensation) will be from any termination payment, exceptional compensation, granted for the fiscal year in question, sums granted under plans such as performance shares plans,  in the case of less than 80% achievement of the annual benefits in kind and reimbursement of business expenses, variable compensation targets, the increase in rights will be contributions paid by the Company to fund additional pension reduced in proportion to the achievement of the targets schemes and personal risk insurance and any other allowances (e.g., a target that is 30% achieved will result in a 0.30% paid by the Company. increase in potential rights); Additional defined contributions pension scheme  an additional part decided by the Board of Directors of The Chief Executive Officer is a beneficiary of the defined February 11, 2015, in favor of Faurecia’s Executive Committee contributions pension scheme (Article 83 of the French General members holding an employment contract (current or Tax Code), which is available to all Group executives in France suspended) or a term of office in France, who have been / Registration document 2018 289 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions on the Executive Committee for a minimum term of three  the payment is not be due in case of resignation or retirement; calendar years as of the implementation of this scheme or  the payment is subject to the achievement of the following accession to the Executive Committee. performance conditions: The Company guarantees French beneficiaries an annual  achievement of a positive operating income during each pension level determined according to the Company’s of the three fiscal years preceding the termination of the operating income, in relation to the budget, as approved by Chief Executive Officer’s term of office, the Board of Directors based on the formula:  achievement of a positive net cash flow during each of the ∑ Xi * R three fiscal years preceding the termination of the Chief R = annual reference compensation (as defined in the Executive Officer’s term of office; preamble in the paragraph “Pension”)  the amount of the payment is equal to 24 months of the Xi = entitlement for each year of seniority, (i) equal to: reference compensation (fixed compensation and variable target-based compensation) insofar as both of the conditions  3% if the operating income for the year is strictly more than described above are met during each of the three fiscal 105% of the budgeted operating income; years in question; in practice, this is equal to the fulfillment  2% if the operating income for the year is between 95% and of six criteria; 105% of the budgeted operating income;  should one of the six criteria not be met, the termination  1% if the operating income for the year is less than 95% of the payment is reduced proportionally by 1/6 and may equal budgeted operating income. to 0 should none of these six criteria be fulfilled; The operating income for year N is defined based on the  should the Chief Executive Officer’s term of office be shorter income statement as of 12/31/N approved by the Board of than three years, the method of calculating the termination Directors in year N+1 and the initial budget for year N approved payment is identical, but the number of criteria is adjusted by the Board of Directors in year N-1. to take into account the actual length of the term of office. Each year, the Board of Directors therefore decides how Finally, the Chief Executive Officer is eligible for a company car much should be granted, following approval of the financial and the medical/life/disability insurance scheme established statements. within the Company. In any event, on retirement, the annual pension paid under this plan plus any rights granted by other supplementary plans implemented by the Faurecia group are subject to two limits in 5.2.1.6. Elements of compensation paid addition to the 45% limit referred to in preamble: or granted for the past ﬁscal year  the sums paid by the Group must not exceed 25% of the ended to executive and reference compensation; non-executive corporate ofﬁcers  the sums paid by the Group are capped at 8 times the (14th and 15th resolutions) annual social security limit. The elements of compensation paid or granted for the fiscal Should either of these limits be exceeded, the relevant pension year ended December 31, 2018, to Mr. Michel de Rosen in will be reduced accordingly. his capacity as Chairman of the Board of Directors, and to Mr. Patrick Koller in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer, Termination payment and which are being submitted for shareholder approval in accordance with Article L. 225-100-II of the French Code of The Chief Executive Officer is also the beneficiary of a commerce, are outlined in the following resolutions: termination payment, the Board of Directors having decided that the CEO can not be an employee and as a consequence  Resolution fourteen: elements of compensation paid or can not enjoy the protective regime attached to such status. granted for the past fiscal year to Mr. Michel de Rosen in his capacity as Chairman of the Board of Directors; This payment is backed by granting conditions in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code:  Resolution fifteen: elements of compensation paid or granted for the past fiscal year ended to Mr. Patrick Koller in his  the payment is due in case of termination of the Chief capacity as Chief Executive Officer. Executive Officer’s term of office on the Company’s initiative, subject to his not being terminated due to serious or gross misconduct; 290 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Elements of compensation paid or granted for the past ﬁscal year to Mr. Michel de Rosen in his capacity as Chairman of the Board of Directors. The elements being submitted for shareholder approval in accordance with the fourteenth resolution appear in the table below, with the reminder that the principles and criteria for determining, allocating and awarding the elements comprising the compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors were submitted for shareholder approval during the General Meeting of May 30, 2018 (7th resolution): Elements of compensation paid or granted for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 Amounts Presentation Fixed compensation €300,000 The annual ﬁxed compensation of Mr. Michel de Rosen in his capacity as Chairman of the Board of Directors was set at €300,000 by the Board of Directors’ decision of February 15, 2018. It was unchanged compared to the compensation set by the Board of Directors’ meeting on April 11, 2017. This compensation was set in reference to a comparison of compensation prepared by an outside consultant based on a sample of French listed companies with a segregated governance structure, and by taking into account Mr. Michel de Rosen’s responsibilities as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Annual variable compensation Not applicable No annual variable compensation Multi-annual variable Not applicable No multi-annual variable compensation compensation Exceptional compensation Not applicable No exceptional compensation Stock options, performance shares Options = not No stock subscription or purchase options grant or any other long-term beneﬁt applicable Performance No performance share grant shares = not applicable Other No other long-term beneﬁts grant long-term beneﬁts = not applicable Attendance fees Not applicable No attendance fees allotment All beneﬁts €4,982.40 Availability of a company car (accounting valuation) Termination payment Not applicable No termination payment Non-competition indemnity Not applicable No non-competition indemnity Supplementary pension schemes Not applicable No supplementary pension scheme beneﬁt / Registration document 2018 291 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Elements of compensation paid or granted for the past ﬁscal year to Mr. Patrick Koller in his capacity as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. The elements being submitted for shareholder approval in accordance with the fifteenth resolution appear in the table below, with the reminder that the principles and criteria for determining, allocating and awarding the elements comprising the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer were submitted for shareholder approval during the General Meeting of May 30, 2018 (8th resolution): Elements of compensation paid or granted for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 Amounts Presentation Fixed compensation €825,000 Mr. Patrick Koller’s annual fixed compensation as Chief Executive Officer was set at €825,000 by the Board of Directors’ decision of February 15, 2018. The Boards of Directors set this compensation by assessing several factors:  Mr. Patrick Koller’s performance is assuming full responssability for Faurecia’s Executive Management, demonstrated through results of operations, proﬁtability and market capitalisation; before being appointed Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in July 2016, Mr. Patrick Koller was Deputy Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer since February 2015, and before that, has been responsible for one of the Group BGS;  the launch of the Group’s transformation, which is based on new strategic priorities centered around clearly deﬁned focuses with high technical value, substantial growth, change in the Group’s business and significant international expansion benefiting from industrial geographic coverage. Annual variable compensation €1,210,300 At its meeting of February 15, 2018, the Board of Directors set the rules for determining Mr. Patrick Koller’s variable compensation for 2018 as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. The Board decided that Mr. Patrick Koller’s variable compensation may range from 0% to 180% of his ﬁxed annual compensation depending on the achievement of quantitative and qualitative targets. The achievement of the following quantitative targets entitles him to a variable compensation ranging from 0% to 150% of his ﬁxed annual compensation:  40% of his variable compensation is based on operating income set by reference to the 2018 budget;  60% is based on the free cash ﬂow set by reference to the 2018 budget. On the recommendation of the Management Committee on February 15, 2019, the Board of Directors meeting of February 15, 2019, reviewed the extent to which these quantitative criteria had been met:  as regards the operating income, the Board of Directors formally noted that 110% of this initial quantitative target had been reached;  as regards free cash ﬂow, the Board of Directors formally noted that 133% of this second quantitative target had been reached. As a result of these two achievements, 124% of targets according to the scale adopted by the Board of Directors were reached: this entitles to quantitative variable compensation of €1,021,350 before the achievement of qualitative targets is reviewed. On February 15, 2019, the Board of Directors also reviewed the achievement of the qualitative targets set by the Board on February 15, 2018, which, if some or all of these targets are met, are used to determine a multiplier of the quantitative targets of between 0.70 and 1.20. If the achievement of the quantitative targets is equal to 0, the multiplier effect of the qualitative targets will not be taken into account. Therefore: 1. as regards the execution of the strategy in terms of Sustainable Mobility and Smart Life on Board (40% weighting on this criterion) i.e.:  deﬁne and deploy a clear organization and related responsibilities;  be committed to growing the order book;  identify and implement external growth requirements in valueadded areas (Value Spaces). 292 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Elements of compensation paid or granted for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 Amounts Presentation The Board of Directors highlighted:  the acquisition in progress and integration of Clarion;  the completion of several other acquisition transactions (Hug Engineering, Parrot Automotive, Coagent Electronics);  the implementation of New Value Spaces organization and its order book representing 7% of the overall order book; and  signiﬁcant developments in the implementation of a strategic ecosystem for the Group with the creation of joint ventures, in particular with Liuzhou Wuling Automotive Industry Co., and the conclusion of strategic partnerships (Accenture, FAW group, HELLA) and investments in start-ups (Enogia, Powersphyr, Promethient, SUBPAC). The Board of Directors considered that 120% of this criterion has been met. 2. with regard to the management of program launches (30% weighting on this criterion), with particular attention given to 11 programs identiﬁed as being at risk;  the Board of Directors noted that 220 launches were completed in 2018 with no substantial variances, and that only one program at risk remained compared with 11 at the beginning of the year, owing to the implementation of the prevention plan. The Board of Directors considered that 115% of this criterion has been met: 3. with regard to Being Faurecia (30% weighting on this criterion), with notably, for the selected convictions, the deﬁnition of a medium-term action plan, the deﬁnition of targets for 2018 and target proposals for 2019 for each of these convictions. The Board of Directors noted that:  the convictions were approved and presented to the Board of Directors;  for each conviction, the indicators, targets and 2020 plan were approved;  a Head of Sustainable Development and a Deputy Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer have been recruited;  the communications plan for the 2019 deployment has been prepared and the general sustainable development approach approved. The Board of Directors considered that 120% of this criterion has been met. / Registration document 2018 293 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Elements of compensation paid or granted for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 Amounts Presentation As a result, the Board of Directors considered that the standard achieved in relation to these two qualitative targets was such that a multiplier of 1.185 should apply to the two quantitative targets. On this basis, on February 15, 2019, the Board of Directors decided on variable compensation for ﬁscal year 2018 for Mr. Patrick Koller in his capacity as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer equal to €825,000 × 124% × 1.185 for a total of €1,210,300 corresponding to 146.7% of his ﬁxed compensation received for 2018 as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Variable compensation Multi-year Not applicable No multi-annual variable compensation Exceptional compensation Not applicable No exceptional compensation Stock options, performance shares Options No stock subscription or purchase options grant or any other long-term beneﬁt = not applicable Performance At its meeting of July 19, 2018, the Board of Directors decided to grant up shares = to 27,000 shares to Mr. Patrick Koller in the context of the performance €1,237,788 share plan No. 10, based on the authorization granted by shareholders (accounting at their General Meeting of May 29, 2018 (fourteenth resolution adopted valuation) in extraordinary session). These 27,000 shares correspond to 0.020% of the capital stock as of December 31, 2018. The Board of Directors made the deﬁnitive acquisition of these shares contingent on the following:  60% on an internal performance condition: Group net income after tax as of December 31, 2020, before taking into account capital gains from the disposal of assets and changes in the scope of consolidation, as approved by the Board of Directors, assessed against net income for the same fiscal year as it had been forecast in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed and set by the Board of Directors on the date the shares are granted; and  40% on an external condition: the growth between 2017 and 2020 in the Company’s net earnings per share compared with the weighted growth of a reference group of 12 international automotive suppliers comparable to Faurecia over the same period. If these performance conditions for plan No. 10 have been met in full at the end of the 2019 ﬁscal year, Mr. Patrick Koller will be granted the maximum 27,000 shares in which he will vest on July 19, 2022. 18,525 shares granted to Mr. Patrick Koller in the context of the performance share Plan No. 6 became available during the ﬁscal year. Others beneﬁts No other long-term beneﬁts grant long-term beneﬁts = not applicable 294 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Elements of compensation paid or granted for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 Amounts Presentation Attendance fees Not applicable No attendance fees allotment All beneﬁts €14,400 Availability of a company car (accounting valuation) Termination payment No payment At the proposal of the Appointments and Compensation Committee made during on July 20, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized, on July 25, 2016, the the ﬁscal year principle of a termination payment payable to Mr. Patrick Koller, in line with the procedure set out in Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Code of commerce, meeting the following requirements:  this payment will be due in case of termination of Mr. Patrick Koller’s term of office as Chief Executive Officer, on Faurecia’s initiative, subject to this termination not occurring due to Mr. Patrick Koller’s serious or gross misconduct;  this payment will not be due in case of resignation or retirement;  the remittance of this payment is subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions:  achievement of a positive operating income during each of the three ﬁscal years preceding the termination of Mr. Patrick Koller’s term of ofﬁce as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,  achievement of a positive net cash ﬂow during each of the three ﬁscal years preceding the termination of Mr. Patrick Koller’s term of ofﬁce as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer;  the amount of the payment will be equal to twenty-four months of the reference compensation (ﬁxed and variable target-based compensation) insofar as both of the conditions described above are met during each of the three ﬁscal years in question; in practice, this is equal to the fulﬁllment of six criteria;  should one of the six criteria not be met, the termination payment will be reduced proportionally by 1/6 and may equal 0 should none of these six criteria be fulﬁlled;  should Mr. Patrick Koller’s term of ofﬁce as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer be shorter than three years, the method of calculating the termination payment will be identical, but the number of criteria will be adjusted to take into account the actual length of the term of ofﬁce. This scheme, which was authorized for Mr. Patrick Koller, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, by the Board of Directors’ decision of July 25, 2016, was approved by the General Meeting of May 30, 2017 (5th ordinary business resolution). Non-competition indemnity Not applicable No non-competition indemnity / Registration document 2018 295 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Elements of compensation paid or granted for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 Amounts Presentation Supplementary deﬁned No payment On July 25, 2016, the Board of Directors confirmed that although contribution pension scheme made during Mr. Patrick Koller no longer had an employment contract, he would (Article 83 of the French General the ﬁscal year continue to beneﬁt from both schemes after July 1, 2016, in his capacity Tax Code) and supplementary as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. deﬁned beneﬁts pension scheme Deﬁned contribution pension scheme: (Article 39 of the French General  defined contribution pension scheme on the A and B brackets, Tax Code) amounting to 1% for the A bracket and 6% for the B bracket of the compensation without the beneﬁciary’s participation;  estimated annual pension as of December 31, 2018: €4,567;  scheme available to all Group executives who have at least one year’s seniority upon their retirement. Deﬁned beneﬁts pension scheme:  progressive increase in potential rights in relation to seniority and compensation: potential rights increase each year by 1% in bracket C;  reference compensation and maximum percentage of income permitted under the supplementary pension scheme: the reference compensation taken into account is the average of the annual compensation collected over the last three years, while beneﬁts are calculated only for the C bracket;  estimated annual pension as of December 31, 2018: €31,791;  scheme available to all Group executives who have at least ﬁve years’ seniority upon their retirement. Pursuant to Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Code of commerce in the version resulting from Act No. 2015-990 of August 6, 2015, the Board of Directors decided, on July 25, 2016, to subject Mr. Patrick Koller’s right to beneﬁt from the deﬁned beneﬁts pension scheme (Article 39 of the French General Tax Code) to the following performance condition which is linked to his annual variable compensation:  in case of 80% or greater achievement of the annual variable compensation targets, a 1% increase in potential rights (restricted to bracket C of the compensation) will be granted for the ﬁscal year in question;  in case of 80% or lower achievement of the annual variable compensation targets, the increase in rights will be reduced in proportion to the achievement of the targets (e.g., a target that is 30% achieved will result in a 0.30% increase in potential rights). This scheme, which was authorized for Mr. Patrick Koller, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, by the Board of Directors’ decision of July 25, 2016, was approved by the General Meeting of May 30, 2017 (5th ordinary business resolution). Additional deﬁned No payment This scheme beneﬁts Faurecia’s Executive Committee members holding beneﬁts pension scheme made during an employment contract (current or suspended) or a term of ofﬁce in (Article 39 of the French the ﬁscal year France, having been on the Executive Committee for a minimum term General Tax Code) of three consecutive calendar years as of the implementation of this scheme (January 1, 2015) or accession to the Executive Committee. The estimated annual pension as of December 31, 2018 is €335,834. This scheme, which was authorized for Mr. Patrick Koller, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, by the Board of Directors’ decision of July 25, 2016, was approved by the General Meeting of May 30, 2017 (5th ordinary business resolution). 296 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Explanatory notes to the resolutions 5.2.1.7. Share buy-back program relation to shares in the Company, until the offer period has ended. (16th resolution) Your Company reserves the right to use options or derivatives This resolution will authorize the Board of Directors to purchase within the framework of applicable regulations. your Company’s shares for the following purposes: The authorization to be granted to the Board of Directors  to maintain a liquid market for your Company’s shares includes a: through an independent investment services provider acting under a liquidity contract;  maximum purchase price (€110);  to retain the shares and subsequently offer them in the  a cap on the overall amount that may be appropriated context of external acquisitions; to the buy-back program (€1,417,506,200 based on the Company’s capital as of December 31, 2018 in view of the  to allot shares to employees and executive and nontreasury shares held on that date); and executive corporate officers of your Company or its affiliates, through the allotment of stock options or performance  a cap on the number of shares which may be purchased shares, either as part of their compensation or in respect of (10% of your Company’s capital on the date of purchase). their profit sharing entitlement; This authorization will be granted for a period of 18 months and  to allot shares upon the exercise of rights attached to will bring an end to the authorization granted to the Board of securities conferring an entitlement to the allotment of shares Directors by shareholders at their General Meeting of May 29, in your Company; and 2018 under their twelth ordinary resolution.  to cancel shares. These shares may be purchased by any means, including 5.2.1.8. Ratiﬁcation of the transfer of the through block purchases of shares, at times deemed registered ofﬁce (17th resolution) appropriate by the Board of Directors. Under the terms of resolution seventeen, you are asked to The Board of Directors must obtain prior authorization from ratify the transfer of the registered office from 2, rue Hennape, shareholders at the General Meeting in order to exercise this 92000 Nanterre to 23-27 avenue des Champs-Pierreux, 92000 authority during a public offering initiated by a third party in Nanterre. 5.2.2. Explanatory Notes to the extraordinary resolutions Resolution eighteen will allow the Board of Directors to reduce debt securities (from the Company or from any direct or indirect the capital by canceling treasury shares. subsidiary), and/or securities giving access to ordinary shares to be issued (by the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary) Resolutions nineteen to twenty-two concern financial with or without preferential subscription right. This will enable delegations of authority and authorizations to be granted to your Company to carry out financial transactions as and when the Board of Directors. market conditions permit, and quickly raise the capital needed The Extraordinary General Meeting of May 30, 2017, granted to to implement the Group’s growth and consolidation strategy. the Board of Directors, to meet the Group’s financing needs, Resolution twenty-three concerns an authorization to grant delegations of authority and authorizations which are due to performance shares. lapse during this fiscal year. Resolution 24 aims to involve Group employees in its expansion, In 2018, none of these delegations of authority and in particular through a capital increase reserved for employees. authorizations as voted by the Meeting of May 30, 2017 was used by the Board of Directors. In accordance with Article L. 225-37-4 of the French Code of 5.2.2.1. Cancellation of treasury shares commerce, the Board of Directors has also reported on its use of these delegated authorities and authorizations in the 2018 (18th resolution) financial year in its management report. This resolution will authorize the Board of Directors to cancel shares in your Company purchased pursuant to the twelfth Consequently, under resolutions nineteen to twenty-two, resolution or under previously authorized share buy-back you are asked to renew these delegations of authority and programs, up to a maximum limit of 10% of the capital stock, authorizations under the terms as described below. and to reduce the capital stock accordingly. This will enable the Board of Directors to issue ordinary shares This authorization will be granted for a period of 18 months. giving access, if necessary, to ordinary shares, or allotment of / Registration document 2018 297 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions 5.2.2.2. Financial delegations 5.2.2.2.2. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY FOR THE of authority and authorizations PURPOSE OF INCREASING THE CAPITAL STOCK WITHOUT PREFERENTIAL (19th to 23rd resolutions) SUBSCRIPTIONS RIGHTS, BY WAY OF A PUBLIC OFFERING (20th RESOLUTION) 5.2.2.2.1. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO INCREASE Transactions carried out pursuant to this resolution will be open THE CAPITAL STOCK WITH PREFERENTIAL to the public. They concern the issuing of ordinary shares giving SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS (19th RESOLUTION) access, if necessary, to ordinary shares, or allotment of debt The transaction carried out under this resolution would be securities and/or securities giving access to ordinary shares to reserved for Company shareholders only. They concern the be issued. issuing of ordinary shares giving access, if necessary, to ordinary In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Code of shares, or allotment of debt securities and/or securities giving commerce, the securities to be issued may give an entitlement access to ordinary shares to be issued. to ordinary shares to be issued by any company of which the In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Code of Company directly or indirectly holds more than half of the commerce, the securities to be issued may give an access capital. to ordinary shares to be issued by any company of which the These securities may be issued in order to compensate any Company directly or indirectly holds more than half of the securities contributed to the Company as part of a public capital. exchange offer, satisfying the conditions defined in Article L. 225This delegation will also enable the capital to be increased 148 of the French Code of commerce. through capitalization of premiums, reserves, profits or other, The capital increases performed under this delegation may either in the form of allotments of free shares, or by increasing not exceed an aggregate nominal value of €95,000,000 the par value of existing shares or by a combination of these (ninety-five million euros) (without preservation of rights). The two procedures. total nominal value of the increases in the share capital which The capital increases performed under this delegation may may be generated pursuant to resolution twenty-one shall be not exceed an aggregate nominal value of €145,000,000 (one deducted from the ceiling provided for in the present resolution. hundred and forty-five million euros) (without preservation of Issues of debt securities may not exceed an aggregate nominal rights). The total nominal value of the ordinary shares that may value of €1,000,000,000 (one billion euros). This amount shall be be issued pursuant to resolutions twenty and twenty-one shall deducted from the ceiling of €1,000,000,000 for the issue of debt be deducted from this ceiling. securities as established in resolution nineteen. Issues of debt securities may not exceed an aggregate nominal In accordance with the law, the issue price of shares issued value of €1,000,000,000 (one billion euros). This total ceiling shall pursuant to this delegation of authority will be at least equal apply to all debt securities that may be issued in application of to the weighted average price of the Company’s shares this resolution and resolutions twenty and twenty-one. on Euronext Paris during the three trading days immediately The subscription price of the shares and/or securities issued preceding the issue pricing date, with a potential discount of pursuant to this delegation of authority will be set by the up to 5%. Board of Directors in accordance with applicable laws and If the subscriptions do not absorb all of the issue, the Board of regulations. Directors may do the following: If the aggregate amount of subscriptions as of right and for  limit the amount of shares issued to the amount subscribed, excess shares or securities has not absorbed all of an issue, the if applicable, subject to the limits provided for by the Board of Directors may use, in the order it would determine, all regulations; or some of the following faculties:  freely allocate all or part of unsubscribed securities.  cap the amount of the issue at the amount of the subscriptions received, subject to any regulatory restrictions; Unless prior authorization has been granted by the General Meeting, the Board of Directors may not use this authorization  freely allocate all or some of the unsubscribed securities; upon the filing of public offering for the Company’s shares by  offer all or part of unsubscribed securities to the public. a third party, up until the end of the offering. Unless prior authorization has been granted by the General This delegation of authority is sought for a period of 26 months. Meeting, the Board of Directors may not use this authorization upon the filing of public offering for the Company’s shares by a third party, up until the end of the offering. This delegation of authority is sought for a period of 26 months. 298 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Explanatory notes to the resolutions 5.2.2.2.3. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY FOR THE 5.2.2.2.4. AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE PURPOSES OF INCREASING THE CAPITAL AMOUNT OF THE INITIAL ISSUES DECIDED STOCK WITHOUT PREFERENTIAL UPON WITH OR WITHOUT PREFERENTIAL SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS, BY AN OFFER SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS, IN THE EVENT OF DEFINED IN ARTICLE L. 411-2 II OF THE OVER-SUBSCRIPTION (22nd RESOLUTION) FRENCH MONETARY AND FINANCIAL This authorization would allow the Company to satisfy excess CODE (21st RESOLUTION) demand for rights issues made to existing shareholders This resolution is in addition to resolution twenty to enable (19th resolution) via public offerings (20th resolution) or the private shareholders to vote separately on this matter as recommended placements referred to in the 21st resolution. by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF). It concerns Transactions carried out pursuant to this delegation of authority transactions without preferential subscription rights by means may not exceed the legal ceiling of 15% of the initial issue, and of private placements with persons providing a portfolio will be charged against the maximum limit applicable to the management service for third parties, qualified investors, or initial issue. a restricted circle of investors, on condition that the last two categories act for their own account. They concern the issuing The subscription price of ordinary shares or securities issued of ordinary shares giving access, if necessary, to ordinary shares, must be the same as the initial issue price set pursuant to or allotment of debt securities and/or securities giving access resolutions 19, 20 and 21 described above. to ordinary shares to be issued. The Board of Directors may use this authorization during a In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Code of period of 30 days as from the close of the subscription period. commerce, the securities to be issued may give an entitlement The Board of Directors may not use this authorization, without to ordinary shares to be issued by any company of which the the prior authorization of the General Meeting, in the event of Company directly or indirectly holds more than half of the a public offering filled by a third party, until the end of such capital. offering. The capital increases performed under this delegation may not This authorization will be granted for a term of 26 months. exceed an aggregate nominal value of €95,000,000 (ninetyfive million euros) it being stipulated that they would, in addition, be capped at 20% of the capital per year (without preservation of rights). The total nominal value of the increases in the share 5.2.2.3. Employee and corporate ofﬁcer capital which may be generated pursuant to resolution twenty share ownership: authorization to shall be deducted from this ceiling. grant performance shares (23rd Like resolution twenty, the subscription price of new shares resolution) issued pursuant to this delegation of authority will be at least Resolution twenty-three aims to seek authorization to allow your equal to the weighted average price of the Company’s shares Board of Directors to grant performance shares, free of charge, on Euronext Paris during the three trading days immediately to group employees and corporate officers under the terms of preceding the issue pricing date, with a potential discount of Article L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French Code of commerce. up to 5%. Shares granted under this resolution may be existing or future Issues of debt securities may not exceed an aggregate nominal shares. value of €1,000,000,000 (one billion euros) it being stipulated This resolution would cancel any unused portion of the current that this amount would be included in the €1,000,000,000 total authorization, granted for 26 months by the General Meeting ceiling for the issue of debt securities set by the nineteenth of May 29, 2018 (extraordinary resolution fourteen). resolution. The General Meeting of May 29, 2018 authorized your Board of If the subscriptions do not absorb all of the issue, the Board of Directors to grant a maximum of 2,000,000 performance shares, Directors may do the following: the total number of shares awarded to corporate officers not  limit the amount of shares issued to the amount subscribed, exceeding 10% of this total. if applicable, subject to the limits provided for by the The Board of Directors used this authorization in 2018: based regulations; on the decision of July 19, 2018, it granted a maximum of  freely allocate all or part of unsubscribed securities. 544,460 shares, including a maximum of 27,000 shares to the Chief Executive Officer. Unless prior authorization has been granted by the General Meeting, the Board of Directors may not use this authorization Given the use made of this resolution in 2018, the authorization upon the filing of public offering for the Company’s shares by granted by the General Meeting of May 29, 2018 was used to a third party, up until the end of the offering. grant 544,460 shares. This delegation of authority is sought for a period of 26 months. / Registration document 2018 299 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Generally speaking, and not including two plans which were  the growth of your Company’s net earnings per share both granted in 2010, a performance share plan has been assessed between the last fiscal year before the grant date granted by your Board of Directors every year. To date, ten of the performance shares and the 3rd fiscal year ended after plans have been granted on the basis of authorizations given the grant date of the performance shares. This condition is by the Meeting: assessed against the weighted growth of a reference group made up of twelve comparable international automotive  two plans in 2010 (Plan No. 1 and Plan No. 2); suppliers over the same period.  one plan in 2011 (Plan No. 3); Alternatively, or in addition to the conditions listed above,  one plan in 2012 (Plan No. 4); the Board of Directors may set performance conditions with targets that are measured in relation to specific criteria of a  one plan in 2013 (Plan No. 5); quantitative and qualitative nature.  one plan in 2014 (Plan No. 6); This authorization will be granted for a term of 26 months.  one plan in 2015 (Plan No. 7);  one plan in 2016 (Plan No. 8); 5.2.2.4. Employee share ownership;  one plan in 2017 (Plan No. 9); delegation of authority to  one plan in 2018 (Plan No. 10). increase the capital stock without In fact, the condition attached to the 1st plan in 2010 was preferential subscription rights in met and the maximum number of shares were vested in beneficiaries in June 2012 (for French tax residents for tax favor of members of a Company purposes) and in June 2014 (for beneficiaries being tax residents savings plan (24th resolution) in other countries). Pursuant to the resolution twenty-three, the Board of Directors The conditions attached to Plans No. 5 and No. 6 were also is authorized to increase the capital stock by issuing shares or met: Plan No. 5 shares vested in their beneficiaries in July 2017; securities giving access, immediately or after a given period, to Plans No. 6 and No. 7 shares will not vest until July 2018 and the Company’s capital without preferential subscription rights July 2019 respectively. to Group employees who are members of a company or Group savings plan. That was not, however, the case with Plans No. 2 to No. 4; because the conditions set by the Board were not met, no This authorization will be limited to 2% (without preservation of shares were vested in beneficiaries under these three plans. rights) of the capital increase and will not be charged against any ceilings set for delegations to increase the capital stock. Plans No. 8 and No. 10 are now in progress. The subscription price may not be higher than the average of Under the terms of the new authorization on which you will the opening share prices quoted on the twenty trading days be asked to vote, the total number of free shares granted preceding the date of the decision setting the opening date would not exceed 2,000,000 (two million), given that this is the of the subscription period. Furthermore, it may not be more maximum number that may be granted for the whole of this than 20% lower than that average, nor may it be 30% lower authorization period. if the lock-up period provided for in the savings plan is more The total number of shares that may be granted for free to than or equal to ten years (or any other maximum percentage executive and non-executive corporate officers may not stipulated by the legal provisions applicable at the date when exceed 10% of the aforementioned amount. the price is set). The free share grant to the beneficiaries would become The Board of Directors may also decide to grant new or existing permanent at the end of a vesting period whose length would shares or other securities conferring an entitlement to new or be set by the Board of Directors and that may not be shorter existing shares of the Company in respect of (i) matching than three years. The General meeting would authorize the contributions made pursuant to the regulations of Company or Board of Directors to decide if it wishes to stipulate a lock-up Group savings plans, and/or (ii) the discount, where applicable. period at the end of the vesting period. This delegation of authority is sought for a period of 26 months. By decision of the Board of Directors, the permanent share grant shall be subject to fulfillment of the following performance conditions: 5.2.2.5. Powers (25th resolution)  Group net income before or after tax and before taking into To conclude, resolution twenty-five concerns the powers to be account any exceptional events. This internal condition is given to complete formalities relating to the General Meeting, assessed by comparing the net income of the third fiscal particularly filing and publicity formalities. year after the grant date of the performance shares against the one as forecasted in the Group’s medium-term plan reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on the grant date of the performance shares; and 300 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Resolutions 5.3. Resolutions Ordinary resolutions Resolution one Resolution three APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPROPRIATION OF INCOME FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2018 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR, DIVIDEND – APPROVAL OF NON-TAXDEDUCTIBLE EXPENSES The General Meeting, on proposal of the Board of Directors, AND COSTS decides to appropriate the income for the fiscal year ending The General Meeting, after having read the reports by the December 31, 2018 as follows: Board of Directors and by the Statutory Auditors on the parent company financial statements as at December 31, 2018, Origin approves these financial statements, as presented which show  Profit for the fiscal year €415,679,803.69 a profit of €415,679,803.69.  Retained earnings €1,170,906,436.63 The General Meeting particularly approves the total amount of €140,852.06 for expenses and costs listed in 4 of Article 39 of Total to be appropriated €1,586,586,240.32 the French General Tax Code, which corresponds to the nondeductible portion of the leases of passenger vehicles, and the Appropriation corresponding tax which amounted to €48,495.36  Dividends €172,544,751.25  Retained earnings €1,414,041,489.07 Resolution two Total appropriated €1,586,586,240.32 APPROVAL OF THE CONSOLIDATED The General Meeting acknowledges that the total gross FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR dividend per share is set at €1.25. ENDING ON DECEMBER 31, 2018 When dividends are paid to private individuals resident for The General Meeting, after having read the reports by tax purposes in France, they are subject to a single 12.8% flatthe Board of Directors and by the Statutory Auditors on the rate levy on the gross dividend (Article 200 A,1 of the French consolidated financial statements as at December 31, 2018, General Tax Code), or, at the express, irrevocable and overall approves these financial statements, as presented, with a net option of the taxpayer, to income tax on a sliding scale after profit (Group share) of €700,835,109 million. a 40% tax allowance (Article 200 A,2 and 158 of the French General Tax Code). Dividends are also subject to social security contributions at a rate of 17.2%. The ex-dividend date will be May 31, 2019. Dividends will be paid out on June 4, 2019. If the number of shares giving rights to dividend varies from the 138,035,801 shares representing the capital stock on December 31, 2018, the total amount of the dividend will be adjusted accordingly and the amount of the retained earnings account will be set on the basis of the dividend actually payable. In accordance with the provisions of Article 243 bis of the French General Tax Code, the General Meeting acknowledges that it was reminded that over the last three fiscal years, dividends and income were distributed as follows: Income eligible for reduction Income not eligible For the ﬁscal year Dividends Other distributed income for reduction 2015 €89,274,690.70*, i.e. €0.65 per share 2016 €124,232,220.90*, i.e. €0.90 per share 2017 €151,839,381.10*, i.e. €1.10 per share * This amount includes the amount of the dividend corresponding to treasury shares held by the Company not paid and allocated to the retained earnings account. / Registration document 2018 301 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Resolutions Resolution four Resolution seven STATUTORY AUDITORS’ SPECIAL REPORT ON RELATEDRATIFICATION OF THE INTERIM APPOINTMENT PARTY AGREEMENTS AND UNDERTAKINGS – STATEMENT OF MR. PHILIPPE DE ROVIRA AS BOARD MEMBER OF ABSENCE OF NEW AGREEMENT The General Meeting ratifies the appointment of Mr. Philippe de The General Meeting, after having read the Statutory Auditors’ Rovira, as a director, decided on an interim basis by the Board special report stating that there was no new agreement like of Directors at its meeting of July 19, 2018, replacing Mr. Jeanthose referred to in Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Code Baptiste Chasseloup de Chatillon who resigned. of commerce, unconditionally acknowledges this point. Mr. Philippe de Rovira will perform his duties for the remaining term of office of his predecessor, specifically, until conclusion of the Ordinary General Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve Resolution five the financial statements for the previous fiscal year. REAPPOINTMENT OF ERNST & YOUNG AUDIT AS ACTING STATUTORY AUDITORS. NO REAPPOINTMENT AND NO REPLACEMENT OF Resolution eight AUDITEX AS ALTERNATE STATUTORY AUDITORS RATIFICATION OF THE INTERIM APPOINTMENT At the proposal of the Board of Directors, the General Meeting OF MR. GRÉGOIRE OLIVIER AS BOARD MEMBER reappoints Ernst & Young Audit, whose mandate expires on AND RENEWAL OF HIS TERM OF OFFICE conclusion of this General Meeting, as acting Statutory Auditors The General Meeting ratifies the appointment to the Board of for a term of six fiscal years, i.e. until conclusion of the Ordinary Mr. Grégoire Olivier, decided on an interim basis by the Board of General Meeting to be held in 2025 to approve the financial Directors at its meeting of October 10, 2018, replacing Mr. Carlos statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024. Tavares who resigned, for the remaining term of office of the At the proposal of the Board of Directors, having noted that the latter, specifically, until conclusion of this General Meeting. mandate of Auditex, the alternate Statutory Auditors, expires The General Meeting decides to renew the term of office of upon conclusion of this General Meeting, the General Meeting Mr. Grégoire Olivier, as a director, for a further period of four decides, under the law, not to renew or replace the aforesaid years. This term of office will expire on conclusion of the General alternate Statutory Auditors. Meeting to be held in 2023 to approve the financial statements for the previous fiscal year. Resolution six APPOINTMENT OF MAZARS, REPLACING Resolution nine PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS AUDIT, AS ACTING APPOINTMENT OF MS. YAN MEI AS BOARD MEMBER STATUTORY AUDITORS. NO REAPPOINTMENT AND NO REPLACEMENT OF MR. ETIENNE BORIS The General Meeting decides to appoint Ms. Yan Mei as a director, for a period of four years. This term of office will expire AS ALTERNATE STATUTORY AUDITOR following the General Meeting to be held in 2023 to approve At the proposal of the Board of Directors, the General Meeting the financial statements for the previous fiscal year. appoints Mazars to replace PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, whose mandate expires upon conclusion of this General Meeting, as acting Statutory Auditors for a term of six fiscal Resolution ten years, i.e. until conclusion of the Ordinary General Meeting to be held in 2025 to approve the financial statements for the fiscal APPOINTMENT OF MR. PETER MERTENS year ending December 31, 2024. AS BOARD MEMBER At the proposal of the Board of Directors, the General Meeting The General Meeting decides to appoint Mr. Peter Mertens as decides, after having noted that the mandate of Mr. Etienne a director, as of November 1, 2019, for a period of four years. Boris, the alternate Statutory Auditor, expires upon conclusion This term of office will expire following the General Meeting to of this Meeting, not to renew or replace the aforesaid alternate be held in 2023 to approve the financial statements for the Statutory Auditor, pursuant to the law. previous fiscal year. 302 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Resolutions Resolution eleven Mr. Michel de Rosen, Chairman of the Board of Directors, as set out in the explanatory notes to the resolutions. APPOINTMENT OF MR. DENIS MERCIER AS BOARD MEMBER The General Meeting decides to appoint Mr. Denis Mercier as a Resolution fifteen director, for a period of four years. This term of office will expire APPROVAL OF THE FIXED, VARIABLE AND following the General Meeting to be held in 2023 to approve EXCEPTIONAL ELEMENTS COMPRISING THE TOTAL the financial statements for the previous fiscal year. COMPENSATION AND ALL BENEFITS IN KIND PAID OR GRANTED FOR THE PAST FISCAL YEAR TO MR. PATRICK KOLLER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Resolution twelve The General Meeting, voting pursuant to Article L. 225-100, APPROVAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA FOR paragraph II of the French Code of commerce, approves the DETERMINING, ALLOCATING AND AWARDING THE fixed, variable and exceptional components comprising the FIXED, VARIABLE AND EXCEPTIONAL COMPONENTS total compensation and all benefits in kind paid or granted for OF TOTAL COMPENSATION AND ALL BENEFITS IN KIND the past fiscal year and corresponding to his term of office, to THAT MAY BE GRANTED TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE Mr. Patrick Koller, Chief Executive Officer, as presented in the BOARD OF DIRECTORS explanatory notes to the resolutions. The General Meeting, voting pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Code of commerce, approves the principles and criteria for determining, allocating and awarding the fixed, Resolution sixteen variable and exceptional components of total compensation AUTHORIZATION TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS and all benefits in kind that may be granted to the Chairman of AIMING TO ALLOW THE COMPANY TO BUY BACK ITS the Board of Directors by virtue of his term of office, as set out in OWN SHARES PURSUANT TO ARTICLE L. 225-209 OF THE the report referred to in the last paragraph of Article L. 225-37 of FRENCH CODE OF COMMERCE, DURATION OF the French Code of commerce, contained in the explanatory notes to the resolutions. AUTHORIZATION, PURPOSES, CONDITIONS, CEILING, SUSPENSION DURING PUBLIC OFFERINGS The General Meeting, after having read the report by the Resolution thirteen Board of Directors, authorizes the latter, for a period of eighteen months, in accordance with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the APPROVAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA FOR French Code of commerce, to purchase company shares, DETERMINING, ALLOCATING AND AWARDING THE in one or several installments, at such times that it deems FIXED, VARIABLE AND EXCEPTIONAL COMPONENTS OF appropriate, capped at 10% of the total number of shares in TOTAL COMPENSATION AND ALL BENEFITS IN KIND the Company’s capital stock, adjusted to take into account THAT MAY BE GRANTED TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE any possible increase or decrease in the share capital that may OFFICER occur during the program. The General Meeting, voting pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of This authorization terminates the authorization granted to the the French Code of commerce, approves the principles and Board of Directors by the General Meeting of May 29, 2018 in criteria for determining, allocating and awarding the fixed, its twelfth ordinary resolution. variable and exceptional components of total compensation Acquisitions are authorized in order to: and all benefits in kind that may be granted to the Chief Executive Officer by virtue of his term of office, as set out in  support the secondary market or the liquidity of Faurecia the report referred to in the last paragraph of Article L. 225-37 of shares, through an investment service provider under a the French Code of commerce, contained in the explanatory liquidity contract, in accordance with practices permitted notes to the resolutions. under the regulations, with the stipulation that in this context, the number of shares used to calculate the aforementioned cap corresponds to the number of shares purchased, less the number of shares resold; Resolution fourteen  retain the shares purchased and use these shares for APPROVAL OF THE FIXED, VARIABLE AND exchange or payment at a later stage, as part of any EXCEPTIONAL ELEMENTS COMPRISING THE TOTAL possible external growth transactions; COMPENSATION AND ALL BENEFITS IN KIND PAID OR  hedge stock option plans and/or free grant of shares plans GRANTED FOR THE PAST FISCAL YEAR TO MR. MICHEL (or similar plans) to the benefit of employees and/or Group DE ROSEN, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS corporate officers, as well as all allocations of shares as part The General Meeting, voting pursuant to Article L. 225-100 of a group or Company savings plan (or similar plan), under paragraph II of the French Code of commerce, approves a profit-sharing plan and or any other form of allocation the fixed, variable and exceptional components of total of shares to the benefit of the Group employees and/or compensation and all benefits in kind paid or granted for the corporate officers; past fiscal year and corresponding to his term of office, to / Registration document 2018 303 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Resolutions  hedge securities giving access to the allocation of Company On this basis, and for information only, the maximum amount, shares subject to the regulations in force; which the Company would pay, assuming a maximum purchase price of €110, would amount to €1,417,506,200 on the  cancel the shares acquired, if applicable, in accordance basis of the capital stock on December 31, 2018 (consisting of with the current or future authorization of an Extraordinary 138,035,801 shares), taking into account the 917,160 Company General Meeting. treasury shares on this date. Such shares may be purchased by any means, including The General Meeting grants all powers to the Board of Directors by acquiring blocks of shares, and at such times deemed to proceed with such transactions and determine the terms and appropriate by the Board of Directors. conditions applicable thereto, and to enter into any agreements The Board of Directors may not, without the prior authorization and carry out any formalities required in that regard. of the General Meeting, use this authorization during a public offering launched by a third party, involving company shares, until the end of the offering. Resolution seventeen The Company reserves the right to use optional mechanisms or RATIFICATION OF THE TRANSFER OF THE REGISTERED derivatives subject to the applicable regulations. OFFICE FROM 2, RUE HENNAPE, 92000 TO 23-27 The maximum purchase price per share is defined as €110. AVENUE DES CHAMPS-PIERREUX, 92000 NANTERRE In the event of transactions affecting the capital stock, in particular a division of shares, a reverse stock split or allocation The General Meeting expressly ratifies the decision taken by of free shares, the aforementioned amount will be adjusted in the Board of Directors at its meeting of October 10, 2018, to the same proportions (multiplication coefficient equal to the transfer the registered office from 2, rue Hennape, 92000 to 23ratio of the number of company shares prior to the transaction 27 avenue des Champs-Pierreux, 92000 Nanterre, effective as to the number of shares after the transaction). from November 1, 2018, and to amend the bylaws accordingly. Extraordinary resolutions Resolution eighteen Resolution nineteen AUTHORIZATION TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN DELEGATION OF POWERS TO THE BOARD OF VIEW OF CANCELING THE SHARES BOUGHT BACK BY DIRECTORS TO ISSUE ORDINARY SHARES GIVING THE COMPANY PURSUANT TO ARTICLE L. 225-209 OF ACCESS, IF APPLICABLE, TO ORDINARY SHARES OR THE FRENCH CODE OF COMMERCE, DURATION OF ALLOTMENT OF DEBT SECURITIES (OF THE COMPANY AUTHORIZATION, CEILING OR A DIRECT OR INDIRECT SUBSIDIARY), AND/OR After having read the report by the Board of Directors and the SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO ORDINARY SHARES Statutory Auditors’ report, the General Meeting: (OF THE COMPANY OR A DIRECT OR INDIRECT SUBSIDIARY) WITH PREFERENTIAL SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS 1) authorizes the Board of Directors to cancel, according to OR TO INCREASE THE SHARE CAPITAL BY its own decisions, in one or more transactions, and capped INCORPORATING RESERVES, PROFITS AND/OR at 10% of the capital stock calculated on the date of PREMIUMS, DURATION OF THE DELEGATION, MAXIMUM cancellation decision, less any shares canceled during the NOMINAL VALUE OF THE INCREASE IN THE SHARE previous 24 months, shares held by the Company, or which the Company may hold further to buy back transactions CAPITAL, OUTCOME OF FRACTIONAL SHARES, OPTION carried out pursuant to Article L. 225-209 of the French TO OFFER UNSUBSCRIBED SECURITIES TO THE PUBLIC, Code of commerce, and to reduce the capital stock in SUSPENSION DURING PUBLIC OFFERINGS accordance with the applicable laws and regulations; After having read the report by the Board of Directors and the 2) sets the validity of this authorization as eighteen months from Statutory Auditors’ special report, and in accordance with the this General Meeting; provisions of the French Code of commerce and, in particular, Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-130, L. 225-132 and L. 228-92 therein, 3) grants all powers to the Board of Directors to execute the the General Meeting: transactions required to carry out such cancellations and undertake the corresponding reductions in capital stock, 1. delegates powers to the Board of Directors to: and to amend the Company’s bylaws accordingly and a) issue the following, in one or several instalments, in the perform all the requisite formalities. proportions and at the times that it deems appropriate, on the French and/or international market, either in euros, or in foreign currency, or any other accounting unit set up by reference to a group of currencies:  ordinary shares, 304 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Resolutions  and/or ordinary shares giving access to the allocation  this ceiling shall be increased, if applicable, by any of other ordinary shares or debt securities, redemption premium above par value, and  and/or securities giving access to ordinary shares to be  this ceiling does not apply to debt securities which issued. issue would be decided or authorized by the Board of Directors in accordance with Article L. 228-40 of the In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Code French Code of commerce; of commerce, securities to be issued may give access to ordinary shares to be issued by any company in which 5. should the Board of Directors use this delegation of authority the Company directly or indirectly holds more than 50% within the scope of the issuances mentioned in 1.a) above: of the share capital, a) decides that the issue(s) of ordinary shares or securities b) increase in the capital stock, in one or several instalments, giving access to the share capital shall be reserved at the times and under the procedures it deems by preference to shareholders with an irreducible appropriate, by incorporating reserves, profits, premiums subscription right, and any other amounts which can be capitalized, by b) decides that if irreducible subscriptions and, if applicable, issuing shares or allocating free shares, or by increasing reducible subscriptions, do not absorb the entire issue the par value of existing ordinary shares, or by a set out under 1.a) above, the Board of Directors may combination of these two procedures; implement the following options: 2. decides, if the Board of Directors uses the delegation of  limit the amount of shares issued to the amount powers defined in 1.b), in accordance with the provisions subscribed, if applicable, subject to the limits provided of Article L. 225-130 of the French Code of commerce, in for by the regulations, the event of a capital increase through the grant of free shares, that fractional shares shall not be negotiable nor  freely allocate all or some of the unsubscribed securities, transferable and the corresponding shares shall be sold. The  offer all or part of unsubscribed securities to the public; proceeds of the sale shall be allocated to the holders of such rights, within the period provided for by the regulation; 6. decides that the Company may issue share subscription warrants through a subscription offer, but may also do so 3. sets the validity of this delegation of powers at twenty-six by granting free share awards to existing shareholders, while months from this Meeting; it is specified that the Board of Directors shall have the option 4. sets the authorized limit amounts for issues should the Board of deciding that fractional rights shall not be negotiable and of Directors decide to use the present delegation of powers, the corresponding shares shall be sold; as follows: 7. decides that the Board of Directors will hold the necessary a) the total nominal value of capital increases that may powers, subject to the above limits, with a sub-delegation result from use of this delegation of authority may not option in accordance with legal provisions, particularly in exceed €145 million (one hundred and forty-five million order to set the conditions and procedures to issue shares euros). or increase the share capital and to set, if appropriate, the issue price, and acknowledge the share capital increases The total nominal value of the increases in the share arising in consequence, modify the bylaws accordingly, capital which may be generated pursuant to resolution allocate, at its sole discretion, the cost of the increases twenty-one shall be deducted from the ceiling provided in the share capital to the share premium account, and for in the present resolution. deduct from this amounts the sums necessary to fund the If applicable, this ceiling may be supplemented by statutory reserve to one tenth of the new capital, after each the nominal value of any capital increase required to increase, and, more generally, take all necessary actions in preserve the rights of holders of securities giving access to this respect; the Company’s share capital, in accordance with legal 8. decides that the Board of Directors may not use this provisions and, if applicable, any contractual provisions delegation of authority without the prior authorization of providing for other types of adjustments, the General Meeting, in the event of a public offering filed b) the nominal value of debt securities that may be issued by a third party involving Company shares, until the end of by the Company in application of this delegation of such offering; authority may not exceed €1 billion (one billion euros), it 9. notes that this delegation of authority supersedes, where being specified that: applicable, the unused portion of any previous delegation  this amount is a total ceiling, which applies to all debt with the same purpose. securities that may be issued by application of this resolution and resolutions twenty and twenty-one, as submitted to this General Meeting, / Registration document 2018 305 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Resolutions Resolution twenty The nominal value of debt securities that may be issued by the Company in application of this delegation of authority DELEGATION OF POWERS TO THE BOARD OF may not exceed €1 billion (one billion euros), while it is DIRECTORS TO ISSUE ORDINARY SHARES GIVING specified that: ACCESS, IF APPLICABLE, TO ORDINARY SHARES OR  this amount shall be deducted from the ceiling of €1 billion ALLOTMENT OF DEBT SECURITIES (OF THE COMPANY (one billion euros) for the issue of debt securities as OR A DIRECT OR INDIRECT SUBSIDIARY), AND/OR established in point 4 of resolution nineteen above, SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO ORDINARY SHARES  this ceiling shall be increased, if applicable, by any (OF THE COMPANY OR A DIRECT OR INDIRECT redemption premium above par value, and SUBSIDIARY) WITHOUT PREFERENTIAL SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS BY PUBLIC OFFERING AND/OR IN  this ceiling does not apply to debt securities which issue CONSIDERATION OF SECURITIES WITHIN THE would be decided or authorized by the Board of Directors FRAMEWORK OF A PUBLIC EXCHANGE OFFER, in accordance with Article L. 228-40 of the French Code DURATION OF THE DELEGATION, MAXIMUM NOMINAL of commerce; VALUE OF THE INCREASE IN THE SHARE CAPITAL, 4) decides to cancel the preferential subscription rights of ISSUING PRICE, OPTION TO LIMIT THE AMOUNT OF shareholders to ordinary shares and to securities giving SUBSCRIPTIONS OR DISTRIBUTE UNSUBSCRIBED access to share capital and/or to debt securities subject SECURITIES, SUSPENSION DURING PUBLIC OFFERINGS to this resolution, while allowing the Board of Directors the option to grant a right of priority to shareholders, in Having considered the Board of Directors’ report and the accordance with legal provisions; Statutory Auditors’ special report, and in accordance with the provisions of the French Code of commerce, in particular, 5) decides that the amount coming, or due, to the Company Articles L. 225-129-2, L. 225-136, L. 225-148 and L. 228-92 therein, for each of the ordinary shares issued as per this delegation the General Meeting: of powers, shall be at least equal to the minimum amount required in accordance with the laws and regulations at the 1) delegates powers to the Board of Directors to issue the time when the Board of Directors implements this delegation, following, in one or several instalments, in the proportions after taking into consideration, in the event standalone and at the times it deems appropriate, on the French and/or warrants are issued, the issue price for these warrants; international market, or via a public offering, either in euros, or in foreign currency, or any other accounting unit set up 6) decides, if the event of an issue of securities as compensation by reference to a group of currencies: for securities contributed within the framework of a public exchange offer, that the Board of Directors, will hold, as per  ordinary shares, the conditions defined in Article L. 225-148 of the French  and/or ordinary shares giving access to the allocation of Code of commerce and subject to the above limits, the other ordinary shares or debt securities, necessary powers to set the list of securities contributed to the offer, the issuing conditions, the exchange parity and,  and/or securities giving access to ordinary shares to be if applicable, the amount of cash adjustment to be paid, issued. and the issuing procedure; These securities may be issued in order to compensate 7) decides that, in the event the subscriptions do not absorb any securities contributed to the Company as part of a the entire issue under 1/, the Board of Directors may use the public exchange offer, satisfying the conditions defined in following options: Article L. 225-148 of the French Code of commerce.  limit the amount of shares issued to the amount subscribed, In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Code if applicable, subject to the limits provided for by the of commerce, securities to be issued may give access to regulations, ordinary shares to be issued by any company in which the Company directly or indirectly holds more than 50% of the  freely allocate all or part of unsubscribed securities; share capital; 8) decides that the Board of Directors will hold the necessary 2) sets the validity of this delegation of powers as twenty-six powers, subject to the above limits, to set the conditions months from this Meeting; for the issue(s) of shares, if appropriate, acknowledge the capital increases arising as a consequence, modify the 3) the total nominal value of the ordinary shares that may bylaws accordingly, allocate, at its sole discretion, the cost be issued pursuant to this delegation of authority may not of the capital increases to the associated share premium exceed €95 million (ninety-five million euros); account, and deduct from this amount the sums necessary If applicable, this ceiling may be supplemented by the to fund the statutory reserve to one tenth of the new level nominal value of any capital increase required to preserve of capital, after each increase, and, more generally, take the rights of holders of securities giving access to the all necessary actions in this respect; Company’s share capital, in accordance with legal provisions and, if applicable, any contractual provisions providing for other types of adjustments. The total nominal value of the increases in the share capital which may be generated pursuant to resolution twenty-one shall be deducted from the ceiling provided for in the present resolution. 306 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Resolutions 9) decides that the Board of Directors may not use this If a pplicable, this ceiling may be supplemented by delegation of powers, without the prior authorization of the the nominal value of any capital increase required to General Meeting, in the event of a public offering filled by a preserve the rights of holders of securities giving access to third party involving Company shares, until the end of such the Company’s share capital, in accordance with legal offering; provisions and, if applicable, any contractual provisions providing for other types of adjustments. 10) notes that this delegation of authority supersedes, where applicable, the unused portion of any previous delegation The total nominal value of the increases in the share capital with the same purpose. which may be generated pursuant to resolution twenty shall be deducted from this ceiling. The nominal value of debt securities that may be issued by Resolution twenty-one the Company in application of this delegation of authority may not exceed €1 billion (one billion euros), while it is DELEGATION OF POWERS TO THE BOARD OF specified that: DIRECTORS TO ISSUE ORDINARY SHARES GIVING ACCESS, IF APPLICABLE, TO ORDINARY SHARES OR  this amount shall be deducted from the ceiling of €1 billion ALLOTMENT OF DEBT SECURITIES (OF THE COMPANY (one billion euros) for the issue of debt securities as OR A DIRECT OR INDIRECT SUBSIDIARY), AND/OR established in point 4 of resolution nineteen above, SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO ORDINARY SHARES  this ceiling shall be increased, if applicable, by any (OF THE COMPANY OR A DIRECT OR INDIRECT repayment premium above par value, and SUBSIDIARY) WITHOUT PREFERENTIAL SUBSCRIPTION  this ceiling does not apply to debt securities which issue RIGHTS BY AN OFFER DEFINED IN II OF ARTICLE L. 411would be decided or authorized by the Board of Directors 2 OF THE FRENCH MONETARY AND FINANCIAL CODE, in accordance with Article L. 228-40 of the French Code DURATION OF THE DELEGATION, MAXIMUM NOMINAL of commerce; VALUE OF THE INCREASE IN THE SHARE CAPITAL, 4) decides to cancel the preferential subscription rights for ISSUING PRICE, OPTION TO LIMIT THE AMOUNT OF shareholders to ordinary shares and to securities giving SUBSCRIPTIONS OR DISTRIBUTE UNSUBSCRIBED access to the share capital and/or to debt securities subject SECURITIES, SUSPENSION DURING PUBLIC OFFERINGS to this resolution; Having considered the Board of Directors’ report and the 5) decides that the amount coming, or due, to the Company Statutory Auditors’ special report, in accordance with the for each of the ordinary shares issued as per this delegation provisions of the French Code of commerce and, in particular, of powers, shall be at least equal to the minimum amount Articles L. 228-129-2, L. 225-136 and L. 225-92 therein, the required in accordance with the laws and regulations at the General Meeting: time when the Board of Directors implements this delegation, 1) delegates its powers to the Board of Directors in order to after taking into consideration, in the event standalone issue the following, in one or several instalments, in the warrants are issued, the issue price for these warrants; proportions and at the times it deems appropriate, on the 6) decides that, in the event the subscriptions do not absorb French and/or international market, or via a public offering the entire issue under 1/, the Board of Directors may use the as defined in II of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary following options: and Financial Code, either in euros, or in foreign currency, or using any other accounting unit set up by reference to a  limit the amount of shares issued to the amount subscribed, group of currencies: if applicable, subject to the limits provided for by the regulations,  ordinary shares,  freely allocate all or part of unsubscribed securities;  and/or ordinary shares giving access to the allocation of other ordinary shares or debt receivables, 7) decides that the Board of Directors will hold the necessary powers, subject to the above limits, to set the conditions  and/or securities giving access to ordinary shares to be for the issue(s) of shares, if appropriate, acknowledge the issued. capital increases arising as a consequence, modify the In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Code bylaws accordingly, allocate, at its sole discretion, the cost of commerce, securities to be issued may give access to of the capital increases to the associated share premium ordinary shares to be issued by any company in which the account, and deduct from this amount the sums necessary Company directly or indirectly holds more than 50% of the to fund the statutory reserve to one tenth of the new level share capital; of capital, after each increase, and, more generally, take all necessary actions in this respect; 2) sets the validity of this delegation of powers as twenty-six months from this Meeting; 8) decides that the Board of Directors may not use this delegation of powers, without the prior authorization of the 3) the total nominal value of the ordinary shares that may General Meeting, in the event of a public offering filled by a be issued pursuant to this delegation of authority may third party involving Company shares, until the end of such not exceed €95 million (ninety-five million euros), while it is offering; specified that this amount will also be capped at 20% of the capital per year (this limit is appraised on the date on 9) notes that this delegation of authority supersedes, where which the Board of Directors decides to use this delegation applicable, the unused portion of any previous delegation of authority). with the same purpose. / Registration document 2018 307 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Resolutions Resolution twenty-two than three years. The General Meeting authorizes the Board of Directors to decide if it wishes to stipulate a lock-up obligation AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE AMOUNT at the end of the vesting period. OF SHARES ISSUED, SUSPENSION DURING PUBLIC Notwithstanding, the permanent share grant shall occur OFFERINGS before the end of the vesting period in case of disability of the Having considered the Board of Directors’ report and the beneficiary corresponding to the classification in the second Statutory Auditors’ special report, the General Meeting decides and third categories stipulated in Article L. 341-4 of the French that for each issue of ordinary shares or securities giving access Social Security Code. to ordinary shares decided by virtue of resolutions nineteen The permanent share grant by virtue of this authorization to twenty-one herein, the Board of Directors is authorized will necessarily be subject to the fulfillment of one or several to increase the number of securities to be issued, under the performance conditions that the Board of Directors will conditions provided by Articles L. 225-135-1 and R. 225-118 of determine. the French Code of commerce and up to the ceiling set by the General Meeting. All powers are granted to the Board of Directors for the purposes of: The General Meeting decides that this authorization is valid for a period of twenty-six months from this Meeting.  setting the terms and conditions that apply to the grants, especially the performance conditions, recording their The General Meeting acknowledges that this delegation of fulfillment; powers supersedes any prior delegation with an identical purpose.  determining the identity of the beneficiaries and the number of shares granted to each of them; The Board of Directors may not use this authorization, without the prior authorization of the General Meeting, in the event of  where applicable: a public offering filled by a third party, until the end of such  recording the existence of sufficient reserves and upon offering. each grant transferring to the unavailable reserve account the sums needed to pay up the new shares that are to be granted, Resolution twenty-three  when the time comes, recording the capital increase(s) RESOLUTION TWENTY-THREE – AUTHORIZATION TO BE through capitalization of reserves, premiums or profits GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO GRANT, resulting from the issue of new shares that are permanently FOR FREE, EXISTING SHARES AND/OR SHARES TO BE granted, setting the dividend date of the future shares, amending the bylaws accordingly, and, more broadly, ISSUED IN THE FUTURE TO EMPLOYEES AND/OR carrying out all the required actions and formalities, CERTAIN CORPORATE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY OR OF AFFILIATED COMPANIES OR ECONOMIC GROUPS,  acquiring the shares needed as part of the share buyWAIVER BY THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THEIR PREFERENTIAL back program and allocating them to the share grant SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS, DURATION OF THE plan applying to existing shares, AUTHORIZATION, CEILING, DURATION OF THE VESTING  determining the effects on the beneficiaries’ rights from PERIOD, PARTICULARLY IN THE EVENT OF DISABILITY transactions changing the capital or shareholders’ equity Having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory completed during the vesting period and if necessary, Auditors’ special report, the General Meeting authorizes adjusting the beneficiaries’ rights, the Board of Directors to grant, in one or more transactions,  deciding whether to set a lock-up obligation at the end pursuant to Articles L. 225-197-1 and L. 225-197-2 of the French of the vesting period and, where applicable, setting its Code of commerce, ordinary shares in the Company currently duration and taking all steps needed to ensure that the in circulation or that may be issued in the future, to: beneficiaries abide by it,  employees of the Company or of companies or economic  and more broadly, acting within the law to take all actions groups that are directly or indirectly affiliated with it within that the implementation of this authorization requires. the meaning of Article L. 225-197-2 of the French Code of commerce; This authorization automatically constitutes a waiver by the shareholders of their preferential subscription right to new shares  and/or corporate officers who meet the criteria set by issued through capitalization of reserves, premiums or profits. Article L. 225-197-1 of the French Code of commerce. It is granted for a period of twenty-six months as of the date The total number of shares granted for free under this of this Meeting. authorization may not exceed 2,000,000 (two million) shares. Where applicable, it automatically invalidates any prior The total number of shares that may be granted for free to authorization with the same purpose, in the amount of the the executive and non-executive corporate officers may not unused portion. exceed 10% of the aforementioned number. The free share grant to the beneficiaries shall become permanent at the end of a vesting period whose length shall be set by the Board of Directors and that may not be shorter 308 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Resolutions Resolution twenty-four by the nominal value of any capital increase required to preserve the rights of holders of securities giving access to DELEGATION OF POWERS TO THE BOARD OF the Company’s share capital, in accordance with legal DIRECTORS TO INCREASE CAPITAL BY ISSUING provisions and, if applicable, any contractual provisions ORDINARY SHARES AND/OR SECURITIES GIVING providing for other types of adjustments; ACCESS TO ORDINARY SHARES, WITHOUT 5) decides that the share price of securities to be issued, by PREFERENTIAL SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS FOR application of the first paragraph of this delegation of BENEFICIARIES OF A COMPANY SAVINGS PLAN authority, may not be more than 20% lower than the average BY APPLICATION OF ARTICLES L. 3332-18 ET SEQ. of the opening price in each of the twenty trading days OF THE FRENCH LABOR CODE, DURATION OF THE immediately preceding the decision setting the opening DELEGATION, MAXIMUM NOMINAL AMOUNT date for the subscription period, or more than 30% lower OF THE CAPITAL INCREASE, ISSUE PRICE, OPTION than the aforesaid average price when the lock-up period TO ALLOCATE FREE SHARES BY APPLICATION OF stipulated in the plan applicable under Articles L. 3332-25 ARTICLE L. 3332-21 OF THE FRENCH LABOR CODE and L. 3332-26 of the French Labor Code is ten years or more (or any other maximum percentage stipulated by the legal Having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory provisions applicable at the time when the price is set), nor Auditors’ special report, and pursuant to Articles L. 225-129-6, may it be higher than that average; L. 225-138-1 and L. 228-92 of the French Code of commerce and L. 3332-18 et seq. of the French Labor Code, the General 6) decides, in application of the provisions of Article L. 3332Meeting: 21 of the French Labor Code, that the Board of Directors may allocate to the beneficiaries defined in the above 1) delegates powers to the Board of Directors so that it may, first paragraph, free shares, existing or to be issued, or if it deems necessary and at its sole discretion, increase the other securities giving access to the Company share capital stock in one or several transactions by issuing ordinary capital, existing or to be issued, based on (i) the employer shares or securities giving access to ordinary shares, in favor contribution, which may be paid in application of the of the beneficiaries of one or several company or Group rules for the company or Group savings plans, and/or (ii), if savings plans established by the Company and/or by French applicable, the discount; or foreign companies related to it, under the conditions of Article L. 225-180 of the French Code of commerce and 7) notes that this delegation of authority supersedes, where Article L. 3344-1 of the French Labor Code; applicable, the unused portion of any previous delegation with the same purpose. 2) cancels the preferential subscription right to the benefit of these individuals, for any shares issued pursuant to this The Board of Directors may or may not implement this delegation of powers; delegation of authority, take all requisite measures and undertake all necessary formalities. 3) sets the validity of this delegation of powers as twenty-six months from this General Meeting; 4) limits the maximum nominal value of the capital increase(s) Resolution twenty-five that it may carry out pursuant to this delegation of authority to 2% of the capital stock on the date of this General POWERS FOR FORMALITIES Meeting, this amount being independent of any other ceiling The General Meeting grants full powers to the holder of an applicable under other delegations granted for capital original version, copy or extract of this report in order to carry increases. If applicable, this ceiling may be supplemented out all disclosure or submission formalities required by law. / Registration document 2018 309 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Proﬁles of the Board members whose candidates appointment is put to the vote 5.4. Proﬁles of the Board members whose candidates appointment is put to the vote Yan Mei Ms. Yan Mei is Senior Partner, Chair of China – Brunswick group Main positions currently held (China) where she overseas Brunswick’s China business and acts as a counselor to senior executives.  Senior Partner, Chair of China – Brunswick group (China). She holds a MA and M-Phil degree in International Relations and Political Science respectively from Columbia University and New-York, and a Master in Advanced Russian Area Studies from Other current positions and corporate Hunter College at the City University of New York. She also holds offices a Bachelor of Arts degree in Russian Language and Literature  Senior Advisor at KKR & Co. Inc. since March 2019. from Beijing Normal University.  Vice-Chair of the Board of the Golden Bridges Foundation. She started her career as a journalist for ITN Channel 4 News from 1988 to 1990.  Member of the 2005 Committee. From 1991 to 2001, she worked as International Assignment  Member of the China Women’s Club. Editor and later as the Head of China Desk at CNN (USA).  Member of the Western Returned Scholars Association. From 2001 to 2005, she joined Turner International Asia Pacific as Vice President. From 2005 to 2009, she held the position of  Regular speaker at preeminent events, including the Chief Strategy Officer and Chief Representative at News Corp Hamburg Summit and POWER Shanghai. (Beijing). Before joining Brunswick group in 2013, she was Managing Director of MTV Networks Greater China and Chief Positions and corporate offices held Representative of Viacom Asia (Beijing). within the last 5 years and which have Ms. Yan Mei, of Chinese nationality, will be 63 years old on the expired date of the General Meeting. Ms. Yan Mei’s business address is that of the Company. Dr. Peter Mertens Dr. Peter Mertens is an Executive at Audi. In 2010, he joined the Management Board of Jaguar Land Rover and managed the Corporate Quality for the entire Tata After completing his studies of Production Engineering at the Motors group, including the Jaguar Land Rover Brand. Ostwestfalen-Lippe University of Applied Sciences, he earned a Master of Sciences degree in Industrial Engineering and From March 2011, he assumed responsibility for research Operations Research from Virginia Polytechnic Institute in the and development as Senior Vice President, Research and United States in 1985. Development for the Volvo Car group (Göteborg, Sweden). From 1985 to 1990, he supervised the Technology Transfer In May 2017, Dr. Peter Mertens was appointed Chief Technical department at the University of Kaiserlautern (Germany) and Officer of Audi. received his Dr.-Ing. (Doctor of Engineering) degree. Dr. Peter Mertens, of German nationality, will be 58 years old In 1990, Dr. Peter Mertens started his career in the automotive on the date of the General Meeting. industry. He held multiple management positions with Dr. Peter Mertens will be appointed Board member of Faurecia Mercedes-Benz AG, prior to taking over management of at the next combined general meeting, with effect on Tegaron Telematics GmbH, a joint venture of Daimler Chrysler November 1, 2019. At this date, he will have left the Audi Group. Services AG and Deutsche Telekom AG, in 1996. Dr. Peter Mertens’ business address is that of the Company. In 2002, he joined Adam Opel AG as Executive Director for midsize and large product lines. In 2004, he became responsible for the compact product lines of General Motors Europe and, starting in 2005, for all compact product lines of General Motors worldwide. 310 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Proﬁles of the Board members whose candidates appointment is put to the vote Main positions currently held Positions and corporate offices held  Executive at Audi (until October 31, 2019) within the last 5 years and which have expired  Member of the Management of AUDI AG, Germany (from Other current positions and corporate May 2017 till September 2018) offices  Senior Vice-President, Research and Development for the Volvo Car group, Göteborg, Sweden (from March 2011 to 2017) Denis Mercier Mr. Denis Mercier is Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Fives Main positions currently held Group, member of its Executive Committee. Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Fives Group, member of its He is an engineering graduate from the French Flying School Executive Committee. (1979). From 1979 to 2008, he holds various positions within the French Air Armee. Other current positions and corporate After having been Commandant of the French Flying School at offices Salon de Provence (France) from 2008 to 2010, he becomes  Chairman of the Board of Fives Vostok principal private secretary of the French Minister of Defense from 2010 to 2012.  Board member of Fives Engineering Shanghai Co., Ltd Between 2012 and 2015, he holds the position of Chief of Staff  Board member of Fives Automation & Processing Equipment of the French Air Armee and is raised to the rank of General Co., Ltd of the Air Force.  Board member of École de l’Air (EPSCP) From 2015 to September 2018, he holds the position of Supreme Allied Commander of the NATO’s Transformation and joins Fives group in October 2018. Positions and corporate offices held Mr. Denis Mercier was made Grand Officier Légion d’honneur within the last 5 years and which have and Officier de l’Ordre national du Mérite by the French expired government. Supreme Allied Commander of the NATO’s Transformation Of French nationality, he will be 59 years old on the date of the (Norfolk naval base – USA), from 2015 to September 2018. General Meeting. Mr. Denis Mercier’s business address is that of the Company. / Registration document 2018 311 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Proﬁles of the Board members whose cooptation is put to the vote 5.5. Proﬁles of the Board members whose cooptation is put to the vote Philippe de Rovira Mr. Philippe de Rovira is Chief Financial Officer of Groupe PSA FRENCH UNLISTED COMPANIES since August 2018 and a member of the Executive Committee.  Chairman of Autobiz He graduated from ESSEC Business School.  Board member of Automobiles Citroën He began his career in Groupe PSA in 1988 as an internal  Board member of Banque PSA Finance auditor, following which he held a number of financial or commercial positions including Head of Group Control. From August 1, 2017 to August 1, 2018, he was Vice President Finance, FOREIGN LISTED COMPANIES Chief Financial Officer and Member of the Management Board of Opel Automobiles GhmH. FOREIGN UNLISTED COMPANIES Other positions and corporate offices Board member of PSA International S.A. in 2018 outside of Faurecia Positions and corporate offices held FRENCH LISTED COMPANIES within the last five years and which have Chief Financial Officer of Groupe PSA, Member of the Executive expired (2014-2018) Committee. Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Member of the Management Board of Opel Automobiles GmbH (August 2017 – August 2018). Grégoire Olivier Mr Grégoire Olivier has been General Secretary of Groupe PSA  Permanent Representative of Peugeot S.A., Board member since January 2018 and a member of the Executive Committee. of Automobiles Citroën (since February 2018). He is a graduate of École Polytechnique, holds an engineering degree from École des Mines de Paris and an MBA from the FOREIGN LISTED COMPANIES University of Chicago. After holding several positions within Pechiney and Alcatel between 1991 and 2001, he led Sagem between 2001 and FOREIGN UNLISTED COMPANIES 2006. He was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Board member of PCMA Holding B.V. – Netherlands (since of Faurecia in 2006. He joined Groupe PSA in 2007 as a member July 2018) ; of the Managing Board and Executive Vice President of the Automobile Programs and Strategy Department and became  Board member of Peugeot Citroën Automoviles Espana S.A. Executive Vice President, China and ASEAN. In September 2016, Spain (since June 2018). he joined the Executive Committee and became Executive Vice President of Mobility Services. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have Other positions and corporate offices expired (2014-2018) in 2018 outside of Faurecia  Member of the Managing Board, Executive Vice President China and ASEAN, Groupe PSA (from 2010 to 2016) ; FRENCH LISTED COMPANIES  Executive Vice President of Mobility Services, Groupe PSA General Secretary of Groupe PSA and member of the Executive (from September 2016 to January 2018) ; Committee.  Board member of DPCA, CAPSA ; FRENCH UNLISTED COMPANIES  Board member of EYSA-PSA Smart City Mobility Services S.A.  Board member of Automobiles Peugeot (since février 2018) ; Spain (from 2016 to 2018). 312 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Reports 5.6. Reports 5.6.1. Statutory Auditors’ reports 5.6.1.1. Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on related-party agreements and commitments issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Faurecia, we hereby report to you on related-party agreements and commitments. It is our responsibility to report to shareholders, based on the information provided to us, on the main terms and conditions of the agreements and commitments that have been disclosed to us or that we may have identified as part of our engagement, as well as the reasons given as to why they are beneficial for the Company, without commenting on their relevance or substance or identifying any undisclosed agreements or commitments. Under the provisions of Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), it is the responsibility of the shareholders to determine whether the agreements and commitments are appropriate and should be approved. Where applicable, it is also our responsibility to provide shareholders with the information required by Article R. 22531 of the French Commercial Code in relation to the implementation during the year of agreements and commitments already approved by the Annual General Meeting. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying that the information given to us is consistent with the underlying documents. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBMITTED FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING We were not informed of any agreements or commitments authorized and entered into during the year to be submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Pursuant to Article R. 225-30 of the French Commercial Code, we were informed that the following agreements and commitments, approved by the Annual General Meeting in previous years, remained in force during the year ended December 31, 2018. 1. Deﬁned contribution pension plans (Article 83 of the French Tax Code [Code général des impôts]) and deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans (Article 39 of the French Tax Code) set up for all Group employees in France Date of authorization Board of Directors’ decisions of April 13, 2016 and July 25, 2016. Person concerned Patrick Koller, in his capacity as Deputy Chief Executive Officer until June 30, 2016 and Chief Executive Officer as from July 1, 2016. Nature and purpose Defined contribution pension plans (Article 83 of the French Tax Code) and defined benefit pension plans (Article 39 of the French Tax Code) set up for all Group employees in France. Terms and conditions This plan consists of:  a defined contribution plan relating to salary tranches A and B, with total contributions representing 1% on tranche A and 6% on tranche B of the compensation, without any contribution by the beneficiary;  a defined benefit plan under the terms of which potential rights increase each year by 1% on salary tranche C. Both of these plans are open to all Group managers with at least one year’s seniority at the time of retirement for the defined contribution plan and at least five years’ seniority for the defined benefit plan. / Registration document 2018 313 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Reports At its meeting of July 25, 2016, the Board of Directors confirmed that Patrick Koller, who no longer has an employment contract with the Company, could remain a beneficiary of these two plans after July 1, 2016 in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer. Furthermore, in accordance with Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code as amended by the Law of August 6, 2015 (the Macron law), the Board of Directors decided to make Patrick Koller’s entitlement to the defined benefit plan (Article 39 of the French Tax Code) subject to the following performance condition, linked to his annual variable compensation:  in the event the variable compensation objectives are achieved at 80% or above, an increase of 1% of the potential entitlement (limited to salary tranche C) will be acquired for the period in question;  in the event the variable compensation objectives are achieved below 80%, the increase in entitlement will be reduced in proportion to the level at which the objectives were achieved (e.g., an objective achieved at 30% would lead to an increase of 0.30% of the potential entitlement). As of December 31, 2018, the estimated amounts of the pension entitlement of Patrick Koller under these two plans were as follows:  defined contribution plan: €4,567 annually;  defined benefit plan: €31,791 annually. No payment was made in 2018 to Patrick Koller under these two plans. 2. Speciﬁc supplementary deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan set up for members of the Executive Committee (Article 39 of the French Tax Code) Date of authorization Board of Directors’ decision of July 25, 2016. Person con&cerned Patrick Koller, in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer as from July 1, 2016. Nature and purpose Specific supplementary defined benefit pension plan (Article 39 of the French Tax Code). Set up following a decision by the Board of Directors at its meeting of February 11, 2015 and modified by a unilateral decision made by the Chief Executive Officer on July 4, 2016, this plan was intended for members of Faurecia’s Executive Committee who have an employment contract with the Company, either in progress or suspended, or hold corporate office in France, and have served on the Executive Committee for a minimum of three consecutive calendar years as from the implementation of the plan or the date they joined the Executive Committee. Terms and conditions Faurecia guarantees beneficiaries of the plan an annual pension determined according to the Company’s operating income and budget authorized by the Board of Directors using the formula defined below: ∑ Xi* R  R = annual reference compensation  Xi = entitlement for each year of seniority (i) equal to:  3% if operating income for the year is greater than 105% of the budgeted operating income,  2% if operating income for the year is between 95% and 105% of the budgeted operating income,  1% if operating income for the year is less than 95% of the budgeted operating income. The operating income for year Y is defined based on the income statement for year Y authorized by the Board of Directors in year Y+1 and the initial budget for year Y authorized by the Board of Directors in year Y-1. As of December 31, 2018, the estimated amount of the pension entitlement of Patrick Koller under this plan was €335,834. No payment was made in 2018 to Patrick Koller under this plan. 3. Termination payment Date of authorization Board of Directors’ decision of July 25, 2016. Person concerned Patrick Koller, in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer as from July 1, 2016. 314 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Reports Nature and purpose Termination payment. Terms and conditions The termination payment is subject to the following conditions: i. the termination payment would be due to Patrick Koller in the event of his being removed from office as Chief Executive Officer at the Company’s initiative, except in the event of serious or gross misconduct by Patrick Koller; ii. no termination payment would be due if Patrick Koller resigns or retires; iii. the termination payment is subject to the following performance conditions: a. achieving positive operating income over each of the three financial years prior to the end of Patrick Koller’s term of office as Chief Executive Officer, b. achieving positive net cash flow over each of the three financial years prior to the end of Patrick Koller’s term of office as Chief Executive Officer; iv. the amount of the termination payment would be equal to 24 months of Patrick Koller’s reference compensation (fixed compensation and target variable compensation) if the two conditions set out above are met over each of the three financial years in question, which in practical terms amounts to meeting six criteria; v. should one of the six criteria not be met in a given year, the termination payment would be reduced by one-sixth and therefore could be equal to zero if none of the six criteria are met; vi. should Patrick Koller’s term of office as Chief Executive Officer be less than three years, the termination payment would be calculated using the same method, but the number of criteria would be adjusted to take into account the actual duration of his term of office. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, April 26, 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Ernst & Young Audit Dominique Ménard Jean-Roch Varon / Registration document 2018 315 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Reports 5.6.1.2. Statutory Auditors’ report on the share capital reduction This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Faurecia and in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) applicable in the event of a share capital reduction by canceling purchased shares, we hereby report to you on our assessment of the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed share capital reduction. The shareholders are requested to delegate to the Board of Directors, for a period of eighteen (18) months from the date of this Meeting, full powers to cancel treasury shares, pursuant to an authorization granted in accordance with the provisions of the above-mentioned article, up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital as calculated on the date of the cancellation decision, less any shares canceled over the previous twenty-four (24) months. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in ensuring that the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed share capital reduction, which would not undermine shareholder equality, comply with the applicable legal provisions. We have no matters to report on the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed share capital reduction. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, April 26, 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Ernst & Young Audit Dominique Ménard Jean-Roch Varon 5.6.1.3. Statutory Auditors’ report on the issue of shares and/or securities with or without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Faurecia SE and in accordance with the provisions of articles L. 228 92 and L. 225 135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposed delegations of authority to the Board of Directors to issue shares and/or securities, which are submitted to you for approval. On the basis of the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders are requested to:  delegate to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty-six (26) months, the authority to decide to carry out the following transactions and set the final terms and conditions of the related issues and, if necessary, to cancel the shareholders’ pre emptive subscription rights:  the issue, with pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders (nineteenth resolution), of ordinary shares and/or ordinary shares carrying rights to other ordinary shares or debt securities and/or securities carrying rights to new ordinary shares, it being understood that, in accordance with article L. 228 93 of the French Commercial Code, securities to be issued may carry rights to ordinary shares to be issued by any company in which the Company holds, directly or indirectly, more than half of the share capital;  the issue, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, by way of a public offer (twentieth resolution) of ordinary shares and/or ordinary shares carrying rights to other ordinary shares or debt securities and/or securities carrying rights to new ordinary shares:  it being understood that these securities could be issued as consideration for shares contributed to the Company in a public exchange offer for securities meeting the conditions set forth in article L. 225 148 of the French Commercial Code; 316 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Reports  o it being understood that, in accordance with article L. 228 93 of the French Commercial Code, securities to be issued may carry rights to ordinary shares to be issued by any company in which the Company holds, directly or indirectly, more than half of the share capital;  the issue, without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders (twenty-first resolution), of ordinary shares and/ or ordinary shares carrying rights to other ordinary shares or debt securities and/or securities carrying rights to new ordinary shares (by way of an offer referred to in article L. 411 2 II of the French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier) and within the annual limit of 20% of the share capital), it being understood that, in accordance with article L. 228 93 of the French Commercial Code, securities to be issued may carry rights to shares to be issued by any company in which the Company holds, directly or indirectly, more than half of the share capital. The aggregate nominal amount of the share capital increases that may be carried out, either immediately or in the future, may not exceed €145 million in respect of the nineteenth resolution, or €95 million in respect of the twentieth and twenty-first resolutions. The aggregate nominal amount of the debt securities that may be issued pursuant to the nineteenth to twenty-first resolutions may not exceed €1 billion. These limits take into account the additional securities to be issued in connection with the delegations of authority granted in respect of the twentieth and twenty-first resolutions in accordance with article L.225 135 1 of the French Commercial Code, in the event the shareholders adopt the nineteenth resolution. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with articles R. 225 113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancellation of the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights, and on certain other information relating to these transactions, which is presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information contained in the Board of Directors’ report relating to these transactions and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of the proposed issues, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report in respect of the twentieth and twenty-first resolutions. In addition, as this report does not stipulate the methods used to set the issue price in the event that securities are issued pursuant to the nineteenth resolution, we do not express an opinion on the basis used to calculate the issue price. As the final terms and conditions of the issues have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the cancellation of the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights proposed in the twentieth and twenty-first resolutions. In accordance with article R. 225 116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report if and when the Board of Directors uses these delegations of authority to issue securities carrying rights to other securities or debt securities, to issue securities carrying rights to new securities, or to issue shares without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, April 26, 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Ernst & Young Audit Dominique Ménard Jean-Roch Varon / Registration document 2018 317 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Reports 5.6.1.4. Statutory Auditors’ report on the authorization to grant existing shares or shares to be issued This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Faurecia and in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposed authorization to grant existing shares or shares to be issued to (i) employees of the Company or of companies or economic groups that are directly or indirectly affiliated with it within the meaning of Article L. 225-197-2 of the French Code of commerce and/or (ii) and/or corporate officers who meet the criteria set by Article L. 225-197-1 of the French Code of commerce, which is submitted to you for approval. The total number of shares granted under the authorization may not exceed 2,000,000 shares, and the total number of shares that may be granted to the executive corporate officers may not exceed 10% of that amount. On the basis of the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders are requested to authorize the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty-six (26) months, to grant existing shares or shares to be issued. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report on the proposed transaction. It is our responsibility to report to you on the information provided to you on the proposed transaction. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted primarily in verifying that the arrangements proposed and the information provided in the Board of Directors’ report comply with the applicable legal provisions. We have no matters to report on the information provided in the Board of Directors’ report concerning the proposed authorization to grant shares. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, April 26, 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Ernst & Young Audit Dominique Ménard Jean-Roch Varon 318 / Registration document 2018 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 5 Reports 5.6.1.5. Statutory Auditors’ report on the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities carrying rights to the share capital and reserved for members of a Company savings plan This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Faurecia S.A. and in accordance with the provisions of Articles L. 228-92 and L. 225-135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposed delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to increase the share capital by issuing ordinary shares and/or securities carrying rights to the share capital without pre-emptive subscription rights for existing shareholders, reserved for members of a Company or Group savings plan set up by the Company and/or any related French or foreign companies, for a maximum amount of 2% of the Company’s share capital at the date of this Meeting, which is submitted to you for approval. This capital increase is submitted to the shareholders for approval pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-129-6 of the French Commercial Code and Articles L. 3332-18 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du travail). On the basis of the Board of Directors’ report, the shareholders are requested to delegate to the Board of Directors, for a period of twenty-six (26) months, the authority to increase the share capital and to cancel the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights in respect of the shares to be issued. Where applicable, the Board of Directors will be responsible for setting the final terms and conditions of any such issue. It is the Board of Directors’ responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R. 225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the financial information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancellation of the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights, and on certain other information relating to the issue, which is presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information provided in the Board of Directors’ report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the shares to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of the proposed issue, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the shares to be issued given in the Board of Directors’ report. As the final terms and conditions of the issue have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancellation of the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights. In accordance with Article R. 225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report if and when the Board of Directors uses this delegation of authority. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Paris-La Défense, April 26, 2019 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Ernst & Young Audit Dominique Ménard Jean-Roch Varon / Registration document 2018 319 5 Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Reports 320 / Registration document 2018 6. Other information 6.1. Background 322 6.2. Legal information 326 6.3. Organizational structure as of December 31, 2018 330 6.4. Additional information on audits of ﬁnancial statements 332 6.5. Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document and information ofﬁcer 333 6.6. Cross-reference tables 334 / Registration document 2018 321 6 Other information Background 6.1. Background 1891. The first automobiles, in the modern sense, are made, businesses in bedding (Epeda and Mérinos), aeronautics powered by gasoline engines. The first steel tubes follow, (Ratier-Figeac) and luggage (Delsey). patented by Peugeot. They are produced mainly at Audincourt, 1992. Ecia sells its cycle business, then its tool business the in the Doubs region of eastern France. following year and makes significant acquisitions in companies 1914. Bertrand Faure opens his first workshop, making seats for specializing in exhaust, with Tubauto and Eli Échappement in Paris trams and underground trains, at Levallois-Perret. France, Leistritz Abgastechnik in Germany and Silenciadores PCG in Spain. Ecia then becomes the European leader in 1929. Bertrand Faure acquires the license for the Epeda process, exhaust systems. At the same time, its Automotive Seating enabling the Company to improve its seats for the automotive Division joins forces with the Spanish automotive equipment industry and develop a new product, the spring mattress. Both supplier Irausa to form Ardasa. The Company supplies exhaust businesses took off significantly after the Second World War. systems, seats, interior fittings and front ends to Volkswagen, Bertrand Faure clients include Renault, Peugeot, Citroën, Talbot, Renault, Daimler Chrysler, Opel, Honda and Mitsubishi. Panhard-Levassor, Berliet and Simca. December 11, 1997. Ecia makes a friendly takeover bid for 1950. Bernard Deconinck, the son-in-law of Joseph Allibert, who Bertrand Faure, bringing its direct and indirect stake in the formed the Allibert company in Isère in 1910, decides to invest Group to 99%. While Bertrand Faure sold its luggage (Delsey) in an enormous injection press from the United States. He could and aeronautics (Ratier-Figeac) businesses, Ecia sold its use this equipment to mold large plastic parts from a single motorcycle business (Peugeot Motocycles) to the PSA Peugeot clamping unit. He changes his customer base from refrigerator Citroën group in 1998. manufacturers to the automotive industry. June 1, 1999. Ecia and Bertrand Faure merged giving birth to 1955. The Frères Peugeot company, with subsidiaries including the Faurecia company, resulting in the PSA Peugeot Citroën Peugeot et Cie, starts producing automotive equipment. The group holding a 52.6% stake in Faurecia by the end of 1999. companies diversify over the years, making seats, exhaust Faurecia then reports sales of over €4 billion, with a workforce systems, and steering columns. They extend operations outside of 32,000. Apart from boosting its size and its global position in France, dropping some products to concentrate on new lines. automotive seating, Bertrand Faure also provides Ecia with a 1972. François Sommer, grandson of Alfred Sommer, merges broader geographical and commercial presence, especially in his automotive floor coverings company with that of Bernard Germany, where the Company has strong links with automakers Deconinck’s company, Allibert. They combine their know-how such as Volkswagen and BMW. in textiles and plastics to found the Sommer Allibert group. Late 1999. The Faurecia group develops its exhaust systems In the early 1980s, Sommer Allibert invests heavily to meet the business in North America by acquiring the US company AP needs of the automotive industry and becomes a leading Automotive Systems. specialist in interior vehicle fittings for all of the major automakers. October 2000. Faurecia purchases Sommer Allibert. The PSA International expansion follows, with the acquisition of SpainPeugeot Citroën group finances the transaction, thus increasing based Lignotock, and an extended presence in Germany from its shareholding in Faurecia to 71.5%. Well established in 1993. Germany and Spain, the Group commanded a significant 1987. Cycles Peugeot merges with Aciers & Outillages Peugeot European market share for vehicle interior fittings, especially to form Ecia (Équipements et Composants pour l’Industrie door and instrument panels and acoustic modules. Automobile), the PSA Peugeot Citroën group’s specialist 2001. The acquisition of Sommer Allibert is completed with a automotive equipment subsidiary. Over the next ten years, public offer to buy out Sommer Allibert’s minority shareholders. Ecia undergoes concentrated industrial and geographical The resulting group has sales of €9.6 billion. Faurecia then buys development. out the remaining minority shares held by external shareholders 1990. The company Epeda Bertrand Faure, which started out in Sommer Allibert’s German subsidiary SAI Automotive AG. as a manufacturer of seats and benches for transport vehicles, 2002. The Faurecia group acquires 49% of the South Korean such as automobiles, railroad passenger cars and streetcars, catalytic converter maker Daeki Industrial, number two in its gradually diversifies into other business segments: first bedding market. The same year, Faurecia forms a joint venture with the with the Epeda and Mérinos brands, then luggage under the Taiwanese automotive equipment company GSK, with a view Delsey name in 1982, and finally aeronautics with Ratier-Figeac to making seats at Wuhan, in China. in 1987. Nevertheless, its core business is still manufacturing components for car seats, particularly for the French market. 2003. Faurecia follows up these acquisitions by buying the South From 1977, it acquires businesses in Portugal, Spain and Korean exhaust systems company Chang Heung Precision, Canada and gains a toehold in Germany, but the Company’s which has market share of over 20%. This gives Faurecia’s exhaust international expansion enters a new phase in 1990 when it systems business a manufacturing presence in all continents. acquires the Rentrop group in Germany. Epeda Bertrand Faure In Europe, the Group signs an agreement with Siemens-VDO, then became the European leader in automotive seating. which strengthens and expands their joint venture (SAS): this Throughout the 1990s until 1998, the Company concentrated company assembles cockpits for BMW, Daimler Chrysler, the its expertise in automotive equipment, selling off its other Ford group, Renault-Nissan and the Volkswagen group. 322 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Background 2005. The Group strengthens its presence in Korea by increasing Plastic Products Co. Ltd to make exterior automobile parts; and, its shareholding in Daeki (specializing in exhaust systems for in June, by enlarging the scope of its cooperation with the Hyundai) to 100%, and signs a joint-venture agreement with Changchun Xuyang group. This allows it to develop locally, the South Korean company Kwang Jin Sang Gong (specializing specifically with the FAW group. In July, it signs an agreement in door modules for Hyundai Motors and Kia Motors). with the Economic and Technological Development Zone of Yancheng for an investment project allowing Faurecia to 2007. The Group takes over the bumper activity of Cadence develop its seat-mechanism activity. Innovation France, thus strengthening its market position in this sector in France. In November, Faurecia launches a €350 million bond issue maturing in December 2016. (The issue is supplemented by 2009. Faurecia acquires Emcon Technologies (formerly Arvin another €140 million issue in February 2012 with the same Industries), and becomes the world leader in exhaust systems. maturity date) and a syndicated line of credit is arranged This business combination strengthens Faurecia’s position with for €1,150 billion, in two tranches: A (€690 million) and B automakers in Germany (as Arvin Industries acquired Zeuna (€460 million) maturing in November 2014 and November 2016 Stärker in 1998), the USA (particularly Ford), South America, respectively. India and Thailand. It gives Faurecia a route into the niche commercial-vehicles market (trucks and off road). With this 2012. On May 3, Faurecia announces its acquisition of the Ford all-equity acquisition, One Equity Partners (JP Morgan Chase ACH interior components plant in Saline, Michigan (USA). This & Co.’s private equity arm), holds a 17.3% stake in Faurecia and plant supplies cockpit modules, instrument panels, door panels PSA Peugeot Citroën’s interest is reduced to 57.4%. and center consoles for 12 automotive programs assembled in 8 Ford plants across North America. Faurecia buys out its joint-venture partner Tata to become the sole owner of Taco Faurecia Design Center. The company is In parallel with this acquisition, Faurecia signs a joint venture renamed Faurecia Automotive Engineering India and becomes agreement with Rush group Ltd, a Rush group company. The Faurecia’s development center in India. joint venture, called Detroit Manufacturing Systems (DMS), takes over activities such as the assembly and sequencing of interior 2010. Faurecia becomes the European leader in automotive parts at a new plant in Detroit. exterior parts by acquiring the German activities of Plastal, and subsequently Plastal España S.A. With these transactions, On February 14, Faurecia announces that in addition to its the Faurecia Automotive Exteriors Business Group enlarges €350 million bond issue in November 2011, it has placed another its customer base, which now includes Ford and Germany’s issue with a nominal value of €140 million. four premium automakers, upgrades its product range, and On April 27, Faurecia announces that it has placed a new bond strengthens both its industrial presence and its R&D capacity. issue with a nominal value of €250 million, maturing in June 2019. It was able to expand internationally, setting up a joint venture in China with Huaxiang, supplier of exterior parts to FAWOn August 30, Faurecia announces that with effect from that Volkswagen. date, it has acquired Plastal France (Plastal SAS), a supplier of plastic body parts for Smart branded vehicles (Daimler After taking an 18.75% stake in Xuyang group, in China, the group). The transaction follows the previous acquisitions of Group is able to expand the line of products and services Plastal Allemagne and Plastal Espagne in 2010, and includes offered in the strategic areas of complete seats, interior the manufacturing and assembly plant and the operational systems, acoustic modules, and interior covers. A strategic headquarters in Hambach (France). alliance with the Geely and Limin groups marks a significant new development stage for Faurecia Interior Systems and On September 10, Faurecia issues convertible bonds Faurecia Automotive Exteriors in China. (OCEANE), maturing on January 1, 2018. After exercising an over-allotment option on September 12, 2012, it raises In the fourth quarter of 2010, Faurecia Automotive Seating €249,999,989.00 (12,833,675 bonds). bought the “seat comfort technology” business of the German company Hoerbiger Automotive Komfortsysteme GmbH, and On November 29, Faurecia launches a level 1 ADR program diversified its technological offer in complete seats. listed on the “over-the-counter” (OTC) market in the USA. Each Faurecia ordinary share (listed on the NYSE Euronext Paris Finally, to strengthen the technological prowess of Faurecia market) comprises two ADR shares. Interior Systems, the Group acquired Angell-Demmel Europe GmbH, the world leader in decorative metal parts for 2013. On April 10, Faurecia Interior Systems signs a joint venture automobile interiors. agreement with the Thai component manufacturer Summit Auto Seats to support Ford in its development in South-East 2011. In January, Faurecia takes a 21.2% stake in the Danish Asia, particularly in Thailand. company, Amminex A/S, thus strengthening its diesel emission control technology. On April 22, Faurecia and Chang’an Automobile group, one of the largest automakers in China, sign a joint-venture Faurecia also strengthens its presence in China by signing, in agreement. January, a new joint venture agreement with Ningbo Huazhong / Registration document 2018 323 6 Other information Background On November 19, Faurecia and Magneti Marelli announce 2016. On July 27, Faurecia and Italian company Tabu S.p.A., their agreement to cooperate in designing, developing which specializes in the production of flexible wood trim, sign and manufacturing HMI products for vehicle interiors. The a partnership agreement which results in the set-up of the agreement will enhance the added value of interior solutions joint venture Ligneos, S.r.l. on September 5. With Tabu’s unique for the vehicles that Faurecia and Magneti Marelli supply to expertise in the selection, cutting and treatment of wood, the automakers and end customers. two partners have developed patented technology aimed at extending the use of decorative wood in cars, covering a On December 30, Faurecia redeems early the OCEANE bonds wider range of surfaces. maturing on January 1, 2015 (ISIN FR0010827055). Bondholders opt virtually unanimously to convert their bonds into Faurecia On July 29, in keeping with the memorandum of understanding shares: 11,284,793 shares (99.83% of the total outstanding) were signed on December 14, 2015, Faurecia sells its Automotive converted into 11,736,190 new Faurecia shares. Exteriors business to Plastic Omnium. The transaction had been authorized by the European Commission on the condition that 2014. On January 29, Faurecia announces the establishment, Plastic Omnium commit to selling the French sites and one with the Japanese automotive equipment manufacturer Spanish site focused on the bumper business, along with the Howa, of a joint venture called Faurecia Howa Interiors, for front-end module assembly business in Germany. the production in Mexico of interior systems for Renault-Nissan. The agreement signed opens up new commercial prospects On October 2, Faurecia and Azin Khodro sign a partnership for Faurecia: with Nissan in Mexico, Thailand, Spain, Brazil and agreement for the set-up of a joint venture in Iran (Azin Faurecia in South Africa. Interior Systems Company), to develop and produce instrument panels, door panels, center consoles and acoustic modules, On October 3, Faurecia announced the establishment of with production due to be launched in early 2018. 50:50 joint venture with Interval, a major French agricultural cooperative. On November 29, Faurecia and German premium automaker Borgward sign a partnership agreement for the set-up of a joint This agreement results in the establishment of Automotive venture (Borgward Faurecia Auto Systems Co., Ltd) in Tianjin, Performance Materials (APM) which aims to develop and China, to jointly develop and produce complete automotive produce biosourced raw materials in order to continue seats for the new Borgward vehicles. Faurecia’s drive to reduce vehicle weight while respecting the environment. On December 2, Faurecia signs a partnership agreement with MAAD, an Iranian joint venture between the Iranian groups Note that in 2014 Faurecia celebrates 20 years of presence in Crouse and Avrand, for the purpose of setting up another joint China. It is also the year in which Faurecia returns to the Paris venture, Faurecia Crouse Advanced Exhaust System Co. to Motor Show after an absence of 12 years. develop and produce emission control systems for the Iranian 2015. On March 27, Faurecia and Dongfeng Hongtai, a automobile market. The start of production is scheduled for the subsidiary majority owned by Dongfeng Motor Corporation, beginning of 2017. one of the largest automotive groups in China, enter into a On December 6, Faurecia announces that it has entered into broad partnership agreement covering all of the Faurecia exclusive talks with Parrot Automotive, one of the leaders in group’s business activities. The first result of this partnership is the connectivity and infotainment solutions for the automotive formation, in May 2015, of two joint ventures, one with a view industry, in view of developing applications and platforms for to the development, manufacture and delivery of automotive connected vehicles. The first step will consist in acquiring a 20% interior components (Dongfeng Faurecia Automotive stake in Parrot Automotive. Faurecia could increase its stake to Interior Co., Ltd) and the other with a view to the development, 50.01% as from 2019 and acquire all Parrot Automotive shares manufacture and delivery of automotive exterior components by 2022. If the talks are successful, the project will be launched (Dongfeng Faurecia Automotive Exterior Co., Ltd). in the first half of 2017. On September 24, Faurecia and Beijing WKW Automotive On December 13, Faurecia, who has been working in close Parts Co., Ltd, one of China’s leading manufacturers of collaboration with Danish company Amminex since midautomotive interior and exterior decorative parts, sign a joint 2009 and held 42% of its capital stock, announces that it has venture agreement. Together, the two partners aim to unlock increased its stake in this company to 91.5%. The remaining synergies in the area of aluminum interior decorative parts for shares are held by the Danish foundation Nordea-fonden. light vehicles. Amminex has developed an ammonia storage and delivery On December 7, Faurecia announces the early redemption, system (ASDS™) which has shown its efficiency in eliminating effective January 15, 2016, of the OCEANE bonds convertible nitrogen oxides (NOx) in diesel engines. By increasing its stake in into or exchangeable for new or existing shares issued in this company, Faurecia intends to step up the development of September 2012. this technology for utility vehicles, trucks and passenger vehicles. Faurecia is also examining other applications for ASDS™, such On December 14, Faurecia signs a Memorandum of as for agricultural vehicles, earthmoving machinery and the Understanding (MoU) for the sale of its worldwide Automotive high-power engines used in boats and ships. Exteriors business to Compagnie Plastic Omnium. The business that would be sold, which is comprised of bumpers and front 2017. On February 21, Faurecia announces that it has entered end modules, has sales of €2 billion in 2014 and employs into a partnership agreement with TactoTek, a Finnish company 7,700 people in 22 industrial sites. The Automotive Composites providing solutions for Injection Molded Structural Electronics business, the Faurecia plant supplying components to Smart in (IMSE): integrating printed circuitry and electronic components Hambach (France), and two joint ventures in Brazil and China into 3D injection molded plastics. This investment in TactoTek are not included in the deal. The transaction is based on an strengthens Faurecia’s capabilities for the development and enterprise value of €665 million. The transaction is expected to production of intelligent surfaces which are necessary for the close during 2016. Cockpit of the Future. 324 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Background On March 27, Faurecia announces that it has finalized and On March 16, Faurecia announces an investment in the French signed its strategic partnership with Parrot Automotive. This start-up Enogia in order to enhance its expertise in energy partnership will allow Faurecia to accelerate development of recovery technology. electronic solutions for the connected vehicle. On May 9, Faurecia announces an investment in Powersphyr On May 4, Faurecia and ZF announce a strategic partnership to (a start-up based in the Silicon Valley) intended to accelerate work on developing disruptive and differentiating interior and its solutions designed for a connected, intuitive Cockpit of the safety technologies for autonomous cars. Future. On May 15, Faurecia announces the acquisition of exclusive On May 23, Faurecia announces an investment in American access to the intellectual property and manufacturing knowstart-up Promethient, thus strengthening the Group ecosystem how of STELIA Aerospace Composites in composite hydrogen dedicated to thermal management technologies for tanks. This acquisition supplements Faurecia’s investment in Adtomorrow’s mobility solutions. venta, which invented a valve that makes it easier to power On June 11, Faurecia announces the signing of a framework fuel cells. agreement for a strategic partnership with one of China’s On October 10, Faurecia and MAHLE, an automotive supplier, leading automakers, FAW group. This agreement concerns announce a partnership that will focus on the development Cockpit of the Future technologies and sustainable mobility of innovative interior heat management technologies for the solutions. mobility solutions of the future. On July 6, Faurecia and Parrot finalized a framework agreement On November 6, Faurecia acquires a majority stake in Chinese to acquire as expected 100% of Parrot Automotive by Faurecia. company Jiangxi Coagent Electronics Co., Ltd, which is On July 24, Faurecia announces an investment in start-up renamed Faurecia Coagent Electronics S&T Co., Ltd. The new SUBPAC, thus strengthening the Group ecosystem dedicated joint venture will develop integrated, innovative infotainment to a customized, adaptable and connected Cockpit of the solutions on board vehicles. Future. On December 22, Faurecia announces it has agreed to acquire On October 1, Faurecia announces the completion of the full 100% of the Swiss company Hug Engineering, which is held by acquisition of Parrot Faurecia Automotive. the German group ElringKlinger, a leader in the European market in complete exhaust gas purification systems for engines On October 25, Faurecia announces the creation of a new greater than 750 HP and one of the main global players in its joint venture with Liuzhou Wuling Automotive Industry Co., Ltd, segment. China’s leading car parts manufacturer. 2018. On January 5, Faurecia and Accenture – a global leader On October 26, Faurecia announces the signing of agreements in technology consulting – announce a five-year partnership with Clarion and Hitachi, which holds a controlling interest of agreement intended to speed up innovation in mobility 63.8% in Clarion, for a public offer aimed at acquiring 100% of services. Faurecia and Accenture will combine their innovation Clarion. expertise and co-invest to create products and services for On November 21, Faurecia announces the signing of a strategic connected and autonomous vehicles. partnership with electronics and lighting specialist HELLA, for the On February 15, Faurecia’s Board of Directors decides to seek development of innovative interior lighting solutions. the approval of shareholders to transform the Company into On December 19, Faurecia announces an investment in ESP a European Company. Consulting, an innovative French laboratory using cognitive On March 1, Faurecia announces the completion of its sciences to optimize human performance and well-being in acquisition of 100% of Swiss company Hug Engineering, a a variety of situations. market leader in exhaust gas purification systems for high On December 26, Faurecia changes its corporate form to horsepower engines (above 750hp). become a European Company. / Registration document 2018 325 6 Other information Legal information 6.2. Legal information COMPANY NAME AND HEADQUARTERS The documents may also be viewed on the Company’s website at www.faurecia.com. Company name: Faurecia Registered office: 23-27, avenue des Champs-Pierreux – 92000 Nanterre – France CORPORATE PURPOSE Telephone: +33 (0) 1 72 36 70 00 Under Article 3 of the bylaws, the Company’s corporate Fax: +33 (0) 1 72 36 70 07 purpose is: www.faurecia.com  to create, acquire, run, directly or indirectly manage, by acquisition of holdings, by rental or by any other means, in LEGAL FORM Europe and internationally, all forms of industrial companies, Since December 26, 2018, Faurecia is a European company trading companies, and tertiary sector companies; subject to the legal framework of companies whose shares  to research, obtain, acquire and use patents, licenses are admitted to trading Euronext Paris stock exchange and processes and trademarks; governed by the French Code of commerce and legal texts applicable to it; it complies with the corporate governance  to rent all types of real estate, bare or constructed; standards generally recognized in France and, in particular,  to provide administrative, financial and technical assistance the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed to subsidiaries and affiliates; companies.  to run plants and establishments which it owns or may Faurecia abides by the legal and regulatory provisions that acquire in the future; apply to the governing bodies of listed companies and reports in this Registration Document on the application of the  to manufacture, use and/or sell, regardless of form, its own recommendations made in relation to said Code. products or those of affiliated enterprises;  to manufacture and commercialize, by direct or indirect STATUTORY AUDITORS means, all products, accessories or equipment, regardless The Company’s financial statements are audited by two of their nature, intended for industrial use, and in particular Statutory Auditors appointed in accordance with Article L. 225the automobile industry; 228 of the French Code of commerce.  to directly or indirectly participate in all financial, industrial or commercial operations that may relate, directly or indirectly, DATE OF INCORPORATION AND TERM to any one of the above-mentioned purposes, including but not limited to setting up new companies, making asset Incorporated on July 1, 1929 contributions, subscribing to or purchasing shares or voting Company term expiry date: May 28, 2117 rights, acquiring an interest or holding, mergers, or in any other way. INCORPORATION DETAILS and, more generally, to conduct any industrial, commercial The Company is registered with the Nanterre Trade and and financial operations, and operations relating to fixed or Companies Registry under number 542 005 376. unfixed assets, that may relate, directly or indirectly, to any one of the above-mentioned purposes, totally or partially, or APE (business identifier code) is: 7010Z. to any similar or related purposes, and even to other purposes of a nature to promote the Company’s business. CONSULTATION OF CORPORATE DOCUMENTS During the period of validity of this Registration Document, the ROLE OF THE COMPANY IN RELATION following documents (or copies thereof) can be consulted at TO ITS SUBSIDIARIES the Company’s headquarters: Faurecia is a holding company, whose assets are primarily a. the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws; made up of equity interests. The Company’s industrial assets are held by the operating subsidiaries. b. historical financial information about Faurecia and its subsidiaries for each of the two fiscal years preceding the Faurecia provides direct and indirect financial, accounting, publication of the Registration Document. management, administrative and other services to Group companies. CONTACT DETAILS The list of consolidated companies at December 31, 2018 is provided in Chapter 1.1. This information is usefully supplemented Faurecia by a simplified organization chart of the operational companies Legal department in the Faurecia group, provided in Section 6.3 of this Registration 23-27, avenue des Champs-Pierreux Document. 92000 Nanterre 326 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Legal information FISCAL YEAR The right to participate in General Meetings shall be substantiated in accordance with the current statutory The Company’s fiscal year covers the 12-month period from provisions. January 1 to December 31. The rights of shareholders, which may only be amended in DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS accordance with the conditions laid down by French law, are not affected by any other provision of the bylaws. Income available for distribution corresponds to net income for the year, less any losses carried forward from prior years and VOTING RIGHTS any amounts appropriated to reserves in compliance with the law or the bylaws, plus any retained earnings. The Company’s bylaws do not provide for any restrictions on voting rights. Voting rights at Ordinary, Extraordinary and Special Out of this income, the General Meeting determines the portion General Meetings are exercisable by the beneficial owner of attributed to shareholders in the form of dividends and deducts the shares. the amounts it considers appropriate to allocate to any reserve funds or to carry forward. The bylaws assign double voting rights to all fully paid-up shares that have been registered in the name of the same holder for However, except in the case of a capital stock reduction, no at least two (2) years. In the case of a bonus share issue paid distributions may be made to shareholders if the Company’s up by capitalizing retained earnings, income or additional paidshareholders’ equity represents – or would represent after the in capital, the bonus shares allotted in respect of registered planned distribution – less than its capital stock plus any reserves shares carrying double voting rights will also carry double voting which, according to the law or the bylaws, are not available rights as from the date of issue. This double voting right may for distribution. be canceled following a decision of the Extraordinary General The General Meeting may also decide to distribute amounts Meeting and after having informed a special meeting of the deducted from optional reserves in order to pay or increase a beneficiary shareholders. dividend or pay a special dividend. Shares that are transferred or converted to bearer form are The Company’s bylaws provide that the Ordinary General stripped of double voting rights. However, double voting Meeting approving the financial statements for the year may rights are not lost and the above-mentioned two-year period also decide to offer each shareholder the option between the continues to run when shares are transferred following the payment of the dividend or the interim dividend in cash or in liquidation of a marital estate, or by way of an inheritance or shares. in the form of an inter vivos gift to a spouse or a relative in the direct line of succession. DIVIDENDS – STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS There are no special rights of control. Dividends not collected within five years of the payment date will be time-barred and paid over to the French Treasury. EQUITY THRESHOLDS THAT MUST BE DISCLOSED TO THE COMPANY REGISTRAR AND PAYING AGENT Under Article 31 of the bylaws, when any natural person or The registrar and paying agent for Faurecia shares is Caceis legal entity, acting alone or with others as defined in Article Corporate Trust, 14, rue Rouget-de-Lisle, 92862 Issy-lesL. 233-10 of the French Code of commerce, owns or ceases Moulineaux Cedex 9, France. to own a number of shares so that the capital stock or voting rights held cross a threshold of 2% or any multiple of 2% (or when the holding crosses the thresholds defined in the laws and STOCK MARKET DATA regulations) that person must notify the Company by registered Faurecia’s share (EO. PA) is listed on compartment A of the letter with acknowledgement of receipt of the total number of Euronext Paris market (ISIN code FR 0000121147). It is on the shares and voting rights he or she holds, within four (4) trading CAC Next20 index (since December 18, 2017) and the MSCI days of the threshold being crossed. This applies in addition to France (since November 30, 2017). the obligations relating to crossing legally-defined thresholds. In the case of failure to comply, at the request of one or GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS several shareholders present or represented at the meeting The rules governing the participation of shareholders in General with combined holdings representing at least 2% of the capital Meetings are described in Article 24 and 25 of the Company’s stock or voting rights, the undisclosed shares will be stripped of bylaws, and may be consulted at www.faurecia.com. voting rights. Said request must be recorded in the minutes of the General Meeting. General Meetings are held at the Company’s registered office or at any other venue specified in the notice of meeting. This provision supplements the statutory requirements concerning disclosure thresholds in Article L. 233-7 of the French Holders of registered shares are notified by mail; the other Code of commerce. shareholders are notified via the relevant banks and brokers through the financial notices provided for by the applicable The rights of shareholders, which may only be amended in regulations. accordance with the conditions laid down by French law, are not affected by any other provision of the bylaws. A continually updated schedule of all of the Group’s financial events, including the date of the General Meetings, is available on Faurecia’s website at www.faurecia.com. / Registration document 2018 327 6 Other information Legal information AGREEMENT THAT, IF IMPLEMENTED, COULD CHANGE The measures taken by the Company to avoid abuse of control THE CONTROL OF THE COMPANY OR THAT COULD are described in this Registration Document: DELAY, POSTPONE, DEFER OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN  Section 2.1 of this Registration Document: “Participants and CONTROL systems in risk control”; To the best of the Company’s knowledge there are no  Section 3.1.1.1.1.3 of this Registration Document: arrangements in place whose operation could result in a “Independence of members of the Board of Directors”; change in control of the Company at a future date.  Section 3.1.1.1.3 of this Registration Document: “Organization There are currently no deeds, bylaws, charters, regulations or of the work of the Board of Directors”. provisions in place that could delay, postpone or prevent such a change in control. MAJOR CONTRACTS AGREEMENTS ENTERED INTO BY THE COMPANY WHICH To date, Faurecia has not entered into any major contracts ARE AMENDED OR TERMINATED IN THE EVENT OF A that would entail a significant obligation or commitment for the Group, other than those that fall within the ordinary course CHANGE IN CONTROL OF THE COMPANY of business. The syndicated loan agreement entered into by the Company on December 15, 2014 includes an acceleration clause under DEPENDENCE which – subject to certain conditions – each bank may require immediate payment of outstanding sums in the event of a See Section 2, “Risks and risk control”, and especially risk change of ownership of the Company. This also applies to the associated with the automotive supplier business, supplier risk bridge loan of €1.3 billion, which secures the financing of the and intellectual property risk. acquisition of Clarion Co. Ltd, as well as the private placement governed by German law (Schuldscheindarlehen) that partially SIGNIFICANT PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT refinances that bridge loan for an amount of €700 million (see With nearly 300 sites (including 35 R&D centers), in 37 countries Note 26.3 to the consolidated financial statements). across the world, Faurecia is a global leader in its three areas The bonds issued on April 1, 2016 and on March 8, 2018, provide of business: Seating, Interiors and Clean Mobility. None of for early repayment in the event of a change of control. its manufacturing equipment taken on an individual basis represents a material value in relation to the property, plant None of the above transactions include a minimum and equipment of the Group as a whole. They are mostly Peugeot S.A. shareholding clause. dedicated to client programs. As a result, utilization rates are largely dependent on business levels. With very few exceptions, AGREEMENTS PROVIDING FOR THE PAYMENT OF utilization rates for equipment and facilities are not monitored COMPENSATION TO BOARD MEMBERS OR EMPLOYEES centrally or systematically. There are no agreements of the type referred to in Article Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements provides L. 225-37-5, paragraph 10 of the French Code of commerce further information on the Group’s property, plant and in favor of members of the Board of Directors or employees. equipment. MEASURES TAKEN BY THE COMPANY TO ENSURE THAT CONTROL IS NOT EXERCISED IN AN ABUSIVE MANNER The Company is controlled in the sense of Article L. 233-3 of the French Code of commerce, as shown in the table breaking down ownership in Section 3.2.1. 328 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Legal information / Registration document 2018 329 6 Other information Organizational structure as of December 31, 2018 6.3. Organizational structure as of December 31, 2018 FAURECIA 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% 85.03% Faurecia Hennape Six Faurecia Automotive Tecnoconfort Servicios Corporativos de 100% 14.97% Services Groupe Faurecia Automotive Seating India Faurecia USA Holdings, (France) Belgium (Belgium) (Spain) Personal Especializado, S.A. (France) Private Ltd (India) de CV (Mexico) Inc. (United States) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 14.66% Faurecia Madison Faurecia North Faurecia Mexico Faurecia Exhaust Faurecia Emissions Hug Engineering, Faurecia Emissions Control Automotive Seating, America, LLC. Holdings, LLC Systems, LLC Control Systems N.A., LLC. Inc. (USA) Technologies, USA, LLC Inc.(United States) (United States) (United States) (United States) (United States) (United States) 42.95% 60.59% Valencia Modulos Faurecia Interior Faurecia Interior Asientos de Castilla Faurecia Holdings de Puerta, S.L. Systems SALC Espana, Systems Espana, S.L. Leon, S.L. Asientos del Norte, S.L. Asientos de Galicia, S.L. (Spain) (Spain) Espana, S.L. (Spain) S.L. (Spain) (Spain) (Spain) (Spain) 100% 50.05% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 24.75% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Sistemas de Czech Republic s.r.o. Faurecia Romania s.r.l. Incalplas, S.L. Control Technologies, Escape Espana, S.L. Slovakia (Spain) (Czech Republic) (Slovakia) (Romania) Pamplona, S.L. (Spain) (Spain) 45% 45% 45% 100% 100% 100% 100% Détroit Manufacturing Détroit Manufacturing Faurecia Interior Systems Faurecia Interiors Faurecia Interior Systems Toledo and DMS Leverage Lender Faurecia DMS, LLC Louisville, LLC (LLC) (United States) Systems, LLC. (United States) Saline, LLC. Systems, Inc. Non-Automotive, LLC (United States) (United States) (United States) (United States) (United States) 4% 4% 4% 44% 100% 100% 59.97% 50% Total Network FNK North Faurecia Automotive 6.03% Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Faurecia Tongda Exhaust Faurecia Hicom Emissions Manufacturing, LLC. America, LLC. Seating, LLC. Systems Shanghai Co. Ltd System (Wuhan) Control Technologies (M) (United States) (United States) (United States) (China) Co., Ltd (China) Sdn. Bhd (Malaysia) 5% 65% 100% 100% 100% 100% 91.5% 70% 100% Faurecia Exhaust Faurecia Emissions Amminex Faurecia OOO Faurecia Faurecia Exhaust Exhaust Services Mexicana, Control Technologies Emissions Systems ApS Metalloprodukcia Metalloprodukcia Exhaust S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) Systems s.r.o. Canada Ltd International (France) (Czech Republic) (Denmark) Holding (France) Systems (Russia) (Canada) 83.65% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia Sistemas de Faurecia Systèmes Escape Argentina SA d'Echappement Hug Engineering AG Hug Engineering Italia (Argentina) (France) (Suisse) S.r.l. (Italy) 100% 16.31% 100% 100% 100% 100% Hug Engineering B.V. Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Emissions Control ET Dutch Holdings BV Technologies, Hungary Kft Technologies, Italy SRL Technologies, Thaïland Co. Ltd (Netherlands) (Netherlands) (Hungary) (Italy) (Thaïlande) 61.43% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 51% 19.92% Faurecia Emissions Control ET Mexico Holdings II, S. Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Automotive FMM Pernambuco Componentes Faurecia Sistemas Automotrices Technologies UK Ltd de R.L. de C.V. Control Technologies, Mlada Boleslav, s.r.o. do Brasil Ltda Automotivos Ltda de Mexico, S.A. de CV (United States) (Mexico) Netherlands B.V. (Czech Republic) (Brazil) (Brazil) (Mexico) (Netherlands) 18.65% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Parrot Automotive Asia Parrot Automotive Faurecia Switzerland Faurecia Luxembourg 97.9% Faurecia Investments Parrot Faurecia Application Products Faurecia AST Luxembourg S.A. Automotive Paciﬁc Limited (Shenzhen) Co. Limited GmbH S.à.r.l. (France) (Hong Kong China) (Suisse) (Luxembourg) (Luxembourg) (France) (China) 2.1% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia Sièges Ecsa Siebret Siedoubs Siemar Faurecia Seating Flers Faurecia Ventures d'Automobile Sielest (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 99% 1% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Components Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Midlands Ltd Pisek s.r.o. Faurecia Plzen, s.r.o. Faurecia Japan KK Development Composites Seating UK Ltd (United States) Exteriors Bumpers (United States) (Czech Republic) (Czech Republic) (Japan) (Russia) (France) (Russia) 100% 50% 50% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Walbrzych Faurecia R&D Center Faurecia Gorzow S.A. Faurecia GSK (Wuhan) Industrias Cousin Frères, Polska S.A. Faurecia Legnica S.A. Teknik Malzeme S.A. S. A. (Poland) (Poland) Automotive Seating Co., Ltd S.L. (Poland) (Spain) (Turkey) (Poland) (Poland) (China) 100% 100% 100% 100% 51% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia (China) Holding Faurecia Emissions Faurecia (Shanghaï) Faurecia (Qingdao) Exhaust Faurecia (Guangzhou) Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia (Nanjing) Faurecia (Shenyang) Control Technologies Automotive Systems Co., Systems Co., Ltd Automotive Systems Co., Ltd Technologies (Yantaï) Co., Ltd Automotive Systems Co., Automotive Systems Co., Co., Ltd Developement (Shanghaï) (China) Co. Ltd (China) Ltd (China) (China) (China) (China) Ltd (China) Ltd (China) 100% 100% 60% 100% 72.5% 51% 40% 50% Faurecia (Changshu) Faurecia (Haining) Changchun Faurecia Tianjin Faurecia Xuyang Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Emissions Control Changchun Xuyang Zhejiang Faurecia Limin Automotive System Co., Ltd Automotive Systems Co., Xuyang Automotive Seat Automotive Seat Co., Ltd Technologies (Chongqing) Co., Technologies (Chengdu) Co., Ltd Faurecia Acoustic & Soft Interior & Exterior Systems (China) Ltd (China) Co., Ltd (China) (China) Ltd (China) (China) Trim Co., Ltd (China) Co., Ltd (China) 51% 91% 51% 60% 45% 91% 66% Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Emissions Control Foshan Faurecia Xuyang Interior Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Faurecia PowerGreen Emissions Faurecia Emissions Control Control Technologies Technologies (Foshan) Co., Systems Company Limited Automotive Components Control Technologies Co. Ltd Technologies (Ningbo Hangzhou Technologies (Nanchang) Technologies R&D Company Co., Ltd (China) (Ningbo) Co., Ltd (China) Ltd (China) (China) (China) Bay New District) Co., Ltd Limited (China) (China) 50% 50% 50% 50% 51% 51% 52% 50% Dongfeng Faurecia Dongfeng Faurecia Dongfeng Faurecia (Wuhan) Qinhuangdao WKW-FAD Faurecia (Tianjin) Automotive Faurecia (Tianjin) Emissions Faurecia Yinlun (Weifang) Dongfeng Faurecia (Xiangyang) Automotive Exterior Automotive Interior Co., Ltd Automotive Parts Sales Automotive Interior Parts Systems Co., Ltd Control Technologies Co. Ltd Emissions Control Emissions Systems Co., Ltd (China) (China) Co., Ltd (China) Co., Ltd (China) (China) (China) Technologies Co. Ltd (China) Co. Ltd (China) 50% 50% 50.1% 100% 70% 50% 50% 50% Faurecia Liuzhou Automotive Faurecia (Liuzhou) Automotive Faurecia Coagent Guangdong Coagent Global Shenzhen Faurecia Automotive Chongqing Guangneng Faurecia Hontai Faurecia Composite Faurecia Liuzhou Automotive Seating Co., Ltd Seating Sales Co., Ltd Electronics S&T Co., Ltd S&T Co., Ltd Parts Co., Ltd Interior Systems Company (Wuhan) Interior Systems Co., Ltd (China) (China) (China) (China) (China) Limited (China) Co., Ltd (China) (China) 330 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Organizational structure as of December 31, 2018 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Intérieur Faurecia Smart Faurecia Intérieurs Faurecia Intérieurs Faurecia Industries TRECIA Industrie Industrie Holdings (France) Technologies Saint-Quentin Mornac (France) FR20 (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% Faurecia Faurecia Interior Faurecia Interior Faurecia Argentina Faurecia Interior Faurecia & Summit Interior Hambach Automotive Industrie N.V. Exteriors (France) Systems Bohemia s.r.o. Pardubice s.r.o. S.A. Systems Thaïland Co., Systems (Thailand) Co. Ltd (Belgium) (Czech Republic) (Czech Republic) (Argentina) Ltd (Thailand) (Thailand) 51% 50% 50% 50% 50% 38% Faurecia Howa Interior Faurecia Howa Euro Auto Plastic Automotive Basis Mold India Interiors Co., Ltd Ligneos, S.r.l. Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Systems s.r.l. (Italy) Performance Pvt Ltd (Mexico) (Japan) (Romania) Materials (France) (India) IN10 100% 100% 100% 99.99% 100% 100% SAI Automotive SAI Automotive Faurecia Interiors PFP Acoustic and Soft Faurecia Interior Systems 000 Faurecia Interior Fradley Ltd Washington Ltd Systems India Trims India South Africa (Pty) Ltd Luga (Russia) (United States) (United States) Pvt Ltd (India) Pvt Ltd (India) (South Africa) 0.01% 100% 100% 100% 63.88% Faurecia Automotive Espana, S.A. Faurecia Exhaust Faurecia Interior Faurecia Emissions Control Systems South Africa Systems Pretoria (Pty) Technologies (Cape Town) (Spain) (South Africa) Ltd (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd (South Africa) 10.66% 43.33% 28.77% 25.81% 55.02% 25.46% 100% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive FCM Yeongcheon FAS Yeongcheon Faurecia Emissions Industrie Spain, S.L. Faurecia Korea Ltd Co. Ltd Co. Ltd Control Technologies, GmbH (Korea) (Germany) DE13 (Spain) (Korea) (Korea) India Pvt Ltd (India) 27.9% 100% 100% 74% 19.17% 100% 100% 50% 100% 50% Faurecia Asientos Faurecia (Wuxi) Faurecia (Changchun) Changchun Faurecia 10% Seating Components Copo Iberica, S.A. Automotive Systems Xuyang Interior Systems Para Automovil Espana, S.A. (Spain) Co., Ltd (China) (Spain) Co., Ltd (China) Company Limited (China) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% Faurecia Angell-Demmel Faurecia Innenraum Faurecia Interior Systems Faurecia Poliﬂeks Componentes de Hug Engineering GmbH Faurecia Autositze GmbH GmbH Systeme GmbH Sweden AB Otomotiv Sanayi Ve Ticaret Vehiculos de Galicia S.A. (Germany) (Germany) (Germany) (Germany) (Sweden) A.S. (Turkey) (Spain) 100% 100% 51% Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Abgastechnik Faurecia Exhaust SAS Automotive Systems Changchun SAS Automotive N.V. Technologies, Germany GmbH GmbH (Belgium) France (Germany) (Germany) Co Ltd (China) (France) 100% 100% 50% 100% 100% 100% 99,99% 100% SAS Autosystemtechnik SAS Autosystemtechnik SAS Auttomotive de SAS Automotive SAS Automotive SAS Autosystemtechnik Systems, S.A. de CV Systems & Services S.A. GmbH & Co. KG Verwaltungs GmbH S.A. (Spain) Portugal, Unipessoal Lda (Germany) (Germany) (Portugal) (Mexico) de CV (Mexico) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% SAS Automotive USA, SAS Autosystemtechnik SAS Automotriz SAS Automotive SAS Otosistem Teknik Cockpit Automotive SAS Automotive Inc. s.r.o. Argentina S.A. do Brasil LTDA Ticaret ve Limited Systems Rennes S.A.S.U. s.r.o. (United States) (Czech Republic) (Argentina) (Brazil) Sirketi (Turkey) (France) (Slovakia) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Société Tunisienne Faurecia Informatique Faurecia Equipements Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive del Faurecia Security d'Equipements Automobiles Morocco Systems Technologies Industries Morocco, Sarl Uruguay., Ltd Technologies Ltd d'Automobile Tunisie (Tunisia) (Tunisia) (Morocco) (Morocco) (Morocco) (Uruguay) (Israel) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% Faurecia-Assentos de Faurecia-Sistemas de FaureciaEstofagem de Faurecia-Sistemas Automovel, Limitada SASAL Escape Portugal, Lda Assentos, Lda de Interior de Portugal. Faurecia-Assentos Lda (Portugal) Componentes Para (Portugal) (Portugal) (Portugal) (Portugal) Automovel S.A. 19% (Portugal) 50% 19% 19% 19% Faurecia-NHK Co., Ltd Faurecia-NHK Kyushu NHK F. Krishna India PT. NHK F. KBU Indonesia Faurecia Exhaust Systems Faurecia (Chongqing) Faurecia (Jimo) Emissions (FNK) (Japan) Co., Ltd Automotive Seating Pvt Automotive Seating (Shanghaî) Co., Ltd Automotive Parts Co., Ltd Control Technologies Co., (FNQ) (Japan) Ltd (India) (Indonesia) (China) (China) Ltd (China) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia (Wuhan) Chengdu Faurecia Limin Faurecia Emissions Changsha Faurecia Faurecia (Yancheng) Automotive Emissions Control Automotive Components Automotive Systems Company Systems Co., Ltd (China) Control Technologies Technologies Co., Ltd Systems Co., Ltd (China) Limited (China) (Beijing) Co., Ltd (China) (China) 50% 50% 50% 50% 51% Xiantan Faurecia Limin Lanzhou Faurecia Limin Jinan Jidao Auto Parts CSM Faurecia Automotive Faurecia NHK (Xiangyang) Interior & Exterior Systems Interior & Exterior Systems Company Limited Parts Co., Ltd Automotive Seating, Co., Ltd Europe Co., Ltd (China) Company Limited (China) (China) (China) (China) South America, Africa, Middle East 55% Shanghaï Faurecia Automotive Asia Seating Co., Ltd (China) North America 50% Dongfeng Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Co. Ltd (China) 100% Chongqing Zhuotong Automotive Interior Systems Co., Ltd (China) / Registration document 2018 331 6 Other information Additional information on audits of ﬁnancial statements 6.4. Additional information on audits of ﬁnancial statements THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2018, ERNST & YOUNG Audit and PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit received €3.9 million and €4.1 million respectively for their In accordance with French company law, Faurecia’s audit assignments. Statutory Auditors certify the parent company and Group financial statements and review the situation of its significant The table in Note 33 to the consolidated financial statements consolidated subsidiaries through members of their networks. shows the fees that Faurecia and its fully consolidated subsidiaries recognized in their 2018 financial statements for work assigned to the Statutory Auditors. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR AUDITING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Start date of ﬁrst Date of expiry of term of ofﬁce term of ofﬁce STATUTORY AUDITORS ERNST & YOUNG Audit represented by Mr. Jean-Roch Varon member of the Versailles Regional Association of Statutory Auditors Tour First TSA 14444 92037 Paris-La Défense Cedex France June 17, 1983 2019 AGM PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Represented by Mrs. Dominique Ménard member of the Versailles Regional Association of Statutory Auditors 63, rue de Villiers 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine France May 27, 2003 2019 AGM ALTERNATE STATUTORY AUDITORS Auditex May 27, 2003 2019 AGM Mr. Étienne Boris May 23, 2005 2019 AGM 332 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document and information ofﬁcer 6.5. Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document and information ofﬁcer Person responsible for the Registration Information officer Document Mr. Michel Favre Mr. Patrick Koller Executive Vice-President, Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Faurecia I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to 23-27, avenue des Champs Pierreux ensure that such is the case, the information contained in 92000 Nanterre the Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, in France accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to Telephone: +33 (1) 72 36 70 00 affect its import. Fax: +33 (1) 72 36 70 07 I further declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities, the financial position and the results of the Company and the consolidated companies making up the Group, and that the management report, the contents of which are shown on pages 338 and 339, provides a true and fair picture of the business, results and financial position of the Company and its consolidated companies, as well as a description of the main risks and uncertainties they face. I obtained a statement from the Statutory Auditors at the end of their engagement affirming that they have read the whole of the Registration Document and examined the information about the financial position and the financial statements contained therein. Patrick Koller Drawn up in Nanterre, on 26 April 2019 / Registration document 2018 333 6 Other information Cross-reference tables 6.6. Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table with Annex I of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 In order to make this Registration Document easier to understand, the cross-reference table below makes it possible to identify the key items of information required by Annex I of European Regulation No. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004. Information Pages 1. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 1.1. Persons responsible for the information 333 1.2. Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document 333 2. STATUTORY AUDITORS 2.1. Names and addresses 332 2.2. Changes 332 3. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3.1. Historical ﬁnancial information 29 3.2. Interim ﬁnancial information NA 4. RISK FACTORS 139-152 5. INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.1. History and development of the issuer 322-325 5.1.1. Legal name 326 5.1.2. Place of registration 326 5.1.3. Date of incorporation and term 326 5.1.4. Registered ofﬁce – legal form – applicable legislation 326 5.1.5. Important events in the development of the issuer’s business 32-34; 54; 109-111; 322-325 5.2. Principal investments 5.2.1. Past 40; 55; 66-67; 109-111; 118 5.2.2. In progress 93 5.2.3. Future 93 6. BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1. Principal activities 6-25; 32-34; 107 6.1.1. Operations and principal activities 6-25; 32-34; 107 6.1.2. New products 8-25 6.2. Principal markets 7-25 6.3. Exceptional factors NA 6.4. Extent of dependence 328 6.5. Competitive position 31 7. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 7.1. Brief description of the Group 96-102; 128-129; 330-331 7.2. List of signiﬁcant subsidiaries 96-102; 128-129; 330-331 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 8.1. Signiﬁcant existing or planned property, plant and equipment 66-67; 118 8.2. Environmental impact from the use of the property, plant and equipment 252-267 334 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Cross-reference tables Information Pages 9. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 9.1. Financial position 32-132 9.2. Operating results 38-40 9.2.1. Signiﬁcant factors 32-34; 53-54; 109-110 9.2.2. Material changes in net sales or revenues 53-54; 114-115 9.2.3. Outside factors 139-152 10. CAPITAL STOCK RESOURCES 10.1. Issuer’s capital stock resources 72; 121 10.2. Cash ﬂows 72 10.3. Borrowing requirements and funding structure 40-41; 81-83; 107-108; 123-124 10.4. Restrictions on the use of capital stock resources 81; 123-124 10.5. Anticipated sources of funds 81; 123-124 11. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES 18-20; 59 12. TREND INFORMATION 12.1. Most signiﬁcant trends 8-9 12.2. Items reasonably likely to have a material effect on the prospects 8-9; 42 13. PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES 13.1. Main assumptions NA 13.2. Statutory Auditors’ review report NA 14. ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 14.1. Information on members of the administrative, management and supervisory 26-27; 154-156; 178-191 bodies 14.2. Administrative, management and supervisory bodies and Executive Management 192-193 – conﬂicts of interest 15. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1. Compensation paid 184; 195-203 15.2. Provisions for pension, retirement or similar beneﬁts 76-79; 122 16. BOARD AND MANAGEMENT BODIES PRACTICES 16.1. Length of terms of ofﬁce 154-155 16.2. Service contracts 193 16.3. Committees 162; 166-176 16.4. Compliance with corporate governance guidelines 177 17. EMPLOYEES 17.1. Breakdown of workforce 243-244 17.2. Shareholdings and stock options 72-73; 121; 207-221 17.3. Arrangements for involving employees in the capital stock 239-240 18. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 18.1. Breakdown of capital stock 205 18.2. Different voting rights 327 18.3. Control of the issuer 205; 328 18.4. Shareholder arrangements 206 19. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS 94 / Registration document 2018 335 6 Other information Cross-reference tables Information Pages 20. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE COMPANY’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND THE RESULTS OF ITS OPERATIONS 20.1. Historical ﬁnancial information 29 20.2. Pro forma ﬁnancial information NA 20.3. Financial statements 43-102; 111-129 20.4. Auditing of historical annual ﬁnancial information 103-106; 130-132 20.4.1. Statements NA 20.4.2. Other audited information 227-280 20.4.3. Other unaudited information NA 20.5. Date of latest ﬁnancial information December 31, 2018 20.6. Interim and other ﬁnancial information NA 20.7. Dividend policy 226 20.8. Legal and arbitration proceedings 75; 149 20.9. Signiﬁcant change in the issuer’s ﬁnancial or trading position 53-54; 115 21. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.1. Capital stock 205 21.1.1. Issued and authorized capital stock 206-207 21.1.2. Shares not representing capital stock 205 21.1.3. Shares in the issuer held by or on behalf of the issuer 222-223 21.1.4. Securities 207-221 21.1.5. Vesting conditions 207 21.1.6. Options or agreements 207 21.1.7. History of the capital stock 223-224 21.2. Articles of incorporation and bylaws 326-328 21.2.1. Corporate purpose 154 21.2.2. Rules of the management and supervisory bodies 326 21.2.3. Share rights and preferences 154 21.2.4. Changes to shareholder rights 326-328 21.2.5. General Meetings 327 21.2.6. Items affecting a change in control 328 21.2.7. Ownership thresholds 205-206; 327 21.2.8. Conditions governing changes to the bylaws 327 22. MAJOR CONTRACTS 328 23. INFORMATION FROM THIRD PARTIES, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST 23.1. Statements by experts NA 23.2. Other declarations NA 24. DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC 326 25. INFORMATION ON SHAREHOLDINGS 96-102; 128-130; 330-331 336 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table on information required in the annual financial report For ease of reading, the cross-reference table below identifies information in this Registration Document that also appears in the annual financial report that listed companies are required to publish under Article L. 451-1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code and Article 222-3 of the AMF’s General Regulation. Pages STATEMENT BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DOCUMENT 333 MANAGEMENT REPORT Analysis of the results, ﬁnancial position and risks of the parent company and the 32-42; 107-111; consolidated Group; list of delegated authorities to increase the capital stock 139-152; 206-207 Information on factors likely to have an impact in the event of a public takeover bid 328 Information on share buybacks 222-223 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company ﬁnancial statements 111-129 Statutory Auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements 130-132 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements 43-102 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 103-106 / Registration document 2018 337 6 Other information Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table on information required in the management report For ease of reading, the cross-reference table below identifies information in this Registration Document that makes the management report, especially pursuant to Article L. 225.100 of the French Code of commerce. Information Pages Parent company and Group position, business and results by Business Group, foreseeable changes and material post–balance sheet events 6-25; 32-42; 107-111 Objective and comprehensive analysis of the change in business activity, results and ﬁnancial position (especially the debt situation) of the parent company and the Group 32-42; 107-111 Key ﬁnancial and, where applicable, non-ﬁnancial performance indicators of the parent company and the Group 6-25; 242; 267 Main risks and uncertainties of the parent company and the Group and internal control and risk management procedures 133-152 Objective and policy of hedging transactions for which the parent company and Group’s hedge accounting is used 88-93; 147-149 Parent company and Group exposure to price, credit, liquidity and treasury risks 147-149 Use of parent company and Group ﬁnancial instruments 40-41; 107-109 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change and presentation of measures taken by the parent company and the Group to reduce them (low-carbon strategy) 145-146; 260-261 Research and development activities and existing branches 18-19; 59; 96-102; 128-129 Crossing of thresholds, controlled companies and equity investments 205-206 Changes to the Company’s capital stock 223-224 Report on employee profit-sharing 205 Purchases and sales of treasury shares 222-223 Dividends paid out by the Company over the last three ﬁscal years 226 Nondeductible expenses and costs 301 Terms of payment 109 Amount of intra-group loans granted by the Company 119 Company duty of care plan 136; 273 Stock transactions by persons with managerial responsibilities 192 Board’s choices regarding terms and conditions of retention by corporate officers of shares allocated free of charge and/or shares from exercised stock options 196 Social, environmental and societal information stipulated in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Code of commerce 227-280 Table of five-year financial summary 127 Notice of ownership of more than 10% of the capital stock of another joint stock company, disposal of cross-shareholdings NA Calculation methods and results of adjustments of accrual bases of marketable securities and options NA Injunctions or financial penalties handed down by the competition authority NA Report on payments made to governments NA Seveso information NA Corporate governance report 154-203 338 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Cross-reference tables Information Pages Information on compensation of corporate ofﬁcers Principles and criteria for determining, allocating and awarding the ﬁxed, variable and exceptional elements of the total compensation and all beneﬁts that may be awarded to the corporate ofﬁcers for fulﬁlling their corporate ofﬁce 195-203; 296 Total compensation and all benefits paid during the ﬁscal year to each corporate ofﬁcer by the parent company, controlled companies, or the Company that controls it 196-203 Commitments associated with the assumption, termination or change of duties. 199 Information on other aspects of the Company’s Board and management bodies practices Corporate ofﬁce and duties of the corporate ofﬁcers 178-191 Regulated agreements 313-315 Summary table of currently valid delegations of authority 206-207 Modalities of the Executive management 156-157 Members, conditions for the preparation and organization of the work of the Board of Directors 154-176 Balanced representation of men and women on the Board of Directors 157-158 Limitations to the powers of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 195 Corporate Governance Code 154 Procedures for shareholder participation in the General Meeting 327 Factors likely to have an impact on a public takeover bid Capital structure 205 Bylaw restrictions on the exercise of voting rights and on share transfers or agreement clauses brought to the attention of the Company in accordance with Article L. 233-11 of the French Code of commerce 206 Direct or indirect equity investments in the Company’s capital stock 205 Owners of any stock with special rights of control 203; 328 Control mechanisms stipulated in a potential employee shareholding system 205 Agreements between shareholders that, if the Company becomes aware of them, may give rise to restrictions on share transfer and the exercise of voting rights 205; 328 Rules on the appointment and replacement of members of the Board of Directors and the amendment of the Company’s bylaws 154; 327 Powers of the Board of Directors, especially regarding share issues or buybacks 222-223 Agreements entered into by the Company which are amended or terminated in the event of a change in control of the Company 328 Agreements stipulating payments for members of the Board of Directors or employees if they resign or are dismissed without real and serious cause or if their employment is terminated due to a public takeover bid or exchange offer 328 / Registration document 2018 339 6 Other information Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table on information constituting the Group’s Non-Financial Performance Report required by the Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and the Principles of the Global Compact Given the nature of our activities, we consider that the following themes: food waste, the fight against food poverty, respect for animal welfare and responsible, fair and sustainable nutrition are not major CSR risks and so do not justify a detailed presentation in this management report. Business model Introductory chapter Methodology to identify extra-ﬁnancial risks Risks Chapter : 2.2 Description of the main risks and opportunities CSR Chapter : 4 Main extra ﬁnancial risks Policies and Governance Results and indicators Chapters Pages GRI Global Compact Safety at work  Existence of an HSE  FR0t Risks and CSR Chapter 2, 2.2.1.5 9-15 GRI 403-2 network at all levels of  FR1t CSR Chapter 4 34 GRI 403-3 the organization CSR Chapter 4.1, 1.1 36 to  Systematic analysis of 39-58 accidents  Mandatory training in HSE rules  Regular audit of all sites and systematic in the event of an alert  Ergonomic analysis of all workstations Talent acquisition  Partnerships with  Turnover rate of Risks and CSR Chapter 2, 2.2.1.11 9-21 GRI 202-2 and retention more than 100 postmanagers CSR Chapter 4 34 GRI 401-1 secondary institutions and professionals CSR Chapter 4.1, 1.2 40 to 47 GRI 401-2  Integration program  Rate of managers GRI 404-1 directed speciﬁcally & professionals GRI 404-2 at new hires hired recently GRI 404-3  Internal mobility policy graduate (including abroad)  Regular review of compensation policy  Quantitative indicators through dedicated reporting Social dialog  Existence of a European  Number of Risks and CSR Chapter 2 10-21 GRI 102-41 3. Respect for Committee establishment 2.2.1.12 freedom of  Integral part of the or company CSR Chapter 4 34 association duties of the site HR agreements signed CSR Chapter 4.1, 1.4 48 – 49 and the right manager during the ﬁscal to collective  Annual survey of year bargaining employee satisfaction,  Employee including social climate engagement index Business ethics  Global network of Risks and CSR Chapter 2, 2.2.3.5 10-30 GRI 102-16 2. Ensuring “Compliance Ofﬁcers” CSR Chapter 4 34 GRI 102-17 that their own  Employee training CSR Chapter 4.3, 3.1 85 86 GRI 205 companies do & awareness raising not become  Code of ethics / complicit in internal procedures human rights  Existence of a whistleabuses. blowing system 10. Working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 340 / Registration document 2018 Other information 6 Cross-reference tables Business model Introductory chapter Methodology to identify extra-ﬁnancial risks Risks Chapter : 2.2 Description of the main risks and opportunities CSR Chapter : 4 Main extra ﬁnancial risks Policies and Governance Results and indicators Chapters Pages GRI Global Compact Duty of care  “Buy Beyond”  Total suppliers Risks and CSR Chapter 2, 2.2.3.2 10-27 GRI 102-16 Concerns the and responsible sustainable purchasing whose CSR CSR Chapter 4 34 GRI 102-17 principles 1 to 9 purchasing policy policy performance was CSR Chapter 4.3, 3.4 90-91 GRI 308-1  Systematic CSR analysis evaluated GRI 308-2 of suppliers and new  Link with GRI 406-1 programs environmental and GRI 407-1  Required minimum level and safety at work GRI 408-1 score indicators for level 0 GRI 409-1  Quality Audit of our GRI 412-1 suppliers covering all GRI 412-2 CSR aspects GRI 414-1  Existence of a GRI 414-2 whistle-blowing system Product Quality  IATF 16949 Certiﬁcation  External PPMs Risks and CSR Chapter 2, 2.2.1.4 9 14 GRI 416-1 and Safety  Existence of a CSR Chapter 4 34 designated Quality Control department at all levels of the organization  Measuring customer satisfaction  Whistle-blowing procedure and culture of documentation and conﬂict resolution (QRCI, etc.)  World Quality Day  Specialized and independent auditors Environmental  Analysis and control of  Part of Risks and CSR Chapter 2, 2.2.1.8 9 –18 GRI 307 7. Applying the impact of local environmental risks ISO 14001-certiﬁed CSR Chapter 4 34 GRI 302-1 precautionary production plants based on ISO 14001 production plants CSR Chapter 4.2, 2.2.1. 63 to 82 GRI 305-1 approach to and climate  Monthly “Environment  Tons of waste/€m 2.2.2 GRI 305-2 environmental change & Energy” Committee of sales 2.2.3 GRI 305-7 challenges chaired by the Group’s  Tons of plastic 2.2.4. GRI 306-1 8. Undertake HSE department used/€m of 2.2.5. GRI 306-2 initiatives to  Network of HSE Faurecia Interiors 2.2.6. GRI 306-3 promote greater Managers at all levels sales 2.2.7. GRI 306-4 environmental including at each  Tons of metal 2.2.9. GRI 304-1 responsibility Faurecia site used/€m of 2.3.1. 9. Promoting the  HSE requirements Faurecia Seating 2.3.2. development integrated into the & FCM turnovers 2.3.3. and diffusion of Faurecia Excellence  Energy environmentally System (FES) consumption friendly  Regular internal and (MWh)/€m of technologies FES audit of sites turnover  Tons of CO2 equivalent/€m of sales (scope 1 and 2)  Waste recycling rate (externally) Innovation of  Report of GHG CSR Chapter 4 34 9. Promoting the products to improve emission not CSR Chapter 4.2 76-78 development air quality and quantiﬁed 2.4 and diffusion of reduce the CO2 (including those 2.4.1. environmentally footprint produced through 2.4.2 friendly the use of products 2.4.3. technologies sold) 2.4.4. / Registration document 2018 341 342 / Registration document 2018 / Registration document 2018 343 344 / Registration document 2018 This document is printed in compliance with ISO 14001.2004 for an environmental management system. Chapter “The Faurecia transformation”: Advisory and drafting:
