GN Store Nord A/S Responsibility report The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 2 Communication on Progress ⋅ Contents Contents Contents Company profile 3 Statement of support from Executive Management 4 Human & labor rights 5 Business ethics & compliance 7 People excellence 9 Product safety and development 11 Environment and climate 13 Citizenship 15 Membership of UN Global Compact Member since: January 14, 2010 Number of employees: 6,000 Sector: Health care equipment and electronics Reporting date: February 27, 2019 The report covers the period: January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 This report forms part of the management’s report in the Annual Report 2018 for GN Store Nord A/S and constitutes GN’s corporate responsibility report according to Section 99a in the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report is not covered by the audit. Visit www.gn.com/About/Corporate-responsibility to read our responsibility guidelines and policies. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 3 Communication on Progress ⋅ Company profile Contents Company profile The GN Group’s declared purpose is Making Life Sound Better with a vision to become the leader in intelligent audio solutions that transform people’s lives through the power of sound. Building on the Group’s highly specialized sound processing know-how, GN offers an exceptional portfolio of medical, professional and consumer audio solutions Our business Our headsets are sold via distributors and retailers in some 80 The GN Group operates in 100 markets across the world and countries around the world. One global distribution partner is employs 6,000 people at its own locations in more than 30 responsible for optimizing lead-time to the final customer, countries. delivering from three regional warehouses in the United States, the Netherlands and Hong Kong. The company was founded in 1869 and is listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen. Our headsets are produced by carefully selected manufacturers in China, and most components are sourced GN Hearing from suppliers in Asia. GN Audio works with a small number People with hearing loss are at the heart of everything we do. of tier-one manufacturers supported by more than 100 subOur hearing aids help people feel more involved, connected suppliers. and in control. In an ever-smarter world, we think big and challenge the norm so that we can transform lives through GN’s shared purpose, vision and proposition the power of sound. Purpose Our hearing aids are sold in 100 countries across the world. Making Life Sound Better GN Hearing has its own organizations in 30 countries and operates via partners and distributors in another 70 countries. Vision The leader in intelligent audio solutions transforming lives GN Hearing has its central manufacturing facilities in China, through the power of sound Malaysia and Denmark. Regional manufacturing centers are located in the United States, Great Britain and Malaysia. Brand proposition Intelligent audio solutions that let you Hear More, Do More GN Audio and Be More than you ever thought possible GN’s integrated headset and communications solutions assist professionals in all types of businesses to be more productive. Please visit www.gn.com for more information. Our wireless headsets and earbuds are designed to fit any lifestyle from sports enthusiasts to commuters and office workers. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 4 Communication on Progress ⋅ Statement of support from the Executive Management Contents Statement of support from the Executive Management GN’s purpose is Making Life Sound Better. We believe in the We do this by helping users block out noise and by delivering power of sound to transform people’s lives, and through our crystal-clear sound. GN’s consumer headsets and earbuds are intelligent audio solutions we enable people to Hear More, Do engineered to deliver supreme sound and great battery life to More and Be More than they ever thought possible. users for whom calls, music and media consumption are important in their daily lives. Our products improve people’s mobility and quality of life and enable them to control their own soundscape in an As a company, we are committed to acting in a responsible increasingly busy and noisy world. manner throughout our entire value chain and in all business matters. We consider this essential for reaching our longFor 150 years since the inauguration in1869, GN has utilized term strategic goals. technological innovation to facilitate and enhance communication between people. Today, our focus is on We recognize that our manufacturing, logistics and products helping people with hearing loss live life as unimpededly as do not only affect the users of our products, but also our possible, and on assisting professionals and consumers with employees, our suppliers and partners, and the communities state-of-the-art headset and communications solutions. in which we operate. GN’s legacy of producing world-first sound solutions and All GN’s stakeholders should always be able to trust that our pioneering advancements in hearing technology include: 6th products are produced in a safe manner and that we conduct generation 2.4 GHz technology in hearing aids for direct our business based on high ethical standards. This is always at connectivity; Binaural Directionality for leading natural sound; the top of our agenda. the world’s first Made for Apple hearing aid with direct stereo sound streaming; the world’s first cloud-based remote fineWith this report, we reconfirm our commitment to the ten tuning solution; and award-winning apps providing optimal principles of the United Nations Global Compact. user experience and satisfaction. Executive Management GN’s professional headsets and speakerphone solutions are From left: engineered to help businesses be even more productive by René Svendsen-Tune, CEO, GN Store Nord & GN Audio. enabling users to better concentrate, communicate and Jakob Gudbrand, CEO, GN Store Nord & GN Hearing. collaborate, and to make conversation easier. Marcus Desimoni, CFO, GN Store Nord & GN Hearing. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 5 Communication on Progress ⋅ Human & labor rights Contents Human & labor rights The GN Group sets the bar high when it comes to its business standards and interaction with employees and suppliers. GN is responsible for the people who take part in the manufacturing and support of its products and services worldwide, as well as for our impact on the surrounding world Our policy Our impact Our CSR policy states that at GN we recognize all human beings as free and equal in dignity and rights in the work place Supply chain and will not accept discrimination or harassment. GN At GN our primary risk associated with human and labor supports the abolition of child labor and actively works to rights is identified to be in relation to our supply chain. GN abolish child labor or use of forced labor in any of its own or therefore requires all its suppliers to comply with GN’s Code its business partners’ operations. We therefore stress these of Conduct, which covers bribery, human and labor rights issues in our supplier code of conduct. (child labor, wages, working hours) and safety. It is essential for GN to ensure that no violations of such rights occur. However, GN acknowledges that in a long-term commercial relationship there is a risk that the supplier may shift its focus Providing a safe and secure working environment is important to GN, and GN’s operations are relatively low-risk compared to other industries in general. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 6 Communication on Progress ⋅ Human & labor rights Contents from human and labor rights as well as safety issues towards Our work and results cost optimization. In order to mitigate such risk, GN is in close GN continually assesses its suppliers and monitors their dialog with its suppliers as the best results are created compliance through supplier self-assessments, performance through clear expectation setting and cooperation. monitoring, audits and site visits. Regular meetings are set up with all key suppliers to ensure follow-up on standards, Qualification of new suppliers procedures, quality, etc. When we engage with a new supplier, we follow a strict qualification process to ensure that the new supplier can live If GN experiences any issues or breaches in relation to its up to our standards and requirements: Code of Conduct from suppliers, it raises a non-conformity case, and suppliers will be required to provide an action plan 1. Initial screening: Before engaging with a new supplier, our to correct findings within an agreed time frame. However, if procurement team visits the supplier to understand their GN discovers critical issues at its suppliers, it will not hesitate business. to take more severe actions. 2. Capability screening: We have a team with technical, material and quality knowledge, who evaluates and audits Both GN Hearing and GN Audio have responsibility-related the potential partner’s capabilities and processes. requirements included in their supplier audits. Audit topics 3. Evaluation: We document our conclusion of these include issues such as child labor, working hours and health & screenings, and a decision is made in alignment with our safety. sourcing strategy. 4. Qualification: The qualification is finalized when the GN has introduced a risk-based approach for supplier audits. procurement team signs a supply agreement that Suppliers considered a relatively high risk from a quality and regulates the future cooperation. CSR perspective have been identified and supplier audits per5. Performance monitoring: Performance of all suppliers is formed according to the risk level. monitored, and audits are conducted frequently to ensure a consistent high performance. In 2018, GN performed 64 audits at suppliers. The audit findings that were related to CSR and Quality mainly concerned Repetitive work working hours, health & safety issues in production and manuFurthermore, we have identified repetitive work as a main risk facturing process control. GN Hearing and GN Audio are in a mainly at the GN Hearing manufacturing facilities located in constructive dialog with suppliers where a non-conformity China, Malaysia and the United States. In addition, certain key case has been raised to ensure implementation of required recomponents are manufactured at GN’s site in Denmark. All medial actions. jobs in these facilities are reviewed and rated for potential health & safety related concerns. Repetitive work is being Policies and certifications mitigated through task rotation to vary work positions as well as prolonged break times for particularly exposed employees. • Code of Conduct (GN Hearing) All sites have managers with direct health & safety • Code of Conduct (GN Audio) responsibility to ensure operator safety. • Responsible Sourcing (GN audio) • Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking in the Supply Occupational health & safety Chain Providing a safe and secure working environment is important to GN, and GN’s operations are relatively low-risk compared Please visit www.gn.com to read the full policies to other industries in general. We acknowledge that suppliers may implement occupational health & safety standards in a less stringent manner than at GN’s own sites. Therefore, we have a strong focus on ensuring compliance with our occupational health & safety requirements, both when onboarding new suppliers and partners as well as through regular supplier audits. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 7 Communication on Progress ⋅ Business ethics & compliance Contents Business ethics & compliance High business standards play a significant role in ensuring our continued growth and success. This means we expect high ethical standards from our employees and all our business partners. Our policy Our work and results GN’s commitment to business ethics and compliance with international regulations and internal policies is anchored in our Compliance training Ethics Guide, anti-corruption policies, our Supplier Codes of To ensure and document that employees are always familiar Conduct and other policies and guidelines. These outline the with our Ethics Guide and other key policies, relevant fundamental requirements for how GN operates and describe employees must on a regular basis electronically sign off on the responsibilities and ethical standards expected of all emtheir compliance within specific areas and take GN’s eployees and relevant business partners. GN is committed to learning courses within anti-corruption and competition doing business the right way and has a zero-tolerance policy compliance. towards bribery and corruption of any kind. In 2018, a large clean-up of the employee database was unOur impact dertaken to ensure precise data for inviting employees to take The GN Group employs 6,000 people and sells products in online compliance tasks. The allocation of courses was 100 markets across the world. Its size and global presence streamlined, and all employees received a minimum of five poses an inherent risk that our internal regulations and polimandatory compliance campaigns including business ethics, cies are not adhered to in all business dealings, which could anti-corruption, information security and personal data. In adhave both financial and reputational consequences. dition, 13 face-to-face training sessions were conducted in selected business units, resulting in a total of 329 employees receiving live training. Of the 329 trained, a significant number Ethical business behavior is a core value for GN and our aspiration is that all our business partners and third parties acknowledge our values and share our commitment to conducting business in an ethical manner. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 8 Communication on Progress ⋅ Business ethics & compliance Contents are managers being prepared to take the responsibility of emWhistleblower system phazising compliance with their direct reportees, as outligned GN’s whistleblower hotline, the GN Alertline, is available in 27 in the GN Ethics Guide. countries and 21 languages and is independently managed by a third party. The hotline can be used by employees as well as Third party due diligence external parties to report a concern or perceived misconduct. Ethical business behavior is a core value for GN and our aspiReporting can take place via the internet (www.gnstoreration is that all our business partners acknowledge our valnord.alertline.eu) or via one of the local Alertline phone numues and share our commitment to conducting business in an bers. ethical manner. The system is an important tool for ensuring that alleged illeIn 2018, GN took further steps to enhance the process for asgal or unethical conduct is reported and immediately adsessing and managing corruption risk associated with thirddressed. All complaints are treated with confidentiality, and party business partners in selected high-risk countries. The GN is committed to dealing with any employee who takes acevaluation of third parties involves self-assessment questiontion and/or participates in an investigation in good faith, in a naires and due diligence screenings focusing on the potential fair and respectful manner. This is emphasized in the GN nonreputational and legal risks associated with the business relaretaliation policy signed by Executive Management. tionship. In 2018, 10 concerns were reported through the GN whistleAnti-corruption compliance reviews blower system. The allegations were primarily related to inapAs a regular part of our global anti-corruption compliance propriate behavior, harassment, misrepresentation of inforprogram, we conduct a number of compliance reviews of semation and conflicts of interest. All relevant cases have been lected GN subsidiaries or business units around the world investigated and appropriate remediating as well as disciplieach year. The main objective is to identify and assess relenary actions were taken where relevant. In addition, a global vant risk areas and ensure that adequate controls are in place awareness campaign was conducted to ensure a consistent to ensure compliance with applicable legislation and GN poliand good understanding of the GN whistleblower system cies. The selection of subsidiaries or business units for compliamong our employees. Awareness material consisted of intraance reviews is based on an annual country risk assessment net articles and management videos as well as presentations consisting of several defined risk indicators. and posters that were made available in 10 languages. In 2018, three anti-corruption compliance reviews were conPolicies and certifications ducted resulting in 15 findings and observations with various risk severity ratings. Furthermore, appropriate corrective and • GN Ethics Guide preventive actions are documented for each risk finding and • GN Anti-Corruption Policy monitored on a regular basis. • Gifts, Travel and Entertainment Policy • Non-Retaliation Policy Please visit www.gn.com to read the full policies The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 9 Communication on Progress ⋅ People excellence Contents People excellence GN’s employees are essential in building a winning team. It is our responsibility to offer all employees, irrespective of gender, age and nationality, the same opportunities for development as well as an engaging working environment Our policy Our work and results GN actively recruits and develops employees of different racial and cultural backgrounds, international experience, genStrategic Leadership Development der, nationality, age and education on the path to leadership. Our People Excellence strategy is to build strong leadership GN believes that diversity among employees creates a better and talent across the organization to meet our strategic oband more innovative work environment, and we acknowledge jectives. In 2018, we have continued to strengthen leadership the value each and every employee brings to GN. development and strategic execution power with focused leadership programs: “Leading Strategy”. Our impact The competition for talent in our industry has intensified We have included leaders at level 4 and facilitated in total 7 during the past few years. Our ability to develop innovative programs in 2018. Enrollment in the programs is based on and relevant products, to successfully execute on our nominations from business leaders. The programs are cusstrategy, to deliver strong results, and to build a sustainable tomized and integrate GN Values and Leadership Principles. organization for the future would be at risk if we were not With the continued enrollment we have now reached more able to attract, retain and grow the right talent on an ongoing than 90% of our leaders at senior management positions. basis. Performance-based career development GN’s employees are essential in building a winning team. We want career development to be connected to perforOffering all employees, irrespective of gender, age and mance, irrespective of gender, age and nationality, as we nationality, the same opportunities for development as well firmly believe that diverse teams and leadership have a subas motivating leadership and an engaging working stantial positive impact on business results and organizational environment is our responsibility and main influence when it performance. comes to helping people thrive. Offering all employees, irrespective of gender, age and nationality, the same opportunities for development as well as motivating leadership and an engaging working environment is our responsibility and main influence when it comes to helping people thrive. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 10 Communication on Progress ⋅ People excellence Contents To ensure performance-based career development, all whiteEach manager (with more than four responses) received an incollar employees conduct a performance review and a develdividual report – and all managers facilitate a dialog on the reopment planning dialog with their manager at least twice ansults with their team. This leads to plans for 1-3 local actions nually where performance on objectives and values are disrelated to areas where we can further improve on the engagecussed. This gives the manager and the employee an opporment in GN. tunity to reflect on past and future performance and development. Gender diversity in senior management positions (§99b) Diversity – encompassing gender, nationality, competencies, The individual performance review and development planning etc. – is an integral part of GN’s yearly talent review and sucdialog is supplemented by a talent review and succession cession planning process, of talent development practices, replanning process where managers assess their employees’ cruitment procedures and leadership development programs. performance and potential. These assessments are further reAccordingly, intake in GN’s graduate program 2018 was 45% viewed in the individual management teams to align evaluafemales and 36% non-Danes. tions. This provides input for GN’s succession planning for key positions and individual development plans. Further, the wording and visual identity in recruitment activities on social media and other channels are ongoing designed Graduate Program and mentoring to best attract female candidates and encourage diversity. We wish to develop a young talent pool for manager, specialWhen external recruiters or headhunters are used, GN reist and project manager positions. The GN Graduate Program quires that viable female candidates are presented for any pois a key contributor. sition. In 2015, GN initiated a two-year Graduate Program and, toSenior management day, we have 18 graduates within finance, marketing and enBy the end of 2018 women filled 20% of senior management gineering. The graduates get hands-on experience by working positions in GN. GN aims for 25% during the implementation in three different jobs and spend eight months outside of of the 2017 2019 strategy. We will continue to strengthen Denmark working abroad. efforts to build a pipeline of future female candidates for senior positions. We have a constant focus on ensuring that we Out of the 18 graduates, 50% are women, supporting our attract female candidates for both internal job rotations and goal of increasing the number of women in senior managefor new positions. By the end of 2018, 43% of appointed posiment positions. Moreover, 33% of the graduates are non-Dantions in Senior Management during 2018 were female. ish citizens which gives the program a diversity edge and reflects the aim of running a global Graduate Program. GN Board of Directors matches all graduates with a senior mentor from another The Board of Directors fundamentally believe that diversity part of the business working in another GN function and divistrengthens any governing body and acknowledges the imsion. portance of diversity in general, including diversity of gender, nationality and competencies. Our goal was to have the GenIn 2019, GN will continue the success of the Graduate Proeral Meeting appoint women for three out of six members in gram and welcome new graduates to the program. the GN board of Directors by the end of 2020. We reached this target in 2018 when Gitte Pugholm Aabo joined the GN Engagement Survey 2018 board of Directors. Highly committed and motivated employees Policies and certifications GN regularly carries out an employee engagement survey to take the temperature of the organization and culture. The • Internal recruitment policy most recent survey was carried out in June 2018 with an im• Diversity policy pressive response rate of 93% (94% in GN Audio, 92% in GN • Ethics guide Hearing and 86% in corporate functions). Please visit www.gn.com to read the full policies Overall results show high motivation and engagement and good feedback on management and leadership. We are placed in the better half of the companies that we compare ourselves to, and the motivation and satisfaction score is higher than the global average index points for both GN Audio, GN Hearing and corporate functions. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 11 Communication on Progress ⋅ Product safety and development Contents Product safety and development The GN Group is committed to delivering superior quality and to continuously increasing customer satisfaction with the user experience in focus. Utilizing GN’s core technologies and sound expertise, the Group will consistently deliver new and improved offerings with strong user benefits and features Our policy from the hearing aid and the headset industries – all under Due to differing regulatory requirements, GN Hearing and GN the same roof. Audio each has its own Quality Policy, which establishes the overall principles and objectives of the quality management Our research and development spans a wide range of discisystems in place to ensure product safety and high quality plines, including acoustics, signal processing, neuroscience, standards throughout the development process. human-computer interaction, artificial intelligence, audiology and engineering. Our impact We use these unique in-house competencies to develop intelProduct development ligent audio solutions that let our users Hear More, Do More GN possesses a unique combination of competencies across and Be More than they ever thought possible, and to fulfil our our business areas – in relation to technology, engineering purpose of Making Life Sound Better for our users. We continand commercial execution. GN is the only company with intelually refine the way our products are produced to make the ligent audio expertise across the medtech, the enterprise and most of the raw materials and to design more sustainable the consumer space. GN’s technology is founded in worldproducts with the highest possible safety. leading expertise in the human ear, sound, wireless technology and miniaturization, linking deep insight and knowledge GN is conscious about materials and substances in its products. To avoid harmful materials and substances in products, materials and components undergo thorough testing during the development phase. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 12 Communication on Progress ⋅ Product safety and development Contents Our work and results well-being of people and communities and consequently does not want to use any conflict minerals. Materials and substances GN is conscious about materials and substances in its prodWe have, therefore, implemented a group-wide policy to ucts. To avoid harmful materials and substances in products, avoid conflict minerals from these mines in GN products. Unmaterials and components undergo thorough testing during der this policy, GN is taking the following actions: the development phase. GN complies with the EU RoHS recast directive and the EU 1. GN requires its suppliers to exclude conflict minerals from REACH regulation as well as other local and international legGN products islation. Changes to legislation and standards are monitored closely. 2. GN requires suppliers to comply with our Code of Conduct Due to the diverse nature of the Group’s two business areas – 3. GN is using the five-step due diligence guidance laid out by medical device hearing aids and professional & consumer OECD for establishing our due diligence process. Consequently, GN has put in place an audit program where proof electronics headsets – different quality controls and proceof compliance will be required from suppliers that conflict dures apply. minerals are procured only from smelters and refiners that have been found to be compliant with the Responsible Regulations for GN Hearing are, by nature, more comprehenMinerals Assurance Process (RMAP) of the Responsible sive as the products are classified as medical devices. GN Minerals Initiative (RMI). Hearing’s products are developed under a highly regulated quality system complying with ISO 13485 and FDA 21CFR By the end of 2018, GN Hearing and GN Audio has received 820 CGMP as well as other national standards, which are used the requested information from nearly 100% of its relevant by GN Hearing to control a number of product standards and suppliers regarding smelters and refiners used in their supply processes. chains. Supported by a third-party provider of smelter validation services, ongoing work has been carried out during 2018 GN Audio’s products are developed by following a well-detowards validating and ensuring that the identified smelters fined quality management system complying with ISO used by our suppliers are conflict-free. 9001:2015 and other relevant industry best practices. During 2018, GN became a member of the Responsible MinerAnimal testing als Initiative, which has grown into one of the most utilized Hearing aids are classified as medical devices and must comand respected resources for companies from a range of indusply with European and US regulations as well as other regulatries addressing responsible mineral sourcing issues in their tory standards applicable in the country in which the devices supply chains. are sold. This implies that all materials and components of hearing aids Policies and certifications that are in contact with human skin must fulfil all relevant bi• Quality Policy (GN Hearing) ological and regulatory requirements. GN Hearing assesses bi• Quality Policy (GN Audio) ological evaluation according to ISO 10993-1. • GN Conflict Minerals Policy • ISO 9001:2015 (GN Audio) GN Hearing’s policy is to always try to minimize the amount • ISO 13485 of required animal testing by setting up tests and test • FDA 21CFR 820 CGMP schemes in the most efficient way. All animal tests used by GN Hearing are performed by contract laboratories. Please visit www.gn.com to read the full policies Animal testing is not relevant for GN Audio products as they are verified not to contain hazardous substances by setting up detailed environmental testing and control methods, together with third party test and certification laboratories. Conflict minerals Conflict minerals originating from mines controlled by military groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo and nine adjacent countries have been widely reported to be a major driver of violence in Central Africa. GN is concerned for the The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 13 Communication on Progress ⋅ Environment and climate Contents Environment and climate At GN we work to minimize our environmental and climate impact and become more efficient in our production and use of resources Our policy use of resources at the manufacturing facilities and responsible supply chain management are focal areas for GN’s activiAs stated in our Group CSR policy, GN is committed to inteties relating to climate and environment. grating considerations for the environment in its planning and performance of activities in order to minimize its environmenOur work and results tal and climate impact. GN actively encourages its suppliers to consider the environment in relation to GN’s products. Energy consumption In 2018, we have continued our focus on reducing energy Our impact consumption at our manufacturing facilities. We have continGN strives to find unique ways to improve quality of life with ued to implement energy efficient solutions, such as convertsuperior technology. GN continually evaluates the way it creing to LED lights, reusing excess heat, installing motion senates products to make the most of raw materials and to desors and solar panels, as well as conducting training for relesign more sustainable products with the highest possible vant employees in energy efficient processes. quality. These initiatives led to slight reduction of the total energy GN’s products are by nature small. A typical hearing aid consumption at GN Hearing’s main manufacturing facilities 1 weighs between 2 and 6 grams, while headsets, including compared with 2017 despite the increase in hearing instrubase station and power supplies, weigh between 10 and 550 ments produced. grams. Due to the nature and character of our business, our environmental and climate impact is assessed to be low. Water consumption Water consumption at GN’s manufacturing facilities is very The main risks of causing negative environmental and climate limited and primarily used for sanitation purposes. Initiatives impacts arise at the manufacturing facilities and in the supply to reduce water consumption include employee awareness chain, stemming from the use of energy and water, generatraining, water consumption control and installation of watertion of waste and waste management. Consequently, optimal reducing toilets and sinks. Consumption and waste at own manufacturing facilities Energy consumption Water consumption Production waste (kg) (MwH) (m3) 160.000 12000 60.000 120.000 9000 45.000 80.000 6000 30.000 3000 15.000 40.000 0 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 *Energy and waste consumption measured at GN’s five main wholly-owned manufacturing facilities located in Malaysia, China, United States, United Kingdom and Denmark. Production waste measured at the same manufacturing sites, excluding the United States. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 14 Communication on Progress ⋅ Environment and climate Contents Our main manufacturing facilities1 in GN Hearing have had around 9% net increase in water consumption compared to 2017, predominantly driven by our global growth in production. Waste in production For all our production lines, we have set a threshold for acceptable waste levels. If waste exceeds this threshold, it will trigger a production stop. Corrective and preventive actions will then be implemented to decrease waste before production is restarted. Most of our waste is very small in quantity and all our manufacturing facilities use licensed disposal contractors that remove any waste and properly dispose of it. Waste may include plastic, chemicals, paint, scrap parts, etc. Some waste is re-used (e.g. boxes and plastic) via recycling operations managed by external companies. Other waste, such as electronics, is processed to allow other companies to reclaim and re-use materials. In 2018, total waste levels generated by GN Hearing manufacturing sites increased 8% predominantly driven by our global production growth compared to 2017 2. Policies and certifications ISO 14001 GN Audio’s repair center in China is certified under the ISO 14001 environmental management system, and its suppliers are requested to also be certified under this standard. In 2018, GN Hearing has added a FTE to be responsible for the further introduction of ISO 14001 certifications across the group. In 2019, this resource person will continue to evaluate the possibility of introducing the ISO 14001 certification at the HQ in Ballerup. Sustainable IT certification A number of GN Audio’s headsets for professional work enviGN’s products are by nature small. A typical hearing aid weighs beronments are TCO Certified. TCO certification is an internatween 2 and 6 grams. Due to the nature and character of our business, tional third-party sustainability certification for IT products. It our environmental and climate impact is assessed to be low. combines requirements for corporate responsibility at the manufacturing facilities, user safety and ergonomic design as well as minimal environmental impact for both the product and its production during its entire life cycle. 1 The total energy consumption is calculated based on data from our five main wholly-owned manufacturing facilities located in Malaysia, China, United States, United Kingdom and Denmark .2 Manufacturing site in United States is not included. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 15 Communication on Progress ⋅ Citizenship Contents Citizenship Being a good global citizen is essential for how the GN Group does business. Apart from doing business in a responsible way, this also encompasses that GN is engaged in social activities supporting and helping underprivileged people in their everyday life in 2018. In this program, South Africans with limited financial resources and difficult living conditions are eligible to receive free hearing aids donated by GN. The GN Store Nord Foundation provides grants for scientific, In 2018, a total of 200 completely new hearing aids were protechnical, national, non-profit and humane purposes in vided to and fitted on eligible patients identified by GN’s local accordance with its mission and is very pleased to be able to partner in the project. All recipients had their new hearing support purposes deemed to be of social importance to aids professionally fitted by a certified audiologist securing a society. high level of user satisfaction. Further to this, GN Hearing and GN Audio have chosen to The South African hearing aid project was initiated in 2011, support select projects. when GN entered into collaboration with the public sector in South Africa. The program initially covered two provinces but Social projects has been extended to cover all nine provinces. Access to healthcare: Hearing aid project in South Africa Helping hearing impaired children in Uganda For the seventh consecutive year, GN’s hearing aid project in In early 2018, the Ear Foundation of the UK reached out to South Africa continued to contribute to overall hearing health GN Hearing inquiring if it would be possible to get hearing In March 2018, 90 children at the St. Johns School for the Deaf in Gambia were fitted with hearing aids from GN Hearing. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 16 Communication on Progress ⋅ Citizenship Contents aids for children at the Hear his Voice Centre in Kampala, Helping 90,000 people with the basics Uganda. GN Hearing provided a complete package with 50 In 2018, GN Audio continued the partnership with HAMAP, a hearing aids, fitting software and batteries for the first year. non-governmental organization that works to improve the life Trained audiologists from the Ear Foundation worked with and health of some of the world’s most vulnerable people. the local team and fitted the hearing aids. With this partnership, GN Audio has made a contribution in helping close to 90,000 people gain access to clean drinking Continued co-operation with Audiovannah in Zimbabwe water, basic sanitation and education, emphasizing GN’s comA program for assisting the St. Johns School for the Deaf in mitment to improving living conditions globally. Gambia was initiated in 2016, but due to political unrest and other complications the effort could only be completed in Supporting research 2018. In March 2018, Dr. Jenny Nesgaard from Audiovannah in Harare, Zimbabwe travelled to Gambia and trained local Sponsoring the Technical University of Denmark staff in the necessary techniques. Dr. Nesgaard also fitted GN Hearing co-sponsors the research activity of the Centre hearing aids from GN Hearing on 90 children during her stay. for Acoustic-Mechanical Micro Systems (CAMM), which was established in 2014 at the Technical University of Denmark Later in the year, Dr. Nesgaard organized a campaign where (DTU). The focus of the research center is to study how sound parents of 250 hearing impaired children from all across Zimand vibration interact in closely coupled acoustic-mechanic babwe signed up for free hearing aid fitting. During a onemicrosystems, such as hearing aids. week fitting camp sponsored with funding from the GN Foundation, 32 children were fitted with hearing aids that were This is a new field of research, and GN Hearing expects CAMM previously donated to Audiovannah. to provide a solid platform for potential product development that will benefit the hearing impaired through findings and Helping the hearing impaired in Nepal the professional knowledge of the center’s future candidates. In 2018, Professor Seung-ha Oh from Seoul National University contacted GN Hearing concerning a program for helping GN Hearing is also co-sponsoring the Centre for Applied Hearhearing impaired children in Nepal. Prof. Oh received a coming Research (CAHR), which was established in 2003 at the plete package with 50 hearing aids, fitting software and batTechnical University of Denmark (DTU) to conduct fundateries for the first year. They will be used at the Dhulikhel mental and applied research with focus on human speech Hospital in Katmandu. communication, auditory processing and perception, hearing impairment and hearing instruments. CAHR is part of DTU Hearing Systems, and the sponsorship is an ongoing commitment by GN. The purpose of the center is to promote research and education within the field of acoustic communication with focus on the origin, nature and consequences of hearing impairment. The center has developed to become one of the world’s leading research institutes within its field with a total staff of 49 academics, including 19 PhD students. Supporting clinical research GN Hearing co-sponsors the research project Better hEAring Rehabilitation (BEAR), which was established in 2016. This five-year project is carried out by a consortium of hospital clinics, universities and hearing aid manufacturers. This largescale effort will document the effect of the current clinical practices, develop new diagnostic methods for creating more customized solutions for the patients and establish new guidelines for improved clinical practices benefitting consumers. The aim is to improve the education of fitters of hearing When carrying out aid programs it is GN’s policy to only provide aids to the benefit of patients. So far, approximately 2,000 paWhenhearing new outand carryingaids to train local aid programs it is GN’s in thetonecessary staffpolicy fitting provide only new tients have been enrolled in the project. The BEAR project will and hearing hearing caretotechniques. aids and ensure that to necessary Thisinisthe train local staff fitting users the and get hearing employ 11 PhD students and five postdocs. long-term benefit from their hearing aids. care techniques. This is to ensure that the users get long-term benefit from their hearing aids. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018 17 Communication on Progress ⋅ Citizenship Contents GN Store Nord A/S Lautrupbjerg 7 DK-2750 Ballerup Denmark Co. reg. no 24257843 +45 45 75 00 00 info@gn.com gn.com The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2018
