INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. 2018 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About this Report This is the 4th Sustainability Report of Indus Motor Company Limited (IMC). It encompasses the activities and impacts of IMC covering the period of the ﬁnancial year 2019, starting from July 01, 2018 to June 30, 2019. IMC equally weighs the impact and contributions of its non-ﬁnancial activities along with ﬁnancial results to measure the success of the Company during the period. This report includes information about IMC’s operations covering assembly of Passenger Cars (Corolla), Light Commercial Vehicles (Hilux) and SUV (Fortuner) of the Toyota brand, our approach to sustainability, relationship with key stakeholders, contribution and impacts on economic development, environment and society and details of our plans and ambitions for the future. GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, international best practices and “Ten Principles” of UNGC guide the compilation of this report. The GRI Standards Reporting Principles for deﬁning reporting content and quality of the reported INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. information – from GR 101: Foundation 2016 have been applied. The information about the process of deﬁning the Report content and boundaries of the material topics can be found in the materiality analysis section of the Report. The data included in the Report is based on scientiﬁc measurement on actual basis. However, where data was not available, estimation has been used. The data collection and measurement techniques are applied consistently over the periods. There were no signiﬁcant changes to the size and structure or ownership of IMC during the reporting period. There were no changes in the reporting period, scope and boundary of material topics. Some restatement/revisions have been made in the Report to correct some calculation errors. These restatement/revisions are clearly mentioned in the 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT relevant section where restatements/revisions have been carried out. Last year’s Report was published on September 21, 2018. This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The Report is not externally reviewed this year. IMC has plans to get external review of the Report in future. However, the Report has been reviewed by the SHE Steering Committee – the highest decision-making forum on sustainability issues at IMC. The GRI content index is available on page 67. This Report is available in print and online at www.toyota-indus.com. Sustainability reporting at IMC is produced annually to share the sustainability initiatives, activities and impacts along with IMC’s contribution towards the goal of sustainable development. This Report also contains information about: how our activities support diﬀerent SDGs and contains links to the relevant SDGs at respective pages. We are committed to aligning our activities to support the SDGs most relevant to our business and play a positive role in society. Key Performance Highlights Vehicles Vehicles Manufactured Sold in numbers in numbers 65,346 66,211 Production increased by Sales increased by 3% over 4% over previous year previous year Net Sales Net Proﬁt Water in billion rupees after Tax Consumption 158.0 in billion rupees in m3/per year Revenues increased by 13% 13.7 469,527 over previous year Net proﬁt decreased by 13% Water consumption increased by over previous year 2% over previous year Energy GHG Emissions Community Consumption in metric tons Investment in GJ 24,393 in million rupees 479,758 GHG emissions increased by 230 Energy consumption increased 12% over previous year Community investment increased by 17% over previous year by 20% over previous year About the Table of Contents Report 02 Corporate Environmental Performance Key Performance Highlights Sustainability Philosophy 42 03 12 Toyota Global Commitment | 14 Our Commitment | 17 Stakeholder Engagement | 18 Materiality Analysis | 20 Our People & Corporate Communities Governance 51 23 Overview 05 The Way Forward Chairman’s Message | 06 Vision, Mission & Core Values | 24 Code of Conduct | 25 Board & Board Committees | 26 64 Chief Executive’s Message | 07 Risk And Compliance | 27 Corporate History | 08 Commitments & External Initiatives | 28 Annexures 66 Corporate Proﬁle | 09 Product Lineup | 10 Economic Performance 29 Our Dealers | 33 Our Customers | 37 GRI Content Index | 67 UNGC Index | 74 SDG’s Index | 75 Glossary & Acronyms | 77 Feedback Form | 78 Our Suppliers | 39 Automotive Market & Toyota Brand | 41 Water consu 05 by 4% ove Overview Chairman’s Message Chief Executive’s Message Corporate History Corporate Proﬁle Product Lineup Sustainability Report 2019 Chairman’s Message Dear Stakeholders, Mobility solutions are one of the key factors for accelerated been working to address the issues of increasing Greenhouse Gases economic growth and industrialization. At Indus Motor Company (GHG), water scarcity and loss of biodiversity, throughout our value we strongly believe in sustainable mobility driving human progress. chain. In order to institute a broader implementation of sustainable Year after year we continue to invest in transformational programs practices, we are working with our business and supply chain that provide people with modern and cleaner technologies, partners by deploying resources and conducting trainings that combating climate change, promoting a culture of safe driving and enhance their capabilities and skillset, whilst increasing their giving people access to basic needs such as education, healthcare understanding of sustainability. Our commitment to plant 1 million and food provisioning. With our continued eﬀorts towards the trees by 2021 is another tangible measure taken in the right adoption of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) we have direction to stop climate disruption and reverse its impact. managed to create a meaningful impact through our business and socio-economic interventions. This approach is strongly manifested The automotive industry is going through a signiﬁcant change. by a 20% increase in our community and social investment in the Fundamental economic challenges such as a current account year 2019, amounting to PKR 230 million compared to 192 million deﬁcit, declining exports, a depreciating currency, increasing policy in the year 2018. and inﬂation rates are creating an enormous pressure on demand. However, through its meticulous planning, plant expansion and Climate change is a global burning issue of our time, and remains a upgradation, the Company has managed to attain new benchmarks priority on the radar of the United Nations. Global emissions even through these trying times. We are conﬁdent that we will reaching record levels, increasing temperatures across the globe forge ahead and deliver customer-centric products with the highest and rising sea levels are just some of the causes of increased, air level of safety and quality, sustain proﬁtability, strengthen the pollution, heat waves, wildﬁres and lack of food security globally; Toyota brand and capitalize on growth opportunities. serving as testament to the widespread life-threatening impact of climate change. Being a mobility company, we believe in creating a Skill development and innovative thinking is critical in order to solve better world for our future generations. Toyota Indus is adopting current challenges and for building a prosperous future. Our cleaner technologies and renewable energy resources to reduce diversiﬁed and inclusive workforce equipped with knowledge and the impact of our operations on the enviornment. We have also experience will help us meet stakeholder expectations and deliver customer delight. We encourage inclusion and participation of females and diﬀerently-abled persons to bring diversity and innovation to the Company. We fully support volunteering eﬀorts by our workforce as it not only impacts communities but also creates a feeling of belonging and accomplishment. This year, through various initiatives, our employees contributed more than 5,230 hours to volunteering and giving back to communities. We believe in a shared value approach and through our CSR activities we have given back to the community in the ﬁelds of Education, Health and Road Safety. At IMC, we are committed to creating a sustainable future through mobility solutions focused on solving societal problems, managing the environmental impact of our operations and supply chain and investing in an innovative, healthier and educated society. Ali S. Habib Chairman 06 Sustainability Report 2019 Chief Executive’s Message Dear Stakeholders, Global economic growth remained steady with a balanced pace of Decent and safe working environment and provision of safe expansion. However, the risks of escalation of trade disputes, products is the utmost priority of our company. We are dedicated to tightening of ﬁnancial conditions and increasing climate risks can health and safety of our operations, our workers and customers in harm long-term development. Pakistan’s economy has slowed line with Toyota global practices. Dealers and suppliers, along with down in 2019 on account of currency devaluation, higher policy other business partners, support us in meeting our stakeholder rate and rising inﬂation. In the ﬁscal year 2019, the automobile expectations. Support is provided to our value chain partners industry showed a decline in sale due to imposition of ban on sale through training, guidelines and participation in events. We commit to non-tax ﬁlers which was later done away by the government to work together with our partners for promoting sustainability and imposition of federal excise duty on luxury vehicles along with practices in our supply chain. currency devaluation resulting in increase in vehicle prices. However, despite decline, the Pakistan automobile sector We continued enriching lives of our communities through support witnessed investment from around 15 new players which will for education, healthcare, promoting innovation, cleanliness and result in increased choices, production and broadened after sales road safety. Our spending on CSR activities remained 1% of our service. pre-tax proﬁt of the preceding year while our total CSR spending over the last ten years reached over Rs. 1 billion, showing our Notwithstanding tough economic conditions, IMC has reached commitment to alleviate poverty, promote education and uplift the new milestones in vehicle sales, revenue and proﬁtability in the unprivileged. year 2018-19. Our sale of vehicles surpassed the 60,000 mark for the fourth consecutive year, depicting customers’ conﬁdence in We pledge to support the “Ten Principles” of the United Nations our products. The net proﬁt for the year was PKR 13.7 billion with Global Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals a decrease of 13%, compared to the previous year. We (SDGs) of the United Nations. This report exhibits our impact on continuously strive to improve production processes, decrease economy, environment and society along with our contribution to overheads and increase eﬃciencies by applying Toyota’s the “Ten Principles” of the UNGC. philosophy of Kaizen or continuous improvement. We aim to We thank our stakeholders for their continued trust in our brand continue to delight our customers by delivering best and safe and we invite you all for your valuable feedback. vehicles with the support of our business partners and upholding our eﬀorts in nurturing localization. Climate change is the important issue of this century which requires Ali A. Jamali active support from governments and businesses to accelerate Chief Executive Officer actions to implement the Paris Agreement. Being a responsible corporate citizen in the automobile sector, we endeavor to better manage the use of natural resources and reduce the environmental impact of our operations and of our supply chain partners. We are aligned with the “Toyota 2050 Environmental Challenge” which strives to reduce the environmental burden attributed to automobiles to as close to zero as possible. During the year, our energy consumption increased by 68,979 GJ while emissions and water usage increased by 2,527 Mt and 11,039 m3. However, we aﬃrm to taking suitable measures to reduce the environmental impact in the coming years. Our human capital is the cornerstone of our ability to deliver exceptional performance and meet customers’ expectations. We invest on our people through training and provide opportunities for demonstrating their potential to deliver to the maximum potential. 07 2019 JUNE Launch of Hiace (Deluxe) CBU Corporate 2019 JUNE 2019 JUNE 2019 JUNE 2019 APRIL History NCAP Compliance 100% Dual Airbag vehicles CSR Spending above Rs 1 Billion (accumulative) Record highest Robots production 65,280 units Installation in (Sales 66,211 units) Paint & Weld Shops 2018 2018 2018 JANUARY SEPTEMBER OCTOBER New Paint Shop Launch of RUSH TRD inauguration 2008 2008 Inauguration (CBU) at Dealerships AUGUST AUGUST Launch of the 10th generation Corolla Start-up Press Shop 2017 2017 2017 with 582 local parts NOVEMBER NOVEMBER JANUARY NCAT Machine Installed in PC 750,000 th Launch of New Fortuner vehicle Line-oﬀ 2007 2007 NOVEMBER SEPTEMBER Line-oﬀ Hilux IMV, Toyota’s sturdy Start-up Cogen plant 2015 2016 workhorse JANUARY NOVEMBER 2010’s Celebrated the Launch of New Silver Jubilee Event Toyota Hilux Revo 2005 2006 2006 SEPTEMBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Launch of Toyota Hilux IMV 4x4 Mr Akio Toyoda (EVP, TMC) visited 250,000th vehicle Line-oﬀ 2014 2013 2013 (CBU) SEPTEMBER DECEMBER FEBRUARY IMC Launch of the Launch of Toyota Line-oﬀ the 1st 2005 11th generation Prius Hybrid (CBU) locally manufactured JUNE 2004 Corolla with 777 local parts Fortuner DECEMBER 150,000th 2010 2012 2012 vehicle Line-oﬀ Launch of Toyota Camry (CBU) OCTOBER JULY NOVEMBER Line-oﬀ the 1st Discontinuation 500,000th 2002 2003 Hilux 4x4 Double Cabin of Daihatsu Cuore vehicle Line-oﬀ FEBRUARY SEPTEMBER 100,000th 2000’s Launch of 9th generation Corolla with 469 local vehicle Line-oﬀ parts 2000 2000 MAY MARCH 50,000th vehicle Launch of Daihatsu Line-oﬀ Cuore, an 800 cc hatchback 1980’s 1989 1993 1993 1996 1997 Incorporated as APRIL MAY JANUARY OCTOBER a joint venture Plant Mr. Eiji Toyoda Launch of the ﬁrst company between Inauguration (1913 – 2013), Toyota Hilux the House of Habib known as the legendary of Pakistan, Toyota Motor Corporation and Toyota Tsusho 1993 “Father” of Modern Toyota and acknowledged 1996 25,000th MAY as the architect of the APRIL vehicle line-oﬀ Corporation of world famous Toyota Japan. Launch of the ﬁrst Production System, Launch of Corolla Corolla (7th generation) visited IMC production Diesel (2.0D) with 30 local parts facilities. 08 Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Proﬁle Indus Motor Company Limited was incorporated in 1989 as a joint venture company between certain House of Habib Companies, Toyota Motor Corporation and Toyota Tsusho Corporation. The Company manufactures and markets Toyota brand vehicles in Pakistan. The main product oﬀerings include several variants of the ﬂagship ‘Corolla’ in the passenger cars category, ‘Hilux’ in the light commercial vehicles segment and ‘Fortuner’ Sports Utility Vehicle. The Company also markets genuine parts, motor oil in addition to providing maintenance services through a network of dealers spread across the country. The manufacturing facility and oﬃces are located at a 107 acre site in Port Qasim, Karachi, while the product is delivered to end customers nationwide through a strong network of 46 independent 3S Dealerships spread across the country. Our customers include organizations, government departments, security agencies and private buyers. There were no signiﬁcant changes in the ownership, structure of operations at IMC or its supply chain during the year. The total number of workforce at the end of ﬁnancial year 2019 was 3,349 employees. The net sales for the year 2019 were Rs. 158 billion, while the total capitalization was Rs. 64 billion. Further details about assets, beneﬁcial ownership and sales breakdown are available on page 92, 122 and 138 respectively of our Annual Report 2019. The total number of vehicles sold during 2019 was 66,211 units. Aerial view of Indus Motor Company, Karachi 09 Sustainability Report 2019 Product Lineup Toyota’s Global Vision is to enrich lives through mobility, in the most responsible way. This guides our commitment to manufacture sustainable and safe products that delight our customers and help society to transition to a low carbon economy. The Corolla with several variants is the top selling car in the passenger category and the Fortuner has been the best-selling model in SUV category. The Hilux is the leading selling vehicle in light commercial category. IMC also markets imported cars with warranty and after-sales support through its widespread dealers’ network. We are proud of our growing production operations. Over 29 years, since inception, IMC has sold more than 875,000 CBU/CKD vehicles. Corolla Fortuner Hilux Revo Hilux Single Cabin Manufacture Import 10 Sustainability Report 2019 Camry Land Cruiser Prado Avanza Land Cruiser Prius Rush Hiace Coaster Manufacture Import 11 12 Corporate Sustainability Philosophy Toyota Global Commitment Our Commitment Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Analysis Sustainability is central to IMC’s Vision and Mission. It is articulated in our parent company’s long standing Global Vision and Guiding Principles which have been adopted by Indus Motor Company in Pakistan. Our sustainability approach is led by our company values “sustainable”, “innovative”, “excellence” and steered by the Toyota Global Commitment. Sustainability at IMC is focused on improving IMC operations as well as managing supply chain impacts towards achieving balanced growth. Our commitment to sustainability is manifested through our “Concern Beyond Cars” approach which guides on expanding our sustainable practices beyond core operations, working with our partners and our communities to make a positive contribution towards sustainable development. IMC, being a mobility solutions company, has impacts on environment and society through its operations and use of products by the customers. Our sustainability strategy focuses on better management of impacts throughout the operations and use of products while providing day-to-day mobility solutions to society. 13 Sustainability Report 2019 Toyota Global Commitment Toyota global commitment to sustainability is demonstrated through Toyota’s vision and seven guiding principles. Toyota Global Vision The Toyota Global Vision (issued in 2011) deﬁnes our esteemed values and our actions to make ‘always better cars’ that exceed customer expectations and ‘enriching lives of communities’ leading to a ‘stable base of business’ to achieve sustainable growth of the company. Toyota will lead the way to the future of mobility, enriching lives around the world with the safest and most responsible ways of moving people. Through our commitment to quality, constant innovation and respect for the planet, we aim to exceed expectations and be rewarded with a smile. We will meet our challenging goals by engaging the talent and passion of people, who believe there is always a better way. The Toyota Way With the rapid growth, diversiﬁcation and globalization of Toyota in the past decade, values and the business methods that had been passed on as implicit knowledge were identiﬁed and deﬁned in 2001 as the ‘Toyota Way’. Toyota is preparing to operate as a truly global company, guided by a common corporate culture. In order to continue fulﬁlling its role as the backbone of all Toyota operations, Toyota will continue to update the Toyota way in the future to reﬂect changes in the times to come. 14 Sustainability Report 2019 Toyota Guiding Toyota Guiding Principles embody the thinking of the founder of the Toyota Group, Sakichi Toyoda, and are the basis of the corporate management philosophy. The Principles principles are echoed in the commitment to fairness in all corporate activities, provision of clean, safe and innovative products and respect for the environment and the culture of communities where Toyota operates. A Honor the language and spirit of the law of Respect the culture and customs of every every nation and undertake open and fair nation and contribute to economic and social business activities to be a good corporate development through corporate activities in citizen of the world. their respective communities. Dedicate our business to provide clean and safe products and to enhancing the quality of life everywhere through all of our activities. Foster a corporate culture that enhances both Create and develop advanced individual creativity and the value of teamwork, technologies and provide outsanding while honoring mutual trust and respect between products and services that fulﬁll the labor and management. needs of customers worldwide. Pursue growth through harmony with the global community via Work with business partners in research and innovative management. manufacture to achieve stable, long term growth and mutual beneﬁts, while keeping ourselves open to new partnerships. Toyota Global CSR Policy Contribution Towards Sustainable Development Toyota’s CSR policy is an interpretation of the Guiding Principles at Toyota with a focus on relationships with stakeholders. Toyota aims to build a corporate group that is admired and trusted by society through ensuring that all employees, including those at consolidated subsidiaries, recognize and act on our sustainability policy. Toyota also expects its business partners to embrace the spirit of our CSR policy and act in accordance with it. Toyota Motor Corporation and its subsidiaries take initiatives to contribute to harmonious and sustainable development of society and the earth through all business activities that are carried out in each country and region, based on the Guiding Principles. Toyota complies with local, national and international laws and regulations as well as the spirit thereof and conducts its business operations with honesty and integrity. 07 Sustainability Report 2019 The Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 Moving towards a society where people, cars, and nature can co-exist in harmony In October 2015, Toyota formulated and announced the Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050 with the aim of going beyond zero environmental impact, hoping to achieve a net positive impact. Toyota has been striving to reduce the environmental burden attributed to automobiles to as close to zero as possible, while developing measures to contribute positively to the earth and its societies with the aim of achieving a sustainable society. The challenge is composed of six individual challenges across three areas: ever-better cars, ever-better manufacturing and enriching lives of communities. The activities implemented to meet the Environmental Challenge are outlined in the sixth Toyota Environmental Action Plan, which can be found on the Toyota website at www.toyota-global.com/sustainability/environment/plan/sixth_plan/. CHALLENGE # 1 New Vehicle Zero CO2 Emissions Challenge CO2 0 CHALLENGE # 2 Life Cycle Zero CO2 Emissions Challenge CO2 0 Reduce global average new vehicle CO2 emissions Completely eliminate all CO2 emissions, target including by 90% from Toyota’s 2010 global level materials, parts and manufacturing from the vehicle life cycle CO2 0 CHALLENGE # 3 CHALLENGE # 4 Plant Zero CO2 Challenge of Minimizing Emissions Challenge and Optimizing Water Usage Achieve zero CO2 emissions at all plants 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND Enact eﬀective wastewater 14 LIFE BELOW WATER 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION by 2050 INFRASTRUCTURE COMMUNITIES management and minimize water consumption based on individual local situations CHALLENGE # 5 CHALLENGE # 6 Challenge of Establishing Challenge of Establishing a Recycling-based Society a Future Society in & Systems Harmony with Nature Promote global rollout of end-of life 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Promote global rollout of the 4 QUALITY EDUCATION 13 CLIMATE ACTION 15 LIFE ON LAND vehicle treatment and recycling nature conservation activities technologies developed in Japan beyond the Toyota Group and its business partners As the automobile industry is undergoing a transformation in the shape of electric and driverless cars. Toyota is committed to continuing to innovate so it can provide safety and peace of mind, security, environmental sustainability, and waku-doki (excitement and exhilaration that wows you) to its customers. While many of these challenges, in particular advanced technologies to further reduce vehicle greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions and manufacturing impacts, will be addressed by TMC at its overseas design and manufacturing locations, we will look for opportunities to support these at a local level. 16 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Commitment Sustainability has long been embedded into our business model, enabling us to grow as a premium choice of our customers. Our in the supply chain towards achieving sustainable growth. Being aﬃliates of Toyota, our commitment to sustainability is enlightened by the Toyota Global Vision and Guiding Principles. The “Toyota Way” sets the standards expected from the aﬃliates and is supported by our comprehensive corporate governance structure. Our integrated management system policy, health and safety IMC BOARD Sustainability OF DIRECTORS Management MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Responsibility for sustainability lies with IMC’s Board of Directors and management team. The Board has the policies and health, safety and environment framework for discuss, evaluate and guide the sustainability eﬀorts within SHE STEERING COMMITTEE th is immediately taken to resolve the issue. chain. In line with our sustainability approach, we work with our supply chain partners to reduce the environmental impacts of our 17 Sustainability Report 2019 Stakeholders’ Engagement We understand the important role every stakeholder plays within our business activities. A good relationship with stakeholders not only helps in meeting their expectations but also in maintaining a competitive advantage in the market. Keeping in view the importance of stakeholders for our success, we interact with our stakeholders and take their input for important business decisions. Our primary stakeholders include customers, dealers, suppliers, employees, government and community. Stakeholders are individuals, groups of individuals or organizations that are aﬀected by our activities, products and services or whose actions and relationships can aﬀect our ability to meet our corporate objectives. We identify stakeholders taking into account the elements of dependence, responsibility, inﬂuence, diversity and involvement. Stakeholders are prioritized on the basis of willingness to engage, relationship with IMC, inﬂuence and proximity. We regularly engage with our stakeholder through diﬀerent departments on day-to-day basis. In addition to regular engagement, need-based engagement with stakeholders also takes place to get stakeholders’ input on speciﬁc issues. Diﬀerent engagement methods, including surveys, focus groups, meetings and emails are used during engagements. The stakeholder engagement process is constantly reviewed by the senior management. The below mentioned list of stakeholders is a fair representation of the stakeholders that aﬀect or are aﬀected by our business activities. STAKEHOLDER METHODS OF FREQUENCY ISSUES/ ACTION ITEMS GROUP ENGAGEMENT CONCERNS Customers • Surveys Ongoing • Product availability • Provide quality • Phone calls • Product & services products • Emails quality • Competitive prices • Customer safety • Focus on customer • Cost and delivery safety and comfort time Toyota Motor • Review meetings Ongoing • Compliance with • Compliance with Corporation and involvement in globally shared Toyota Motor IMC management metrics, including Corporation metrics and operations health and safety, • Continuous learning • Toyota global environment and from international initiatives and forums community network Dealers • Dealer surveys Ongoing • Product delivery • Better delivery • Focus groups mechanism management • Meetings & • Compliance with • Training on compliance conferences IMC requirements requirement • Dealer training & • Training on product support attributes for improving customer experience at dealerships Suppliers • Meetings Ongoing • Technical support • Extend technical • Quarterly workshops • Supplier site support and focus on • Supplier surveys quality checks Health and Safety • Annual Supplier • Product safety initiatives conferences • Improve quality of parts and reduce rejection at supplier end 18 Sustainability Report 2019 Shareholders & • Annual General Annual/ • Business strategy • Provide regular updates providers of Meeting (AGM) Quarterly & Direction on business, ﬁnancial and capital • Extra-Ordinary • Financial operational developments General Meeting Performance and performance, including • Emails information on various initiatives including sales campaigns, etc. Employees • Staﬀ meetings Ongoing • Operational • Continuous investment • Annual get-togethers performance and in training and education • Consultation with productivity of workforce employee represent• Training and • Maintaining excellent ative groups education health and safety • Employee satisfaction • Health & safety standards surveys Community • Onsite visits Ongoing/ • Education, health, • Commitment to keep • Surveys Annual and skill development contributing 1% pretax • Focus group for community uplift proﬁt of preceding year meetings for education, health and skill development for community uplift Government and • Meetings Ongoing/ • Sustainable automobile • Compliance with applicable industry groups • Focus group Need basis sector laws and regulations and • Compliance of laws and consultation with industry regulations groups for a sustainable automobile sector Media • Interviews Ongoing/ • Insights on business, • Provide regular updates • Brieﬁngs Need basis market and industry on business developments, • Press releases • Financial performance operational performance and information relating to automobile industry 19 New CR Managers Workshop (Dealer) Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality Analysis The material issues that shape our strategies and business decisions are not only limited to ﬁnancial issues but also include issues relating to wider economic, environmental and social impacts. Materiality analysis aids in determining the most material issues for the organization making sense of sustainability landscape and concentrating actions in these high priority areas. The process involves identiﬁcation, prioritization and validation of key sustainability topics showing major impact of the organization on the economy, environment and society. STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS IDENTIFICATION Issues relevant Industry Impact of IMC to Stakeholders speciﬁc issues activities and products AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT PRIORITIZATION STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS, Analysis MATERIALITY AND COMPLETENESS MATERIALITY Business Risks Opportunities Input for business strategy to maximize opportunities and mitigate risks Implementation 20 Sustainability Report 2019 The materiality process takes into account our activities and related impacts, industry speciﬁc issues and issues identiﬁed by stakeholders. Once the topics are identiﬁed, these are shortlisted and reviewed by taking into consideration factors of severity of the impacts, relevance to stakeholders and our corporate objectives and strategy. The principles of deﬁning the report content from GRI 101: Foundation (2016) i.e. stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness were applied at various degrees during the process. The materiality process resulted in most important sustainability topics representing our impacts on the economy, environment and society and deemed important by stakeholders for their decisions. The results of the materiality determination exercise are summarized in the materiality matrix. The matrix presents the topics in order of importance to stakeholders and the impact of our activities. The content and scope of the report is guided by the matrix. The report only covers the impact of the Indus Motor Company Limited’s operations and does not include any impact of associates, subsidiaries or supply chain partners. Materiality Matrix INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDERS’ ASSESSMENT AND DECISIONS • Health & safety • Economic performance • Material • Energy • Local communities • Emissions Highly • Indirect economic impacts • Water • Eﬄuents & waste • Employment and labour relations • Marketing & labeling • Human rights • Procurement practices • Compliance Moderately • Public Policy • Training and education • Biodiversity • Anti-corruption • Supply chain impacts Moderately Highly SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF IMC ACTIVITIES 21 Sustainability Report 2019 Boundary of Material Topics TOPIC MATERIAL TOPICS WHY MATERIAL? BOUNDARY Economic performance Important for providing sustained returns, making IMC contribution to economy, payment to workforce and suppliers and well-being of society through CSR. Material Important component in product and its impact on IMC depleting ﬁnite materials. Energy Impact on depleting ﬁnite resources and environmental IMC impact of use of nonrenewable resources. Emissions Negative environmental impact of greenhouse gases IMC, our customers, emitted due to our activities and use of products. our suppliers Water Water is a scarce resource and usage of fresh water IMC leading to water scarcity in the country. Eﬄuents and Waste Negative environmental impact of waste handling, IMC incineration, dumping and transporting of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Health & Safety Directly relate to health and safety of workforce and IMC customers. Impact the brand in the marketplace. Employment and Labour Relations Diversiﬁed workforce for better productivity and IMC compliance with laws, international charters and conventions. Marketing & Labeling Provision of customer centric product information and IMC compliance with laws and regulations. Human Rights Compliance with laws, international charters and IMC, our customers, conventions. our suppliers Procurement Practices Opportunities for direct and indirect economic IMC contribution through localization. Compliance Avoid noncompliance of laws and regulations. IMC Training & Education Capacity building, enhancing creative potential of IMC workforce for increasing productivity and succession planning. Anti-corruption Reducing risks of economic imbalance and compliance IMC, our customers, with laws, international charters and conventions. our suppliers Supply Chain Impacts impact of suppliers activities on environment and society. IMC, our customers, our suppliers Socio-economic development of communities and Local Communities IMC provision of healthcare, education and food to needy communities. Indirect Economic Impacts Community uplift through infrastructure investments, skill IMC development and jobs in supply chain. 22 23 Corporate Governance Vision, Mission & Core Values Code of Conduct Board & Board Committees Risk & Compliance Commitments & External Initiatives Sustainability Report 2019 Mission Vision IMC’s Mission is reﬂected in the Company’s slogan Action, Commitment and Teamwork to become #1 in Pakistan. To be the most respected and successful enterprise, • Respect & Corporate Image • Customer Satisfaction delighting customers with a • Production & Sales wide range of products and • Quality & Safety solutions in the automobile • Best Employer industry with the best people • Proﬁtability and the best technology. Core Values • World class production quality • Achieving the ultimate goal of complete customer satisfaction • Being seen as the best employer • Fostering the spirit of teamwork • Inculcating ethical and honest practices 24 Sustainability Report 2019 Code of Conduct CONFIDENTIALITY & ACCURACY OF INFORMATION The conﬁdentiality of information CONFLICT OF INTEREST received in the course of business must be respected and never used for personal Any personal interest, which may aﬀect or might reasonably be deemed by gain; information given in the course of others to aﬀect an employee’s impartibility, should be declared up front in business must be honest and never writing. The company property must not be used for personal work unless designed to mislead. Further, all company speciﬁc permission is obtained. Each staﬀ member is employed in the company aﬀairs are to be treated as conﬁdential on a full time basis and therefore, they are not to be involved, directly or and should not be discussed with third indirectly, in any vocation, business or commercial activity. Any departure from parties during service with the Company this can only be made with the written permission of the Chief Executive Oﬃcer. and after leaving the service. GIFTS PROPER RECORDING OF HEALTH AND SAFETY FUNDS, ASSETS, RECEIPTS Every staﬀ member should take All members are forbidden to accept gifts or borrow money from another & DISBURSEMENTS reasonable care to ensure the health and member of the company or from a All funds, assets, receipts and safety of himself/herself and others who Distributor, Dealer, Vendor or a disbursements should be properly may be aﬀected by his/her acts at work. Customer. Personal gifts given or recorded in the Books of the Staﬀ members should not tamper with or received beyond norms of business Company. In particular, no funds or misuse any item provided by the etiquette, which are likely to accounts should be established or Company to secure the safety, health and improperly inﬂuence business maintained for purposes that are not welfare of its staﬀ and for the protection decisions, must be avoided. fully and accurately reﬂected in the of the environment. Books and records of the Company. ENVIRONMENT COMPANY IMAGE WORK PLACE HARASSMENT To preserve and protect the All staﬀ members must avoid The staﬀ will maintain an environment environment, all staﬀ members should: participating in any political activity or that is free from harassment and in in such personal behavior during or which all employees / directors are • Design and operate the Company’s after oﬃce hours, which may bring equally respected. This means any action facilities and processes so as to disrepute to the Company. that creates a hostile or oﬀensive work ensure the trust of adjoining communities; environment and such actions include, but are not limited to, sexual harassment • Promote conservation of resources, and any disparaging comments based on waste minimization and the gender, religion and race or ethnicity. minimization of the release of chemicals / gas into the environment; LEGAL PROCEEDINGS • Strive continuously to improve It is essential that a staﬀ member, who environment awareness & becomes involved in legal proceedings, protection. whether civil or criminal, should immediately inform his superior in writing. 25 Sustainability Report 2019 Board & Board Committees We are aware that a good corporate governance structure is integral to our success and in meeting our stakeholders’ expectations. Applicable laws, regulations, code of corporate governance and Toyota Guiding Principles are the basis for our governance structure. These elements reinforce our commitment to promote a culture of high ethical standards, integrity, transparency, accountability and compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. We have a well-established governance structure and system in place comprising of an integrated management system and a code of conduct. Board Board of Directors Committees The Board of Directors consists of ten directors, out of which The IMC Board of Directors is the highest governing body four directors represent Toyota Motor Corporation and Toyota responsible for implementation of corporate governance Tsusho Corporation of Japan. Six directors are non-executive policies and procedures and reviewing overall company directors, three are executive directors and one is an performance against deﬁned objectives. In order to eﬀectively independent director. The Board Members are well qualiﬁed, focus on important issues requiring deliberation and competent and have diversiﬁed experience and expertise in discharging its duties eﬀectively, the Board has formed various the ﬁelds of engineering, business, management, ﬁnance and board committees. The board committees have their own economics. The Board Members are elected every three years mandate, objectives and responsibilities. The board while any casual vacancy is ﬁlled by the Board of Directors as committees meet as required to oversee the business in per applicable laws and regulations. For more details about speciﬁc areas. The committees report their activities to the the proﬁle of the Board of Directors, refer to page 18 of Board of Directors and prepare board meeting agenda for their Annual Report 2019. respective areas. The board committees are audit committee, human resource and remuneration committee and ethics committee. The management committees comprise of investment committee, marketing committee, technical co-ordination committee, ACT#1 management committee and Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Steering Committee. The board committees are supported by the executive level committees which report to the board committees and assist in discharging their obligations. 26 Sustainability Report 2019 Risk & Compliance Toyota’s Principle “Honor the language and spirit of the law of every nation and undertake open and fair corporate activities to be a good citizen A of the world” is the guiding pillar of our risk and compliance mechanism. Our external environment is constantly changing on account of weak economic indicators including currency devaluation, current account deﬁcit and low tax collections leading to macro-economic instability. These factors are posing risks to our complex operations which are directly aﬀected by any change in economic conditions and decrease in disposable income of our customers. Our operations are also subject to risks on account of climate change due to increasing emissions from growth in number of new vehicles on the road and recent debate on introduction of carbon tax. We are fully aware that these risks are critical and require adequate strategies to overcome the negative impacts on our operations. Our risk management system assesses risks and opportunities in the context of the broader political and macroeconomic environment faced by IMC and divides these risks in categories of strategic, regulatory, ﬁnancial, operational, reputational, and sustainability risks. The audit committee reviews the risks and recommends the course of action to the Board for review and discussion in Board meetings. Based on the discussion in the Board meetings, appropriate strategies are formed and implanted to manage the risks eﬀectively. Our corporate activities and our relationship with supply chain partners are governed by our strong internal compliance culture. Toyota Guiding principles are followed to comply with requirements from Toyota, local laws and regulations and meet our stakeholders expectations. Our risk management system is aligned with TMC’s Toyota Global Risk Management Standards (TGRS) which deﬁnes risk as the eﬀect of uncertainties in meeting the expectations of stakeholders while heading towards achievement of the corporate vision. The risk management strategy and responsibilities are designed and communicated to the respective process owners to address risks at operational as well as strategic levels which have resulted in better risk reporting and management. IMC is subject to various laws and regulatory controls, voluntary initiatives relating to taxes and duties, employment practices, health and safety, environmental, product safety and marketing communications. IMC’s approach to risk management and compliance is preventive and is primarily focused on compliance with applicable laws, regulations and voluntary codes and initiatives. The risk management approach is constantly reviewed internally. Based on the review results, the approach is adjusted accordingly to overcome the shortcomings, if any. During the year, no signiﬁcant ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the laws and regulations occurred. 27 Sustainability Report 2019 Commitments & External Initiatives IMC is committed to follow and support following external international initiatives, charters and principles, in addition to our internal charter, code of conduct and guidelines. Empowering Sustainable Decisions IMC is a member of the following industry associations. IMC does not hold any position at these associations. IMC only supports these associations through sponsorships and participation in various programs organized by these organizations. • Karachi Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) • Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) • Overseas Investment Chamber of Commerce and Industry (OICCI) • Pakistan Auto Manufacturers Association (PAMA) • Pakistan Business Council • Habib University Foundation • Bin Qasim Association of Trade and Industry • Landhi Association of Trade and Industry Awards & Accolades received We are aware of during 2018-19 precautionary principle Awards are not only the recognition of good work done but also serve as motivation for the of Article 15 of Rio organizations to do more better in its sphere of activities. Highlighted below is the list of a Declaration on wide range of external awards received by IMC during the year 2018-19. (Awards received Environment and in the past have been mentioned in our Sustainability Report 2018): Development and are Corporate Excellence Award 2018 (1st Position in the overall Industrial Category by the committed to fulﬁlling Management Association of Pakistan) our responsibility Overall Most Outstanding Company and Most Outstanding Company in Automobile and towards risk Components Sector in Pakistan 2018 by Asiamoney Publication, United Kingdom management in business The Global SAP Innovation Award 2019 in Process Innovator category. planning and product Business Sustainability Award 2018 in recognition of its best practices in embracing development. SDGs and integrating the “Ten Principles” of UNGC (1st Position in Multinational company category by United Nations Global Compact, Network Pakistan) We apply precautionary Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2019 in the category of Sustainable Initiatives by approach to reduce the the National Forum for Environment and Health, Karachi. environmental impact Consumer Choice Award Corolla GLi 2018 and Toyota Fortuner 2018 by the Consumer of our operations and Association of Pakistan as a grand tribute in cognizance of consumer product/corporate products through quality and features beneﬁting the consumers and the general public research and CEO of the Year Award 2018 by the Consumer Association of Pakistan for demonstrating development, exemplary vision, business acumen and success in delivering sustained performance modernization and Best Leadership Award 2018 by the CEO Club Pakistan recognizing the leadership of Mr. adoption of cleaner Ali Asghar Jamali, due to which IMC stands for highest standards of professionalism, technologies. immaculate leadership and credibility Annual Environmental Excellence Award 2019 by the National Forum for Environment and Health, Karachi. 28 08 29 Economic Performance Our Dealers Our Customers Our Suppliers Automotive Market & Toyota Brand Sustainability Report 2019 Economic Performance Economic performance is fundamental for business success. It brings economic stability and enables us to pursue the agenda of sustainable development. The dwindling economic conditions in Pakistan coupled with currency devaluation, reducing purchasing powers on account of higher inﬂation, increasing cost of ﬁnancing and new taxes and duties have impacted the ﬁnancial performance of the company, leading to reduced proﬁtability. A strong and consistent ﬁnancial performance is the key for better economic performance in shape of local hiring, spending on local suppliers and payments to providers of capital, employees and government. The integrated management system, company policies and objectives along with Toyota Guiding Principles, guidelines and Kaizen techniques for continuous improvement are the guiding pillar for delivering sustained performance over the years. IMC operations have direct and indirect economic impacts attributable to our activities of car assembling and sales of parts and services. Direct economic impacts are the payment of dividend, interest, taxes and duties, salaries and beneﬁts to employees, local procurement and spending on our communities. IMC’s indirect economic impacts are increased investments in the allied sectors, new jobs in supply chain, and increase in productivity of diﬀerent economic sector through mobility solutions and economic development in plant site adjacent areas. Corruption is a serious risk which results in abuse of human rights and undermining the rule of law. IMC has in place a risk management system along with the policies and procedure to combat corruption risks in its operations. IMC code of conduct prohibits corrupt practices while the compliance is regularly reviewed through the internal audit department. Internal audits are carried out on regular basis and the results are communicated to the audit committee for appropriate action. In 2018-2019 all operations were reviewed for risks related to corruption and no incident of corruption occurred. IMC employees are regularly trained on various topics related to their daily activities, including training on anti-corruption. The Board of Directors is the highest body responsible for economic impact of IMC operations. The objectives, policies and targets are discussed and approved by the Board of Directors. The execution and decision-making on day-to-day company aﬀairs is the responsibility of the Chief Executive. The economic performance is reviewed on quarterly basis at Board Meetings and appropriate actions are taken by the Board. More details about Board meetings and ﬁnancial statements are available on page 72 and 92 of Annual Report 2019. IMC ﬁnancial performance for the year 2019 depicts a signiﬁcant increase in revenues. However, the proﬁts have declined due to economic slowdown, current devaluation and increasing interest rates. The revenue increased by almost 13% to Rs 158 billion from Rs 140 billion compared to the previous year ended June 2018, while proﬁt after tax declined by 13% to Rs 13.7 billion from Rs 15.8 billion posted for the same period last year. For detailed information on ﬁnancial performance for the year 2019, refer to Director’s Report section of the Annual Report 2019 on page 46. 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 30 Sustainability Report 2019 Economic Value Generated & Distributed 2019 2018 2017 2016 DIRECT ECONOMIC (Rs. In Millions) (Rs. In Millions) (Rs. In Millions) (Rs. In Millions) VALUE GENERATED Revenues 195,690 172,728 139,275 134,212 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED Business Partners 123,494 103,581 83,556 82,869 Employees 2,590 2,852 1,937 1,626 Capital Provider 9,315 11,576 9,437 7,937 Government 52,308 48,843 38,606 36,478 Community 230 191 174 141 187,937 167,043 133,710 129,051 ECONOMIC VALUE 7,753 5,685 5,565 5,161 RETAINED Economic Value Distribution 123,494 103,581 52,308 48,843 9,315 11,576 2,590 2,852 2019 2018 230 191 Business Partners | Government | Capital Providers | Employees | Community Auto-Development Policy 2016-21 governs the auto sector in Pakistan and has provided diﬀerent incentives to the auto industry. However, during the year, IMC did not receive any ﬁnancial assistance from the government. 31 Sustainability Report 2019 Organization’s Deﬁned Beneﬁts IMC provides diﬀerent deﬁned beneﬁts to the workforce, including provident fund and pension fund. Employees contribute 10% of the basic salary in the provident fund and the same proportionate amount is contributed by IMC on a monthly basis. IMC contributes 9% of the basic salary of employees to the Pension Fund. A separate During the year, IMC spent Pension Fund is maintained to meet the liabilities of pension. 77% of plan liabilities are Rs 192 million on deﬁned expected to be met by the Pension Fund Assets based on the actuarial assumption made in June, 2019. The Provident Fund balance is paid when the employee leaves the beneﬁt plans compared to organization. During the year, IMC spent Rs 192 million on deﬁned beneﬁt plans Rs 170 million spent compared to Rs 170 million spent in 2018. in 2018. 32 Our Dealers Dealers are the public face of IMC and critical partner in our success in the marketplace. Our work with dealers is focused on improving dealership experience of our customers and helping dealers to better manage their economic, environmental and social impacts in line with our supply chain sustainability strategy. Our dealers provide employment, pay taxes, serve customers through sales and aftersales services and support communities. We support dealers with trainings and provision of guidance for operational improvements and increasing customer’s experience. Our dealership network consists of 46 Toyota 3S dealerships nationwide. The dealerships are independently owned and operated. Our products and services such as new cars, spare parts and service (maintenance) are available at all our 3S dealerships. In addition, we have introduced T-Sure or Toyota Sure service at our dealerships where customers have option to buy or sell their Toyota vehicles with complete peace of mind. Our total Toyota Sure dealers at the end of the year were 36 out of which 1 was added during the year. Changing market conditions coupled with increased competition require state-of-the-art services. In order to deliver exceptional services, we engage with our dealers during the year through trainings, workshops, certiﬁcations and Kaizen projects. Surveys/audits are carried out by third party auditors against deﬁned performance metrics. Based on the survey/audit results, corrective action is planned and communicated to the dealers to overcome shortcomings. The Annual dealers’ conference is one forum to recognize the dedication and commitment of our dealers. The dealers delivering exceptional performance against deﬁned KPIs are awarded at the conference. At IMC, we take pride in our dealership network which helped Toyota in becoming the ﬁrst choice of customers. 46 TOYOTA 3S DEALERSHIPS NATIONWIDE Trainings Workshops Certiﬁcations Kaizen 33 Sustainability Report 2019 Team 21 To deliver state-of-the-art after sales services as per Toyota’s Standards, a comprehensive technical training program Toyota TEAM 21 (Toyota Technical Education for Automotive Master 21st century) is a pre-requisite for Toyota dealers’ technicians. Our 100% dealerships The program consists of four training categories; Toyota have Toyota certiﬁed Technician, Professional Technician, Diagnostic Technician technicians at the end (Engine, Chassis & Electrical), and Diagnostic Master Technician of ﬁnancial year 2019. (Engine, Electrical + MPX & NVH). Our 100% dealerships had Toyota-certiﬁed technicians at the end of ﬁnancial year 2019. Toyota Dream Car Art Contest The 13TH TOYOTA DREAM CAR ART CONTEST Toyota Dream Car Art Contest is organized annually by Toyota Motor The six-member independent jury comprising educators, Corporation. The Contest, which is open to kids under 16 years, is painters, curators and visual artists selected the regional and intended to use their imagination to create the car of their dreams in national winners and the top 9 artworks from Pakistan to enter the form of art. From its humble beginnings in 2015 and with two the World Contest in Japan. The Company celebrated the 39 World Winners, the Toyota Dream Car Art Contest has evolved into winners who came from twenty-ﬁve Dealerships across the becoming Pakistan’s biggest drawing competition for children. country, awarding those certiﬁcates and medals at the grand During the contest, almost 48,500 artworks were received from Award Ceremony in Lahore. The top 30 winners of the World across Pakistan from over 1,550 schools, maintained Pakistan’s Contest get a ﬁve day, all expenses-paid trip to Japan with their worldwide 3rd position for highest artworks. parents. Exposure to Japanese culture and its world-renowned hospitality plus the opportunity to make new friends, has One of the special features of the Local Contest is the active far-reaching results on their mental development. participation of children who are diﬀerently-abled. The company has created the Royal category to encourage them, which as a result of World Winner: This year is very the relentless eﬀorts of the Dealership Customer Relations teams, special as the World Contest, held in saw an increased participation of 41% over the previous year. The artwork of Palwasha Azeem from Rahim Yar Khan for her 'Lantern Japan, announced two World Winners Car' and 13 year old boy Ibrahim Kureshy from Lahore for his 'Car of from Pakistan in two age categories viz. Invisibility’ were the World Contest Winners. 8-10 Years Category 12-15 Years Category Palwasha Azeem Ibrahim Qureshy from Rahim Yar Khan from Lahore (Toyota Royal Motors) (Toyota Sahara Motors) for her “Lantern Car” for his “Car of Invisibility” won the Bronze Award. won the Bronze Award. Winners of the 13th Toyota Dream Car Art Contest with Vice Chairman Indus Motor Company and Dealers 34 Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion of Environmental Management at Dealerships We are aware that the boundary of environmental impact of our activities includes our dealerships. Moreover, being a responsible corporate citizen, we require our dealerships to adopt sustainability practices in their operations as without managing the impacts in supply chain, we cannot contribute eﬀectively towards the goals of sustainable development. We equip our dealers with best practices on health and safety, environment, labor practices, human rights and contribution to society which has helped in managing supply chain impacts. Dealer Environmental Risk Assessment Program (DERAP) Toyota Motor Corporation’s environmental standard for environmental risk management is implemented at our dealerships service workshops to manage the environmental impact of our dealerships and ensuring compliance with the Toyota Standards. A total of 42 (about 91%) of our dealerships are DERAP-certiﬁed while the remaining are under the certiﬁcation process. Waste management system is in place at our dealerships to treat hazardous waste and waste water at dealerships. Moreover, all dealerships have recovery and recycling equipment installed for CFC/HFC released from air conditioners to protect the environment. Green Dealer Green Dealers Program, to improve the environmental systems and standards at dealerships and further reduce the negative environmental impact of dealership activities, was launched for DERAP-certiﬁed dealers. The program objective is to provide an optimal solution for the Environmental Management System after implementation of DERAP and introduce new techniques and procedures for personnel safety. Our 40 (about 87%) dealers are certiﬁed under the Green Dealer Program while the remaining are under the process of certiﬁcation. In addition to participation in various activities and programs focused on managing environmental impact, our dealership network also contributes toward betterment of local communities at dealerships through their CSR activities. 35 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Practices at Dealerships “One-Car-One-Tree” Concept “Plant-in-Pot” Campaign “Blood Donation Camp” (Toyota Highway Motors) (Toyota Hyderabad Motors) (Toyota Eastern Motors) Toyota Highway Motors pioneered the Inspired by Million Tree Plantation Drive Continuing the legacy of serving the “One-Car-One-Tree” concept years back of IMC, Toyota Hyderabad Motors humanity better, Toyota Eastern Motors for inspiring and encouraging customers initiated “Plant-in-Pot” Campaign with the organized a Blood Donation Camp for full for tree plantation activity on sustainable aim to foster a sense of civic day at Dealership. Management and cross basis. For value addition, the dealership responsibilities, awareness and functional employees donated their invited various prominent celebrities on a ownership. All visiting customers including blood. Suﬃcient bottles of blood were cup of tea for dedicated tree plantation T-Sure business were engaged through collected by the Indus Hospital, Karachi. endeavors. This Dealership has taken a provision of sapling at the time of lead of meeting their target of their part purchase of vehicle. So far, 250 Saplings for IMC’s Million Tree Plantation Drive. have been handed over to customers. “Beach Cleaning Drive” “Smog & Fog Awareness” “Beat the Heat” (Toyota Creek Motors) (Toyota Faisalabad Motors) (Toyota Central Motors) Inspired by the Sustainable City Drive of Our dealer Toyota Faisalabad Motors TCM setup a stall of Cold Water and IMC, Toyota Creek Motors conducted carried out a three-day campaign to Lemonade outside the dealership aiming Beach Cleaning Drive at Sea View, Karachi. create awareness about safe driving in at providing cold fresh water and juice to The objective behind this Cleaning Drive is smog and fog for the safety of human the people passing by the road, so that to promote environmental awareness and lives. During the campaign 10,000 leaﬂets they can quench their thirst and prevent ownership in building a sustainable and 2,000 stickers were distributed. themselves from the harsh consequences society and to inspire individuals and of weather such as heat stroke. It was other corporates to own the cities of arranged on humanitarian ground based Pakistan. on the forecast of the Meteorological Department, which stated that during the ﬁrst three days of May, maximum temperatures during the day will range from 40 to 42 degrees Celsius, and wind ﬂows will be from the north/northwest. 36 Our Customers Customer loyalty is the basis for our long-term success and growth in the competitive automobile market in Pakistan. With the prospective rollover of new cars by new players in the automobile market in coming years, vibrant customer management and customer satisfaction will be the key diﬀerentiating factor for any automobile player. We know that a good customer experience is essential for our success and brand reputation. To better understand our customers requirements, we regularly interact with our customers through our dealerships as well as direct interaction for meeting their expectations and improving their experience of our products and services. Our approach to customer management is governed by Toyota Global CR standards which are applicable at IMC and at all our dealerships. Our customers expect high quality products meeting customer’s safety and comfort requirements. We take into account the customers needs and feedback during design, manufacturing and after sales to handle quality and comfort issues raised by customers. We have inherited a culture of collaboration and continuous improvement from Toyota which helps to make continuous improvement in our products for delivering exceptional customer experience. An integrated technology platform GENESIS is installed at our dealerships for improving customer experience and handling customer grievances on the most relevant product and service aspects. Our customers can also contact us through our dealerships on any issue related to product and services. We have a dedicated line 080011123 in Customers Relations department for handling customer suggestions/queries and complaints. The input is constantly monitored and forwarded to relevant departments for swift action as per need. Our customers experience a complete ownership experience though our Customer First department which deals with parts and after sales services. We provide genuine spare parts to our customers through our dealerships and selected retail outlets which is well received by our customers. Provision of genuine parts and quality services to our customers not only increases customer satisfaction but also builds more trust in the Toyota brand. Safety of our customers, vehicles and public is a prime concern for us on account of diverse driving habits and rough roads coupled with extreme weather conditions. Our campaigns on product safety and inspection of vulnerable parts help our customers to better manage their vehicles and ensure safety of all. We have a dedicated line 080011123 in Customers’ Relation department for handling customer suggestions/ queries and complaints. Customer being welcomed at Dealership 37 Sustainability Report 2019 We regularly interact with our customers to gauge customer satisfaction levels related to products, parts and services. This helps in overcoming issues, if any, to ensure continuous support of our customers in keeping our pride of most reliable brand in automotive industry in Pakistan. Customers’ satisfaction index research is conducted annually to collect data to evaluate our performance on key indicators and pinpointing areas of improvement. Customers' Satisfaction Index 120 100 80 93% 93% 90% 60 40 20 0 Sales Satisfaction Index 120 100 80 92% 94% 94% 60 40 20 0 2019 2018 2017 4th Customer Satisfaction KAIZEN Evolution Cup Toyota-IMC organizes the annual Customer Satisfaction Kaizen Evolution Cup (CSKE) which is attended by all qualifying dealerships and their principals, guests from Toyota Motor Asia Paciﬁc, and IMC top management. The theme of this year’s CSKE was “1 Million Interactions”, which is a part of the Vision 2020 to serve and engage with over a million Toyota-IMC customers. The objective of the event was to cultivate and sustain the Kaizen philosophy and mindset across dealerships nationwide and to focus on developing human resources and training dealers’ staﬀ in the concepts of the Toyota Way, Grand Finale of the 4th CSKE 2018-19 held at Indus Motor Toyota Business Practices, and Kaizen Culture Development. 38 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Suppliers Long-term proﬁtability depends upon vibrant supply chain management. We believe that integration of sustainability in our supply chain is vital for our success, brand reputation and meeting customers expectations. We collaborate with our supply chain partners based on their overall strength and work on sustainability for mutual growth. With various development programs focused on supply chain, we not only create ﬁnancial beneﬁts for our partners but also help in securing a competitive advantage in the market. We procure materials and services from international as well as local suppliers. Our procurement is mainly categorized into: • Sourcing of CKD and CBU from Toyota Motor Corporation and parts from abroad; • Direct and indirect purchasing of locally manufactured parts and material to produce vehicles; • Locally procured service parts and accessories to support aftersales service; and • Purchasing of goods and/or services to support the operations, maintenance services and corporate services. Local product related suppliers are OEM level automotive part suppliers in the categories of resin, rubber, electrical, sheet metal, assembly, and others. Our suppliers are located in Sindh, Punjab and Balochistan. We have a total of 45 Tier-I parts suppliers and 7 consumable suppliers. Our supply chain is highly labor-intensive involving manual to semi-automated production line. Our total payments to our supply chain partners on account of purchase of goods and services were Rs.123,494 million, which were 19% higher compared to the year 2018. During the year, our 37% procurement was made from local suppliers compared to 42% in 2018. IMC has been following parts localization program over the years to promote industrial development for availability of new technologies, job creation, skilled labor and contribution to economic development. IMC is actively engaged with its supply chain partners to help them meet the Toyota standards of safety and quality for local parts. Our close collaboration with our supply chain partners has encouraged them to make investments in production lines fully dedicated to manufacturing high-tech parts for our products. Our new Toyota Corolla consists of 727 parts and components manufactured locally. Upto 24 Deliveries of certain local parts in a day Workshop of Rubatech Engineering (Pvt) Ltd. 39 Sustainability Report 2019 Promotion of Environmental Management at Suppliers We have always extended support to our suppliers in the areas of safety and environment, quality and productivity and good labor practices. Our corporate values, Toyota Quality Standards, our sustainability guidelines, ‘Just-In-Time’ techniques and Kaizen culture to reduce parts rejection and bring improvement in business processes and proﬁtability, are communicated to suppliers. We work closely with suppliers on Kaizen (continuous improvement) culture and compliance targets to ensure conformity to all applicable laws and regulatory requirements. Regular assessments are conducted to ensure that all suppliers are in line with IMC vison, strategy and targets. Our supply chain department coordinates with supply chain partners to promote sustainable practices in the supply chain. Toyota Green Purchasing Guidelines (GPG) Toyota ‘Environmental Purchasing Guidelines’ were developed in March 1999, which were further revised for improvement in March 2006 as ‘Green Purchasing Guidelines’ [GPG]. In accordance with Global Challenge 2050 and taking the changing environmental regulations into consideration, the GPG were revised in January 2016. Green Purchasing Guidelines help in reducing the environmental footprint throughout our supply chain. The guidelines have been communicated to suppliers to motivate them to reduce environmental impact of their operations to establish society in harmony with nature. We have been working with our suppliers to eliminate the packaging material from our supply chain by shifting to returnable trolleys for supplying parts to IMC. Our green purchasing guidelines restrict following substances for packaging materials according to the Toyota Technical Standards TSZ0001G management, practice latest edition of the environmental load material . The Green purchasing guidlines are aligned with Toyota’s Six Global Challenges. 0 • Lead • Cadmium CO2 • Mercury • Hexavalent Chromium • PBB (Polybrominated biphenyls) • PBDE (Polybrominated diphenyl ethers) CHALLENGE 2 CHALLENGE 4 CHALLENGE 4 CHALLENGE 6 Reduction of Reduction of Promotion of Establishing • Deca BDE (Decabromo diphenyl ether) green house gas impact on Resource Society in Harmony • HBCD (Hexabromocyclo dodecane) emission water environment Recycling with Nature • PFOS (Perﬂuorooctane sulfonates) Establishment of Management of Compliance with • Asbestos Environmental Chemical Environmental Laws Management • DMF (Dimethylfumarate) System Substances* and Regulation* We encourage fair labor practices at our suppliers and we do not engage with suppliers who encourage child labor and forced and compulsory labor. 37 of our suppliers are ISO 14001 certiﬁed. Currently, we do not have in place a criterion for supplier social assessment. However, we have environmental assessment criteria for selection and monitoring of our suppliers. The new suppliers are selected through a process involving shortlisting, screening against criteria and conﬁrmation from supplier for compliance against criteria. The monitoring is carried out through suppliers’ audits and evaluation against KPIs followed by agreed actions for improvement. corrective action supplier criteria to supplier supplier selection suppliers conﬁrmation audit evaluation 40 Sustainability Report 2019 Automotive Market & Toyota Brand This year, we completed another successful business year on account of our strong brand reputation. Our brand direction and marketing activities are guided by Toyota’s core global values which require compliance with applicable marketing communication and advertisement laws and voluntary codes. Our brand management strategy requires that accurate and reliable information on product features, services and practices is disseminated to our customers and other stakeholders. We ensure compliance with our strategy through an internal review process to conﬁrm that only accurate information on product and services is shared. The Toyota Guiding Principles to produce reliable vehicles and the sustainable development of society through ever-changing innovation and the provision of high-quality products and services require shift in the conventional business model to meet growing customer expectations. We endeavor to form a lasting relationship with our customers by oﬀering peace of mind and unique buying experience and owning and driving a Toyota vehicle. Our Customer First Approach from Toyota, working on localization, creating new jobs, skills and contribution to economic development coupled with our work for promotion of technology among engineering graduates and spending on local communities have supported our brand. At IMC, we are committed to continuing our activities for the betterment of our stakeholders and strengthening of our brand in the competitive market. The brand strength is monitored through surveys across our dealerships, suppliers and industry-wide business. The strategies are adjusted accordingly for delivering better customer experience and maintaining brand strength. Vehicle safety is one of the utmost priorities at Toyota. In line with the ‘Safety First’ philosophy, IMC provides detailed information to customers on product attributes, safe use, environmental impact and disposal of the products. The owner manual incorporates information regarding driver and passenger safety, vehicular features and technical and maintenance information. To ensure the safety of the consumer, a video is provided, which underlines all the safety attributes of Toyota Vehicles. IMC is proud to share that all the CKD vehicles are equipped with safety features which are equivalent to 4 star ASEAN NCAP quality standards. Over a span of 2 years, IMC has continuously made eﬀorts to increase safety awareness and educate the users about the correct usage of safety speciﬁcations. Along with NCAP (New Car Assessment Program), IMC also promotes its Safety mascot THUMS (Total Human Model for Safety) over digital and other platforms to educate viewers on the safety features provided in all CKD variants. In order to further promote safety features among customers, regular safety campaigns are carried out throughout the year at our dealerships to discuss safety features information and product attributes. The Toyota Safety mascot THUMS (Total Human Model for Safety) is also promoted during the campaigns which contains the details of some driving tips and safety features, including Anti-Lock Braking System, Dual SRS Airbags and child ISOFIX seat anchors. In line with its growth strategy, brand management in the market place and to cater to higher production volume, the extension of Paint Shop, P.T.E.D and Painting Booth was completed during the year along with installation of robots in Weld Shop and Paint Shop. The details about the source, safe use and disposal of the product also include Toyota genuine parts and Toyota genuine motor oil. We also follow ASEAN NCAP (New Car Assessment Program) in addition to applicable laws and Toyota Guidelines. Toyota Genuine Motor Oil is blended as per TMC's guidelines which are benchmarked on American Petroleum Institute (API) and the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) International standards. All our products are subject to compliance with the law and voluntary guidelines. Compliance is assessed on a regular basis. During the year, there were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information, marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Moreover, no complaints of breach of customer privacy were reported during the year. 41 42 Enviornmental Performance Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Performance Environment management practices are vital at all levels of business operations. The automobile industry has complex operations of cutting, welding, assembling and painting in the production process which directly impact the environment. The automobile sector is the perfect example where automation and improved processes can reduce cost and minimize the environmental impact. Automation in shape of digital manufacturing is expected to reduce the environmental footprint of manufacturing operations. However, the environmental impact of products requires commitment from all players, including government and reﬁneries for upgrading fuel standards in Pakistan. At IMC, we are aware that our operations, products and supply chain partners have signiﬁcant environmental impact and we are dedicated to eﬀectively managing the negative environmental impact of our operations and in the supply chain. The material topics showing our signiﬁcant environmental impact have been identiﬁed taking into account interaction of our business activities with the external environment, severity of impact and results of stakeholder engagement. The material topics are listed on page 22 which also shows the reason these topics have been categorized as material. Toyota’s philosophy and policies on the environment which are based on Toyota Guiding Principles underpin our strategy and policies. We are also guided by the “Toyota Global Environmental Challenge 2050” while devising our strategies for environmental management. Our environmental policy has been revised in 2019 along with our ﬁve years plan implemented at our operations for managing our impact on the environment. Our policy also forms the basis for new investment in technologies and upgradation of existing facilities. The Safety, Health and Environment Committee which is headed by the Chief Executive is responsible for environmental management at IMC. The Committee mandate includes developing guidelines, procedures, reviewing performance against targets, taking appropriate decisions and ﬁxing the responsibility for environment, health and safety-related issues. Our approach to environment management is proactive to reduce our environment footprint through adoption of cleaner technologies and eﬃcient management of resources. The responsibility for implementation and monitoring compliance with policies and applicable laws rests with Manager SHE. Our production plant is ISO 14001 certiﬁed which helps us in identiﬁcation of risks and opportunities in time to take appropriate decisions accordingly. We regularly carry out training on health, safety and environment topics related to our operations to update the knowledge of our workforce and eﬀective management of the activities. We are aware that only management of environment impact at our operations is not suﬃcient as some of our impact lies in the supply chain. We work with our supply chain partners to reduce the impact of their operations by taking appropriate steps in line with our environmental policy and guidelines. Our management approach is evaluated through external certiﬁcation and Toyota Global Environmental Management System Audits, internal performance reviews against targets and compliance with applicable laws. We take appropriate corrective action based on the evaluation results, where required. IMC commitment to keeping its environment targets 20% below legal requirement along with its continuous spending on environmental management has resulted in zero non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations during the year. We spent Rs 321.75 million on remediation, prevention and environmental management in 2019 compared to Rs. 442 million in the year 2018. Major expenditures include Rs. 180 million on spot cooling process – a very rare facility in production plantsfor the comfort of workforce and environmental control in open atmosphere, Rs. 84.8 million on renewable energy (photovoltaic) and Rs. 3.0 million for installation of LED lights. 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION 13 CLIMATE ACTION 14 LIFE BELOW WATER 15 LIFE ON LAND 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 43 First project of Million Tree Plantation Drive in front of Indus Motor Sustainability Report 2019 Toyota Global Environment Month An Environment Month is celebrated every year in June. This year the theme was “SAVE RESOURCES FOR TOMORROW”. The purpose is to create awareness and remind people about their social responsibility towards the environment. Besides training and awareness, it creates competitive environment for employees and their families for sustainability in society through increased awareness. Focus activity in this month was to give awareness about conservation of energy & water resources and to promote 3R (reduce, reuse, recycle) activities. Other than this tree plantation was done inside, outside IMC & in the Port Qasim region. Schools and Universities actively participated in the Environment Month activities to show commitment towards Environment protection. Using Natural Resources Materials Usage Metals Fuels & consumable liquids Natural resources drive economic development. With the recent expeditious use of resources and over-exploitation of natural systems, we commit to using the available resources wisely not only for economic beneﬁt but also for the coming generations. Diﬀerent materials and chemical substances are used in vehicle manufacturing. The major categories of materials are metals, plastics, elastomers, textiles and natural materials, fuels and consumable liquids, electronics, ceramics, glass and other compounds and non-dimensional materials. The calculation of weight of materials used in the production of vehicles involves enormous work while taking into consideration the number of materials and the Electronics, Plastics, complex nature of materials. However, we are pursuing to ceramics, elastomers, Non-dimensional glass & other textiles & materials identify and report the weight of diﬀerent materials used in compounds natural materials the production of our products. We constantly explore the opportunities to use more sustainable material including recycled and renewable material, where possible. However, no recycled material was used in production processes during the year. Addressing Climate Change CO2 0 Climate conditions in Pakistan are rapidly changing on account of increasing temperature and have resulted in severe and changing weather patterns. The CHALLENGE # 3 Government of Pakistan is pursuing strategies to shift the energy mix to Plant Zero CO2 renewables and low carbon resources coupled with a billion tree plantation Emissions Challenge drive to address the climate change. We, at IMC, are fully committed to using energy eﬃciently and convert to renewables and low carbon technologies in Achieve zero CO2 emissions at all plants by 2050 our operations and supply chain to reduce our environmental footprint. 44 Sustainability Report 2019 Energy Usage & Shifting to Low Carbon Resources Eﬃcient energy usage is critical to preserving IMC’s competitiveness in the challenging economic and climate conditions. Our strategy of shifting to low carbon energy resources and energy conservation for improved eﬃciency focuses on eﬃcient processes at our facilities to reduce our energy consumption. Our assembly plant design helps to maximize the use of natural light during day time to reduce energy use. Moreover, LED energy-eﬃcient bulbs are installed throughout the plant. A combined Heat & Power System (CHP) has been installed which reuses the heat produced by energy production. Natural gas and electricity used at our plant are the main energy sources and the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. During the year, the Co-Generation capacity was enhanced from 4.6 MW to 6 MW in line with future growth strategies. The energy consumption during the year increased by 68,479 GJ compared to the previous year. The energy used per manufactured vehicle increased to 7.341 GJ/per unit compared to 6.534 GJ/per unit in the year 2018. UNIT 2019 2018 2017 2016 Energy consumed within GJ 313,080 396,029 477,901 409,384 organization Non renewable Energy consumed within GJ 1,857 1,395 organization Renewable Total Energy Consumption GJ 479,758 410,779 313,080 396,029 Energy used per vehicle GJ/per 5.22 6.17 7.341 6.53 produced Unit Energy saving per year GJ 25,630 22,320 17,307 12,498 TDEM guidelines were used in calculation of energy ﬁgures.Energy consumption per vehicle includes both renewable and non-renewable energy consumption. The energy saving ﬁgures includes electricity saved by using solar panels installed at the IMC plant, replacing conventional lights with LED lights and installing absorption chillers in the plant. The ﬁgures for energy saving for the year 2017 has been restated to correct the calculation mistake. Energy Consumption 600000 479,758 410,779 450000 396,029 313,080 300000 150000 0 2019 2018 2017 2016 45 Sustainability Report 2019 Moving Towards Renewable Energy At IMC, we are committed to improving the energy mix by transforming from one source to another with continuous improvements in the operational processes. We have installed onsite photovoltaic to reduce energy consumption from conventional sources. 516 MWh of energy was produced in 2019 compared to 338 MWh in 2018 accounting for 0.38% of our total energy consumption compared to *0.34% in 2018. Installation of additional system with capacity of 4.3 MW is being undertaken which will be completed in ﬁnancial year 2020. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) Climate change triggered by increasing greenhouse gases is aﬀecting the availability of natural resources, production and consumption patterns and declining quality of life. IMC is pursuing cleaner technologies and eﬃcient processes to reduce the greenhouse gases emitted from its operations which are already well below the legal allowable limits. The Kaizen and Just in Time techniques have helped us to reduce the emissions over the years along with savings in the shape of reduced delivery cost of parts and eﬃcient operations. Our consumption of natural gas and electricity in production activities are the major contributors to our greenhouse gas emissions. We are currently monitoring our Scope I emission from our operations. There are no Scope II emissions. The Scope III emissions of employees commuting to work, business travelling and transportation of materials to plant and products to dealers through supply chain partners are not measured during the year due to non-availability of reliable data. We established Plan 2050 Zero CO2 strategy to reduce emissions over the long run. Our initiatives of reducing energy usage though eﬃcient lighting systems and installation of Solar PV has resulted in reduction in electricity use and CO2 emission over the years. Moreover, our manufacturing plant not only uses highly eﬃcient power generators but also utilizes the heat produced by these generators via absorption chillers and support cooling requirements; which ultimately reduce emissions signiﬁcantly. Other signiﬁcant emissions are release of volatile organic compound (VOCs) in processes using solvents, paints, sealers or hydrocarbon-based chemicals. The emissions are reducing over the years as a result of Kaizen (continuous improvement) activities of cartridge reduction for low share colour, introducing new chemicals to replace washing thinner for overall cleaning, reducing robot gun distance and adjusting on/oﬀ spray for robot paint loss reduction. However, during the year, emissions increased by 2527 Mt compared to 3803 Mt increase in previous year. UNIT 2019 2018 2017 2016 Greenhouse gas emissions Mt 24,393 21,866 18,063 21,202 (Scope I) Emissions per vehicle Mt/per produced 0.373 0.347 0.301 0.331 unit Reduction in emission Mt 8,515 7,850 1,798 961 Emission of ODS Mt Nil Nil Nil Nil NOx, SOx and other signiﬁcant air emissions Mt NOx, SOx and other signiﬁcant air emissions within SEQS limits. There were no biogenic emissions during the year. Emission reduction ﬁgures includes only CO2 emissions. The emissions reduced due to replacement of Fluorescent lights. TDEM and SEQS guidelines were used for emission calculations. *Renewable energy percentage was mistakenly calculated on higher side in 2018 which is restated. 46 Sustainability Report 2019 Million Tree Plantation Initiative Morizukuri Considering the manifold beneﬁts of trees, including that they release oxygen into the air, absorb unpleasant odors as well as harmful gases such as carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide from the air and purify it, protect us from dangerous ultra-violet rays, provide us with food and the pivotal role played by trees in preventing soil erosion, maintaining ecological balance and most especially in lessening the eﬀects of global warming, Indus Motor pledged for Million Tree Plantation Drive across Pakistan. IMC is constantly working on reduction of GHG emissions from its operations and moving to net zero carbon footprint for its production plant. This Plantation Drive will not only beneﬁt environmentally but also economically and support diﬀerent SDGs. The kickoﬀ event for Million Tree Plantation Drive was held on November 20, 2018. Mr Waseem Akhtar, Mayor Karachi was the Chief Guest of the event. Only indigenous trees which are beneﬁcial to our environment are selected. For ensuring sustainability of the trees, local communities are being engaged. For nationwide implementation, all dealerships enthusiastically join their hand with IMC. Over the last few months, Indus Motor has planted more than 130,000 trees across Pakistan, majorly in Karachi. The plantation drive will help in tackling the most important issue of climate change and rising temperatures. IMC aﬃrms and determines plantation of 1 million Trees across Pakistan MILLION TREE PLANTATION: Support SDGs by 2021. 1 NO POVERTY POVERTY: 13 CLIMATE ACTION CLIMATE: Carbon capture 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING HEALTH: Medicinal Income from and storage plants forest produts 2 ZERO HUNGER HUNGER: 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION WATER: 15 LIFE ON LAND LAND: Nourishment from Freshwater for Biodiversity wild fruit and game drinking & irrigation 47 Sustainability Report 2019 Using Water Eﬃciently Water scarcity is becoming a major risk for business on a global level. Pakistan in one of the scariest countries in terms of water availability per person; the ground water levels are falling and the availability of fresh water CHALLENGE # 4 is a major concern. However, Pakistan is one of the top ﬁve countries worldwide in improving access to clean water. But despite this impressive Challenge of Minimizing progress, 22 million people still have no choice but to drink dirty water. and Optimizing Water Usage A lot of water is used in painting and other production processes which put a responsibility on us to manage the water in an eﬃcient way. Over time, we Enact eﬀective wastewater management and minimize are working to reduce the consumption of fresh water with the 3R concept water consumption based on individual local situations of Reduce, Recycle and Reuse and manage our impact on water. REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE Apply manufacturing Eﬃcient use of water Waste water treatment Kaizen We source water from canal extracted from Keenjhar Lake which has capacity of 650 hm3. We have an agreement with the Karachi Water and Sewage Board for extracting water which is measured by ﬂow meters installed at the point of extraction. Keenjhar Lake is the second largest fresh water lake in Pakistan and an important source of drinking water for Thatta District and Karachi city. Keenjhar Lake has been declared a Ramsar site under Ramsar Convention and a wildlife sanctuary. The lake is home of the winter migratory birds and breeding area as well. The water extracted does not signiﬁcantly aﬀect the water source. The used water is recycled to reduce the intake of fresh water leading to reduced impact on this scarce resource. The water recycling increased to 10.83% of the total water withdrawal during the year compared to 10% during 2018. Water consumption during the year increased by 2.4% compared to the previous year on account of marginal increase in production and construction of new paint shop. UNIT 2019 2018 2017 2016 Water withdrawal m3 469,527 458,488 372,697 359,002 Water recycled and reused m3 50,865 45,805 40,730 71,110 Water withdrawal and recycling are recorded with the help of ﬂow meters. SEPA and Toyota standards are used for measurement of water consumption. 48 08 Sustainability Report 2019 Contribution for the Construction of Dams Rising population and industrialization is increasing usage of water which is one of the basic problems in Pakistan. To manage water scarcity and availability of water, the government is working to construct Diamer-Bhasha Dam and Mohmand Dam. Embracing the spirit of national integrity and considering the criticality of national needs, IMC pledged a contribution of Rs. 100 million to support the government for the construction of dams. The contribution will be released in ﬁve equal tranches annually. IMC has paid Rs. 40 million out of the pledged amount in ﬁnancial year 2019. Managing Eﬄuent and Waste Being an automobile company, we produce diﬀerent types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste which is strictly handled as per our policy. All applicable legal requirements for waste handling and disposal are strictly followed and no hazardous waste is shipped internationally. Water discharged from operations and the waste thinner are properly treated and recycled to reduce the burden on the environment. For catering to further expansions of the manufacturing plant, we are undertaking installation of new state-of-the-art Waste Water Treatment Plant, which is based on Apple Edge technology from KABUTA Japan. We use the treated waste water for horticulture purposes, which is not suitable for use in production. The solid waste and oil are stored at a safe place for disposal to government-approved contractors. The staﬀ at shop/ﬂoor is regularly trained to reduce waste and eﬀectively handle the waste which is inevitable. During the year, we have not experienced any signiﬁcant spill at our plant. UNIT 2019 2018 2017 2016 Hazardous and Nonhazardous waste Reuse/reprocess (Used oil, Ton 9 9 9 9 batteries) Recovery Ton N/A N/A N/A N/A Incineration (Paint sludge phosphate sludge, chemical Ton 245 213 236 244 sludge, caustic sludge, waste water sludge, chemical solvent) Landﬁll Ton 1 1 1 1 3 On site storage capacity (waste water) m 166 166 166 166 Others Ton N/A N/A N/A N/A None of the waste material is reused. The landﬁll and on site storage is not carried out and waste is disposed of through SEPA approved contractor. The hazardous waste is being disposed of through approved contractors on daily basis. The ﬁgures for reuse/reprocess, landﬁll and on site storage are on estimated basis. 49 Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental Conservation 5S Clean Drive 2019 This year again, IMC has launched an expanded “5S Clean Drive 2019-20” in March 2019 duly embedding education on 5S methodology and awareness Plastic Pollution in various schools of Karachi. This Drive is being run by WWF-Pakistan targeting 200 private and government schools where, after awareness session, clean activities are executed and students were encouraged for tree plantation at their controlled area. The objective of this Drive is to learn about the 5S and to create ownership among those and their neighborhoods. Sustainable City Owing to the increasing trend of selling national ﬂags made of paper and plastic, people enthusiastically buy such ﬂags with a sense of national pride to celebrate national days, but sadly we ﬁnd these ﬂags trampled upon the roads. Indus Motor Company initiated a drive and collected fallen ﬂags after Independence Day celebrations under “Clean Pakistan Drive” to pay respect to our beloved country. Clean Drive 2019 – Sea View Karachi Under Employees Volunteering Program, a Clean Drive was carried out at Sea View Karachi on August 15, 2018 to promote environmental awareness and ownership, to build a sustainable society and inspire individuals and corporates to own the cities of Pakistan. Around 100 employees from cross-functional departments of IMC joined the drive and enthusiastically rolled up their sleeves for the drive and set an example of owning for corporates/citizens. Clean Drive Hill Park On the eve of Iqbal Day, on Nov 9, 2018, a Clean Drive was carried out at in collaboration withwith I-AM-KARACHI, an NGO, at Hill Park Karachi. Around 100 students of local schools and the students of our Toyota Goth Education Program along with their parents participated. The objective of the drive was to instill a sense of ownership, particularly among younger generation, to allow them to understand the positive impact they can make within their society. 50 51 Our People & Communities Sustainability Report 2019 4 QUALITY EDUCATION 5 GENDER EQUALITY 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Our People 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Automobile operations are the perfect example where technology and workforce is truly integrated. Our people play a central role to support our brand reputation and to deliver exceptional performance. IMC is aware that an enabling environment and inspired workforce is required to deliver high quality products meeting the ever-changing needs and requirements of our customer base. Our human resource strategy focuses on attracting suitable people, providing them a healthy environment and training to enable them to successfully showcase their potential. Our human resource initiatives are guided by Kaizen, a commitment to continuous improvement towards business growth – which requires every team member to join the team and to be trained to practice the Toyota Way to develop our workforce capacity, knowledge and skills. We remained committed to ensuring that our operations follow, protect and respect labor standards, human rights laws, declarations and international conventions. Our material topics discussed in this section are identiﬁed on the basis of stakeholder engagement and the impact of our operations. These are listed on page 22 which also shows the impact on the basis of which these topics have been categorized as material. The Head of HR is responsible for implementing policies and reviewing performance on labor practices and human rights at IMC. The responsibility for monitoring and ensuring health and safety and safe working conditions rests with the Safety, Health and Environment department. We regularly review the policies and practices of labor practices, human rights and health and safety through meetings at unit level, function level, department level and company level. Our performance is externally reviewed through safety audits and certiﬁcation of systems. We make required changes in policies and procedures based on the results of the reviews. Workforce Proﬁle We provide a nourishing environment to our 2019 3,349 workforce where people from diﬀerent backgrounds, ideas and beliefs are valued and 2018 3,266 motivated to deliver to their maximum potential. Our workforce ﬁgures are for the 2017 year ended June 30, 2019. 2,849 Workforce by Employment Workforce by Employment Workforce by Employment Contract, by Gender Type, by Gender Contract, by Region KARACHI 3,319 FULL TIME ISLAMABAD 14 3,293 56 PERMANENT 3,293 56 LAHORE TEMPORARY PART TIME 16 TOTAL TOTAL 3,293 56 TOTAL 3,293 56 PERMANENT 3,349 MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 52 Sustainability Report 2019 Hiring by Age Group Hiring by Gender Hiring By Region <30 95% 97% KARACHI 100% MALE 30-50 5% ISLAMABAD FEMALE 3% >50 0% LAHORE Attrition by Age Group Attrition by Gender Attrition By Region 64% MALE 98% KARACHI 100% <30 36% FEMALE 2% ISLAMABAD 30-50 LAHORE >50 0% The ﬁgures for hiring and attrition relate to the ﬁnancial year 2019. The hiring and attrition ratios are in accordance with industry ratios. The hiring and turnover rates were 17% and 15% compared to hiring and turnover rate of 23% and 10% in the previous year. Employee Satisfaction A satisﬁed workforce helps in meeting the corporate objective smoothly and maintaining competitiveness in the market. In addition to regular engagements, surveys are conducted on regular basis to measure employee satisfaction and identify areas of improvement to meet the objectives of providing decent working condition and employee recreational activities. During the year, IMC has installed spot cooling system at its plant making IMC the only plant in Pakistan to do so for providing comfortable workplace to its employees. Based on our exceptional performance in this area, Pakistan Business Council has nominated us a leader on SDG 8 “Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all”. The best practices adopted by IMC will be shared with the industry to inspire businesses to meet the targets listed in SDG 8 for ensuring decent working conditions. We, at IMC, fully comply with the applicable laws, regulations and international charters in the areas of employment practices and human rights. Employees are free to form associations for representing them in collective bargaining with the management as per applicable laws. Our supply chain partners comply with the applicable laws in this area and we have not come across any non-compliance at our supply chain partners. 41% of our workforce is covered by the collective bargaining agreement. We give notices to employees about any operational changes well before time. However, the notice period is not mentioned in the collective bargaining agreement. Our operations are free of child labor and forced or compulsory labor and we have not come across any such incident at our supply chain partners. To keep our workforce motivated and deliver to their full potential, we provide them with market based salaries and beneﬁts. Our ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men is 1:1 as the salary is based on merit only. We do not discriminate between workers on the basis of gender, religion and association and no incident of discrimination was reported during the year. Following beneﬁts are provided to full-time employees including management and staﬀ. DISABILITY/ RETIREMENT NUTRIENT AIR CONDITIONED LIFE INSURANCE INVALIDITY HEALTH CARE PROVISION DENSE MEAL PICK & DROP COVERAGE 53 Sustainability Report 2019 Training and Education Developing the skills and capabilities of our people is a key part of our strategic priority to build a capable and eﬀective human capital. Our training is based on the global contents of Toyota and the most fundamental and best business practices which have contributed to Toyota’s success. The training programs are designed to increase the knowledge, skills and attitude of our employees while taking into account the employee position and role for preparing them for future challenges. All management and employees are briefed on anti-corruption policies and procedures as a part of the code of conduct and at the time of Training in 2019 orientation session for new workers. Moreover, training on code of conductwhich includes anti-corruption policiesare regularly carried • Understanding Material Safety Data Sheet out throughout the year. (MSDS) IMC provides trainee apprentices opportunities to the students • Handling and storage of hazardous chemicals through Trainee Apprentices under the ATM program focused to convert them into talented technicians via hands-on experience and • Environmental awareness classroom lectures. One of the important elements in our human • Spill control and spill kit management resource policy is succession planning which is practiced through provision of training and development of our workforce. The • Eco-driving, waste management, eﬀectiveness of training is ensured through regular reviews against deﬁned objectives which also help in identifying areas of improvement. • Eco-tips based on waste reduction All of our employees received regular performance and career • Energy conservation development reviews. • Water conservation and CO2 reduction Training hours include management and non-management employees. During the year, we have organized various sessions to equip our staﬀ with the latest knowledge and skills for improved operational management. Communicate Toyota Programs Average training Workers are regularly rotated to hours per employee diﬀerent jobs to equip them with Company policies and practices cross-functional skills. All the 51 man-hours including code of conduct workers are provided with role based and skill based training at the time of rotation or promotion. Customer First approach in every interaction Training of Management staﬀ on Accountability & Ownership 54 Sustainability Report 2019 Toyota Asia Paciﬁc Skill Contest 2019 The annual competition, Toyota Asia Paciﬁc Skills Contest 2019 was held this year in Thailand. Total 121 contestants participated, belonging to 12 Toyota aﬃliated companies from 8 countries of the Asia Paciﬁc region. IMC Technicians from various skill categories participated to showcase their skills and talent at global level. We are proud to announce the remarkable victory of the year: SILVER MEDALS Ather Mirza Yasir Ahmed Ghadeer Abbas Paint Category Assembly Category Quality Category BRONZE MEDALS Asif Khan Haris Moin Press Category Quality Category Participants of Toyota Asia Paciﬁc Skills Contest 2019 in Thailand Safe and Healthy Workplace As a responsible manufacturer of vehicles, we emphasize on creating and strengthening a safety culture within our operations and at our supply chain partners. We practice health and safety culture which includes safety rules, procedures and practices to create awareness of safety practices. The health and safety management is informed by international best practices and standards along with Toyota guidelines. Our philosophy at IMC is to maintain the highest level of product and service quality without harming people and environment. Safety culture at IMC is practiced through eﬀective communication and reinforcement through a variety of channels, engaging all employees and contractors in understanding and adhering to safety programs and policies. Workers from each shop at IMC plant participate in regular safety circles (focus Caring For Healthy Workforce groups). The quality circles promote Jishuken (identiﬁcation of areas requiring ongoing focus) which helps to stimulate Kaizen (continuous improvement). Our Pulmonary function test and Audio Metry test health and safety management practices are focused towards zero fatalities and of Shop ﬂoors workforce being undertaken by professorial physicians regularly every year. injuries. Workers also take part in group-based activities like HIRA (Hazard Identiﬁcation and Risk Assessment) to explore safety hazards which are not For catering to health emergency of workforce, apparent in routine activities. The winners of the activity with the best theme First-aid Centre has been established during the year which serves for 24/7 duration. are awarded while the best theme is publicized for greater awareness. All our products and services are regularly reviewed for their health and safety impact during design, production, delivery of services and use of the product by customers. There were no incidents of non-compliance with health and safety impact of products or services. Safety Month 2019 Each year April is celebrated as the Safety Month when various activities safety walks, safety audit and training, including ﬁreﬁghting training, ﬁre simulation evacuation drills, screening of safety videos and awareness sessions are organized to reinforce the commitment to safety. Special safety audits are carried out during the month to check compliance with policies and procedures to enforce the safety system. 55 Sustainability Report 2019 5S PMRs A 5S system is in place to ensure safer workplace, compliance with regulations and a productive workforce. All our employees are part of the activities under this safety system. Based on our work on safety and guidance from Toyota, we have revamped the 5S concept to 5PMRs (plant management requirements) based on ﬁve steps. Extensive audits and periodic management walks ensure functionality of the system. Health and Safety Committees Safety, health and environment committees, where all employees are represented exist. The committees include representatives from employees and management. The committee meetings are held monthly at various levels issues related to health and safety are discussed and actions to improve health and safety conditions are taken as per need. The agreements with the labour union covers topics of health and safety of the workforce. In line with our commitment to health and safety of our workforce and operations, no Lost Work Day (LWD) injury occurred during the year. Minor Non-Lost Work Day Injuries (NLWD) occurred. All non-loss work day injuries occurred in non-production areas. IMC does not record loss work day injury and non-loss work day injury for contractors. The Toyota global safety standards (Safety-PMRs) are used to record injuries. IMC does not take into account First-aid cases in calculating injury rate and as per directive of our Principal (Toyota), we monitor and take quick action for First-aid cases. However, fatalities are included in injury rate. Lost day calculation takes into account schedule workday and the count begins the day after the incident. The ﬁgures of NLWD for the year 2018 and 2017 have been restated on account of calculation error. 2019 2018 2017 2016 LTIR 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 NLTIR 0.5 0.3 0.7 1.5 56 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Communities Enriching lives of the communities has always been the foremost part of our strategy. We are constantly working towards harmonious and sustainable development of the society. Our strategy to elevate our societies not only with our products but also with our activities has resulted in signiﬁcant progress in the areas of education, health and customer safety. Long-term success depends upon strong relationship with society and playing a productive role in uplifting and developing the communities. IMC CSR policy takes lead from Toyota's Global Vision for 2020 ‘Seeking Harmony between People, Society and the Global Environment, and Sustainable Development of Society through Manufacturing’. The CSR interventions are based on need assessment of the communities steered by well-deﬁned policies and procedures for eﬃciently managing CSR Rs 1.11 billion interventions. A senior director supported by the team is responsible for need assessment, program design, implementation, and sustainability of the intervention in deﬁned areas. 10 years’ CSR spending Plant site community is engaged on a regular basis to understand the requirements and identify the areas for possible intervention. The areas identiﬁed are reviewed in line with company policy to deﬁne the company intervention. The CSR function with the support of administrative department ensures smooth implementation of the programs. Our investments in communities beneﬁt communities in deﬁned areas. The results are reviewed against deﬁned objectives and the relevant adjustments are carried out. No impact assessment of the interventions was conducted during the year. There was no signiﬁcant actual or potential negative impact of our operations on local communities around the plant site. IMC’s annual contribution toward community investment is 1% of the pretax proﬁt of the preceding year. CSR SPENDING CSR SPENDING CSR ANNUAL SPENDING in Million Pak Rupees PER UNIT PRODUCED PER UNIT SOLD in Pak Rupees in Pak Rupees 320 4,000 4,000 3,523 3,474 3,053 3,000 240 230 3,000 2,899 3,000 2,844 192 173 2,200 2,183 141 160 2,000 2,000 80 1,000 1,000 0 0 0 2019 2018 2017 2016 2019 2018 2017 2016 2019 2018 2017 2016 Employee Volunteerism Employees’ participation in CSR activities leads to higher satisfaction and productivity apart from beneﬁting the brand in the market and better stakeholder relations. IMC encourages its workers to participate in the volunteer activities to extend support for the causes beneﬁting the public at large. During the year, employees volunteered 5,238 working-hours for various CSR activities including Million Tree Plantation Drive 2021, 5S clean drive, ration distribution for neighboring community 5,238 hrs well-being, provision of medical and educational assistance and road safety. of employee volunteering Increased by 76% over previous year 57 Sustainability Report 2019 Health Initiatives Healthy and productive population contributes to the economic development and reduces the health expenditures. Poor health limits opportunities and increases poverty within communities. It Humans touched also aﬀects water and sanitation, gender equality and peace and stability. Taking into consideration since inception near to these imperatives, our interventions in this ﬁeld focus on provision of basic health facilities to the underprivileged communities at their doorstep and support for SDG 3 “Good Health and Well-being”. We regularly donate to hospitals, blood banks and other healthcare institutions which 1 million provide life-care and health-care services to underprivileged communities. Provision of Basic Health Care Treatment Weekly three Free Medical camps are organized on a regular basis at Razzaqabad, Kohi Goth and Saleh Muhammad Goth located around the plant site. During the year, 28,365 patients were treated for various seasonal illness, such as Respiratory Tract Infection (RTI), Gastroenteritis and other general health problems arising from lack of immunity. 28,365 Necessary patent medicines for a week were patients treated in FY19 given to patients free of cost. Strengthening Mental Health Care Mental health problems aﬀect around one in four people in any given year. They range from common problems, such as depression and anxiety, to rarer problems such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. In collaboration with the Basic Needs Pakistan (an NGO) Free Medical Camps for Psychiatric in nearby communities are being organized twice a month. Last year, around 3,249 checkups were carried out and 87 patients were identiﬁed for treatment and counselling. Around 20 persons successfully completed their treatment course and rejoined their normal life eﬃciently. Apart from checkups, awareness sessions were also organized which were attended by a large 'number of community members. Corporate Philanthropy for Health Care For strengthening Foundation’s operations, IMC regularly donates to diﬀerent health institutions to help them become more eﬀective because they have unique assets and capabilities in providing quality medical support to downtrodden communities. During the year, IMC contributed Rs. 10 million to Indus Hospital, and Rs. 7.5 million each to Sindh Institute of Urology & Transplantation (SIUT), and to Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital & Research Centre. Mr Ali Asghar Jamali, CEO IMC handing over the Dr Adibul Hasan Rizvi, Founder SIUT cheque to Dr Abdul Bari Khan, CEO Indus Hospital, receiving the cheque from Mr Ali Asghar while Mr Parvez Ghias, the Ex-CEO IMC is also Jamali, CEO, IMC. present there. 58 Sustainability Report 2019 Education Education is one of the basic human rights and is the engine that drives individual and community prosperity. It does not only beneﬁt the society by helping to increase economic growth, reducing poverty, reducing crimes, increasing employment etc., but also helps the individual to earn higher income and therefore improves their living standard. Our investment in education lies in the belief that education has a direct impact on the economic growth of the country. We invest in innovative, sustainable education programs that connect students with classroom learning and real-world applications. Our contributions in this area are focused on provision of basic education to the children of underprivileged communities, promotion of technical skills through support to students in pursuing their technological ambitions and partnering for bringing academic excellence through higher education that broadens students’ intellectual horizons, harnesses their leadership potential and helps them learn to appreciate diverse perspective. Partnering with The Citizens Foundation (TCF) The Citizens Foundation has been imparting quality education in the disadvantaged areas for the betterment of communities. IMC is contributing to their noble cause by supporting two schools which were built by IMC at Baseera, Muzaﬀargarh and Hyderabad. These campuses are imparting education to around 1,000 students and generating employment for the local people. IMC supports these campuses by bearing operational expenses and has spent Rs. Rs. 98 million 2.6 million during the year. Moreover, during the year IMC Total contribution contributed Rs. 28 million towards TCF Endowment Fund for to TCF Endowment Fund meeting annual expenses of their campuses in Orangi, making a total contribution of Rs. 98 million. Toyota Goth Education Program Excellent results IMC started the Toyota Goth Education Program (T-GEP) in of Matriculation 2008 providing full ﬁnancial support with an objective of Grade A-1 | 3 students oﬀering elementary and middle school education to economically disadvantaged communities of neighboring Grade A | 10 students localities where IMC operates. Nurturing their dream for 12 Grade B | 3 students years, the program has gradually expanded the area of operation and scope of classes. For the ﬁrst time this year, seven college students from This program has signiﬁcantly improved their living standard, T-GEP have been selected by the Youth Impact for their their way of thinking and above all it helps in eliminating their Leadership Training Program Markhor-19, scheduled for long tradition of Early Marriage of girls. Oct 2 6, 2019 in Shogran. In Academic Year 2019, there were 239 children enrolled in T-GEP, out of which 98% of students have successfully passed their exams and have been promoted to higher classes. For the Academic Year 2020, there are 245 students (65% girls) enrolled in T-GEP. Total 16 students have successfully passed with their matriculation examination and IMC continuously supports fully for their college education. Support to Special Education School Deaf Reach The Government of Japan extended a grant of US$ 77,476 to the Family Education Services Foundation under the scheme of Grant Assistance of Grassroots Human Security Projects (GGP) for improvement of Special Education School, Deaf Reach in Rashidabad, Sindh. The grant was utilized for the provision of two School Vans (Hiace) and Equipment for a Bakery for improving the situation and enabling the deaf students to get access to basic education facilities in order to acquire more social skills. IMC joined hands under a Public-Private-Partnership supporting seats addition, extended maintenance for one year and vehicle branding. 59 37 Sustainability Report 2019 Stimulating Technical Education Toyota – Technical Education Program (T-TEP) The main objectives of the Toyota Technical Education Program (T-TEP) are Service-to-Society through familiarizing the young generation with the latest automobile technology, to create employment opportunities and also to bridge the gap of trained automobile technicians in the country. With the support of Toyota Motor Corporation, IMC launched this program in 2000 and currently it is running at four institutes in three major cities. Three-year certiﬁcation is oﬀered under the program which enables the students to pursue a successful career in the technical ﬁeld. Toyota philosophy and methods are the cornerstone of this program. Total Training Hours Since the beginning of T-TEP in 2000 in Pakistan, IMC has trained 56 instructors successfully, invested more than 950,000 man-hours, graduating 967,340 4,397 students who get employment opportunities both within Pakistan and abroad. Because the objectives and accruing social beneﬁts of the program had a direct business connect with IMC, the company is able to create a high quality curriculum cost eﬀectively thereby creating far more social and economic value than if it had merely cash and equipment to a worthy cause. Shell Eco-Marathon Asia 2019 The Shell Eco-Marathon, an energy-eﬃciency competition event, has been organized annually in three countries for over 30 years. The 2019 Asia-Paciﬁc edition held at the Sepang International Circuit in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia witnessed participation of 100 student teams from 21 countries from across Asia and the Middle East, including 9 teams from Pakistan. The event inspires the brightest and smartest future scientists and engineers to design, build and test-drive their own built vehicles that can go the furthest distance using the least amount of energy. In line with objectives to support technical education in Pakistan, linking the creativity of young people and to institute a positive relationship with engineering universities and students, IMC provided ﬁnancial support to Team Toyota NUSTAG of NUST-EME, Triumphing the success by Toyota NUSTAG team in Malaysia Rawalpindi for the second time for competing in Urban Concept Gasoline. The achievement of the “Team Toyota NUSTAG” was Excellent, as it was the ﬁrst team which cleared technical inspection in the ﬁrst attempt and secured 11th position in Urban-Gasoline Concept, which ranked 3rd position country-wise after China and Indonesia and emerged as the Best Urban Concept Team of Subcontinent. After successful competition, the Team Toyota NUSTAG planted 5,000 trees getting inspiration from Million Tree Plantation Drive of IMC. First Skills Olympic Competition 2019 JICA, in collaboration with SMEDA and PAAPAM, organized 1st Skills Olympic Competition between all PAAPAM members for both Tier-1 and Tier-2 and parts suppliers with the objective of enhancement of quality and productivity of automotive parts manufacturing industry in Pakistan. IMC supported the Competition, along with ﬁve other Japanese OEMs. The competition was held in Lahore on March 2 and in Karachi on March 9, 2019. 60 Sustainability Report 2019 Promoting Innovation IMC encourages engineering students for broadening their knowledge and competencies towards creativity, innovation and technological advancement as their ﬁnal year’s project. IMC supported a group of six engineering students of NUST-PNEC, Karachi for fabrication of a device (Vibsee) for their ﬁnal year project. The device will help blind people to commute by detecting obstacles ahead through activation of selected vibrators attached to their body and legs. The device will be comfortable, portable, wearable and aﬀordable. Taking into account the usefulness of the device, Chairman, IMC appreciated the innovation and directed to explore its utilization for safety purpose where interaction between man and machine happens frequently. Equipped with Vibsee Safer Roads – Better Lives Road safety has become a major global social, economic, development and health concern. Globally, 1.25 million people die every year and more than 20~50 million are injured or disabled. IMC promote safe driving habits for the safety of its customers as well as safety of the masses. As a mobility solution company, we are committed to creating safe products as well as stimulating safer use of our products for the safety of road users. IMC sponsored “Pakistan Road Safety Conference 2018”, organized by the Institute of Road Safety Traﬃc Environment Pakistan IRSTEP, Lahore. The objective of the Conference was also to contribute towards the implementation of the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-20. The conference recommended the full adoption of the WHO concept through integrating eﬀorts to focus Road Safety problems involving all stakeholders. At left: Mr Wajid Bux, Sr Manager CS&RA attending the Conference. This would be submitted to the government for consideration. Start Your Impossible Toyota’s vision of a barrier-free society is inculcated in “Start Your Impossible”, global initiative launched in Pakistan by Indus Motors Company. 'Start Your Impossible' is Toyota's global corporate initiative that aims to develop a new perspective of achieving the impossible in oneself. Toyota supports the creation of an inclusive and sustainable society in which everybody is given a chance to explore their inner capabilities and inspire the communities across the globe. Toyota is a Worldwide Mobility Partner of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and International Paralympic Committee (IPC) for Tokyo 2020 Games and will have the partnership through the 2024 Games. As a mobility company, Toyota has dedicated itself to providing mobility solutions. In line with this, IMC hosted the launch of the Start Your Impossible initiative on the 27th of June at the Pearl Continental Hotel in Karachi. During this event, IMC oﬃcially introduced two ambitious national athletes; Saadi Abbas, First South-Asian to win the Asian Karate-do Championship, and Zainab Barkat, Wheelchair Table Tennis Champion, who will be sponsored by IMC throughout their journey to the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games in Tokyo 2020. 61 Sustainability Report 2019 ‘IMC rolled out the ‘Start Your Impossible’ initiative in Pakistan with an internal launch event held on 29th August 2018 in Karachi. IMC is excited to begin its journey to Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 along with its local hero athlete ‘Saadi Abbas Jalbani a leading Karate Player’. Saadi will be working alongside Indus Motor Company and the National Institute of Karate-do Pakistan to promote Karate amongst kids of his hometown Lyari. IMC also pledges to support Ms Zainab Barkat, the national wheelchair table tennis player, to represent Pakistan in the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games and fulﬁll her dream of returning as a gold medalist. Zainab is not only disabled but is also from a very poor family background. She is the champion at the national level and desires international exposure. Due to being from the under-privileged class, this was not possible for her in ﬁnancial terms. IMC is supporting her fully to start her impossible. Recently, she was sponsored for ﬁfteen days’ training in China. Saadi Abbas and Zainab geared up to Start their Impossible National Ability Sports Festival 2018 National Ability Sports Festival 2018 was organized on Nov 27-29, 2018 by the Friends of Paraplegics (FOP), a registered non-proﬁt organization, in collaboration with ICRC. FOP is committed to researching/implementing the issues and rights of Persons with Disabilities (PWD). IMC sponsored the festival, held in Peshawar and showcased Toyota's ﬁrst global corporate initiative Start Your Impossible , at the event to inspire persons with disabilities and the audience. Around 3000 PWD competitors participated in the Sports Festival from all the four provinces Sindh, Punjab, KPK and Balochistan. Successful participants (PWDs) of the National Ability Sports Festival 2018 62 Sustainability Report 2019 MARKHOR-2018 Wildness based Leadership Conference Markhor Conference is a distinctive social leadership development experiment, a wilderness-based Youth Leadership program that opens up a whole new perspective on the way we view nature, a program that tests limits of participants while creating a strong community for support and trust. The 5-day long Conference Markhor-2018 was organized by The Youth Impact (a non-proﬁt organization) from Sept 6 to 9, 2018 at Mukshpuri Peak, Nathiagali. IMC sponsored the Markhor-2018 as Oﬃcial Women Leaders Partners providing scholarship to ten female delegates from small cities of Pakistan as brand ambassadors on merit and need basis. Provision of Food and Ration to Fight Hunger Hunger leads to health and peace issues in societies and negatively impacts economic development. Good nutrition is fundamental for grooming healthier and productive societies. We are aware that business can play a role in solving this major issue by supporting the needy communities. Our activities of ration distribution support SDG2 “Zero Hunger” which seeks sustainable solutions to end hunger in all its forms and ensure that everyone everywhere has enough good quality food to lead a healthy life. Since inception, we have been actively playing our role through provision of cooked food to adjacent communities at their doorstep and ration distribution in the holy month of Ramzan. The average number of beneﬁciaries under this program are around 20,000 households. 63 Ration Distribution in holy month Ramazan in neighboring village of Indus Motor 64 The Way Forward >> 64 Sustainability Report 2019 The Way Forward The prevailing tough economic conditions on account of ﬁscal deﬁcit, currency depreciation, decreasing exports and increasing inﬂation coupled with changing climate, require corporates to play a more active role to eﬀectively manage their economic, environmental and social impacts. IMC is fully committed to playing its role while taking guidance from Toyota Vision, Guiding Principles and best practices in corporate governance and sustainability management. The rising automobile prices on account of currency devaluation and increasing taxes coupled with decreasing disposable income of consumers are aﬀecting the automobile sector in terms of reduced demand. The dwindling economic conditions lead to decreased proﬁtability and results in strategic changes in the business plan. However, we are committed to providing high quality safe products to our customers and keep upgrading our plant and facilities to meet the demand in the years to come after this economic crunch. Moreover, in line with “Toyota Environmental Challenge 2050” we aim to continuously make investments on clean energy resources, eﬃcient energy management, reducing GHG emissions of our operations and supply chain partners, increased water recycling and better waste management to reduce our environmental footprint for meeting our target of net zero impact. Our people are our strength in delivering exceptional results and meeting stakeholders’ expectations over the years. We are committed to inducting a quality workforce, nourishing them with trainings and education, providing them market-based remuneration and beneﬁting them with a safe and productive work environment for showcasing their talent. Our business partners help us to meet our corporate goals and achieve highest customer satisfaction levels. We are committed to supporting our partners in growth by working with them for improving economic returns, managing the environmental impact of their operations and contributing to the communities. A trusted relationship with our stakeholders is important for our long-term success and we commit to continue interacting with our stakeholders for their valuable inputs. Moreover, we aim to continue taking inputs from our stakeholders to make informed decisions. We are committed to continuing our support for social responsibility initiatives in our communities and committed to following and supporting: • “Ten Principles” of United Nations Global Compact • Corporate Social Responsibility Voluntary Guidelines 2013 • Sustainable Development Goals 65 Sustainability Report 2019 66 Annexures 66 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index The GRI content index serves as navigation tool to locate the content within the report. The GRI Standards together with the related disclosures are listed and each disclosure is referred to the relevant page in this sustainability report or other publicly available source. SR = 2019 Sustainability Report Fully disclosed KEY AR = Annual Report 2019 Partially disclosed Not disclosed GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 101 contains no disclosures. GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102: GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE DISCLOSURES 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 9 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 9, 11 102-3 Location of headquarters 9 102-4 Location of operations 9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 9 102-6 Markets served 9 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 52 102-9 Supply chain 39 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organization and 9 its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 28 102-12 External initiatives 28 102-13 Membership of associations 28 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-7 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 24-25 behavior GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure SR 26, AR 72-74 67 Sustainability Report 2019 102-22 Composition of the highest governance SR 26, body and its committees AR 72-74 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18-19 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 53 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholder 18 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 18-19 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 18-19, 21 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 2 ﬁnancial statements 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic 20-21 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 22 102-48 Restatements of information 2 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 78 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 2 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 67 102-56 External assurance 2 MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: 103 -1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103 -2 The management approach and its 30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 GRI 201: ECONOMIC 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 31 PERFORMANCE 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other retirement plans 32 2016 68 08 Sustainability Report 2019 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 31 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services INDIRECT ECONOMIC supported 58-63 IMPACTS 2016 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 30, 39 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 39 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 39 PRACTICES 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 30 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 30 2016 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti54 corruption policies and procedures MATERIALS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 44 301-2 Recycled input materials used 44 ENERGY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 69 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 103: 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach MANAGEMENT APPROACH 43 2016 GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 45 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 45 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 45 WATER GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 22 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 GRI 303: WATER 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 48 303-2 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by withdrawal of water 48 303-3 Water recycled and reused 48 EMISSIONS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its MANAGEMENT APPROACH 22 boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 43 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 46 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 46 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 46 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 46 (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 46 and other signiﬁcant air emissions WASTE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 43 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 70 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 49 WASTE 2016 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills 49 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 49 SUPPLY CHAIN IMPACTS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 30, 39 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30, 39 GRI 308: SUPPLIER 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 39 ENVIRONMENTAL environmental criteria ASSESSMENT 2016 GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 39 ASSESSMENT social criteria 2016 EMPLOYMENT AND LABOR RELATIONS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 52 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 53 2016 401-2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 53 employees GRI 402: 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding LABOR/MANAGEMENT operational changes RELATIONS 2016 53 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 53 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 women to men GRI 406: NON406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective DISCRIMINATION actions taken 2016 53 GRI 407: FREEDOM OF 407 -1 Operations and suppliers in which the right 53 48 ASSOCIATION AND to freedom of association and collective bargaining COLLECTIVE BARGAINING may be at risk 2016 HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 71 Sustainability Report 2019 103-2 The management approach and its 24 52,55 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52,55 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint HEALTH AND SAFETY 56 management–worker health and safety committees 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 56 and number of work-related fatalities 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal 56 agreements with trade unions GRI 416: CUSTOMER 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts HEALTH AND SAFETY 55 of product and service categories 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 55 health and safety impacts of products and services TRAINING GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 52,54 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52,54 GRI 404: TRAINING AND 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 54 EDUCATION employee 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 54 performance and career development reviews HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 52 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52 GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for 2016 incidents of child labor 53 GRI 409: FORCED OR 409-1 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for 53 COMPULSORY LABOR incidents of forced or compulsory labor 2016 LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 APPROACH 2016 boundaries 103-2 The management approach and its 57 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57 72 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 413: LOCAL 413-1 Operations with local community COMMUNITIES engagement, impact assessments, and 57-63 2016 development programs 413-2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and 57 potential negative impacts on local communities MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 GRI 103: boundaries MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its 2016 41 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 417-1 Requirements for product and service 41 GRI 417: MARKETING AND information and labeling LABELING 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 2016 41 product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 41 marketing communications COMPLIANCE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH boundaries 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 27 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27 GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 43 COMPLIANCE and regulations 2016 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 27 COMPLIANCE the social and economic area 2016 73 Sustainability Report 2019 UNGC COP GRI STANDARDS PRINCIPLE STATEMENT PAGE NO. GRI Standards Principle Statement Page No. DISCLOSURE Disclosure Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 57-63 413-1, 413-2 internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in 57-63,39 413-1, 414-1 human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 53 102-41, 402-1, 407-1 eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 53 409-1 forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the eﬀective abolition of child 53 408-1 labor. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in 52-53, 102-8, 401-1, 404-1, respect of employment and occupation. 54 404-3, 405-2, 406-1, Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 44, 45, 46 301-1, 302-1, 303-1, environmental challenges. 48 305-1, 305-6, 305-7 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 39, 43, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, environmental responsibility. 44, 45, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 46, 48, 303-2, 303-3, 305-1, 49 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 307-1, 308-1 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion 45, 46 302-4, 305-5 of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 24-25, 30, 102-16, 205-1, 205-2 including extortion and bribery. 54 74 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs Page No. GRI Standards Disclosure 1 NO POVERTY End poverty in all its forms everywhere 57 413-2 End hunger, achieve food security and 2 ZERO HUNGER improved nutrition and promote sustainable 31, 57,58201-1, 203-1, 413-2 agriculture 63 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being 46,49,56 305-1, 305-6, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, for all at all ages 403-2 4 QUALITY EDUCATION Ensure inclusive and quality education for all 54 404-1 and promote lifelong learning 5 GENDER EQUALITY Achieve gender equality and empower all 26, 31, 53 102-22, 201-1, 203-1, 401-1, 404-1, 404-3, women and girls 54,58-63 406-1, 414-1 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Ensure access to water and sanitation for all 48, 49 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306-2, 306-3 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Ensure access to aﬀordable, reliable, 31, 45, 201-1, 203-1, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 sustainable and modern energy for all 58-63 102-8, 102-41, 201-1, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, 39, 44, 45, 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote inclusive and sustainable economic 48, 52, 53, 302-3, 302-4, 303-3, 401-1, 401-2, 402-1, growth, employment and decent work for all 403-1, 403-2, 403-4, 404-1, 404-3, 405-2, 54, 56 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster 31, 58-63 201-1, 203-1 innovation 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES Reduce inequality within and among 53 405-2 countries 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and 58-63 203-1 sustainable 75 Sustainability Report 2019 12 RESPONSIBLE 204-1, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Ensure sustainable consumption and 39, 41, 44 45, 46, 48, 303-3, 305-1, 305-6, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3, production patterns 49 306-4, 417-1 13 CLIMATE ACTION Take urgent action to combat climate change 45, 46 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-4 and its impacts 14 LIFE BELOW WATER Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, 46, 49 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-3 seas and marine resources Sustainably manage forests, combat 15 LIFE ON LAND desertiﬁcation, halt and reverse land 46, 49 305-1, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-3 degradation, halt biodiversity loss 24-25, 26, 16 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 27, 30, 39, 102-16, 102-22, 205-1, 205-2, 307-1, Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies 41, 43, 53, 414-1, 406-1, 408-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 54, 55 419-1 76 Sustainability Report 2019 Glossary & Acronyms ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations ATM Apprenticeship Team Member CBA Collective Bargaining Agent CBU Complete Built Unit CFCs Chloroﬂuorocarbons CKD Completely Knocked Down COP Communication on progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility GHG Green House Gases GRI Global Reporting Initiative GEMS Global Environment Management System GJ Giga Joule HFCs Hydroﬂuorocarbons HSE Health Safety and Environment ISO International Standards Organization LTIR Lost Time Injury Rate MAP Management Association of Pakistan MPX Multiplex communication system MW Mega watt NFEH National Forum for Environment and Health NGO Non-Government Organization NLTIR Non-loss Time Injury Rate NVH Noise, Vibration and Harshness OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturers SEQS Sindh Environmental Quality Standards SEPA Sindh Environmental Protection Agency TDEM Toyota Daihatsu Engineering & Manufacturing UNGC United Nations Global Compact 77 37 Sustainability Report 2019 Feedback Form Sustainability Report 2019 Information provided on material topics covered in the report. Comprehensive Adequate Not adequate Clarity of the information provided in the report. High Medium Low The quality of design and layout of the report. Excellent Good Average Your comments for adding value to the report. Name : Designation : Organization : Contact Details : Tel : Please mail your feedback to: Mr. Muhammad Arshad CSR department Indus Motor Company Limited Plot No. N.W.Z/1/P-1, Port Qasim Authority, Karachi, Pakistan. Phone: +92-21111-869-682 Email: muhammad.arshad@toyota-indus.com 58 78 Sustainability Report 2019 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. DESIGNED BY ALFOZE.COM INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD. Plot No. N.W.Z/1/P-1, Port Qasim Authority, Karachi, Pakistan. www.toyota-indus.com Worldwide Worldwide Olympic Partner Paralympic Partner
