2018 COMMUNICATION PROGRESS Content 01 Statement of continual support 03 02 Santa Fe overview 04 03 Governance structure 05 04 Ethics and behaviour 06 05 Ten UNGC principles 07 06 Human rights 08 07 Labour rights 10 08 Environment 13 09 Anti-corruption 17 We enable people and organisations to work, live and thrive in new places around the world. 02 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Statement of continual support 01 Santa Fe Group is proud to present its ninth Communication on Progress report, affirming our continued commitment to supporting the ten United Nations Global Compact principles, along with our continued drive to align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. In the Santa Fe Group, we see sustainability as everyone’s responsibility, and so we continue to engage with our customers, staff, suppliers and other stakeholders to fully embrace and support our policies in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are fully aware of the responsibility we bear towards our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. We take the principles of the UNGC on with great enthusiasm, our teams globally are fully united under the Santa Fe brand and we thank our teams and partners for their continued support. Together we look forward to sustaining our support to this initiative and fulfilling our duty as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Martin Thaysen CEO Santa Fe Group 03 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Santa Fe overview 02 The Santa Fe Group is a global leader in international mobility, handling around 40,000 international relocations and around 5,000 domestic relocations per year, based on own operations in 47 countries and a network of agents. Santa Fe’s ambition is to make it easy for companies and people to work, live and thrive in new places around the world. Santa Fe provide a full range of mobility services for multinational companies and other organisations having executives and professionals on overseas assignments. In addition to this, Santa Fe serve individual customers relocating without the support of an employer. The service offering covers the entire relocation journey—from Immigration Services to obtaining work and resident permits through the physical packing— and moving of household goods to a comprehensive range of value-added relocation and destination services to ensure the relocating family settles in to their new home in the best possible way. Santa Fe design and manage entire relocation programmes for large organisations with international operations. Our value proposition is to provide our corporate customers with optimum efficiency in their mobility management, full compliance with all relevant legal regimes, and a safe and easy transition and new start for the relocating individual and family. 04 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Governance structure 03 Santa Fe Group’s governing structure ensures that we are directed and controlled in a responsible manner, to ensure long-term sustainability and transparency. We transparently report our performance annually in terms of financial results, social responsibility and the operational aspects of our business. Our objective is to ensure our business remains sustainable in every meaning of the word. This means that we are able to provide our customers with a service that both offers value and continuity. It also means that through our continued commitment to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten UNGC principles, our company contributes and benefits economies and societies globally. The governance structure is anchored with a sustainability team aiming at aligning sustainability objectives, implementing and sharing best practices. The team consists of members in each region with overall responsibility held by the Santa Fe Group’s Chief Financial Officer. 05 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Ethics and behaviour 04 To act in a globally responsible way, we continually review our initiatives, codes and schemes so that we can learn from them. We pride ourselves on a fair, ethical and inclusive approach to our business, our people and our clients. Our Code of Business Conduct provides guidance to all employees on the conduct of our business according to the highest ethical standards. We have grown and prospered with a culture of honesty, integrity and accountability. The Code contributes to our future success by helping to maintain this culture. The Code and our other ethics policies help to focus everyone on areas of ethical risk, offer guidance in recognising and dealing with ethical issues and provide mechanisms to report unethical conduct without fear of retaliation. Continuing from our successful developments in this area from 2017, Santa Fe launched DNA 2.0, which is expected to consist of 120-130 workshops globally between the end of 2018 and mid 2019. With over 2,400 employees attending, including subcontractors, the sessions act to reinforce to our employees the key relationship between both our company values and two key internal focuses for 2018—GDPR and the customer experience. As part of our ongoing commitment to this, Santa Fe’s company Purpose and Mission remain a core focus, giving all employees clear direction on what we do and stand for as a company but also how we understand and demonstrate the behaviours expected. Additionally, our company has increased the frequency of informational internal team briefings, promoting a company behavioural culture of transparency and knowledge. Not only has this enabled the Santa Fe family to be best prepared to provide high quality service to our customers, but this commitment has also enabled us to align ourselves with multiple UN Sustainable Development Goals, namely Quality Education. 06 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Ten UNGC principles 05 Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Rights Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We commit to: ++ Continuous monitoring of our governance system to ensure compliance with basic human rights within our organisation and those with whom we interact. ++ Compliance with national legislation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We commit to: ++ Reduce the negative impact of our business on the environment, meet or exceed regulatory requirements and continuously seek to improve our processes to achieve high standards. ++ Monitor and reduce carbon emissions. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We commit to: ++ Apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. ++ Continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations where we have special skills, products or services to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. 07 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Human rights 06 As one of the four key focus areas of the United The Guiding Principles on Business and Human Nations Development Goals, Santa Fe remains fully Rights, endorsed by the United Nations Human committed to aligning ourselves with the appropriate Rights Council in 2011, set out the responsibilities principles in relation to human rights compliance corporations have with respect to human rights. across all offices. As the below section indicates, we Those responsibilities include avoiding the have continued to progress and develop our policies infringement of the human rights of others and towards an increased focus on a high standard of addressing any adverse impacts on human rights in health and safety for all employees, suppliers and which a corporation may be involved. The principles third parties, ultimately benefiting the mental and call on companies to institute policies and processes physical wellbeing of our employees. appropriate to their size and circumstances, as well as remediation processes to address concerns when Policy they arise. Santa Fe has used the Guiding Principles, In accordance with principles 1 and 2 of the along with our membership in organisations such as Global Compact, Santa Fe supports and respects the United Nations Global Compact and our ongoing the protection of internationally proclaimed human commitment to the 17 United Nations Sustainable rights and ensures that the Group is not complicit Development Goals, to inform and shape our in human rights abuses approach to addressing and communicating human We endeavour to ensure: rights issues as well as our internal company culture. ++ Health and safety in the workplace Actions ++ Wellbeing of employees Across 2018, the Santa Fe Group have introduced ++ Good relations with local communities multiple initiatives to improve the health and safety Occupational Health and Safety are important of our organisation. This includes, but is not exclusive priorities for Santa Fe and this area is actively to, the attendance of a key safety course in affiliation managed by means of risk assessments and with the Institute of Occupational Health and Safety regular information to employees about avoiding by representatives of our India team, enabling a safer accidents, illnesses and maintaining a healthy and higher quality working environment for our 280 life-style. Occupational Health and Safety is more employees across India. Additionally, our dedicated than a set of procedures and processes at Santa Fe crews continue to adhere to the terms of the ‘Health as employees play an important role in contributing to and Safety Methods Statement for Crew Operatives’, a safe work environment e.g. by reporting accidents, which enables us to ensure we provide high quality communicating areas for improvement and adhering and safe moving services to our customers, whilst to company best practices. The Santa Fe Group’s actively ensuring the best health and safety for our Health and Safety policy underpins our systematic valued crews across 96 offices in 47 countries. approach to managing health and safety in the Initiatives such as these enable Santa Fe to continue workplace. Standardised processes and internal to further progress our commitments to ensuring and external audits ensure that minimum standards the health and safety of our employees worldwide are in place throughout the company. In 2018, we in line with industry standards. We also align such have placed further focus on the wellbeing–both commitments to any third parties and suppliers that mental and physical–of our employees, through complete work for or in cooperation with us, as we initiatives such as community-wide scavenger hunts see place just as high value in the safety of these and team-building events in the local community staff members as our own. in our Indonesia office along with various We continue to recognise the importance Thrive @ Work initiatives in our South Africa office, of an employee work-life balance and appreciate including professional staff massages to maintain the value that out-of-work activities bring back the physical health of our valued colleagues. into the workplace. Our Health and Safety Policy Such initiatives in turn enable us to build a closer acknowledges that employee wellbeing is an relationship with our local community and boost important factor to maintaining good health. Our the positive local perception of the Santa Fe ongoing commitments to this in 2018 have seen brand, along with enabling us to align with Goal 8 the proactive introduction of a number of initiatives (Enabling Economic Growth) and Goal 10 (Reducing across our offices by our employees–most Inequalities) of the United Nations Sustainable notably in South Africa where our Johannesburg Development Goals through our renewed focus and Cape Town offices have engaged with local on working towards empowering our local non-governmental organisations to ensure the communities and peoples. development and ongoing sustainability of the South African community. These activities continue to be shared throughout the organisation, primarily across various groups on Yammer. 08 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Fig. 1: Work accidents with days lost 2013-2018 Risks 70 2,500 The main risks related to our activities include work accidents—especially for our operational staff—non-compliance with the Global Compact’s principles and the requirements of OHSAS 18001. To reduce the risk of work accidents, we apply a range of appropriate risk management measures, including the implementation of stringent health and safety policies which all staff across our 96 offices must follow. Any potential risks are monitored both locally and from our head office, enabling us to protect the professional environment. Our business activities are subject to various local Health and Safety laws which enable us to be fully compliant in regards to Articles 1 and 2 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. Results In the field of occupational health and safety, the number of accidents with time loss decreased by 44.44% and the number of lost workdays per accident decreased by 50%, as depicted 0 0 in Fig. 1, ‘Work accidents with days lost 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014-2018’. There were no significant trends in the types of work accidents that occurred, and Number of days lost the positive reduction can be attributed to Number of work related accidents with lost days the ongoing integration of health and safety considerations in decision-making processes, focus on progressive and informative training, along with continued improvements in coordination across the organisation. All OHSAS 18001 certificates were successfully renewed. KPI’s and targets We measure and monitor the number of work-related accidents resulting in days off work. The KPI reflects developments in safety performance whilst our services are being performed. As an ongoing goal, Santa Fe aims to reduce the number of work accidents with days lost to zero. We aim to achieve this by continuing to educate employees and integrating health and safety into our decision-making processes, as well as requiring specific managers to be responsible for the safety of their team or department. In 2018, Santa Fe have deployed a corporate citizenship and philanthropic giving strategy, which has enabled us to develop a partnership with The United Nation’s Migration Agency, International Organization for Migration (IOM) supporting projects to help migrants work, live and thrive in new places around the world, which we hope to fully and formally roll out in the first half of 2019. 09 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Labour rights 07 Another core focus area of the United Nations Santa Fe believes in equality; treating staff fairly Development Goals, Santa Fe remains fully committed regardless of their gender, sexual orientation, to ensuring free and fair labour rights for all employees religion or any other potential means of inequality or globally. We remain and are increasingly focused on discrimination. This actively brings us in line with goal the education of our employees, at all levels, actively 5 of the United Nations Sustainable Development bringing us in line with Goal 4 of the United Nations Goals (Gender Equality) as well as ensures our Sustainable Development Goals (Quality Education), compliance with the United Nations Global Compact. as the below indicates. New members of staff and managers are recruited exclusively based on their qualifications and Policy experience. Skills, performance and ethical conduct Santa Fe Group recognises that we work in a richly are our only indicators of employee qualifications. diverse community and understand the strategic Santa Fe will not tolerate discrimination with respect importance of achieving a diverse workforce, which to gender, race, age, religion, age, disability, sexual reflects that community. We undertake to recruit, orientation, national origin, social status or any other develop and retain the most talented people by protected discrimination grounds. valuing the varied skills and experiences they bring to Santa Fe Group, and have identified key focus Santa Fe Group are committed to playing our part areas to ensure that we are equipping our people to ensure that there is no modern slavery or human with the capabilities they need to achieve their trafficking in any part of our business and being alert career aspirations and help us meet our goals. to the potential for slavery and human trafficking within supplier or contractor activity. As a business, Key focus areas: we aim to be honest and have strong moral principles ++ investing in employee training and development; in all our business activities. Santa Fe’s Anti Modern ++ treating employees fairly and equitably; Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy applies to ++ combating harassment and discrimination all people working for us, or on our behalf in any at work, and capacity including external consultants, contractors ++ encouraging an honest and open culture and business partners. For example, we actively which values the differences between us. validate our Relocation Assignment Management suppliers against the Worldcheck system to ensure Retaining employees remains an important no criminal convictions relating to slavery have taken aspect of our business, and our goal is to remain place, enabling us to further develop and provide an attractive employer respecting, supporting and excellency in our customer experience package adhering to internationally proclaimed human rights to all our assignees worldwide. including the basic principles of the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration of Fundamental In accordance with principles 3, 4, 5 and Principles and Rights at Work. Statistics relating to 6 of the Global Compact, Santa Fe Group: our absolute turnover indicate that staff satisfaction ++ Recognises the right of employees to be and loyalty at Santa Fe Group are on the rise, members of a trade union and negotiate with nearly 75% of staff retained throughout pay and working conditions. 2018 in comparison to 66% for 2017. This clearly ++ Supports elimination demonstrates the increasing attractiveness of Santa of all forms of forced labour. Fe as an employer in a challenging global market, ++ Applies preventative procedures and practices which we hope to further develop going into 2019. to ensure that persons below the minimum Pursuant to Danish legislation on gender equality, age are not employed. Santa Fe also has an objective for the proportion ++ Endeavours to prevent discriminatory practices of the underrepresented gender on the Board of and secure equal opportunities by means of the Directors. It is Santa Fe’s ambition that 25% of the application of procedures and practices to prevent members of the Board of Directors are women. discrimination in connection with recruitment Consequently, Santa Fe will ensure that qualified or dismissal, career development, training and candidates are considered before the Board of education or the granting of staff benefits. Directors proposes candidates to the Annual General Meeting. However, the Board of Directors’ final submission of candidates will always be based on their actual competencies and experiences relative to Santa Fe’s needs to ensure that the candidate deemed best qualified is proposed. This may mean that the ambition of a 25% female representation on the Board of Directors will always not be met, but it will continue to be a general ambition. 10 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Actions Results In 2018, Santa Fe accepted its third graduate Through our commitment to training and programme intake. As a global leader in full-service developing our employees, Santa Fe achieved the relocation, our two-year graduate programme FIDI academy commitment to excellence Platinum (Accelerate) is designed to further extend Santa award for the second year running. The achievement Fe’s industry leadership through the recruitment of this Platinum award is in recognition for driving and development of the strongest talent. With and promoting industry knowledge amongst graduates placed in eight countries worldwide in our employees via the FIDI FAIM programme locations including Group headquarters in London, hosted on Pulse. the United States and the Asia-Pacific region, the In 2018, there were no changes to Santa Fe Group’s programme offers practical, hands-on experience Board of Directors meaning that Santa Fe does not through a rotation programme that develops skills meet its target of having 25% female representation and knowledge across the breadth of the company’s on the Board. Santa Fe aims to ensure that there is operations. Graduates will also gain the opportunity to female representation on the Board of Directors by learn directly from senior leadership with a dedicated 2020. On a global level across all employees, we have mentor from Santa Fe’s Strategic Leadership Team a far reduced gap between the numbers of male and helping to steer their learning and development. female staff, with 45% of employees globally being On successful completion, participants will be female and 55% being male. This clearly defines placed into permanent roles across the globe Santa Fe’s dedication to gender equality at work. or be deployed onto projects. Fig. 2 ‘Gender ratio by seniority 2014-2018’ shows Santa Fe continued to take a globally consistent that the overall female gender ratio increased by approach to performance management by 0.89%. The ongoing trend of growth of female introducing consistent metrics for our senior leaders, participation within middle management since 2015 supported by the roll-out of a process through an can be seen again in 2018, with an increase of 1.67%. online performance management system which Slight growth can also be noted in male participation ties seamlessly into our existing HR information and within both our office and operations staff. learning management system (Pulse), creating a compelling overall ‘online bundle’ for our employees. In 2018, the voluntary turnover was 21.75%, To ensure performance management has a positive a 3.25% decrease from the previous year, as depicted impact, all full-time staff across the organisation in Fig. 3 ‘Employee turnover ratio 2014-2018’. The continue to be encouraged to complete the process, absolute turnover ratio increased by 4% to 28%, which has been designed with constant feedback in as shown in Fig. 3, ‘Employee turnover ratio 2014-2018’. mind, e.g. monthly one-on-one meetings between The increase can be attributed to restructuring and managers and employees to update one another downscaling of the business due to the lower activity on performance against objectives. This will reduce within the relocation market globally which will impact the potential ambiguity and stresses often caused the retention within the business. by formal mid-year and year-end review cycles as KPI’s and targets employees will have received on-going feedback throughout the year. Santa Fe measures and monitors: ++ Gender ratio by seniority. Risks ++ Employee absolute turnover. The main risks related to our activities include non-adherence to Santa Fe’s principle of preventing In 2019, Santa Fe aims to have an annualised discriminatory practices and securing equal attrition rate of no more than 15%. opportunities and potential legal, financial and HR-related consequences hereof. To counter this, Santa Fe Group have implemented several risk management initiatives. This includes encouraging a more positive, inclusive and gender equal company culture globally, increasing transparency in relation to gender balances in employment across the organisation and ensuring female representation in risk management strategising. We monitor any potential risks, both locally and from our head office, to prevent any possible impact on the environment. Our business activities are subject to various national laws and regulations. 11 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Fig. 2: Gender ratio by seniority 2014-2018 Ratio of total workforce—male ratio Ratio of total workforce—female ratio Ratio of senior management—male ratio Ratio of senior management—female ratio Ratio of middle management—male ratio Ratio of middle management—female ratio Ratio of office staff—male ratio Ratio of office staff—female ratio Ratio of operations staff—female ratio Ratio of operations staff—male ratio 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0% 100% Fig. 3: Employee turnover ratio 2015-2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 0% 30% 12 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Environment 08 An increasingly vital area focused on in the United Actions Nations Development Goals, which must be a core Santa Fe’s Household Goods services continues to focus for all successful corporate businesses, Santa be heavily reliant on natural resources, in particular Fe remains fully committed to ensuring our daily materials such as paper, cardboard, plastic, etc. practices are delivered with the sustainability of the We continued our efforts in reducing waste by the environment in mind. As the below sections indicates, application of our reduce-reuse-recycle philosophy. 2018 has been a key year for Santa Fe Group in this This involves reducing the amount of packing material commitment, with multiple office-based initiatives being used. Santa Fe has a variety of packing introduced, driven by a desire to protect our local training for employees which also educates them and global environment. on the amount of material needed to be used to Policy ensure that goods are properly protected. Santa Fe has looked at a number of opportunities for reusing Santa Fe supports a precautionary approach to packing material, ranging from charitable donations environmental and climate challenges, undertake and aiding with local relief work, to ensuring such initiatives to promote greater responsibility and materials are re-used on household goods moves. climate friendly technologies in accordance with We have continued our efforts to recycle as much principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact, and waste as possible and have built relationships with Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and Goal 12 waste management companies looking at innovative (Responsible Production and Consumption) of the ways to recycle different types of waste. This financial United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. year has seen a positive shift in our environmental We systematically and proactively protect, respect commitments globally, with an increased focus on and safeguard the environment and climate in daily recycling across our offices, and the implementation business activities by development of production of multiple office-specific initiatives, resulting in staff methods and products, training of employees and across our offices recycling far more than previously. influencing suppliers and stakeholders. Following its roll out in 2017, Santa Fe’s virtual survey Santa Fe’s Environmental Policy is intended to tool continues to be a success throughout the be sustainable and is being integrated into our company, with over 1,300 virtual surveys carried out day-to-day business practices. As such, this policy in 2018 globally. The virtual survey tool is an innovative is communicated to all staff members and is also mobile technology that modernises the business of available to the public. Santa Fe applies recognised moving and allow surveys to be conducted virtually. Environmental Management Systems such as ISO This has numerous positive impacts for the moving 14001 (or its local equivalent) based on the principle process but also reduces the fuel being consumed of continuous performance improvement. These from having a surveyor travel to conduct the survey. systems are the basis for the deployment of key As we grow and increase sales and delivery of our elements which include risk analysis, monitoring services, we continue to look for ways to increase of environmental performance and compliance the efficiency and reduce emissions levels of our fleet. to regulations and permits, follow-up of the Many of these initiatives have required no additional corresponding corrective actions, review investment; by promoting the choice of lowerof performance and improvement plans emission models for our fleets, we have continuously by the management. improved the way in which they are maintained and Our objectives are to reduce our impact how their routes and volumes are scheduled. This has on the environment year-on-year by: produced a number of notable successes, including ++ Minimising our waste by applying a near 50% reduction in emissions from our fleet at a reduce-reuse-recycle philosophy. our head office in the United Kingdom, in line with ++ Becoming more energy efficient, thereby increasingly stringent emissions policies implemented reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. by those governing the City of London. 13 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Risks Electricity consumption decreased in 2018 by The main environmental risks related to our activities 26.29%. The consumption per employee reduced include excessive emission of CO2 and waste. by 26.31% to 1,078 kWh of electricity consumed per 2,173 employees (Fig. 6, kWh electricity consumed Our activities are subject to environmental laws per employee). This result continues to be influenced and regulations governing, among other things, by a number of locations running electricity saving waste disposal and emissions. Risks are monitored schemes involving initiatives such as turning off locally and from the head office to prevent, the lights when not in use, and auto shut down of remedy or minimise any adverse effect computers after working hours. In addition, energy on the external environment. consumption plays a key factor in our procurement KPI’s decisions and a key deciding factor of purchasing new or replacement hardware or equipment is how Santa Fe measures and monitors: energy efficient it is. ++ Waste distribution ++ Fleet fuel consumption per tonnage [MJ/M3] Fig. 7 ‘GHG impacts by scope 2014-2018’, shows ++ kWh electricity consumed per employee that there was a significant decrease in Santa Fe’s ++ GHG Impacts by scope. GHG emissions. There was a 26.8% decrease in Scope 1 GHG emissions as a result of reductions in Results fuel and electricity consumption, with a reduction of Fig. 4 ‘Waste distribution 2014-2018’, shows that 22.77% in Scope 2 emissions may be attributed to 2018 saw a 15% decrease in the amount of waste similar factors. A significant reduction in Scope 3 GHG recycled to 65% along with a 1% reduction in the emissions was also seen across goods transported amount of waste incinerated to 1%. A 16% increase by third parties by sea (Fig. 8 ‘Greenhouse gas in the amount of waste sent to landfill in 2018 can impacts, scope 3 by mode of transport’). also be seen, rising to 34%, which can be attributed All ISO 50001 and ISO 14001 certifications to an increase in the amount of office paper being were successfully renewed. sent to landfill, and a decrease in the amounts of carton, paper packing and office paper being sent for Targets recycling. The positive reduction in waste being sent In 2019, we aim to recycle 80% of all waste produced for incineration was mainly attributed to a decrease in from cardboard and paper, and reduce the amount the amount of wood being disposed of. of plastic and household goods waste being sent Opportunities for improvement have been identified to landfill by 2%. This will involve establishing better by means of the quality of data being provided in process flows with waste management companies several locations with the biggest impact in our we work with and a streamlined workflow with Australia operations where due to process changes subcontractors that sometimes dispose of waste there have been difficulties in quantifying the exact on our behalf. amount of waste being disposed of. We shall reduce the MJ per cubic meter moved The energy used per cubic meter of goods moved by our fleet to 250MJ/M3. This target has been by road on our fleet increased by 194% from 92.6 changed to reflect the changes in business activities MJ/M3 to 273 MJ/M3 as shown in Fig. 5 ‘Fleet in comparison with previous years. With reduced fuel consumption per tonnage [MJ/M3] 2014-2018’, opportunities to consolidate shipments, we have indicating a continuing growth in the both the number determined that this new target of 250MJ/M3 is an and scale of road shipments in 2018 when compared appropriate target for 2019. This can be achieved by to 2017. This could be attributed to a number of increasing our efficiency in the scheduling and route factors, including increased links in the supply chain planning of our fleet, and also continuously improving requiring more third-party involvements and various the way in which our vehicles are maintained. global socio-economic and geopolitical factors, dependent on the location of the shipment. For the most part, this increase in energy usage per cubic meter of goods moved by road freight can be found in our European offices, where there has been an increase in cross-border relocations. 14 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Fig. 4: Waste Distribution 2013-2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0% 80% Recycling Incineration Landfill Fig. 5: Fleet fuel consumption per tonnage [MJ/m³] 2014-2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0% 300 Fig. 6: kWh electricity consumed per employee 2014-2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0% 2,500 kWh/employee 15 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Fig. 7: Greenhouse gas impacts by scope 2014-2018 0 Scope 1+2 Tons CO2e 8,000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0% Scope 3 Tons CO2e 1,4000,000,000 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Fig. 8: Greenhouse gas impacts, Scope 3 by mode of transport 2014-2018 0 Third party road Tons CO2e 8,000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0% Third party air and sea Tons CO2e 45,000,000 Third party by road Third party by sea Third party by air 16 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Anti-corruption 09 The final area of the United Nations Development Actions Goals to be focused on in this report is the adoption Santa Fe’s CEO sets the tone for our ethical culture of policies which ensure appropriate individuals and by role-modelling ethical behaviour and holding parties adhere to stringent anti-corruption regulations. managers accountable; communicating policy and This is important for the ongoing development of conduct expectations; and overseeing business group a progressive and sustainable corporate business. ethics and compliance systems. At the beginning Santa Fe continues to be fully committed in this of each year, our CEO, General Counsel and Group regard, through various practices as listed below Leadership Team communicates with employees and which has helped us to become a trusted and managers about the importance of ethics and legal recognised industry leader. compliance. This “tone from the top”—combined with Policy our annual ethics and compliance training, regular communications throughout the year, and educational Our main activities covering the principles in resources on Yammer and our learning management UN Global Compact regarding anti-corruption system—helps to create an ethical and legally are detailed within our Code of Business Conduct. compliant culture. According to these, all Santa Fe employees Santa Fe’s enhanced supplier due diligence on are expected to: boarding process proceeded throughout 2018, ++ Apply a zero-tolerance approach towards which included partner agreements, due diligence corruption, extortion and bribery. questionnaires including submission of key ++ Behave honestly, be trustworthy documents including but not limited to: Company and set a good example. registration certificates, VAT/Tax registration ++ Do not pay or accept bribes in any form. certificates, anti-bribery and corruption policy, ethics ++ Do not accept or provide gifts, invitations policy, data protection policy, environmental policy, or other advantages which could create necessary insurances and licences, credit checks a possible conflict of interest. to ensure the financial stability of our suppliers and ++ Do not engage directly or indirectly a robust verification process via ‘World Check’ to in fraud against any of our partners identify any connections to pending or convicted or government entities. criminal activities as well as any associations with ++ Do not engage directly or indirectly in bribery. politically exposed persons. ++ Refuse to pay any bribes, including small amount bribes or facilitation payments. All employees are expected to complete training on the Code of Conduct when they join the company and annually thereafter. It is available in 14 languages, and the eLearning Integrity training sessions incorporate real case scenarios. Employees are encouraged to raise ethical questions and concerns, and have multiple channels to do so–anonymously, if they prefer–whilst actively ensuring any colleagues who may face accusations in this regard are given a fair and free opportunity to be heard, with an unbiased and fair decision reached. Santa Fe’s Integrity Policy cements and elaborates our position against corruption and bribery. 17 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Finally, 2018 has been a pivotal year across the corporate landscape in relation to data integrity, with the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulations being introduced as of 25th May 2018. The regulations concerned place significantly increased scrutiny on several key areas relating to personal data, including the collection and storage of the data of all our assignees globally and reduction on the transmission of this data unnecessarily. Santa Fe Group have always placed the protection of our assignees’ data at the forefront of our service delivery, to ensure an excellent customer experience for all our assignees, with these regulations placing an increased awareness on the matter. The four main progressive changes Santa Fe Group of note has made following the implementation of these regulations are: 1. Over the past two years, in preparation for GDPR, all data has been migrated from legacy systems to a new application built on the Salesforce platform, thus ensuring best of breed in all aspects of security 2. Processes and procedures within our ISO 27001 certification framework have been updated to ensure global compliance with GDPR 3. Additional technical and organisational measures have been implemented to further enhance our stance with regards GDPR. 4. A reinvigorated drive and focus on training our over 2,300 employees globally on the importance of GDPR and data integrity has ensured that our customers can be confident that their personal data will be treated with the utmost care and discretion throughout their relocation with Santa Fe. Risks The main risks related to our activities include employees and suppliers’ violation of Santa Fe’s compliance policies and potential legal and financial consequences hereof. Our business activities are subject to various national laws and regulations as well as legislation with an international reach. We continue to monitor any potential risks to protect the workplace environment, both at a local level and at our head office. Results Continuing from 2017, 2018 has seen 100% of employees completed the eLearning Integrity curriculum consisting of modules on anti bribery and corruption, competition law and data protection. KPI’s and targets We monitor results of internal anti-corruption training and supplier audits on an ongoing basis and adapt our policies and processes if necessary. As an ongoing target, in 2019, we aim to have 100% of employees to complete the code of conduct and suite of eLearning Integrity training. 18 Communication On Progress 2019 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Our mission is to deliver exceptional relocation experiences for our customers. About Santa Fe Relocation Environmental Responsibility As outlined Santa Fe Relocation is a global mobility company specialising in managing and delivering high-quality in our Communication on Progress report, we take our environmental responsibility very relocation services worldwide. Our core competence is providing services that help corporations and seriously. We always aim to use printers that their employees as well as individuals and their families to relocate and settle in new places. These are FSC certified. This means that the printer purchases and uses wood, paper, and other services are delivered to a consistently high standard, locally and globally, and managed through our forest products produced from well-managed forests and/or recycled materials. If you have own operations around the world. Santa Fe Relocation is wholly owned by the Santa Fe Group, which received this document electronically, please consider your environmental responsibility is listed in the Nasdaq in Copenhagen, Denmark. For more information, visit us at santaferelo.com before sending to print. We make it easy
