United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress This report serves as the Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for Deloitte Global covering 2017–2018. While Deloitte Global is the signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, this report and the responses below include the activities of Deloitte Global and its network of member firms. The table below contains information or references to material in the 2018 Global Impact Report (“Global Report”) that addresses the Global Compact principles. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should Part of Deloitte’s purpose is to contribute to society, building confidence and trust, upholding integrity, and 103-2, 412-2, 413-1, 414-2 support and respect the protection of supporting the community. As a network, Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human internationally proclaimed human rights; rights both in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. In Deloitte workplaces, human rights typically take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional Principle 2: make sure that they are not development, and work-life balance. complicit in human rights abuses. Deloitte’s Global Principles of Business Conduct (“Global Code”) outlines our ethical commitments as a network and expectations for our approximately 286,000 people, giving us a strong, principled foundation. Elements of the Global Code directly address human rights and treatment of our people including the following: • We support efforts to drive sustainable development, and we respect human rights standards. • We foster a culture and working environment where our people treat each other with respect, courtesy, and fairness, promoting equal opportunity for all. • We do not tolerate harassment or unfair discrimination in our working environments. • We understand the broader impact that our work has on society, our people, and our clients, and we conduct business with those interests in mind. Deloitte Integrity Imperative The Deloitte Integrity Imperative is an initiative designed to amplify our Global Code and ensure ethics remains one of leadership’s highest priorities. At Deloitte, we have placed ethical culture and values at the heart of our leadership agenda, and we understand the critical responsibility we have to serve the public interest. By driving a proactive approach to ethics and building and sustaining our culture of integrity, we help our people to make the best professional decisions every day. The Deloitte Global Ethics team and member firm Ethics officers continue to work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to build and enhance the network’s ethics program, which is composed of the following elements: • The Global Code; • A global ethics policy that sets out the requirements for member firms’ own ethics programs; • A global nonretaliation policy that makes firm Deloitte’s commitment to a nonretaliatory workplace; UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator • Deloitte ethics training programs—including online courses, classroom programs and facilitator-led interactive case discussions—and networkwide communications campaigns (ethics training is required for all new hires upon joining Deloitte and for all Deloitte people every two years); • Channels for reporting ethics issues and concerns that emphasize confidentiality and nonretaliation; • Support activities—including communications, workshops and webinars—to facilitate the sharing of leading practices among Deloitte member firm ethics teams; • Completion of an ethics survey, a self-assessment questionnaire and other tools (such as focus group guidance) to measure the effectiveness of ethics programs across the Deloitte network; • An annual confirmation by all Deloitte people that they have read, understood and are in compliance with the Global Code; and • A practice-review program to measure compliance with the global ethics policy and drive improvement in member firm ethics programs over time. Deloitte not only works to address human rights issues within its communities, but also seeks to respond to some of the urgent human rights challenges of our world in a manner commensurate with our ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. Integrating the displaced Deloitte is identifying and addressing challenges refugees face as they seek jobs and become part of new communities. We work with businesses, government and NGOs to better target the assistance they provide. Human trafficking Deloitte offers clients insight and potential solutions to combat human trafficking in their operations and works with governments to apply innovative solutions through anti-human trafficking policy and legislation.* Deloitte also actively participates in policy discussions on some of today’s most important socioeconomic challenges, seeking outcomes that benefit society, government and business. Deloitte’s public policy voice focuses its attention on priority topics shaping the debate, including: advocating for a financial system that’s safe, transparent and accountable; preparing tomorrow’s workforce and the labor market for the Fourth Industrial Revolution; informing the future of regulation in an era of exponential technological advancement; and supporting a more complete approach to measuring social progress. Please see “Ethics”,“Public policy” sections of the report and the “Global Code” for more details about human rights. *Certain services and relationships described above are not permissible under various independence rules and regulations for audit clients and their affiliates. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold As described above, the Global Code outlines our ethical commitments as a network and expectations 102-8, 102-41, 401-1, 401-3, the freedom of association and the across the Deloitte network. Global Code elements directly address labor principles through a number of 404-3, 405-1, 405-2, 406-1 effective recognition of the right to provisions including the following: collective bargaining; Respect, diversity and fair treatment • We foster a culture and working environment where our people treat each other with respect, courtesy, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms and fairness, promoting equal opportunity for all. of forced and compulsory labour; • We encourage and value a diverse mix of people, view-points, talents, and experiences. • We create inclusive working environments that not only address individual needs, but allow our people to Principle 5: the effective abolition of utilize their unique strengths. child labour; and • We do not tolerate harassment or unfair discrimination in our working environments. Principle 6: the elimination of Professional development and support discrimination in respect of employment • We invest in our people to develop the professional knowledge and skills necessary for them to effectively and occupation. perform their roles. • We help our people reach their potential through investments in personal and professional development and support programs. • We provide a safe work environment for our people and expect our clients to do the same. Building tomorrow’s workforce today Deloitte continues to build a diverse, inclusive and agile workforce that is deeply skilled and ready for Industry 4.0. How and where work is done is changing, and Deloitte is responding by providing its people with exceptional professional experiences, including new approaches to connectivity, learning and development, and advancement. We develop and share valuable information that others can use to be more responsive and responsible, such as through Deloitte’s Inclusive Growth Survey. Empowering women Deloitte helps women around the world participate more fully in society and the economy by elevating their aspirations and connecting them with training and opportunities. Responsible supply chain As a leading professional services provider, Deloitte’s responsible supply chain actions are an opportunity to make an impact that matters. In FY2018, social assessment questions were included in vendor proposals submitted to Deloitte Global’s procurement organization. Suppliers completing that proposal template are requested to answer questions about policies and processes. This includes questions about labor standards. Please see the “Headcount” and “New hire” sections for measures of Deloitte’s workforce diversity. Further details on Deloitte Global’s Ethics Program are in the Ethics section of this report. See the “Global Code” for more information on respect, diversity, fair treatment, professional development, and support. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Environment Principle 7: Businesses should At Deloitte, our commitment to sustainability drives us to manage operations responsibly, champion 201-2, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, support a precautionary approach to ecological initiatives across our global network, and help clients manage their operations and supply 302-4, 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, environmental challenges; chains in ways that address environmental and social impacts and reduce risks. Despite dramatic growth 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 308-1 in headcount during FY2018, Deloitte, relying upon innovative technologies, reduced travel, energy Principle 8: undertake initiatives consumption and waste, and maintained its level of per capita carbon emissions intensity. to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Buildings, travel and resource consumption Deloitte’s building portfolio boasts some of the most sustainable offices in the world, signaling our Principle 9: encourage the commitment to people and planet. Deloitte’s new UK and North West Europe headquarters office in London development and diffusion of is the largest office in the world to achieve leading certifications for being both an exemplar green building environmentally friendly technologies. and one designed to enhance the wellbeing of its people. To reduce travel in FY2018, Deloitte continued to promote video conferencing while individual firms introduced sustainable alternatives to travel. Deloitte continues to shift to a digital environment to conserve paper and to support markets for the use of recycled content and sustainably certified fiber. Globally, the emphasis on paper reduction has been promising, with paper usage down 26 percent over the past five years. Responsible supply chain As a leading professional services provider, Deloitte’s responsible supply chain actions are an opportunity to make a global impact that matters. In FY2018, Deloitte initiated work on a responsible supply chain code of conduct for vendors that contract with Deloitte Global’s procurement organization. Further, environmental assessment questions were included in vendor proposals submitted to Deloitte Global’s procurement organization. Suppliers completing that proposal template are requested to answer questions about environmental sustainability policies and processes. Greenhouse gas emissions Deloitte seeks to continuously improve its carbon efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Absolute carbon emissions increased in FY2018—a consequence of adding more than 22,000 new people to the organization—and emissions intensity per full-time equivalent increased by 3 percent. Emissions intensity per dollar of revenue decreased by 2 percent from FY2017. Over the past five years, greenhouse gas emissions per full-time equivalent have decreased by 11 percent and emissions per dollar of revenue have decreased by 13 percent. Emissions from buildings have dropped by 16 percent. In-depth disclosure of Deloitte’s greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our risks and opportunities related to climate change, can be found in Deloitte Global’s 2018 CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change and Supply Chain response. Please see the Sustainability section of the Global Report for information on Deloitte’s initiatives to manage environmental performance as well as the environmental metrics in the “Metrics” section of the Global Report. Deloitte Global’s submission to the CDP can be found at www.cdproject.net UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work Anti-corruption commitment 201-2, 301-1, 301-2, 302-1, against corruption in all its forms, We actively support multiple efforts to eradicate corruption throughout the world. Deloitte Global was 302-4, 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, including extortion and bribery. an early signatory to the United National Global Compact (UNGC) and to the World Economic Forum’s 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 308-1 Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). The Deloitte Global Anti-Corruption team and member firm Anti-Corruption leaders work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to build and enhance a globally consistent anti-corruption program across the Deloitte network, which includes the following elements: • A Deloitte Global anti-corruption policy that includes requirements for member firms’ own anti-corruption programs and addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment; • Anti-corruption training that includes applicable policies, corruption red flags and case scenarios; • Support activities—including communications, workshops and webinars—to facilitate the sharing of eading practices; • Annual member firm anti-corruption self-assessments and other guidance and tools (such as guidance on anti-corruption testing and monitoring) to measure the effectiveness of anti-corruption programs across the Deloitte network; • A globally consistent process to perform anticorruption due diligence on subcontractors, marketplace alliances, vendors and suppliers; • A globally consistent methodology and process for Deloitte member firms to perform corruption risk assessments; • An annual confirmation from each member firm to Deloitte Global that all member firm people have read, understood and agree to comply with the local anti-corruption policy and are not in violation of this policy; and • A review program to assess compliance with Deloitte Global anti-corruption policies and drive continuous improvement in member firm anti-corruption programs. Multilateral initiatives Deloitte plays a role in various external efforts to promote ethical conduct in the business world. These include: • World Economic Forum’s PACI. David Cruickshank, Deloitte Global Chairman, is the co-chair of the PACI Vanguard Anti-Corruption CEO leadership program. • Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the Organization for Economic Corporation and Development. Gerrie Lenting, partner, Deloitte Northwest Europe, is vice chair of the BIAC task force on anti-bribery and corruption. • University of Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership. Members of the advisoryboard include several Deloitte LLP (US) leaders, including Deloitte LLP Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer Glenn Stastny. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator • Ethics Research Center. Stastny is a member of the board of directors. • Center for Professional Responsibility in Business and Society, University of Illinois College of Business. Stastny is a member of the advisory board. Responsible supply chain As a professional services firm, Deloitte’s responsible supply chain actions are an opportunity to make an impact that matters. In FY2018, social assessment questions are included in supplier proposals for the Deloitte Global level. Suppliers completing the Deloitte Global proposal template are requested to answer questions about policies and processes. This includes questions about anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies and processes. Please see the “Ethics” section of the Global Report and the “Global Code” for more details about anti-corruption activities. “Deloitte,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), its global network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more. Deloitte is a leading global provider of audit and assurance, consulting, financial advisory, risk advisory, tax and related services. Our network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories serves four out of five Fortune Global 500® companies. Learn how Deloitte’s approximately 286,000 people make an impact that matters at www.deloitte.com. This communication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte network”) is, by means of this communication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this communication. © 2019. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited.
