2018 Sustainability Report Welcome to Our Sustainability Report Kimberly-Clark’s 16th sustainability report provides an annual update on the progress we have made towards our Sustainability 2022 goals. Our reporting timeframe covers January 1 through December 31, 2018. The company’s progress is portrayed through stories that highlight our work around the world as well as key data and metrics, prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Standards “Core” level. For questions regarding the content of this report, please contact us at sustainability@kcc.com. Photo: Through Kimberly-Clark’s partnership with Plan International, students in Bolivia can manage their periods with dignity in bathrooms built at local schools. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Table of Contents Strategy Governance • Message from Mike Hsu, CEO • Board of Directors • Sustainability 2022 Overview • Sustainability Advisory Board • 2018 Progress Dashboard • Compliance & Ethics • UN Sustainable Development Goals • Diversity & Inclusion • Materiality Priorities • Engagement • Social Impact • Principles • Forests & Fiber • Memberships • Waste & Recycling • Awards • Energy & Climate • Supply Chain Data • Business Data • Data Tables • GRI Index Tables Assurance STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Strategy Kimberly-Clark partnered with Charities Aid Foundation to repair and maintain toilets in schools in India. With access to sanitation, young girls can focus on their education. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Message from Mike Hsu, CEO Sustainability 2022 Overview 2018 Progress Dashboard UN Sustainable Development Goals Creating a Better Future for the Communities We Serve We are three years into our ambitious Sustainability 2022 program, and I’m inspired by the impact we’ve made. Through our brand-led programs like Toilets Change Lives and No Baby Unhugged, and our leadership in creating the Alliance for Period Supplies, we’re taking action on critical issues around the world. In 2018 our teams advanced water stewardship in some of the world’s most water stressed areas, reduced the use of fiber from natural forests, and diverted manufacturing waste and post-consumer waste to higher value beneficial uses. We also exceeded our energy and climate goals four years ahead of schedule! We’ve achieved some big goals, but we know that new challenges to the environment are emerging and consumers’ expectations are shifting. We must continue to leverage our legacy of innovation to come up with new solutions to meet these needs. I am proud of the great work our teams are doing to create a better life for the communities we serve while building a more sustainable future. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Message from Mike Hsu, CEO Sustainability 2022 Overview 2018 Progress Dashboard UN Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability 2022 Overview OUR SUSTAINABILITY Everything we do at Kimberly-Clark is connected to our vision to STRATEGY lead the world in essentials for a better life. As we approach our 2022 150th year in business, we remain committed to improving the communities where we work and live. Our sustainability strategy, Sustainability 2022, is our framework to help us achieve that INNOVATION We work together to foster mission. innovative ideas and pursue long-term change. We set ambitious goals in the areas of social impact, forests and fiber, energy and climate, waste and recycling, and supply chain which enable us to have a lasting impact around the world. Our VALUE We strive to create social, priorities and goals are informed by who we serve, what we do, environmental and COMMITMENT financial value. Our priorites and goals and how we do it. We work together to foster innovative ideas are informed by who we serve, what we do and and pursue longer-term change while striving to create social, how we do it. environmental, and financial value. OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL SUPPLY IMPACT CHAIN FORESTS ENERGY & FIBER WASTE & & CLIMATE RECYCLING UPHOLD OUR IMPROVE THE COMMITMENT TO 20% INNOVATE OUR WELL-BEING OF 25M OUR 2022 TISSUE PRODUCTS HUMAN RIGHTS, TO REDUCE THEIR WORKER SAFETY, GOALS EXTEND OUR ZERO NATURAL FOREST ANTI-CORRUPTION, FOOTPRINT BY AND 50% REDUCTION IN PEOPLE IN NEED GREENHOUSE ENVIRONMENTAL WASTE MINDSET GASSES PROTECTION BY 2025 OUR TO LEAD THE WORLD IN ESSENTIALS VISION FOR A BETTER LIFE Download STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Message from Mike Hsu, CEO Sustainability 2022 Overview 2018 Progress Dashboard UN Sustainable Development Goals Kimberly-Clark’s 2018 Progress Dashboard 2022 GOAL 2018 TARGET 2018 ACTUAL 2018 PERFORMANCE SOCIAL IMPACT Improve the lives of 25M people in need 4.8M 5.2M FORESTS 50% reduction in natural forest fiber use & FIBER -25% -30% (Note: by 2025) Identify and deploy solutions that WASTE & avoid and/or divert 150,000 MT of RECYCLING 20,000 MT 21,245 MT materials to higher value alternatives. ENERGY 20% reduction of greenhouse gas -18% -27% & CLIMATE emissions SUPPLY 5 Mills 6 Mills CHAIN Set sustainable water use targets STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Message from Mike Hsu, CEO Sustainability 2022 Overview 2018 Progress Dashboard UN Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the United Nations’ framework for ending poverty and protecting the planet. Each of Kimberly-Clark’s goals align with the SDGs in one or more area. SOCIAL IMPACT (1) No Poverty (3) Good health and wellbeing (5) Gender equality (6) Clean water and sanitation (11) Sustainable cities and communities (17) Partnerships for the goals FORESTS & FIBER (15) Life on land (17) Partnerships for the goals WASTE & RECYCLING (11) Sustainable cities and communities (12) Responsible consumption and production (14) Life below water (15) Life on land (17) Partnerships for the Goals ENERGY & CLIMATE (7) Affordable and clean energy (13) Climate action (17) Partnerships for the goals SUPPLY CHAIN (9) Industry, innovation and infrastructure (10) Reduced inequalities (12) Responsible consumption and production (17) Partnerships for the goals STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Priorities Kimberly-Clark social impact programs continue to make a difference in the communities where we work and live. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain SOCIAL IMPACT 2022 Goal: Improve the well-being of 25 MILLION PEOPLE IN NEED through social and community Photo: Through our partnership with Australian not-for-profit Foodbank, families and communities across investments that increase access to Australia always have access to basic necessities, including diapers. sanitation, help children thrive, and Kimberly-Clark delivers the essentials for a better life to one-quarter empower women and girls. of the world’s population every day. We develop social programs that drive meaningful and lasting SDG Alignment change through a combination of brand-led commercial programs, retail executions, community partnerships, and Kimberly-Clark Foundation support. Our programs grow brand equity and performance at the shelf and provide unique opportunities for employee engagement in the community in direct support of the identified brand missions. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain How Impact Is Achieved and Measured In Latin America, our Toilets • Support the communities in which we operate through company and Change Lives program aims employee giving and volunteerism. to deliver dignifying, safe and • Align programs to the promise of our brands to create sustainable social clean access to sanitation impact, increase brand equity and performance at shelf, and deliver supply through its brands while chain benefits. strengthening equity and • Measure the business and social impact with key performance indicators driving sales. Through the and use learnings to scale the programs that are most impactful. program and our partnership (Note that we consider people in need as those living in poverty, where poverty is not only with NGO Water for People, economic but also social, political and cultural.) more than 32,800 people were directly impacted in 2018. 2018 Progress We’ve made the following progress towards our goal: Access to Sanitation: Helping Children Thrive: Empowerment of 1.5 Million Lives 3.4 Million Lives Women and Girls: Impacted Impacted 270,000 Lives Impacted Total lives impacted towards 2022 goal: 5.2 Million To review our Social Impact data, click here STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain 2018 Featured Social Impact Stories A Unique Approach to Accelerating the Sanitation Economy: Through the Toilet Board Coalition’s “Toilet Accelerator” program, Kimberly-Clark employees are mentoring local entrepreneurs in developing markets to explore new technology, programs, and business, bringing together local entrepreneurs and multinationals. The Toilet Accelerator program led to the development of the Toilet Integration (TI) Sanitation Center, a clean, safe toilet on wheels and health and hygiene resource center for women in India. Read more about the program Alliance for Period Supplies: With U, She Can: Kimberly-Clark’s U by Kotex® brand believes that nothing should stand in the way of a woman’s progress, especially not her period. However, one in four American women struggle to purchase period products due to lack of income. In 2017, U by Kotex® launched “With U She Can,” a program dedicated to providing period supplies to women and girls who need them most. U by Kotex® joined forces with the National Diaper Bank Alliance in May 2018 to form the Alliance for Period Supplies. In the first year, the brand completed seven retail programs and 10 million products were donated. Read more about the program SOCIAL IMPACT STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain FORESTS & FIBER 2025 Goal: Innovate our tissue products to reduce their natural forest footprint by 50% while increasing our use of Photo: Since Kimberly-Clark Taiwan’s Green Up for a Better Future campaign launched in 2014, more than 9,000 students and teachers have been trained on forest conservation, FSC certification, and responsible consumption. environmentally-preferred fibers As one of the world’s largest buyers of market pulp, we know that protecting (EPF)* by 2025. forests is critical to creating a resilient supply chain for our products. Kimberly-Clark has been recognized as a market leader for responsible fiber SDG Alignment sourcing and forest protection by major environmental groups like FSC®, Greenpeace, and WWF. We know there is difficult work ahead to drive further improvements. We are continuing the challenging work of developing alternatives to traditional sources of fiber for our products while encouraging our suppliers, customers, and consumers to look for FSC® certification. * Environmentally-preferred fibers (EPF) include Forest Stewardship Council®-certified virgin fibers, recycled fibers and sustainable alternative natural fibers in tissue products. Natural forests are composed of native species that self-regenerate and contain key elements of native ecosystems such as wildlife and biological diversity. To us, this primarily includes boreal fibers known as Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft (NBSK). STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain How Impact Is Achieved and Measured Kimberly-Clark was honored by the Forest Stewardship • Continue to source 100% virgin wood fiber for our products from certified Council® (FSC®) with a 2018 sources and apply the same objective to fiber-based packaging. Leadership Award for our • Reduce the use of wood fiber sourced from natural forests by 50% and collaboration with World increase use of environmentally-preferred fiber (EPF) to 90% in our global Wildlife Fund on the “Heart tissue products by 2025. Your Planet” campaign in North America. The partnership • Deliver sustainable alternative fiber innovation to reduce our use of fiber increases consumer awareness sourced from natural forests. about the importance of purchasing FSC®-certified • Support the Consumer Goods Forum commitment to zero net deforestation products from responsibly by 2020. managed forests. This is the third FSC® Leadership Award 2018 Progress we have received since 2014. We reduced our use of fiber from natural forest landscapes by 30% over the 2011 base year, while 87% of the fiber used in our tissue products was from environmentally-preferred sources. We are committed to responsible forestry practices and global organizations, like the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), that link land owners, business, forestry and communities are an important part of our sustainable wood fiber strategy. We engage customers and consumers through brand-led commercial programming, retail execution and partnerships to continuously raise visibility and education. To review our Forests & Fiber data, click here STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain 2018 Featured Forests and Fiber Stories Encouraging Responsible Forest Management: Kimberly-Clark has been involved in the Appalachian Woodlands Alliance (AWA), a project that brings together the Rainforest Alliance and forest product leaders across the United States who are committed to practicing responsible forestry. The AWA engages small landowners in the Southeastern United States to demonstrate the value in certifying their lands to the FSC® standard. Read more about the program Employing the Circular Economy to Extend the Life of Packaging Waste: Kimberly-Clark Professional™ has been committed to using recycled fiber in its products for over three decades. As the availability of high-grade recycled fiber decreased, the team saw an opportunity in packaging waste. “We found ways to extract value from packaging waste and started processing these more challenging grades,” said Paul Williams, Global Kimberly-Clark Professional™ Senior Manufacturing Director, Towel and Tissue. “Our investments and technology around recycled fiber allow us to strike a balance between meeting customers’ quality requirements and expectations and doing the right thing for our planet.” Our 2015 investment in a drum pulper at our Loudon, Tennessee mill allows us to increase the amount of recycled fiber in a range of Kimberly-Clark Professional™ Kleenex and Scott brand towel products. Read more about the program FORESTS & FIBER STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain WASTE & RECYCLING 2022 Goal: Extend our ZERO WASTE mindset across the value chain by using materials more efficiently, driving materials innovation, and Photo: Solid Waste Program Leader John Opsteen joins a team of Kimberly-Clark volunteers at a recycling center in Roswell, Georgia. seeking beneficial secondary uses Kimberly-Clark and its trusted brands are an indispensable part of for used materials– from source to life for people in more than 175 countries. We understand the value shelf and beyond. of the materials used to manufacture our products and seek ways to put them back into the value chain – while avoiding leakage into the SDG Alignment environment or landfilling. Our program focuses on four key actions: (1) using materials more efficiently, (2) driving alternative materials innovation, (3) improving consumer knowledge about waste handling, and (4) enabling systems to enhance material recovery and circular value chain models. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain Kimberly-Clark is focused on designing packaging to be recyclable, reusable or compostable and is identifying partnerships and systems-based innovations Kimberly-Clark is a leader in that enable recycling. Our aspiration is to divert materials from our oceans and standing up recycling initiatives landfills and keep them in the value chain for secondary, beneficial uses. around the world. We partner with organizations that educate We continue to support and grow recycling programs to raise consumer consumers on recycling and awareness on responsible disposal. Additionally, we are identifying opportunities provide collection points where to increase post-consumer recycled content in our plastic packaging. consumers can drop off plastic packaging found on products like How Impact Is Achieved and Measured Kleenex, Cottonelle, and Huggies. In addition, our Kimberly-Clark • Net basis weight reduction Professional™ business labels their • Adopt cradle-to-cradle design principles and environmentally preferred products to help end users easily materials innovation, including design of products/packaging to be know what’s eligible for recycling recyclable, reusable or degradable, ensuring appropriate research and and how to do it. scientific evidence of materials breaking down in accordance with a credible standard • Increase the net value from waste services and recycling • Deploy initiatives to avoid environmental leakage and/or landfill avoidance of 150,000 metric tons (MT) of post-consumer waste To review our Waste & Recycling data, click here STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain 2018 Progress Both our consumer and Based on our success in diverting manufacturing waste from landfills, we are Kimberly-Clark Professional™ extending our Zero Waste Mindset to products and packaging. businesses signed on to WRAP We diverted 96% of our manufacturing waste from landfill to higher value UK’s Plastics Pact, an ambitious beneficial uses in 2018. initiative that brings businesses We also achieved our post-consumer waste target of 20,000 MT in 2018. We from across the plastics value diverted 21,245 MT of materials to higher value alternatives. chain together with the UK government and NGOs to keep We’ve made great progress in diverting manufacturing waste and recognize the plastic in the economy and out challenges to address the remaining few percentages of materials still going of the environment. to landfills. And although we are happy with our 2018 post-consumer waste progress, there are many challenges in scaling product and systems solutions that enable us to achieve our program goal. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain 2018 Featured Waste & Recycling Stories Turning Manufacturing Waste into Cardboard: Our Romagnano Mill in Italy is turning sludge, previously classified as “waste,” into a raw material used to produce new products. Since May 2017, our sludge has been used as a raw material by a manufacturer of cardboard. Not only does this reduce the quantity of material classified as waste, but it increases the number of available options to recover the material, reducing the dependency to landfill. Read more about the program Incentivizing Waste Pickers to Divert Plastic from Environment: KimberlyClark partnered with Hyderabad, India-based social enterprise Waste Ventures India to educate and incentivize waste pickers to collect soft plastic packaging which is currently not collected by pickers because it lacks financial value. Once collected, the plastic packaging is converted from waste to energy, displacing coal. From August to December 2018, the project collected and processed 35 metric tons of soft plastic waste and is on track to achieve its 100 ton target by August. Read more about the program WASTE & RECYCLING STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain ENERGY & CLIMATE 2022 Goal: 20% REDUCTION in absolute greenhouse gasses Photo: The solar energy project at our Tuas Mill in Singapore is the first Kimberly-Clark onsite renewable energy project in the region and is one of the largest solar panel installments in Singapore. versus a 2005 baseline. Kimberly-Clark’s goal is to increase energy efficiency while at the same time finding alternative sources of energy. We deploy energy SDG Alignment conservation and alternative energy programs to minimize climate change impacts, reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations, and transform our financial performance. Our programs focus on reducing GHG emissions from our direct emissions from operations (“Scope 1”) and our indirect emissions from utility suppliers (“Scope 2”). We also measure emissions from our upstream and downstream supply chain (“Scope 3”). (Note: Modeling using the Science-Based Targets Initiative’s “Sectorial Decarbonisation Approach” validates that this target is aligned with climate science and is “science-based.”) STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain How Impact Is Achieved and Measured In 2017, Kimberly-Clark made a major commitment to • Conservation Projects: Reduce GHG emissions and total delivered cost renewable energy by entering through the adoption of energy best practices and the identification and its first utility-scale virtual power execution of energy reduction and efficiency improvement projects across purchase agreements (VPPAs) for our operations. approximately 1 million megawatt hours (MWh) per year of electricity from two new wind power projects • LEAN Energy: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and total delivered costs in Texas and Oklahoma. In 2018, through LEAN energy deployment and energy efficiency standard practice the wind farms’ PPAs delivered a adoption across our operations. LEAN Energy engages employees in a total of 786,681 MWh of renewable culture of conservation to execute process changes which optimize electricity to Kimberly-Clark, energy efficiency. offsetting 99% of the electricity purchased by Kimberly-Clark • Alternative Energy: Create a step change reduction in greenhouse gas Professional™ manufacturing sites emissions and energy cost by switching to lower carbon emitting fuels (e.g. in United States. natural gas, landfill gas, biomass and renewable energy). To review our Energy & Climate data, click here STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain 2018 Progress We are pleased to announce that Kimberly-Clark achieved a 27% GHG emissions reduction in 2018 (versus the 18% target) over our We achieved our 2005 baseline. energy and climate Since the start-up of our Sustainability 2022 strategy, a total of 809,000 goal this year—4 years MTCO2e have been reduced through: ahead of schedule! • 400+ energy conservation projects, with GHG emission reductions of approximately 164,000 MTCO2. • LEAN Energy full deployment in 37 sites, with GHG emissions reduction of approximately 78,000 MTCO2e. Since our 2022 goal was achieved several • 6 alternative energy projects implemented around biomass boilers, fuel years early, we will continue to stretch in switching to lower GHG emitting fuels and cogeneration, with GHG efforts to reduce GHG emissions by an emissions reduction of approximately 117,000 MT CO2e. additional 20% (market-based assessment). • 2 wind Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA) executed in Texas and Oklahoma, offsetting 450,000 MTCO2. Equivalent reduction GHG emissions from CO2 emissions from 171,000 passenger vehicles electricity consumed by of 809,000 MTCO2e: driven for one year 96,000 homes in one year STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain 2018 Featured Energy & Climate Stories Reducing our Footprint through Renewable Energy: Kimberly-Clark is creating a step change reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and energy costs by switching to lower carbon emitting fuels. Our team at Singapore’s Tuas mill initiated the first Kimberly-Clark on-site renewable electricity project in the region, reducing the mill’s reliance on conventional energy by 15% annually and lowering greenhouse gas emissions by 1,614 metric tons per year. Read more about the program Challenging How We Calculate End of Life for Sold Goods: When we began calculating Scope 3 emissions, which are the emissions from our upstream and downstream supply chain, we learned that the majority of the value chain emissions are found in three areas: raw materials, product transportation, and postconsumer waste. Additionally, we calculated end of life for sold goods at a global level using an estimate of end of life treatment. In our current calculation, we are now using the World Bank’s published statistics as a basis for assigning end of life treatment of products to calculate greenhouse gas emissions—at a regional level. This allows us to optimize our post-consumer waste projects to service both post-consumer waste and climate priorities. Read more about the program ENERGY & CLIMATE STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain SUPPLY CHAIN 2022 Goal: LIVE OUR VALUES through proactive environmental and Photo: Members of our global sustainability and procurement teams collaborate with suppliers to bring Total Water Management to the Romagnano mill in Italy. social programs. Kimberly-Clark’s supply chain helps us deliver products that are essential for a better life to one quarter of the world’s population, every day. We SDG Alignment recognize that a socially responsible supply chain creates value for the company, our customers and our suppliers while minimizing risks. Our program focuses on working with our mills and key suppliers to ensure that (1) our standards for social and environmental performance are met, (2) the products and materials we purchase come from traceable, resilient and sustainable sources, and (3) we challenge our supply chain partners to drive innovation in sustainability. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain How Impact Is Achieved and Measured • Water: Invest in water treatment and recycling technologies and partner to support communities in water-stressed areas. • Social Compliance: Monitor Kimberly-Clark and key supplier performance to our workplace and human rights standards. • Supplier Collaboration: Partner to create shared value through sustainability-related innovation. • Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS): Conduct EHS audits to confirm facility performance against safety and environmental standards and to check the health of our EHS Management System. Photo: Global water program leader Vetrivel Dhagumudi leads community stakeholders in a water scarcity workshop. To review our Supply Chain data, click here STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain Water Security In 2018, Cape Town, South Africa, came within days of running out Water is an essential to a better life, and critical to many of Kimberly-Clark’s of water. This posed a threat to manufacturing processes. In addition, water resiliency creates social value. production at our Epping Mill and to the lives of those in surrounding Twelve of our 44 tissue manufacturing sites are located in water-stressed regions. communities. The mill answered by Our water strategy has shifted focus to site specific sustainable water use introducing water-saving mechanisms targets at mills in water-stressed regions of the world. This is a shift from our past and building a small water treatment approach to company-wide water use reduction targets. Utilizing this approach, plant. By the end of 2018, the mill had we are able to concentrate our impact to areas that need help the most. In reduced water use by 58%. The mill also engaged with local stakeholders fact, we have already seen positive results. We have achieved more than a 24% and NGO’s to drive action on reduction in our water use at water-stressed mills. sustainable water stewardship. The project continues to gain momentum We also recognize that the communities surrounding mills experiencing water and is becoming a model to tackling stress will have important social needs. Engagement at the local community level water stress around the world. is helping to identify appropriate mechanisms to support these needs. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain Commitment to Human Rights Our Code of Conduct guides and Ethical Practices our interaction with suppliers, We are committed to ensuring that employees around the world – including partners, customers and those of our suppliers – are treated with respect and that our workplace and consumers worldwide. human rights standards are met. This commitment is formalized in our Human Rights in Employment Policy and our Code of Conduct. Centered on our values and reflecting our vision, our Supplier Social Compliance Standards are aligned with the goals of international standards like the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our Supplier Social Compliance Standards are publicly available and are shared with our suppliers on our SupplierLINK portal as well as through contract terms and conditions. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain Ensuring Compliance Standards Are Met We assess and ensure both our suppliers and our own facilities comply with these standards through third-party audits. The Sedex SMETA 4 pillar audit standard is deployed as our preferred audit protocol. However, as members of the AIM-Progress, we also support the principle of Mutual Recognition and honor equivalent, recently-conducted audit reports conducted by accredited third-party auditors. Audits are conducted using a risk-based approach to measure compliance. The audit makes an assessment of key issue areas, including freedom of association and collective bargaining; child labor; potential forced labor indicators and abuse of labor; discrimination; work hours, wages, and benefits; safe and healthy workplace; environment; and business integrity. If the results identify areas of non-compliance, Kimberly-Clark works closely with the supplier to remediate and resolve issues as quickly as possible. We met our Social Compliance target for Kimberly-Clark sites and facilities by assuring 100% compliance with customer & licensor requirements as well as with our own Social Compliance Standard. Furthermore, we exceeded our target for suppliers by assuring that 82% of audited suppliers were compliant with our Standards and have sought to engage with remaining noncompliant suppliers on remediation of findings. Supplier Collaboration We believe that long-term strategic supplier relationships are key to driving innovative solutions that meet our consumer and customer needs. Through our Supplier Collaboration Program, we are committed to becoming a ‘Customer of Choice’ and partnering with key strategic suppliers. In deploying these activities, we’ve identified actions in the areas of increased chemical transparency, expanded social compliance scope for labor categories, and expanded upon supplier risk assessment in due diligence processes. By working together, we are accelerating efforts to create value from source to shelf across our supply chain. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain Environmental Compliance Environmental team members from around the world collaborate to build capabilities, continuously improve our systems and standards and assess performance gaps in areas including air emissions, chemical management, water and wastewater treatment, and waste management. Elements of the environmental compliance program include: • Optimizing the implementation of our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Management System and its policy, organization, planning and implementation elements. • Modeling our EHS Management System with the ISO 14001 Standard. • Deployment of the EHS Audit program. Conformance is verified by first, second or third party audits and corrective measures are tracked to closure. In 2018, we achieved our targets related to this program with 28 EHS audits conducted and on-time closure of more than 95% of environmental findings. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Social Impact Forests & Fiber Waste & Recycling Energy & Climate Supply Chain Safety Six Key Imperatives Kimberly-Clark is proud to have industry-leading performance in safety, yet we aspire 1. Demonstrate consistent safety to do better. Our safety vision is to realize an incident free workplace. leadership In 2018, our Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR) was 0.177. Regrettably, there was one 2. Focus on positive safety fatality involving a Kimberly-Clark employee in 2018. interactions In light of this, as part of our Safety Imperatives Process, additional safety 3. Align incentives and metrics improvement initiatives are being launched in order to achieve our vision of a fatality 4. Reduce risk tolerance free and injury free workplace, where all persons working for and on behalf of KimberlyClark return home safely to their families each and every day. 5. Empower employees and contractors to have safety Product Quality impact Kimberly-Clark has a culture of quality—it is the foundation for meeting our customer 6. Ensure consistent critical safety and consumer expectations. It is also part of our business strategy. Our policy is work practices to design, manufacture and deliver products that meet or exceed customer and consumer expectations for quality performance and value. Each Kimberly-Clark business, function and facility is charged with aligning to enterprise standards and maintaining quality systems that support these expectations. From design and sourcing to manufacturing, commercialization, transportation, distribution and sales, quality is an important part of our entire process. External regulations and industry best practices, as well as internally developed standards, define our quality criteria. Programs are established to measure compliance with these and report results to senior management. These quality standards and established quality system processes drive the continuous improvement activities that ensure Kimberly-Clark products are safe and effective for consumers. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Governance STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Governance Kimberly-Clark remains committed to our values and guiding principles – quality, service, and fair dealing. Our governance structure grounds our day-to-day actions to ensure we conduct business with the highest standards and integrity. Our governance structure comprises of: • A Board of Directors and its committees to provide oversight and guidance. • An independent Sustainability Advisory Board to provide counsel on key governance, social and environmental issues. • A clear reporting structure and lines of accountability. • A global Code of Conduct. • Corporate policies and local procedures. More details on our governance and corporate policies can be found on our website. Board of Directors Our Board of Directors and its committees provide oversight and guidance to our businesses and our relationships with stakeholders. Kimberly-Clark’s annual proxy statement contains detailed information on our Board and committee structure, the independence of the members, and the responsibilities and meeting frequency of each committee. To review our Governance data, click here STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Sustainability Advisory Board “Our Sustainability Advisory Board Our Sustainability Advisory (SAB) members provide independent views of our is invaluable to our sustainability sustainability programs and insights into potential risks and opportunities for program. Each member has a our business. The SAB is selected based on core competencies that align with diverse background and provides our sustainability strategy. a unique lens into the challenges SAB members may serve for three consecutive two-year terms. Each member faced by the business. The insights receives an annual stipend and is reimbursed for travel expenses to attend we gain from our SAB enable us meetings. Our 2018 SAB members include: address risks and opportunities— future-proofing our business for • Mark Kramer (U.S.): Co-founder and Managing Director of Foundation years to come.” Strategy Group (FSG); Senior Fellow in the CSR Initiative at Harvard Kennedy School of Government; lecturer on CSR at Harvard Business – Lisa Morden, Vice President of School. Safety and Sustainability. • Jo Mackness (U.S.) Assistant Vice Chancellor Human Resources (Interim) at University of California, Berkeley; former Chief Strategy and Operating Officer for the UC Berkeley Haas School of Business; previously served as the Executive Director of Haas’ Center for Responsible Business (CRB). • Sally Uren (U.K.): Chief Executive for Forum for the Future, a global sustainability non-profit that works with business, governments, and others to catalyze interventions that move major systems towards sustainability. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Compliance & Ethics In 2018, Kimberly-Clark’s ethics and Kimberly-Clark’s Code of Conduct and Human Rights in Employment Policy compliance team simplified the Code establish the company’s expectations and creates accountability for our people with respect to human rights and other ethical concerns. We expect of Conduct to make it easier for our our employees and our suppliers all over the world to behave ethically and in employees to live out the company’s compliance with applicable laws, and to ask questions or raise concerns when values. They streamlined the number necessary. of global policies and simplified Kimberly-Clark’s Code from 12,000plus words to 5,000 words. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Diversity & Inclusion In November 2018, more than 90 Our People Philosophy describes our performance-driven culture and employees from the African American exemplifies what it means to unleash the power of our people. Through our People Philosophy, we are creating a culture where people thrive and develop Employee Network (AAEN), Focus with collaborative teams that have a passion to win and a desire to make a Asia (FA) and Latin American Network difference. for Diversity (LAND) attended the NA Multicultural Leadership As a global company, we work to attract and retain great people from diverse & Development Symposium. The backgrounds and perspectives. Symposium provided an opportunity Increasing the representation of women (globally) and ethnic minorities (U.S.) for professional development, in senior management positions (defined as Director-level and above) and exposure to senior leaders, and ensuring a robust pipeline of diverse talent is part of our ongoing people networking for all salaried employees strategy. within Kimberly-Clark North America while providing leaders an Talent Development opportunity to identify future talent. Developing leaders and top talent is critical, so we value a work environment that fosters personal, professional and corporate growth while building a performance-driven organization to attract, engage, develop, reward and retain top talent. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Materiality The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) materiality principle states that a sustainability report should cover aspects that: • Reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or • Substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. We conducted a non-financial materiality assessment to determine topics deemed most important to both internal and external stakeholders. The materiality assessment results inform our sustainability strategies and ensure we provide transparent, comprehensive and accessible coverage of topics that are of significant importance to key stakeholders and reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts on the business. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Materiality Matrix Occupational health & VERY HIGH Chemical usage Innovation safety Deforestation Product quality and safety Customer satisfaction Forced labor Environmentally-friendly products & packaging Child labor Water Water Product & packaging IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS scarcity scarcity Bribery & corruption end-of-life Water management Climate change HIGH Manufacturing waste Responsible marketing Talent development Access to sanitation infrastructure Empowerment of women Energy usage and girls Leadership succession plan IP Maternal and child health Economic development Diversity & inclusion Emerging middle class Alternative fiber MEDIUM Big data E-commerce Biodiversity Transportation Political & economic Fiber Hygiene education Ethical sourcing stability Active aging Responsible remuneration Commodity volatility Female menstrual education Freedom of association & Petrochemicals Changes in tax regulation collective bargaining LOW Supply chain diversity Animal testing Private label LOW MEDIUM HIGH VERY HIGH IMPACT ON THE BUSINESS Business practices Product Talent attraction & retention KEY Environment People & Community Operating context STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Stakeholder Engagement We engage with stakeholders in many ways on an ongoing basis – ranging from conducting customer and consumer research to engaging in dialogue and developing strategic partnerships with environmental and humanitarian organizations. In addition, we communicate progress to the shareholder and investment communities through our Annual 10-K, through investor and shareholder meetings, at analyst-sponsored conferences and through distribution of our sustainability reporting content. External Principles The United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development includes a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. We use the SDGs as a guide for the programs and initiatives we plan in support of our Sustainability 2022 goals. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to upholding the Compact’s 10 Principles (per UNGC) on human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption, working within our sphere of influence to encourage their support. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Memberships These memberships provide platforms for the company to learn and share information about sustainability and related issues. AIM-PROGRESS: A forum of leading Fast Moving Consumer Goods manufacturers assembled to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable supply chains. The forum’s key objectives include building supply chain capability, effectively assuring compliance to aligned standards among members and driving continuous improvement in member supply chains. Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR): U.S trade association that promotes development of the plastics recycling industry by providing leadership for long-term industry growth and vitality. Canopy: Canopy works to protect the world’s forests, species and climate by collaborating with business leaders, scientists and decision-makers to help create sustainable supply chains and foster innovative solutions to environmental challenges. Catalyst: Catalyst helps companies in measuring or diagnosing talent management gaps or identifying the best strategies that organizations and individual business leaders can use to access and leverage the best talent. Through a combination of research and practical implementation, and often in partnership with others, they identify and provide solutions to overcoming these barriers and creating equitable workplaces in which all talent can thrive. CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion: A business commitment led by 600 CEOs from leading companies and business organizations to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Memberships The Conference Board: A global, independent business membership and research association working in the public interest to help leaders navigate the biggest issues impacting business and better serve society. The Sustainability Council helps companies reshape and enhance sustainability efficiencies, embed sustainability into corporate strategy, and deliver products, services, and solutions that drive reductions in environmental footprint for customers. The Consumer Goods Forum: A global industry network comprised of the CEOs and senior management of about 400 diverse retailers, manufacturers, service providers and other stakeholders across 70 countries. Corporate Eco Forum: A community of global leaders, representing 18 industries and $3 trillion in revenues, dedicated to advancing sustainable business. EDANA: The international association serving non-wovens and related industries. EDANA provides global leadership to create an environment beneficial to sustainable and profitable growth of the non-wovens and engineered fabrics and related industries to best serve our customers. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Memberships U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay Transportation Partner: Together, we have increased our intermodal usage by reducing length of haul, total miles, empty miles and wait time and idling at shipping and receiving docks. Since 2006, we have more than doubled intermodal utilization, from approximately 42,000 loads in 2006 to more than 85,600 loads in 2016, resulting in savings of more than 9 million gallons of diesel fuel and reduction of CO2 emissions by more than 200 million pounds. European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA): A collaboration between the European Commission, European trade associations, and companies committed to pooling knowledge and resources to accelerate the development, validation, and acceptance of alternative approaches to animal use in regulatory testing. The overall aim is the replacement, reduction, and refinement (3Rs) of animal use in regulatory testing. Flexible Film Recycling Group (FFRG): A partnership of stakeholders from the polyethylene (PE) film value chain, including major resin suppliers, manufacturers (also known as converters), brand owners and recyclers that is working to significantly increase the collection and recycling of all flexible films and to educate the public about the importance of recycling. Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®): An independent, non-profit organization that protects forests for future generations. We are a member of FSC International and have renewed our Cooperation Agreement in 2013 as FSC’s selected global partner to represent the tissue industry. For the duration of this two-year agreement, we are working with FSC to create activities that will be mutually beneficial to each organization and will seek to drive increased awareness of the FSC brand, to increase the growth of FSC-certified forest areas globally and to consider the opportunities for certification of non-wood alternative fibers. We funded FSC Canada to conduct field-tests of the FSC Guidelines on Free Prior and Informed Consent that support compliance with social requirements as part of the FSC certification process. In addition, we are a representative on the FSC National Board of Directors in the United States. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Memberships Foundation for Strategic Sourcing (F4SS): The Foundation for Strategic Sourcing is a non-profit organization with a primary goal to establish a forum whereby CPG marketers, external manufacturers, and secondary packagers can share the best practices towards the creation of Industry Standards aimed at improving efficiency and reducing supply chain costs. INDA: INDA is the Association of the Nonwoven Fabrics Industry, which helps member companies in the nonwovens/engineered fabrics industry connect, innovate and develop their businesses. Industrial Energy Consumers of America (IECA): A non-profit, member-led organization to help manufacturing companies for which the availability, use, and cost of energy, power, or feedstock play a role in their ability to compete in domestic and world markets. IECA has six organized committees; Kimberly-Clark is a member of the Energy Committee. International Organization of Employers (IOE): IOE represents business interests in social and labor matters at the global level, especially in the International Labor Organization, which sets international workplace standards and where employers are represented alongside trade unions and governments. IOE communicates business views on the ILO’s work, including education and training, termination of employment, social security, health and safety, labor standards, and represents employers within the ILO’s complaints and supervisory mechanisms. IOE also represents the views of business in the G20 process, the International Standardization Organization, the World Health Organization and the UN Human Rights Council, among other organizations. Institute for In Vitro Sciences (IIVS): Kimberly-Clark is a founding member and continuing supporter of IIVS, a non-profit foundation that promotes adoption and regulatory acceptance of alternatives to laboratory animal testing. Leading Executives Advancing Diversity (LEAD): The Board of Advisors for the LEAD network and has served on the board since its founding. The mission of the LEAD Network is to attract, retain and advance women in the retail and consumer goods industry in Europe through education, leadership and business development. Its vision includes a diverse workforce where both men and women are enabled to contribute their full potential and lead their organizations to the next level of value creation. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Memberships National Safety Council (NSC) in the United States: A non-profit organization with the mission to save lives by preventing injuries and deaths at work, in homes and communities, and on the road through leadership, research, education and advocacy. Working to make the world measurably safer, NSC advances this mission by engaging businesses, government agencies, elected officials and the public to help prevent the fifth-leading cause of death in the U.S. – unintentional injuries. Network of Executive Women (NEW): The Network of Executive Women was founded in 2001 by a small group of industry executives who believed there were not enough female leaders in the retail and consumer goods and services industry — and that everyone would benefit if there were. Their learning, events, best practices, research and leadership development programs advance women, build business and help create a better workplace for all. Personal Care Products Council (PCPC): A national trade association representing the global cosmetic and personal care products industry. Founded in 1894, the Council has more than 600 member companies who manufacture, distribute and supply personal care products in the United States. We participate in many of its standing committees and technical subcommittees, including the International Committee, Safety and Regulatory Committee, Quality Assurance Committee and Microbiology Committee. In addition, we participate in member-only meetings on subjects of common interest. The Recycling Partnership: Offers companies and organizations a vehicle to make a meaningful impact on recycling and the environment while also stimulating the economy. It helps bridge the gaps between communities and the industries that benefit from recycling by creating campaigns that power local recycling programs, innovate to improve recycling systems, and help solve and energize curbside recycling programs. #SeeHer: Led by the Association of National Advertisers (ANA), its mission is to increase the percentage of accurate portrayals of women and girls in U.S. advertising and media by 20% by 2020. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Memberships Supply Chain Management (SCM) World, a Gartner Company: SCM World is a cross-industry community of the leading supply chain practitioners. The community works together to advance the profession of supply chain management. Our Supply Chain Vice President, Sandra MacQuillan, is on the Executive Advisory Board. Sustainable Brands: A learning, collaboration and commerce community of more than 348,000 sustainable business leaders from around the globe. The organization works to empower more brands to prosper by leading the way to a better world. As a corporate member, we leverage access to a peer-to-peer learning and networking group that supports us in meeting our sustainability goals. Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC): A membership-based collaborative that provide thought leadership and bring our members together to strengthen and advance the business case for more sustainable packaging. Trash Free Seas Alliance: Ocean Conservancy’s Trash Free Seas Alliance is a partnership that brings together businesses, academia, and civil society organizations to identify solutions to keep plastics out of the ocean. As members of the steering committee, our role is, in part, to shape the scope of and guide the work as well as help open doors and be some of the on-theground implementers of programs. United States Council for International Business (USCIB): Promotes open markets, competitiveness, innovation, sustainable development and corporate responsibility supported by international engagement and prudent regulation. USCIB presents American business views on a wide range of issues – from environmental regulation to trade policy to labor relations – directly to U.S. policymakers, U.N. and E.U. officials and a host of governments and other groups. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Memberships WRAP UK Plastics Pact: The WRAP UK Plastics Pact is an ambitious initiative that brings businesses from across the plastics value chain together with the UK government and NGOs to keep plastic in the economy and out of the environment. Signatories of the pact have committed to hit several of bold targets by 2025. World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) Global Forest and Trade Network (GFTN): A program to expand responsible and credibly-certified forest management which includes technical assistance throughout the certification process and enhanced marketing opportunities. GFTN participants are committed to increasing the availability of forest products from well-managed forests, helping each other benefit and profit from sustainable forest management and ending the purchase of forest products from illegal and controversial sources. We first joined GFTN in 2008 in the United Kingdom and signed a global agreement with WWF in 2011. We work with WWF to help implement the company’s global fiber procurement policy, and WWF provides technical assistance and feedback as we progressively increase the amount of environmentally-preferred fiber used in making its tissue and personal care products. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Awards Organization Award Description Ambito Financiero Newspaper, CEOP Ranking Finished 5th CEOP and 3rd in sector ranking CEOP Ranking Apertura Magazine Third place Best Employers Ranking Third place for Best Employers Ranking CEOWORLD Magazine #17 of 100 The Best US Companies to Work K-C was named to the 2019 Best US Companies to Work For with a #17 ranking of 100 For companies Corporate Reputation Magazine #29 ranking out of 100 K-C ranked among the 100 Best Corporate Citizens with a ranking of 29th according to CR Magazine, down from 21st in 2017 CSO Magazine CSO50 The CSO50 recognizes 50 security projects that demonstrate outstanding thought leadership and business value Delaware County Chamber of Community Economic Impact Award The chamber recognized the community benefits of the mill changing its on-site power Commerce source from coal to natural gas DERES DERES Awards Kimberly-Clark Uruguay was recognized with the DERES Awards in the Ethics and Corporate Government category for its “K-C Way” initiative promoting ethics and good corporate governance practices EPA SmartWay Excellence Award Kimberly-Clark was honored for the 9th time (sixth consecutive year) with a SmartWay® Excellence Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for working with transportation providers to move goods in the cleanest, most energyefficient way possible, while reducing the impacts of carbon pollution Ethibel Forum Ethibel Sustainability Index: Excellence Kimberly-Clark reconfirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Ranking Excellence Global for playing a leading role in corporate social responsibility Ethical Corporation 2018 Responsible Business Award for Recognized the company’s innovative strategies to reduce the climate impacts of its Climate Action operations through energy conservation, transformative LEAN energy management programs and the increased use of alternative energy sources including renewable energy Forbes Ranked #229 in America’s Best Employers Kimberly-Clark was ranked #229 in Forbes America’s Best Employers for Women For Women Forbes Ranked #99 in America’s Most Reputable Kimberly-Clark was ranked #99 in the 2018 Forbes America’s Most Reputable Companies Companies list Forbes Forbes’ 2018 World’s Best Employers List Forbes’ World’s Best Employers (#81) – In 2018, Kimberly-Clark was ranked #81 overall in (#81) the Forbes’ World’s Best Employers list, up from #96 in 2017 Forbes The Just 100: America’s Best Corporate In 2018, Kimberly-Clark received a ranking of 17 and was one of four Personal Products Citizens (#17) companies recognized in the top 100 STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Awards Organization Award Description Forbes Ranked #56 in Best Employers for Diversity Kimberly-Clark was ranked #56 on the list of America’s Best Employers for Diversity 2018 Forbes Magazine/Reputation World’s Most Reputable Companies for Kimberly-Clark was ranked in the Top 100 for the first time at #37 spot Institute Corporate Responsibility 2018 Forbes/Reputation Institute US Ranked #83 for World’s Most Reputable Kimberly-Clark was ranked #83 in the 2018 Forbes World’s Most Reputable Companies RepTrak Companies list Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 2018 FSC Leadership Awards Kimberly-Clark and World Wildlife Fund were recognized for an uncommon partnership that is engaging consumers about the importance of looking for the FSC label to support responsible forest management FORTUNE #155 on the World’s Most Admired The FORTUNE World’s Most Admired Companies study surveys top executives and Companies List directors from eligible companies, along with financial analysts, to identify the companies that enjoy the strongest reputations within their industries and across industries Human Rights Campaign (HRC) 2018 Corporate Equality Index Perfect The CEI Survey committee reviews all submissions and assigns a score to each Score applicant. Kimberly-Clark Corporation received a perfect score of 100% on the 2018 Corporate Equality Index for the 2nd consecutive year Imagen Magazine Eikon Silver Award Kimberly-Clark Argentina and their sustainability report was acknowledged with a silver award based on institutional communication, public affairs, political communication, public relations, publicity and marketing Korn Ferry 2018 Employee Engagement Awards Based on a global survey of 52 companies in 47 countries, Kimberly-Clark was recognized a top employer based on answers to two questions: I feel proud to work there and I would recommend it a good place to work MERCO K-C Argentina one of the best companies Kimberly-Clark Argentina ranked by MERCO as one of the top 100 companies to to work for work for and recognized for the 9th consecutive time back to 2010 in the Corporate Reputation ranking MERCO Ranked 24th for Talent Retention Kimberly-Clark Argentina ranked 24th and for the 5th consecutive year by MERCO as one of the best companies for talent attraction and retention. Ranked 2nd when broken out by industry sector MERCO Ranked 14th for Best Corporate Reputation, Kimberly-Clark Bolivia ranked 14th of companies with the best corporate reputation #1 in Industry Sector and #1 in the consumer goods sector in the latest MERCO ranking that evaluates brands with higher reputation STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Board of Directors Sustainability Advisory Board Compliance & Ethics Diversity & Inclusion Materiality Engagement Awards Organization Award Description MERCO Ranked 7th place for best corporate Kimberly-Clark Peru ranked 7th place in the ranking of best corporate reputation in reputation, #1 in Industry Sector Peru and first in its sector MERCO Ranked 6th for Talent Retention Kimberly-Clark Peru ranked 6th by MERCO as one of the best companies for talent attraction and retention MERCO Empresas Corporate Reputation Rankings For the 2nd consecutive year, Kimberly-Clark Costa Rica is among the top 10 Costa Rica companies with the best corporate reputation in the Merco Empresas Ranking and in 2nd place in the Personal Care category National Assocation of Female 2018 Top Companies for Executive Women Kimberly-Clark named as one of the best companies for executive women Executives (NAFE) OurMississippi Business Journal Statewide Corporate Diversity Award OurMississippi Magazine hosted its fourth annual OurMississippi Honors Gala, where Kimberly-Clark was honored along with 9 other companies receiving recognition for diversity in the workplace and the opportunity we give people Smart Energy Decisions Smart Energy Decisions Innovation Awards Kimberly-Clark received the Smart Energy Decisions Innovation Award in the Industrial 2018 Energy Data Management category for our LEAN Energy Management program that transforms a culture of energy conservation at our manufacturing sites Talent Board 1 of 65 Winners out of 200 Companies Kimberly-Clark Corporation was a winner in the 2018 North American Candidate Surveyed Experience Awards based on job candidates’ satisfaction survey scores UN Global Compact Network 2018 Apex Corporate Sustainability Awards The award is given by the UN Global Compact Network (Singapore) and are (Singapore) considered to be the most prestigious recognition for corporate sustainability in Singapore. K-C APAC won in the ‘Sustainable Business Awards’ category UNICEF UNICEF “Children First” Award 2018 Kimberly-Clark Corporation received the 2018 UNICEF Children First Award at the UNICEF Gala Dallas Wasser Luft Boden Magazine Green Point’ Environmental Certificate The ‘Green Point’ is awarded to companies that make an important contribution to climate and environmental protection through their sustainable production Working Mother Magazine K-C named to the 100 Best Companies In 2018, Kimberly-Clark was named to the 100 Best Companies list by Working Mother 2018 magazine STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Data The GRI Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard: Core option. The content index that follows cross-references the GRI disclosures and each of the 10 UNGC principles with information aligned with that disclosure or principle and serves as our Communication on Progress (COP.) STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Financials 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net Income ($B) 1 $1.8 $1.6 $1.8 $2.1 $1.52 $1.01 $2.17 $2.28 $1.41 Net sales ($B)1 $18.3 $19.3 $19.5 $19.6 $19.7 $18.6 $18.2 $18.3 $18.5 Net sales by division ($B)1 Personal Care1 $8.7 $9.1 $9.6 $9.5 $9.6 $9.2 $9.0 $9.1 $9.0 Consumer Tissue1 $6.5 $6.8 $6.5 $6.6 $6.6 $6.1 $6.0 $5.9 $6.0 K-C Professional1 $3.1 $3.3 $3.3 $3.3 $3.4 $3.2 $3.2 $3.2 $3.4 Net sales by region ($B) North America1 $10.7 $10.8 $9.4 $9.4 $9.4 $9.5 $9.5 $9.4 $9.5 Outside North America1 $9.2 $9.3 Europe1 $3.2 $3.4 $3.1 $2.8 $2.7 $2.3 $2.2 Asia, Latin America & Other1 $6.6 $7.5 $7.3 $7.6 $8.0 $7.2 $6.8 Intergeographic: $(0.7) $(0.8) $(0.4) $(0.3) $(0.4) $(0.4) $(0.3) $(0.3) $(0.3) (Asia, Latin America & Other1 2 Operating costs ($B)1 $15.7 $17.2 $17.1 $16.7 $16.8 $15.4 $14.9 $14.9 $16.3 Cash returned to shareholders ($B) $1.9 $2.3 $2.4 $2.4 $3.2 $2.1 $2.0 $2.3 $2.2 Income taxes paid ($B) $0.6 $0.5 $0.5 $0.8 $0.9 $0.7 $0.7 $1.0 $0.4 Total environmental expenditures ($M)3 $201 $226 $166 $168 $169 $173 $152 $126 $158 Capital3 $26 $32 $22 $30 $38 $61 $44 $21 $45 O&M3 $162 $171 $126 $114 $120 $96 $97 $89 $96 Government Payments and R&D3 $13.0 $23.0 $18.0 $24.0 $11.0 $16.0 $10.0 $16.0 $17.0 Assets ($B) $19.9 $19.4 $19.9 $18.9 $15.5 $14.8 $14.6 $15.2 $14.5 Donations and community $20.7 $32.1 $33.0 $35.0 $35.8 $29.0 $28.2 $26.0 $27.9 investments ($M) Percent of net income1 1.1% 2.0% 1.8% 1.7% 2.3% 2.9% 1.3% 1.1% 2.0% Footnotes: (1) recast from discontinued operations for 2014 exclude equity companies and Health Care facilities. (2)”Intergeographic” refers to inter-company sales. (4) In 2017, began reporting net sales as North America and Outside North (3) Total environmental expenditures were restated for 2014 to be America to align with 10-K financial reporting. consistent with prior years to not include equity company numbers. Totals STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Social Impact (Lives) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Total Access to Sanitation 321,041 733,007 479,808 1.5M Helping Children Thrive 1,765,817 1,393,530 220,517 3.4M Empowering Women & Girls 148,981 62,369 62,450 270,000 Total 2,235,839 2,188,906 762,775 5.2M Community & Employee 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Contributions ($ million) Community Partners grants to U.S. $0.8 $0.9 $0.8 $0.7 $0.7 $0.7 $0.4 $0.7 $0.3 employee-chosen charities Value of matching gift contributions $1.3 $1.3 $1.5 $1.5 $1.7 $1.5 $1.4 $1.5 $1.2 made by U.S. employees Value of product donations $8.3 $19.2 $14.0 $16.3 $13.8 $8.2 $8.4 $8.5 $11.95 Global cash donations $12.4 $12.9 $19.0 $18.7 $22.0 $20.7 $19.8 $17.5 $15.9 Total global (product & cash) $20.7 $32.1 $33.0 $35.0 $35.8 $29.0 $28.2 $26.0 $27.9 donations Employee giving $4.2 $3.9 $4.2 $4.4 $4.9 $4.6 $3.8 $4.5 $4.0 U.S. employee volunteer hours 78,000 84,000 787,430 80,571 80,074 75,356 41,993 86,012 83,819 SOCIAL IMPACT Read more about our Social Impact program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Fiber Use (million MT)1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Virgin Fiber 2.56 2.48 2.36 2.4 2.38 2.42 2.39 2.4 2.4 % of total 72.5% 70.3% 71.3% 71.4% 72.3% 73.5% 76.6% 76.5% 74.8% Recycled Fiber 0.97 1.05 0.95 0.96 0.91 0.87 0.73 0.73 0.81 % of total 27.5% 29.7% 28.7% 28.6% 27.7% 26.5% 23.4% 23.5% 25.2% Total 3.53 3.53 3.31 3.36 3.29 3.29 3.12 3.13 3.21 Footnotes: (1) As part of our 2011 global GF&TN agreement with WWF, we will report our total use of environmentally preferred fiber for all fiber-containing products. Virgin pulp will include all Kimberly-Clark manufactured pulp, purchased market pulp and third-party contract-manufactured fiber-containing products. Kimberly-Clark began collecting fiber data from third-party contract manufacturers in 2009. Fiber Sourcing by Certification 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Type (%) Virgin fiber from environmentally 98% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% responsible sources1 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 39% 47% 53% 61% 62% 64% 67% 71% 70% Sustainable Forest Initiative (SFI) 31% 30% 32% 24% 24% 23% 22% 21% 24% Program for the Endorsement of 8% 6% 5% 4% 4% 3% 2% 2% 3% Forest Certification (PEFC) CERFLOR (Brazil) 8% 6% 5% 4% 4% 3% 2% 2% 3% Canadian Standards Association 7% 5% 5% 6% 7% 7% 5% 4% 0% (CSA) Forest Stewardship Council 5% 8% 2% 6% 4% 3% 4% 2% 3% Controlled Wood (FSC-CW) Not Certified 2% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Footnotes: (1) Approximately 150 tons of fiber were not certified in 2012, due to rounding, this is not reflected. Read more about our Forests & Fiber program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Environmentally-Preferred Tissue 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fiber (%; Global)1 Environmentally-Preferred Fiber 65% 74% 78% 83% 84% 86% 89% 89% 87% Virgin Fiber FSC Mix 33% 39% 44% 50% 52% 55% 61% 61% 57% FSC Plantation 2 29% 33% 38% 42% 43% 44% 49% 50% 48% FSC Controlled Wood 31% 26% 22% 17% 15% 14% 11% 8% 14% Recycled Fiber Recycled content 32% 35% 34% 33% 32% 31% 28% 28% 30% Post-consumer recycled content3 13% 14% 14% 14% 14% 13% 13% 13% 13% Footnotes: (1) Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates (2) FSC Plantation is a subset of FSC Mix (3) Post-consumer recycled content is a subset of Recycled content; Post-consumer recycled content reported for North America and Europe only Environmentally-Preferred Tissue 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fiber (%; North America)1 Environmentally-Preferred Fiber 57% 63% 74% 79% 81% 84% 87% 86% 82% Virgin Fiber FSC Mix 32% 37% 44% 51% 53% 56% 59% 60% 54% FSC Plantation 2 26% 30% 34% 38% 39% 40% 40% 41% 38% FSC Controlled Wood 43% 36% 27% 21% 20% 16% 14% 14% 18% Recycled Fiber Recycled content 25% 26% 30% 28% 28% 28% 28% 26% 28% Post-consumer recycled content3 20% 23% 26% 23% 23% 26% 26% 24% 26% Footnotes: (1) Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates (2) FSC Plantation is a subset of FSC Mix (3) Post-consumer recycled content is a subset of Recycled content Read more about our Forests & Fiber program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Chlorine Free Wood Pulp 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Purchases Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) 95% 95% 98% 98% 97% 97% 98% 98% 98% Total Chlorine Free (TCF) 5% 5% 2% 2% 3% 3% 2% 2% 2% Natural Forest fiber use (MT) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Virgin fiber from Natural Forest sources 756,531 572,456 574,843 575,606 565,105 559,437 534,644 526,483 (Northern Softwood) % Reduction of Natural Forest Fiber N/A1 24% 24% 24% 25% 26% 29% 30% Footnotes: 1) 2011 is the Base Year for 25% Reduction Target by 2025. Paper Packaging Total volume in metric tons ~520,000 % Recycled Fiber 61% % Virgin Fiber 31% % of virgin fiber that was third-party certified 98% % of total fiber that was recycled or third-party-certified virgin fiber 99% Footnotes: Total Volume from reporting suppliers that represent approximately 85% of our global paper packaging spend.” FORESTS & FIBER Read more about our Forests & Fiber program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Nonhazardous manufacturing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 waste (% of total nonhazardous waste)1 Landfilled 19.1% 24.5% 22.0% 19.2% 16.2% 7.6`% 5.6% 4.7% 4.9% Recycled 18.5% 17.6% 20.2% 19.6% 18.3% 20.3% 20.6% 21.7% 22.9% Alternative Daily Cover, Mine 24.1% 22.5% 25.9% 29.2% 34.1% 40.0% 52.0% 51.5% 54.2% Reclamation and Liquid Solidification Converted to energy 20.3% 20.4% 12.4% 12.2% 12.2% 12.7% 14.4% 14.1% 11.1% Reused 12.1% 13.3% 17.8% 18.1% 17.2% 16.7% 5.0% 5.5% 4.3% Composted 5.0% 1.1% 0.9% 0.9% 1.2% 2.0% 1.6% 1.8% 2.2% Incineration without heat recovery 0.8% 0.5% 0.9% 0.8% 0.7% 0.7% 0.8% 0.5% 0.4% Other3 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.2% 0.1% 0.0% Total nonhazardous waste (million MT) 1.37 1.29 1.33 1.28 1.25 1.15 1.23 1.21 1.14 Footnotes: (1) At Kimberly-Clark, all waste data is collected by mass except a portion of liquid waste which is collected by volume in liters with a conversion factor of 1 liter = 1 kilogram. (2) In 2016, our manufacturing waste program was expanded referencing the UL Environment Zero Waste to Landfill standard to include all wastes and recyclable materials generated at both manufacturing and non-manufacturing facilities and the disposition of those materials. Our non-hazardous manufacturing waste data was updated per our annual review process. (3) Other includes miscellaneous, alternative disposal methods and was separated from Reuse in 2016. Read more about our Waste & Recycling program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Hazardous manufacturing waste 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (% of total hazardous waste)12 Biological treatment 0.8% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.3`% 0.7% 0.9% 0.9% Recycled 50.2% 46.2% 13.8% 12.9% 12.3% 22.6% 19.9% 11.6% 12.4% Incineration without heat recovery 25.6% 26.2% 14.3% 28.1% 38.0% 36.3% 29.4% 21.6% 35.6% Chemical treatment 15.8% 15.2% 44.1% 36.5% 36.7% 26.6% 25.3% 4.6% 2.5% Surface impoundment 0.0% 7.8% 10.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Thermal treatment 5.0% 1.4% 3.7% 7.9% 2.0% 0.6% 0.1% 2.6% 2.6% Permanent storage 0.0% 0.0% 1.7% 0.7% 0.4% 0.5% 0.3% 0.0% 0.1% Landfilled 1.8% 0.6% 2.9% 3.2% 4.4% 6.8% 10.7% 7.8% 13.8% Blended fuel 0.8% 2.5% 9.2% 10.7% 6.1% 6.3% 10.8% 2.2% 32.1% Deep well injection 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Mandated Waste N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 2.3% 48.6%3 0.0% Total hazardous waste (kg) 226,701 233,019 538,047 771,590 869,266 1,326,463 1,019,980 1,726,829 918,666 Footnotes: (1) At Kimberly-Clark, all waste data is collected by mass except a portion of liquid waste which is collected by volume in liters with a conversion factor of 1 liter = 1 kilogram. (2) In 2016, our manufacturing waste program was expanded referencing the UL Environment Zero Waste to Landfill standard to include all wastes and recyclable materials generated at both manufacturing and non-manufacturing facilities and the disposition of those materials. Our hazardous manufacturing waste data was updated per our annual review process. (3) The 2017 increase in mandated waste was driven due to the government required disposal of asbestos at one of our facilities. Manufacturing Waste Efficiency 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Waste per metric ton of production 0.27 0.27 0.28 0.27 0.25 0.23 0.24 0.24 0.23 (MT/MT of production) Read more about our Waste & Recycling program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Materials Consumption and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Production Total production volume (million MT of 5.04 4.80 4.71 4.76 4.96 5.06 5.07 5.08 5.07 production) Materials used (million MT) Virgin fiber 2.56 2.48 2.36 2.40 2.40 2.42 2.39 2.40 2.40 Recycled fiber 0.97 1.05 0.95 0.96 0.91 0.87 0.73 0.73 0.81 Polymers 0.74 0.72 0.72 0.69 0.66 0.63 0.63 0.56 0.57 Packaging 0.52 0.50 0.52 0.52 0.53 0.53 0.55 0.55 0.54 Adhesives 0.08 0.07 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.76 0.07 Polymer-based components 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 Post-Consumer Waste 2016 2017 2018 Waste Diversion Post-Consumer 3,405 10,587 14,768 Waste Solutions Waste Avoidance Design to Reduce 1,850 4,955 6,657 (million MT) Total Total Finished Product and Packaging 5,254 15,542 21,425 Waste Diverted from Landfill1 Footnote: (1) Tonnages reported are built from cumulative waste diverted from landfill towards the 150,000 MT target. WASTE & RECYCLING Read more about our Waste & Recycling program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Energy Use (trillion Btu) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Non-renewable energy 60.8 59.8 54.4 53.1 53.1 53.8 51.90 51.74 50.17 % of total 85.0% 86.0% 94.0% 93.0% 92.8% 93.6% 92.2% 92.4% 90.0% Renewable energy 10.5 9.6 3.6 4.0 4.1 3.7 4.38 4.24 5.87 % of total 14.7% 13.8% 6.2% 7.0% 7.2% 6.4% 7.8% 7.6% 10.0% Total Energy Use 71.3 69.3 58.0 57.1 57.2 57.5 56.3 56.0 56.0 Energy Efficiency (million Btu/MT of 14.2 14.7 12.3 12.0 11.5 11.4 11.2 11.0 11.1 production) Direct Energy Use (trillion Btu) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Natural gas 29.1 29.6 30.0 29.9 29.7 30.9 31.0 31.5 33.5 % of total 54.0% 56.8% 73.1% 74.3% 73.2% 75.4% 78.9% 81.1% 86.4% Purchased biomass, purchased liquor 15.5 14.1 3.6 4.0 4.1 3.7 3.9 3.7 2.7 % of total 28.9% 27.0% 8.7% 10.0% 10.9% 9.0% 10.0% 9.5% 7.1% Coal 7.8 7.3 6.5 5.6 5.5 5.2 4.3 3.6 2.5 % of total 14.4% 13.9% 15.8% 13.9% 13.4% 12.7% 11.0% 9.3% 6.4% Fuel oil 1.3 1.0 0.9 0.7 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 % of total 2.4% 2.0% 2.1% 1.7% 1.2% 0.7% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% Other 0.2 0.2 % of total 0.0 0.0 Total Direct Energy use 53.6 52.0 40.9 40.1 40.0 41.0 39.3 38.9 38.8 Indirect Energy Use (trillion Btu) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Electricity 17.52 17.21 16.94 16.96 16.59 16.50 15.71 15.73 15.9 % of total 99.0% 99.2% 99.2% 99.4% 95.1% 94.7% 93.5% 93.3% 93.5% Steam 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.9 1.1 1.1 1.1 % of total 1.0% 0.8% 0.8% 0.6% 4.9% 5.3% 6.5% 6.7% 6.5% Total Indirect Energy use 17.7 17.4 17.1 17.1 17.4 17.4 16.8 16.9 17.0 Read more about our Energy & Climate program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (million MT CO2e)1 (base year) Direct (Scope 1) 2.6 2.5 2.5 2.4 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.14 2.09 2.08 Indirect (Scope 2) 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.43 2.44 2.39 Total emissions 5.5 5.3 5.2 5.1 5.0 4.9 4.9 4.57 4.53 4.47 Change from previous year (%) N/A N/A -1.6% -2.4% -2.3% -1.1% -0.1% -7.1% -0.9% -1.4% CO2e per metric ton of production 1.05 1.11 1.08 1.04 0.99 0.97 0.91 0.89 0.88 (CO2 intensity) Specific emissions Carbon dioxide (CO2) 5.240 5.157 5.048 4.934 4.899 4.879 4.544 4.505 4.444 Methane (CH4) 0.011 0.010 0.006 0.006 0.006 0.006 0.006 0.005 0.005 Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 0.033 0.031 0.020 0.020 0.021 0.020 0.020 0.019 0.017 Market-based Emissions2 Direct (Scope 1) 2.6 2.09 2.08 Indirect (Scope 2) 3.0 2.48 1.99 Total emissions 5.6 4.57 4.07 Specific emissions Carbon dioxide (CO2) 5.526 4.544 4.048 Methane (CH4) 0.008 0.005 0.004 Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 0.031 0.018 0.014 Footnotes: (1) The U.S. emission factors were based on the U.S. eGRID 2016, February 2018; and the international emission factors used the Year 2016 Factors, 2018 edition www.iea.org. Reported CO2e emissions are based on location-based emission factors where available. Market based: Net Residual: 2017 Source: Version 1.13, 11th July 2018, Year 2017 Factors, https://www.aib-net.org/documents/103816/176792/AIB_2017_Residual_Mix_Results_v11.pdf/8eb82c2b0fe9-5786-6b21-03e8b6830a94 For further details on location or market-based data, please see our latest CDP Climate Change Investor Response. (2) In 2017, Kimberly-Clark began reporting CO2e emissions in market-based emission factors in preparation for the 2018 renewable wind electricity PPA in North America. Read more about our Energy & Climate program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Other Criteria Pollutants (MT)1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 NOx 3,948 3,833 2,915 2,869 2,895 2,562 2,545 2,453 2,536 SO2 4,193 3,013 2,452 1,787 1,776 1,860 1,689 1,638 1,692 Footnotes: 1) 2010 through 2015 pollutant values were revised to reflect more accurate data from continuous emission monitors compared to previous report responses which were based on only emission factors. Intermodal transportation (North 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 America)1 Total intermodal loads 78,502 87,934 91,353 92,536 95,987 87,517 85,630 79,694 78,479 Annual change 22% 12% 4% 1% 4% -5% -2% -9% -2% Miles traveled (millions) 109.4 117.8 119.6 120.0 122.0 112.9 111.8 103.8 102.5 Intermodal cost savings ($M) vs. over44.2 55.8 60.3 59.2 62.1 56.5 53.9 44.6 58.2 the-road truck costs Estimated fuel use (million gallons of diesel) Intermodal 9.1 9.8 10.0 10.0 10.2 9.4 9.3 8.7 7.9 Comparable truck-only fuel use 18.2 19.6 19.9 20.0 20.3 18.8 18.6 17.3 15.8 Estimated gallons saved 9.1 9.8 10.0 10.0 10.2 9.4 9.3 8.7 7.9 Estimated GHG emissions (million pounds Scope 3)2 Intermodal 204.7 220.4 223.8 224.4 228.3 211.2 209.2 194.2 117.0 Comparable truck-only fuel use 409.4 440.9 447.7 448.8 456.6 422.3 418.3 388.5 353.9 Savings 204.7 220.4 223.8 224.4 228.3 211.2 209.2 194.2 117.0 Footnotes: (1) all figures are estimates (2) Pounds of GHG emissions based on estimate of 22.45 pounds per gallon of diesel fuel Read more about our Energy & Climate program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Scope 3 Calculation Results 2017 2018 Category CO2-eq % CO2-eq % (M t/yr) (M t/yr) Purchased Goods & Services Category 1 7,040 54% 7,211 59.6% Capital Goods Category 2 564 4% 566 4.7% Fuel & Energy Related Activities Category 3 1,237 10% 1,368 11.3% Upstream transport and distribution Category 4 1,141 9% 292 2.4% Waste generated in operations Category 5 283 2% 299 2.5% Business travel Category 6 63 0% 49 0.4% Employee commuting Category 7 20 0% 19 0.2% Additional Categories (8, 9, 10, 11, 13 and 14) do not contribute to the results _ 0% _ 0% End of Life of sold products Category 12 2,187 17% 1,953 16.1% Investments Category 15 400 3% 346 2.9% Footnote: (1) These categories are built referencing the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and supplement to the Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard. Categories left blank are considered non-material to Kimberly-Clark’s business. ENERGY & CLIMATE Read more about our Energy & Climate program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Process fresh water use 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (million cubic meters) Surface 72.6 72.1 46.7 44.5 43.5 44.8 41.4 38.6 38.5 % of total 57% 59% 45% 48% 46% 49% 45% 43% 42% Municipal 36.3 33.0 39.7 31.8 28.3 27.3 30.9 31.2 33.4 % of total 29% 26% 38% 34% 30% 30% 34% 35% 37% Groundwater 17.7 18.0 18.2 17.0 21.9 20.0 19.3 19.6 19.5 % of total 14% 14% 17% 18% 23% 22% 21% 22% 21% Total Water use 126.5 125.2 104.6 93.3 93.6 92.1 91.6 89.4 91.4 Change from previous year N/A -1% -16% -11% 0% -2% -0.4% -2.4% 2.3% Water Use Efficiency 44.2 46.2 41.1 35.9 35.3 35.0 35.2 34.9 35.9 (m3 / MT of production) Process effluent discharge 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 destinations (%) Surface 87% 87% 88% 83% 88% 89% 88% 88% 87% Municipal 13% 13% 12% 17% 12% 11% 12% 12% 13% Influent (Total) [m3] 2015 2016 2017 2018 Kluang 1,027,535 709,462 568,414 494,875 Mogi Das Cruzes 456,065 423,984 480,477 568,497 Cuaca 1,200,706 1,096,686 1,306,406 1,250,563 Sitio Del Nino 1,843,013 1,156,001 903,995 717,132 Bernal 532,590 409,253 368,316 341,751 Puente Piedra 718,079 653,345 773,613 733,612 Askar 253,446 278,828 332,541 296,795 Enstra 849,332 854,396 737,838 666,222 Hadera 265,549 183,200 171,770 172,292 Nahariya 359,480 361,470 301,356 285,620 Fullerton 1,894,065 1,607,248 1,508,108 1,296,882 2015 Baseline Water use for Water Stressed Site 10,249,290 Barbosa Site 849,431 797,632 874,635 904,363 % water Reduction from 2015 Baseline 24.59 10,249,290 8,531,505 8,327,470 7,728,604 2018 Water Use for Water Stressed Site 7,728,604 Read more about our Supply Chain program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Audit Results 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of in-scope suppliers 397 272 302 391 509 Facilities Audited Kimberly-Clark Branded Audits1 62 65 63 94 80 Customer Branded Audits2 60 67 85 83 106 Total Facilities with Major Non-Conformance Findings Requiring Remediation Kimberly-Clark Branded Audited Facilities1 41 42 45 56 43 10.3 percent of in15.4 percent of in14.9 percent of in14.3 percent of in8.4 percent of inscope suppliers scope suppliers scope suppliers scope suppliers scope suppliers Total Facilities with Major or Minor Non-Conformance Findings Kimberly-Clark Branded Audited Facilities1 39 61 62 84 70 9.8 percent of in22.4 percent of in20.5 percent of in21.5 percent of in13.7 percent of inscope suppliers scope suppliers scope suppliers scope suppliers scope suppliers Non-Conformance Findings by Category (KimberlyClark Branded Audits Only): Health and Safety 40 facilities 38 facilities 48 facilities 56 facilities 43 facilities (73 major findings) (92 major findings) (126 major findings) (202 major findings) (99 major findings) Child Labor 0 facilities 0 facilities 0 facilities 0 facilities 0 facilities (0 major finding) (0 major finding) (0 major finding) (0 major finding) (0 major finding) Potential Forced Labor Indicators3 6 facilities 3 facilities 3 facilities 7 facilities 2 facilities (7 major findings) (3 major findings) (3 major findings) (7 major findings) (2 major findings) Freedom of Association 0 facilities 0 facilities 0 facilities 0 facilities 0 facilities (0 major finding) (0 major finding) (0 major finding) (0 major finding) (0major finding) Discrimination 1 facility 0 facility 1 facility 1 facility 2 facilities (1 major finding) (0 major finding) (1 major finding) (1 major finding) (2 major findings) Footnote: (1) Kimberly-Clark branded audits refer to audits measured against Kimberly-Clark compliance standards. (2) Customer branded audits refer to audits measured against customer-specific compliance standards. (3) Forced Labor inidicators are conditions that indicate the potential for Forced Labor in an operation such as: worker movement restrictions, recruitment fees, witholding of worker documents, or similar findings. Read more about our Supply Chain program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Kimberly-Clark Employee Safety 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 5 16 Permanently disabling injuries 14 8 9 2 2 5 4 2 11 Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.44 0.40 0.31 0.27 0.23 0.21 0.23 0.19 0.177 North America 0.59 0.44 0.33 0.30 0.24 0.22 0.22 0.32 0.20 Latin America 0.40 0.40 0.39 0.41 0.21 0.19 0.24 0.19 0.13 Europe (EMEA for 2015)3 0.71 0.71 0.39 0.80 0.37 0.34 0.33 0.34 0.50 Middle East and Africa3 1.01 0.53 0.76 0.33 0.48 N/A N/A N/A N/A Asia/Pacific 0.32 0.23 0.14 0.20 0.17 0.17 0.15 0.13 0.14 Lost-time Reportable Incident Rate 0.30 0.27 0.19 0.17 0.15 0.17 0.15 0.14 0.13 (LTRIR) North America 0.39 0.22 0.20 0.15 0.14 0.15 0.12 0.20 0.08 Latin America 0.31 0.36 0.21 0.25 0.16 0.18 0.17 0.16 0.12 Europe (EMEA for 2015)3 0.45 0.59 0.29 0.40 0.25 0.24 0.24 0.28 0.37 Middle East and Africa 3 0.87 0.37 0.52 0.14 0.29 N/A N/A N/A N/A Asia/Pacific 0.21 0.14 0.08 0.13 0.11 0.12 0.90 0.90 0.90 Sentinel Events Reporting Rate (SERR) 1.70 1.53 1.54 1.66 2.00 4.44 4.62 4.28 4.04 Safety compliance penalties $110,955 $4,800 $23,000 $1,000 $25,000 $4,500 $20,040 $18,000 $160,529 Footnotes: (1) In 2013, a motor vehicle fatality occurred in the trucking operations of Kimberly-Clark de Mixico, an unconsolitdated affiliate. (2) In 2016, there were zero fatalities involving Kimberly-Clark employees, however there were three fatalities involving contractors at a subsidiary of the partly-owned KimberlyClark de Mexico. One incident where an outside roofer suffered a fatal fall, another involving a contract security guard, and one where a third-party trucker was involved in a vehicle accident. (3) In 2015, the data for Europe was combined for reporting purposes as Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). (4) In 2016, Kimberly-Clark Professional (KCP) reporting was combined into regional data. Therefore data was revised for 2014 and 2015 as was previously reported out separately. (5) 1 fatality involving a K-C de Mexico employee. Note there was 1 additional fatality involving a contractor, non K-C employee, in Asia Pacific. (6) In 2018 there was 1 K-C employee fatality at the Paris, TX facility when an employee was crushed by a moving vehicle at the loading dock. There was also a fatality of a K-C de Mexico employee, a partly owned subsidiary, in Bajio, Mexico; and a construction contractor fatality at the K-C de Mexicosite in Morelia, Mexico. TRIR: Work-related events that result in fatalities, temporary or permanently disabling injuries, or illnesses, per 200,000 hours worked per annum. LTRIR: Reportable injuries/illnesses that result in time away from work or restricted work, per 200,000 hours worked per annum. SERR: Number of Sentinel Events reported per 200,000 hours worked per annum. SUPPLY CHAIN Read more about our Supply Chain program STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Board of Directors Diversity 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Independent members 92.3% 92.3% 91.7% 91.7% 91.7% 90.9% 91.7% 84.60% 85.71% Women 23.1% 23.1% 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% 18.2% 25.0% 23.1% 28.57% Minority group membership 23.1% 30.81% 3.33% 3.33% 3.33% 27.3% 3.33%% 46.2% 50% Total Board members1 13 13 12 12 12 11 12 13 14 Board of Directors of age 50+ 13 13 12 12 12 11 11 12 12 Turnover (Global) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total 6.40% 10.10% 9.90% 10.10% 11.00% 16.50% 16.10% 12.9% 22.79% Voluntary 4.30% 5.20% 5.80% 7.40% 8.00% 10.30% 9.70% 9.6% 16.40% Involuntary 2.10% 4.90% 4.20% 2.80% 3.00% 6.20% 6.40% 3.20% 6.40% Full-time Employee Diversity1 29.9% 30.1% 31.0% 35.6% 31.8% 32.2% 31.8% 30.5% 30.0% Women 27.3% 28.6% 29.3% 30.3% 31.1% 32.0% 33.0% 33.8% 33.4% Women in management 13,973 13,789 13,825 13,631 8,139 8,005 8,142 8,372 8,039 Ethnic minorities (US) 17.8% 17.9% 18.8% 18.7% 17.7% 18.9% 18.5% 19.2% 20.7% Ethnic minorities in management (US) 10.9% 11.3% 11.7% 13.7% 12.2% 12.7% 13.2% 13.9% 16.0% Footnotes: (1) Through 2013, “Management” was defined as U.S. employees in EEP category 01 (executive/senior-level officials and managers, and first/middle-level officials and managers). In 2014, we revised our corporate definition for women and ethnic minorities in management to include employees identified as “Manager” in Kimberly-Clark’s Workday system (previously, the term was defined as executive/senior level officials and managers as well as first/middle level officials and managers). This change enables us to report on gender representation in management globally and aligns with our internal reporting structures. Read more about our Governance STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table Full-time Employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 North America 1 21,176 21,411 22,241 21,766 14,874 15,374 14,615 14,222 13,652 % of total1 37% 38% 38% 38% 35% 36% 35% 34% 34% Latin America1 13,496 13,829 14,235 14,479 12,824 13,046 12,209 12,307 11,791 % of total1 24% 24% 24% 26% 30% 30% 29% 29% 29% Europe, Middle East and Africa 8626 8222 8039 6872 6780 6708 6884 7132 7168 % of total 15% 14% 24% 12% 16% 16% 16% 17% 18% Asia/Pacific 13,973 13,789 13,825 13,631 8,139 8,005 8,142 8,372 8,039 % of total 24% 24% 24% 24% 19% 18% 19% 20% 20% Total full-time employees 57,271 57,251 58,340 56,748 42,617 43,133 41,850 42,033 40,650 Footnotes: (1) Restated data history to report Mexico as part of North America (instead of Latin America) for a geographical view. Full-time Employee Diversity1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Women 29.9% 30.1% 31.0% 35.6% 31.8% 32.2% 31.8% 30.5% 30.0% Women in management 27.3% 28.6% 29.3% 30.3% 31.1% 32.0% 33.0% 33.8% 33.4% Ethnic minorities (US) 17.8% 17.9% 18.8% 18.7% 17.7% 18.9% 27.3% 18.5% 19.2% Ethnic minorities in management (US) 10.9% 11.3% 11.7% 13.7% 12.2% 12.7% 13.2% 13.9% 16.0% Footnotes: (1) Through 2013, “Management” was defined as U.S. employees in EEP category 01 (executive/senior-level officials and managers, and first/middle-level officials and managers). In 2014, we revised our corporate definition for women and ethnic minorities in management to include employees identified as “Manager” in Kimberly-Clark’s Workday system (previously, the term was defined as executive/senior level officials and managers as well as first/middle level officials and managers). This change enables us to report on gender representation in management globally and aligns with our internal reporting structures. Union Membership 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Percentage of North American 27% 25% 25% 25% 26% 21% 21% 21% 22%1 Employees with union membership Footnotes: (1) The percentage of unionized workers is approximately 22% of our workforce in many countries. However, in many countries, union membership is considered a private matter and may not be tracked for those countries. Furthermore, in some countries, employees are subject to union agreements who are not union members specifically. Read more about our Governance STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 102-1 Organization name Kimberly-Clark Corporation GRI 102-2 Primary brands, products and 10-K https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports services. Zero for Kimberly-Clark. We have not knowingly sold banned or disputed products. Sale of banned or disputed products GRI 102-3 Headquarters location P.O. Box 619100, Dallas, Texas, USA GRI 102-4 Where the organization Our Global headquarters is in Dallas, TX, USA operates We also have manufacturing facilities in 37 countries -Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, United Kingdom, United States of America, and Vietnam. GRI 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal Publically traded Delaware U.S. corporation form 10-K: http://investor.kimberly-clark.com/secfiling.cfm?filingID=55785-18-14 GRI 102-6 Markets served 10-K https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 10-K https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports 41,898 total employees at year-end 2018 GRI 102-8 Total number of employees by REPORT SECTION Diversity and Inclusion type 41,898 total employees; 40,650 are Full-time, 192 are part time; 1,056 temporary. Globally, 31% of all employees are women, and 43% of all full-time salaried employees are women. 34% of management globally is comprised of women. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 102-9 Supply chain description Kimberly-Clark maintains an extensive global supply chain consisting of over 30,000 suppliers of production materials, packaging, finished products, manufacturing operating supplies, capital equipment and other equipment and services to supply a network of global manufacturing locations. GRI 102-10 Organizational changes during 10-K the reporting period https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle Our vision to provide the essentials for a better life includes our commitment to protect Principle 7 the environment. This vision inspires our search for more sustainable ways of meeting our customers’ needs. We consider the precautionary principles in the processes, systems and capabilities utilized within our Product Safety, Sustainability, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and Research and Engineering functions. We seek ways to reduce environmental impact from our operations and design products that are environmentally innovative. GRI 102-12 External charters, principles or REPORT SECTION External Principles, Memberships and Awards Principles 1 other initiative &8 GRI 102-13 Membership associations REPORT SECTION External Principles, Memberships and Awards GRI 102-14 CEO Letter REPORT SECTION Welcome to our 2018 Sustainability Report; A Message from CEO Mike Statement Hsu. (Note: Mike Hsu became CEO on January 1, 2019) of continuing support GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and REPORT SECTION Welcome to our 2018 Sustainability Report; including leadership videos; Principle 8 opportunities Materiality Assessment GRI 102-16 Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Principles 1 https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct &8 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Code of Conduct concerns about ethics https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct Mechanisms for asking questions and raising concerns regarding unethical or unlawful behavior are communicated in our Code of Conduct. Questions and concerns may be raised via a variety of channels including our Compliance HelpLine which allows for anonymous reporting where permissible by law. Kimberly-Clark policy prohibits retaliation for raising concerns or asking questions in good faith. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 102-18 Governance structure of the 10-K Principle 8 organization https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports REPORT SECTION Governance GRI 102-20 Executive level accountability KimberlyClark’s Chief Supply Chain Officer, Sandra MacQuillan, is a member of Kimberlyto Economic, Environmental & Clark’s Executive Leadership Team. She has accountability for sustainability inclusive of both Social topics environmental and social topics and reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). GRI 102-21 Stakeholder consultation Kimberly-Clark’s independent Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) was formed in 2007 to w/ governance body on provide guidance and insights on sustainability issues to our Global Sustainability Team Economic, Environmental & and our Executive Leadership Team. The SAB is comprised of top business and functional Social topics executives who have audience in governance with the CEO/Chairman of the Board. The SAB is composed of external thought leaders who possess a diversity of experience and expertise and are selected based on core competencies that align with our sustainability strategy. Its members offer independent views of our sustainability programs, as well as insights into potential risks and opportunities for our business. GRI 102-22 Composition of the board and 10-K its committees https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports Proxy Statement https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement REPORT SECTION Governance GRI 102-23 Whether the chair of the board Michael D. Hsu is the Chief Executive Officer of Kimberly-Clark and Thomas J. Falk is is also an executive officer Chairman of the Board of Kimberly-Clark. (Note: Michael D. Hsu succeeded Thomas J. Falk as CEO on January 1, 2019) https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/company/leadership GRI 102-24 Nomination and selection Proxy Statement processes for the board and its https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement committees GRI 102-25 Board conflicts of interest Proxy Statement Principle 10 https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement Code of Conduct https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 102-26 Role of Board in setting Kimberly-Clark’s Vice President of Safety and Sustainability, Lisa Morden, reports once a sustainability mission year to the Nomination and Governance committee of the Board of Directors to report progress and answer questions relating therein; Also through strategy development with Sr. leadership (Executive Leadership Team approvals, board briefings, etc.). Proxy Statement https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement GRI 102-28 Board performance with 10-K Principle 8 respect to governance of https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports sustainability topics Proxy Statement https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement GRI 102-29 Board role in the identification 10-K Principles 7 and management of https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports &8 sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities Proxy Statement https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement GRI 102-30 Board role in reviewing risk Proxy Statement management for sustainability https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement GRI 102-31 Frequency of the board’s 10-K Principles 7 review of sustainability impacts, https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports &8 risks and opportunities Proxy Statement https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement GRI 102-33 Process for communicating Code of Conduct critical concerns to the board https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct GRI 102-35 Pay policies for board & Proxy Statement executives https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement GRI 102-36 Process for determining Proxy Statement remuneration https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement GRI 102-37 Process for seeking stakeholder Proxy Statement input on remuneration https://kimberlyclark.gcs-web.com/financial/proxy-statement STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining Approximately 22% of our Mill workforces are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Principle 3 agreements GRI 102-42 How stakeholders were REPORT SECTION Materiality Assessment, Report Development and Stakeholder identified Engagement We convened regional business and functional leaders, Sustainability Advisory Board members and subject matter experts around the world along with one-on-one interviews with our strategy leaders from each key business region to assess and prioritize sustainability topics most relevant to our business. Throughout the process, we used the definition of “material” from our global risk management team which takes into account the probability of occurrence and impact to our business. GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder REPORT SECTION Materiality Assessment, Report Development and Stakeholder Principle 8 engagement Engagement Kimberly-Clark is involved with ongoing stakeholder engagement which takes many forms – from one-way information channels to consumer and customer research, and from dialogue with environmental organizations to partnerships with humanitarian organizations. Stakeholders viewed as strategic partners are those who have a significant interest and/ or impact on areas that are most material to our company. Examples of engagement include, but are not limited to – annual meetings, one-on-one interviews, engagement surveys, education or marketing campaigns, earning calls or shareholder resolutions, risk assessments and audits, volunteering programs and media relations. GRI 102-44 Topics raised during REPORT SECTION Materiality Assessment, Report Development and Stakeholder stakeholder engagements Engagement Topics include, but are not limited to, within our ongoing stakeholder engagement – our business practices, the environment, operating context, people and community, products and packaging, quality, safety and health, human rights, cost reductions, pricing, organic growth and operating margins, sourcing, climate change, waste and recycling, and supply chain management. See the Materiality Assessment section for topics discussed during the latest analysis with our stakeholders. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 102-45 Entities included in financial 10-K statements https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports GRI 102-46 Process for defining report REPORT SECTIONS Welcome to Our 2018 Sustainability Report; Materiality Assessment, Principle 8 boundaries and content Report Development and Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-47 Material aspects included in REPORT SECTION Materiality Assessment, Report Development and Stakeholder the report Engagment For additional information on our Materiality Assessment see pages 9-10 of our 2015 Sustainability Report https://www.sustainability2022.com/en/download-center GRI 102-48 Restatements After further review, Environmental Fines in 2017 were $6,000. GRI 102-49 Changes from previous reports In early 2018, Kimberly-Clark announced a Global Restructuring Program which is expected in terms of scope and/or to reduce Kimberly-Clark’s structural cost base and enhance the company’s flexibility to boundaries invest in its brands, growth initiatives and capabilities critical to delivering future growth. The company expects to close or sell approximately 10 manufacturing facilities and expand production capacity at several others to improve overall scale and cost. As part of the program, Kimberly-Clark expects to exit or divest some low-margin businesses in consumer tissue that generate approximately 1 percent of company net sales. The announcement does not alter the company’s Sustainability 2022 strategy and goals. More information on the Global Restructuring Program can be found in our press release http://investor.kimberly-clark.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=1054978 GRI 102-50 Reporting period January – December, 2018 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 6/27/2018 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 102-53 Report contact sustainability@kcc.com GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards “Core” level. Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index GRI 102-56 External assurance REPORT SECTION Independent Assurance Statement Principle 8 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material REPORT SECTIONS: Welcome to Our 2018 Sustainability Report; Materiality Assessment, topic and its Boundary Report Development, and Stakeholder Engagement STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 103-2 The management approach REPORT SECTIONS Welcome to Our 2018 Sustainability Report; Materiality Assessment, and its components Report Development and Stakeholder Engagement Kimberly-Clark commits to respect all human rights by having a policy commitment to do so, engaging in ongoing human rights due diligence and having processes embedded in our business to remediate human rights impacts. A foundational component of our remediation process are the myriad of formal and informal grievance mechanisms in our business. Our formal grievance mechanisms include those provided via our Code of Conduct: 1. Formal process which allows anyone around the globe to report a concern around compliance with our Code of Conduct 2. Annual acknowledgment Annually we ask Kimberly-Clark employees to acknowledge they have read and understand our Code of Conduct and understand that they have an obligation to raise concerns regarding violations of the Code. 3. Corporate Social Compliance Audits We conduct over 100 audits of key suppliers annually. As a part of this activity we review a given suppliers compliance with our Corporate Social Compliance Standards and local wage, hour and payroll laws. These audits include a random sampling of supplier employee interviews. 4. Consumer Reporting Users of products around the globe may report concerns via toll-free calls or via the internet 5. Informally, we receive and investigate incidents of grievances from employees, suppliers and consumers around the globe. 6. Kimberly-Clark collaborates with global unions on an ongoing basis to discuss a variety of global labor issues with a goal to continue to foster open, productive communications. Kimberly-Clark does not track number of grievances, however, K-C encourages its workers to raise complaints through a number of avenues such as our Code of Conduct reporting procedures, our anonymous Input to Action employee engagement survey, grievance procedures in collective bargaining agreements, and through dialogue with the European Works Council, the UNI Global Union and other similar stakeholders, to name a few. K-C also routinely encourages employees to report concerns to anyone in management with whom they feel comfortable as part of its compliance culture. Such claims, no matter how received, are thoroughly investigated. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management REPORT SECTIONS Welcome to Our 2017 Sustainability Report; Materiality Assessment, approach Report Development and Stakeholder Engagement GRI 201-1 Direct economic value TABLE – Economic Performance Data generated and distributed 10-K https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports GRI 201-2 Climate change risks Kimberly-Clark has been tracking its GHG emissions since 2005. The GHG emissions Principle 7 reduction progress has been 18.7% from 2005 to 2018. At Kimberly-Clark, the majority of our operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions result from energy use at our manufacturing facilities. We developed a corporate-wide GHG inventory of the three major greenhouse gases. These are Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4) and Nitrous Oxide (N20). Using the right Global Warming Potential Multipliers, these three types of emissions are combined and expressed into a single indicator called Carbon Dioxide equivalent (CO2e). All the GHG emissions reported internally and externally are expressed in Metric Tons of CO2e. Following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) issued by the World Resources Institute (WRI). All the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions are verified by an independent third party entity to provide limited assurance of its accuracy and completeness. We have a goal of reducing GHG absolute emissions from manufacturing by 20% from a 2005 baseline (see body of report). Kimberly-Clark identified some inherent climate change risks that have the potential to generate a substantive change in its business operations, revenue and expenditure. One example of risks driven by regulation, is the carbon taxes in some of the countries and regions where K-C operates. Kimberly-Clark participates in the European Union Trading Scheme and is closely following the development of proposed climate emissions legislation in the United States and in other 35 countries where Kimberly-Clark has business interests related to its manufacturing or raw material sourcing. The company has built a database to track the existing and emerging carbon legislation in those countries where KimberlyClark operates, studying in particular the development of carbon legislation in the following countries: Argentina Australia Bahrain Brazil Canada India -Malaysia Korea – Mexico – South Africa; among others. Continued on next page STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 201-2 Climate change risks Continued from previous page One particular example, is the imminent carbon tax scheme in South Africa, where the Principle 7 policy has been in the works for the better part of a decade. It was announced that a carbon tax in South Africa will go into effect on June 1st, 2019, making South Africa one of the about 40 countries worldwide to adopt a carbon-pricing program. The tax will be introduced in phases: The first phase will run until December 2022 and will tax carbon at a rate of about $8.34 per ton of CO2e. The treasury will assess the impact of the tax and the country’s progress toward emissions goals before the second phase of the policy, which will start in 2013 and end in 2030. In order to mitigate this risk, the K-C Family Care mill Enstra in South Africa will install a brand new natural gas boiler, in order to mitigate the greenhouse gas emissions and the high maintenance costs. It is calculated that the greenhouse gas emissions reduction obtained with the installation of the new natural gas boiler will be 17,000 MTCO2e. The project was approved in 2018 with scheduled startup during the third quarter of 2019. Also, changes in rain patterns and higher impacts from meteorological phenomenon are offering some risk to guarantee the efficient operation and competitive manufacturing costs on some countries where Kimberly-Clark has manufacturing facilities. One particular example of this risk, is Papeles del Cauca mill (Cauca), Colombia, is a strategic manufacturing facility within the Latin American Operations of Kimberly-Clark, manufacturing tissue products for the local market and regional market. The mill gets its electricity from the national utility grid, with consumption of more than 100,000 MW-h/ year. Approximately 65%of the electricity in Colombia is generated from hydraulic sources; extreme temperatures in some areas of the country, changes in the rain patterns and some intense meteorological phenomenon such as “El Nino” are having during the recent years high impact on the availability and cost of electricity, due to the reduction of water levels in rivers and dams. Since 2015, the cost of electricity in Cauca mill has increased 33%, reaching in 2018 an average cost of $100 per megawatt-h. Continued on next page STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 201-2 Climate change risks Continued from previous page It was approved in 2018 the implementation of a new combined heat and power plant, Principle 7 capable to self-generate electricity and process steam, step-change savings can be achieved through the reduction of expensive electricity procured from the utility grid, and the use of exhaust heat for the generation of steam that can be used to offset some of the steam currently produced in the natural gas boiler of the site. A cogeneration plant capable to generate 10MWh of electricity and 12,000 lb/h of process steam, will produce 83% of the electricity demanded by Cauca mill and 100% of the process steam. Upon completion, the self-generate cost of electricity for the mill will be 50% lower. The start-up is scheduled during the fourth quarter of 2019. To support the growth of renewable energy sources, Kimberly-Clark has signed on to the Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers’ Principles, a collaboration of leading companies seeking simplified access to the renewable electricity to meet their clean and low carbon energy goals. Kimberly-Clark is actively looking for other alternatives, such as renewable energy (see body of report.) GRI 201-3 Benefit plan coverage 10-K https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/annual-reports http://www.careersatkc.com/home.aspx GRI 201-4 Financial assistance from the Kimberly-Clark does not receive financial assistance from US governments that would Principle 7 government materially affect our position. GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments TABLE Community & Employee Contributions GRI 203-2 Investment s in high-poverty Social Impact: https://www.sustainability2022.com/five-priorities/social-impact areas STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 204-1 % of spend assigned to local Kimberly-Clark’s global manufacturing network is served by an extensive supply chain that suppliers includes local, regional and global suppliers for purchased goods, materials, packaging and services. Our sourcing processes seek to balance responsible sourcing standards and support for local supplier options while optimizing total delivered cost inclusive of material cost and transportation. As a result, a significant amount of purchases are made with local suppliers where possible, while recognizing that some purchases must be made where suppliers are available on a global basis. GRI 205-1 Risks related to corruption In Kimberly-Clark’s Code of Conduct, we discuss mechanisms for reporting unlawful/ Principle 10 unethical behavior. Link 1: https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code-ofconduct Link 2: https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/responsibility/ethics-governance GRI 205-2 Communications and training In 2018, we provided 30 mins of Code of Conduct training to all office-based K-C Principle 10 on anti-corruption employees with computer access. We also provided additional risk-based training as needed. The 2018 Code of Conduct training included content regarding conducting business using third parties. As part of the annual Code of Conduct training, employees were required to read, understand, and comply with the Code of Conduct. Anti-corruption is addressed in the Code of Conduct. https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct It is the policy of Kimberly-Clark to conduct business in compliance with all anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 206-1 Anti-competitive behavior Operating with integrity and high ethical standards is critical, and Kimberly-Clark has Principle 10 strict corporate policies and a Code of Conduct that govern its business operations and practices globally. In 2018, we were subject to various legal actions and governmental inquiries regarding anti-competitive behavior. Kimberly-Clark seeks to provide voluntary cooperation to authorities, in accordance with the company’s strict corporate policies and Code of Conduct. https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct GRI 301-1 Materials by weight or volume TABLE Materials Consumption and Production Principle 8 GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials TABLE Materials Consumption and Production Principle 8 GRI 301-3 Products and packaging TABLE Post-Consumer Waste Principle 8 materials reclaimed &9 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption (Scope 1 TABLE Energy use (Direct and Indirect) Principle 8 & 2) GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside TABLE Energy use (Direct and Indirect) the organization (Scope 3) GRI 302-3 Energy intensity TABLE Energy use (Direct and Indirect) GRI 302-4 Energy reductions TABLE Energy use (Direct and Indirect) Principle 8 &9 STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 303-1 Water withdrawals by source TABLE Water use Principle 8 GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused TABLES Water Use, Tissue Manufacturing Water Use Efficiency Principle 8 GRI 304-2 Impacts on biodiversity All of our wood fiber suppliers are certified under a forest certification scheme which assures Principle 8 that there is a low risk of sourcing wood fiber from protected areas or areas of high diversity outside protected areas GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored All of our wood fiber suppliers are certified under a forest certification scheme which assures Principle 8 that there is a low risk of sourcing wood fiber from protected areas or areas of high diversity outside protected areas GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) TABLE Greenhouse Gas Emissions Principle 8 emissions (Scope 1) GRI 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse TABLE Greenhouse Gas Emissions Principle 8 gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas TABLES 2018 Scope 3 Calculation Results and Intermodal Transportation Principle 8 (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity TABLE Greenhouse Gas Emissions Principle 8 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions In 2018, Kimberly-Clark’s absolute direct and indirect (scope 1 and 2) global GHG emissions Principle 7, 8 were 4,522 Million metric tons (MT) of CO2e. This GHG emissions represent a reduction of &9 18.7% from the baseline year of 2005; which is one percent points reduction versus the previous year 2017. This reduction was mainly driven by the impact of more than 220 energy conservation projects impacting in 2018, aligned with the implementation of energy best practices around lighting, compressed air, steam systems, heat recovery and process improvements focused on energy efficiency and energy consumption. See Body of Report STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 305-7 NOx, SO2 and other significant TABLE Other Criteria Pollutants Principle 8 air emissions GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality Since 2000, we have required all facilities and business units to certify their compliance with Principle 8 and destination our biological oxygen demand (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS) global wastewater performance standards. In 2006, we developed a program to monitor acute toxicity at our international mills on a rotating basis and introduced corrective measures at mills where acute toxicity was present. And in 2011 we formalized the standard requiring that all wastewater discharges be free of acute toxicity. Within our Sustainability 2022 strategy, we are following the same standards established prior. GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal TABLE Manufacturing Waste, Nonhazardous and Hazardous Principle 8 method GRI 306-3 Significant spills No significant spills Principle 8 GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste TABLE Hazardous Manufacturing Waste Principle 8 GRI 307-1 Monetary value of significant No significant environmental fines in 2018. fines GRI 308-1 New suppliers screened using Kimberly-Clark deploys a targeted approach to addressing environmental impacts in our environmental criteria supply chain both at the initial sourcing and ongoing category management periods. These approaches include, but are not limited to: * Kimberly-Clark’s SupplierLINK portal provides a listing of applicable standards and requirements for raw materials and social responsibility [https://www.kimberly-clark.com/ en-us/company/supplier-link/standards-and-requirements] * Fiber-based packaging suppliers must report their ongoing use of recycled and responsibly sourced fiber. * Contract manufacturing & branded packaging suppliers are subject to periodic social compliance audits administered by our Corporate Social Compliance program. * Contract manufacturers are reviewed through a thorough, multi-category due diligence process including environmental factors. * Risk assessments are performed for existing suppliers on a multi-disciplinary basis, including for environmental and social sustainablity risk factors. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 308-2 Supply chain environmental Kimberly-Clark deploys a targeted approach to addressing environmental impacts in our impacts supply chain both at the initial sourcing and ongoing category management periods. These approaches include, but are not limited to: * Kimberly-Clark’s SupplierLINK portal provides a listing of applicable standards and requirements for raw materials and social responsibility [https://www.kimberly-clark.com/ en-us/company/supplier-link/standards-and-requirements] * Fiber-based packaging suppliers must report their ongoing use of recycled and responsibly sourced fiber. * Contract manufacturing & branded packaging suppliers are subject to periodic social compliance audits administered by our Corporate Social Compliance program. * Contract manufacturers are reviewed through a thorough, multi-category due diligence process including environmental factors. * Risk assessments are performed for existing suppliers on a multi-disciplinary basis, including for environmental and social sustainablity risk factors. GRI 401-1 Rates of Employee Turnover Global turnover totals approximatly 9,550 (5450 Hourly, 4100 Salary) U.S. tunrover totals 2,400 (1000 Hourly and 1400 Salary) * all rounded GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Kimberly-Clark is a global company with manufacturing facilities and offices in 72 countries. employees As a result of this diversity in operational locations, benefits vary between countries and significant operating locations. Across all locations, Kimberly-Clark strives to provide a market-competitive benefits package to employees within their specific location, which may include access to government-provided benefits where applicable. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods While we don’t have a global policy regarding minimum notice periods in cases of regarding operational restructuring, Kimberly-Clark has demonstrated a “beyond compliance” commitment to changes, including contracted respect workers globally. For example, through our Joint Statement we signed with UNI Global Union. UNI Global is the second largest global union federation in the world and it represents over 20 million workers across 140 countries. The central foundation of this Joint Statement is an open line of ongoing dialogue with Kimberly-Clark executives and UNI Global’s Kimberly-Clark union network. Through this process, UNI has the opportunity to raise any workplace concerns that have not been addressed at the local level, including lack of adequate notice in cases of restructuring. http://www.uniglobalunion.org/news/positive-uni-kimberly-clark-annual-meeting GRI 403-1 Workforce represented in Kimberly-Clark’s Global Safety Governance Model requires the establishment of Safety Principle 1 health and safety committees Committees or Councils at the site, region, Sector, and Global Level as part of the management system standard. Safety Committees have been established at each of these levels. Therefore, over 95% of employees are represented by a management-employee safety committee. GRI 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational TABLE Kimberly-Clark Employee Safety Principle 1 disease, lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence risk Kimberly-Clark has implemented comprehensive industrial hygiene and occupation health Principle 1 of diseases programs that ensure that occupational exposures to hazardous materials and agents are maintained at safe levels. Therefore, there are no worker groups with a high incidence of disease. Under the Kimberly-Clark policies on safety and health, occupational exposures to hazardous materials and agents are monitored on a regular basis. GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics As a part of Kimberly-Clark’s ongoing human rights due diligence, the Company has a covered in agreements with formal mechanism to engage with global union representatives regarding workplace and trade unions human rights concerns, including workplace safety matters. GRI 405-1 Composition of Board & TABLE Board of Directors Diversity Overview diversity breakdown / factors STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Through our Corporate Social Compliance Audits, Kimberly-Clark had the following Principle 6 allegations: 0 allegation of Discrimination for K-C Audits in 2018 6 allegation of Discrimination for Customer Required Audits in 2018 GRI 407-1 Freedom of association and In the course of facility & supplier auditing, no violations of freedom of association or collective bargaining collective bargaining were identified. GRI 408-1 Child Labor 0 incidences of child labor within supply chain Principles 1, 2&5 GRI 409-1 Forced or Compulsory Labor TABLE Social Compliance Audit Results Principles 1, 2&4 GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in Kimberly-Clark employees, including those security personnel who are Kimberly-Clark Principles 1 the organization’s human rights employees, receive Code of Conduct training which includes instructions on Kimberly&2 policies Clark’s Human Rights policies. https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/responsibility/ethics-governance GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving We know of no incidents involving rights of indigenous peoples. Principles 1 rights of indigenous peoples &2 GRI 412-1 Operations that have been We conducted corporate social compliance audits in 37 countries in 2018. Principles 1, 2, subject to human rights 4&5 assessments GRI 412-2 Employee training on human In 2018, we provided 30 mins of Code of Conduct training to all office-based K-C Principles rights employees with computer access. We also provided additional risk-based training as 1-6 needed. The 2018 Code of Conduct training did not specifically call out Human Rights as a topic within the course; however, as part of the annual Code of Conduct training, employees were required to read, understand, and comply with the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct specifically addresses Human Rights on page 40. https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 412-3 Investment agreements and Clauses concerning human rights are incorporated into all of our terms and conditions in Principles contracts that include human supplier contracts and purchase orders. 1-6 rights clauses or underwent screening GRI 413-1 % operations w/ local REPORT SECTION: Welcome to Our 2018 Sustainability Report; Materiality Assessment, community programs Stakeholder Engagement, Social Impact and Community & Employee Contributions Table We believe collaboration and feedback ensures that our reporting addresses the issues that are important to our business, stakeholders and customers alike. That’s why, when considering what to include in this report, we engaged with internal and external stakeholders, including our Sustainability Advisory Board, customers, NGOs, peer companies and Kimberly-Clark business and functional teams. GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were In 2018, 7 new external contract manufacturers were audited as part of our Corporate Principles screened using labor practices Social Compliance program prior to selection as suppliers. 1-6 criteria GRI 414-2 Incidents of Negative impacts We completed a total of 220 social compliance audits for 185 key facilities in 2018; in supply chain & actions taken In 2018, 10 suppliers were identified as having potential or actual impacts for labor practices such as passport retention, discrimination, corruption, or working hours. Of those found to have actual impacts through auditing, approximately 50% mitigated those findings within 2018. 0 relationships were terminated due to non-compliances of our Suppliers Social Compliance Standards. GRI 415-1 Political contributions In general, Kimberly-Clark’s Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits employees and representatives Principle 10 from making contributions on behalf of Kimberly-Clark to candidates for political office or for other political campaigns. All exceptions require written pre-approval from KimberlyClark’s General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Business Results Data Tables GRI Index Table GRI Description Cross-Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Standards GRI 416-1 Health and safety impact Kimberly-Clark maintains a Product Safety Policy whereby all products we sell are assessed Principle 7 assessments of products and for health and safety impacts and in which feedback from assessments is incorporated services into continuous improvement processes within phases of product development and commercialization: Development of product concept R&D Certification Manufacturing and production Marketing and promotion Storage distribution and supply Use and service Disposal, reuse or recycling https://www.kimberly-clark.com/en/responsibility/ethics-governance GRI 416-2 Non-compliance concerning There were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes. the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417-2 incidents of non-compliance Zero for Kimberly-Clark. We do not launch a product that is not in regulatory compliance with labeling requirements within labeling requirements. GRI 418-1 # of substantiated complaints In 2018, 7 new external contract manufacturers were audited as part of our Corporate regarding breach of customer Social Compliance program prior to selection as suppliers. data security GRI 419-1 Fines for non-compliance with Quality fines: Zero for Kimberly-Clark. laws & regulations concerning provision & use of products & Safety fines: $160,529 services STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE A Message From Our External Assurance Firm Scope and Objectives WSP was commissioned by Kimberly-Clark Corporation (Kimberly-Clark) to conduct independent assurance of its 2018 Sustainability Report (‘the report’) as published on the company’s website at http://www.kimberly-clark.com/sustainability. We planned and performed our work in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance standard 2008 (AA1000AS). We were engaged to provide an AA1000 Type 2 assurance, which covers evaluation of adherence to the AA1000AS assurance principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. We also reviewed the reliability of specified sustainability performance information to a moderate level of assurance. In addition, as criteria for our assurance work, we used the GRI 101 Foundation guidelines which set out the Reporting Principles for defining report content and quality and the ISO standard 14064-3: Greenhouse gases Part 3: Specification with Guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas assertions. The information and presentation of data within the Sustainability Report is the responsibility of Kimberly-Clark. This statement is the responsibility of WSP and represents our independent opinion. The intended users of this statement are the readers of the Kimberly-Clark Sustainability Report, an it is intended for this statement to be read in its entirety. Our assurance team has the appropriate experience and competency to complete this assurance engagement. WSP has a Quality Management System (QMS) which is certified to BS EN ISO9001 under which all our work is managed. The WSP Assurance team is not working for Kimberly-Clark beyond what is required of this assignment. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Methodology for Adherence to the AA 1000 accountability Principles and GRI Our work was conducted between March and May 2019. We tested, on a sample basis, the processes and management practices used to adhere to and evaluate adherence to the AA1000AS Accountability Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. The GRI Reporting Principles of ‘stakeholder inclusiveness’ and ‘materiality’ for defining report content are very similar to the AA1000AS principles. In addition, we also tested adherence to the GRI Reporting Principles of ‘sustainability context’ and ‘completeness’ and to the GRI Reporting Principles for defining report quality of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability, reliability and timeliness. Evidence gathering for evaluating adherence to the Principles included: • Understanding and testing the processes used to adhere to and evaluate adherence to the Accountability Principles and the GRI Reporting Principles. • Inquiring of management, including senior management at executive and functional levels, and of relevant management responsible for the day to day management of sustainability, about the effectiveness of processes used to manage and evaluate the sustainability impact of Kimberly-Clark. • A review of the output of Kimberly-Clark’s 2016 materiality review and strategy based updates and how the AA1000 inclusivity principle has been addressed. • Observing and inspecting management practices, process testing and evidence gathering across the organization on a sample basis. • Collecting and evaluating documentary evidence and management representations that support adherence to the principles. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Methodology for Assurance of Sustainability Performance Data WSP’s review of specific sustainability performance data used ISO14064-3 as a guideline under the AA1000AS standard as the umbrella standard. Currently there is no assurance guideline specifically for water, waste, or energy. Therefore, WSP has applied the principles from ISO14064-3 to the Greenhouse gas emissions, water, waste, and energy assurance. The performance data review has been conducted to a limited level of assurance including evaluation of the adequacy of the collection, processing, consolidation and internal reporting of data. The WSP inventory and management system review consisted of a desktop review of supporting data and an output of the 2018 inventory and data files from the Kimberly-Clark internal sustainability data management system. WSP Opinion On the basis of the work conducted, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Sustainability Report does not meet the principles, content and quality requirements of AA1000AS for a Type 2 Moderate Level of Assurance and the GRI Reporting Principles. We have made the following findings and conclusions with respect to the AA1000 (2008) principles and the GRI Reporting Principles. Inclusivity – Kimberly-Clark has systems in place for internal and external stakeholders to participate in the development of the organization’s response to sustainability issues. The 2016 materiality assessment process helped identify the links between stakeholder participation and the determination of Kimberly-Clark’s sustainability issues. Stakeholders also have opportunity for engagement in relation to the Sustainability Program via regular internal and external stakeholders’ interactions throughout the year. Stakeholder participation continues to be encouraged across all regions and sites through the network of sustainability coordinators. It will be important to include needs and expectations of local as well as global stakeholders in evaluation of material issues to report in future. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Sustainability Context and Materiality –The report presents performance information for Kimberly-Clark’s direct activities as well as its value chain. Geographic contexts are referenced where appropriate, however, it is noted that in general the report presents the global activities and performance. Kimberly-Clark completed a sustainability materiality assessment in 2016 which determined the relevance and significance of issues that are material to its sustainability performance. This materiality assessment followed a clear process for identifying business risks which was informed by engagement with stakeholders, societal and peer-based norms, financial considerations and policy-based performance. The materiality assessment process was reviewed during 2018 to check current stakeholder interests and expectations were identified and represented the issues for inclusion in the 2018 Sustainability report. There is a commitment to conduct a refresh of the sustainability materiality process during 2019. Consideration should be made to producing regional materiality matrices in addition to the global materiality matrix to ensure that regional variations can be documented and addressed as appropriate. Responsiveness and Report Quality – The Kimberly-Clark Sustainability Report provides stakeholders with a globally representative explanation of changes in the organization throughout the year, and reports on performance on all the key material issues. Data is provided to support qualitative statements where available and the accuracy of data is audited internally before it is presented in the Sustainability Report. Assumptions and techniques used for estimation are included as part of this review process. In addition, the Kimberly-Clark Internal Audit team conducted an auditof internal compliance with Kimberly-Clark’s policy on Global Fiber Procurement. Kimberly-Clark also communicates with employees on a variety of sustainability issues through team meetings, email communication, noticeboards and the intranet. Responses are made to sustainability requests from customers and other stakeholders as they arise. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE GRI Reporting Principles for Defining Report Quality It is our opinion that the Sustainability Report meets the GRI Reporting Principles for defining report quality of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability, reliability and timeliness. Completeness -The report includes coverage of material topics and their boundaries, sufficient to reflect significant economic, environmental, and social impacts, and to enable stakeholders to assess the reporting organization’s performance in the reporting period. Accuracy The reported information is considered sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders to assess the reporting organization’s performance. Balance The reported information reflects positive and negative aspects of the reporting organization’s performance to enable a reasoned assessment of overall performance. Performance information is presented to show year on year comparison and the achievement or otherwise towards goals set. Clarity The report presents information in a manner that is understandable and accessible to stakeholders with the appropriate use of tables and diagrams and stories to help present information. Comparability -Sustainability data are selected, compiled and reported in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards, Core level which are best practice benchmarks which allow for comparison relative to other organizations on a year by year basis. Reliability The reported information is gathered, recorded, compiled, and analyzed in a way that it can be subject to examination, and that establishes the quality and materiality of the information. The information and data in the report is subject to rigorous internal audit review. The internal audit process together with the external assurance of the Sustainability report and specified reporting information using a recognized best practice standard ensures that the report can be relied upon. Timeliness -The information in the report clearly indicates the time period to which it relates and this is presented alongside data from previous years to aid comparability of data year on year. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Reliability of Specified Performance Information Scope 3 emissions (purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and energy related activities, upstream transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations, end of life treatment of sold products, and investments), energy, water, and waste performance data for 2018 and have been able to obtain an AA1000:2008 moderate level of assurance in respect of the data which is reported in the Sustainability Report. This level of assurance is equivalent of a limited assurance under ISO 14064-3. The findings of the assurance engagement provide confidence in the systems and processes used for managing and reporting sustainability performance information. Data trails selected were identifiable and traceable, and the personnel responsible were able to reliably demonstrate the origin(s) and interpretation of data. The internal sustainability data management system compares data entries against a band of expected values to flag significant anomalies in the data. Kimberly-Clark collects the specified performance data monthly. Quarterly reviews by the Kimberly-Clark Sustainability Corporate team enables data to be analyzed more frequently, and as a result, Kimberly-Clark can more actively identify data anomalies and improvement opportunities for sites not meeting their improvement goals. A few errors in the reporting of waste, water or energy were identified during the assurance exercise; These include misallocation of renewable energy for market-based emissions and misreported or missing energy data. However, these did not have a material impact on reporting at Kimberly-Clark Group level. All errors were corrected prior to the Sustainability Report being published. Recommendations for Kimberly-Clark to consider implementing for future reporting have been provided in a separate “Data Assurance Review Findings Report”. Kimberly-Clark has addressed all requests for clarification and has completed all necessary corrective actions. The details of the scope of this assurance review can be found in the following tables. STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Assurance Scope: GHG and Energy Assurance Parameter Relevant Inventory Specification Calculation and Reporting Protocol GHG The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) Verification Standard GHG ISO 14064-3 Type of Assurance GHG Limited Organizational Boundary GHG Operational control Geography GHG Global operations Inventory Period and Emissions Covered GHG January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 Scope 1 GHG 2,078,281 metric tons CO2e (all Scope 1 sources) Scope 2 Location-Based GHG 2,387,014 metric tons CO2e (all Scope 2 sources) Scope 2 Market-Based GHG 1,987,158 metric tons CO2e (all Scope 2 sources) Scope 3 GHG Category 1 Purchased Goods & Services: 7,211,326 metric tons CO2e Scope 3 GHG Category 2 Capital Goods: 566,569 metric tons CO2e Scope 3 GHG Category 3 Fuel & Energy Related Activities: 1,367,852 metric tons CO2e Scope 3 GHG Category 4 Upstream Transportation and Distribution: 292,147 metric tons CO2e1 Scope 3 GHG Category 5 Waste generated in Operations: 299,440 metric tons CO2e Footnote: (1) Upstream transportation emissions include outbound product transport only. Assurance Parameter Relevant Inventory Specification Scope 3 GHG Category 12 End of Life sold products: 1,953,082 metric tons CO2e Scope 3 GHG Category 15 Investments: 346,068 metric tons CO2e Supporting Documents Reviewed GHG Scope 1, 2, and 3 Inventory activity data and calculations in SoFi Energy purchasing data, spend data, product transportation data, waste and water inventory and invoice data, production volumes, and investment allocations. Date Review Complete May 23, 2019 STRATEGY PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE DATA ASSURANCE Assurance Scope: Waste and Water Assurance Parameter Relevant Inventory Specification Calculation and Reporting Protocol Waste Guidance adapted for waste from: The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). Calculation and Reporting Protocol Water Guidance adapted for water from: The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). Verification Standard Waste and Water Verification guidance adapted for waste and water from: ISO 14064-3. Type of Assurance Waste and Water Limited Organizational Boundary Waste and Water Operational control Geography Waste and Water Global operations Inventory Period and Emissions Covered Waste and Water January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 Waste Waste 1,144,475 Metric Tons Non-Hazardous 919 Metric Tons Hazardous Water Water Withdrawal Total Influent: 91,440,474 cubic meters and Discharge Municipal Influent: 33,389,990 cubic meters Ground Influent: 19,534,052 cubic meters Surface Influent: 38,516,432 cubic meters Total Effluent: 85,777,006 cubic meters Surface Discharge: 74,700,848 cubic meters Municipal Discharge: 11,076,158 cubic meters Supporting Documents Reviewed Waste and water Inventory Calculation Methodology Document Water purchasing data Waste vendor data Date Review Complete May 23, 2019 Rachel Jones Technical Director London, May 2019 Click here to see original Assurance document 2018 Sustainability Report
