Responding to the dual challenge BP Sustainability Report 2018 Advancing energy to improve people’s lives 4 Introduction from Bob Dudley As the world demands more energy to fuel Safe, responsible and fit for the future increasing prosperity and provide people with We remain focused on operating responsibly and safety continues to be our number one priority. While we welcome a better quality of life, it also demands energy the improvement seen in our key safety measures in 2018, delivered in new ways, with fewer emissions. our attention is always on caring for the people behind the For the energy sector, this dual challenge is the numbers. This extends to wherever we operate around the defining issue of our times. world, and you’ll find updates in this report on some of our activities to respect the communities in which we work. At BP we’re not daunted by this challenge. In fact, we see the Only by operating as a responsible and reliable business do possibilities it presents, and continue to make bold changes we earn the trust of investors and society more widely – trust across the group as part of our commitment to advancing a that is essential for BP to fully play its part in advancing a low low carbon future. carbon future and human progress. The world needs more energy but produced and used in cleaner, better ways. This is reflected in our strategy to grow advantaged oil and gas in the upstream; market-led growth in the downstream; pursuing low carbon growth opportunities Bob Dudley, group chief executive, BP and modernizing the group. It also informs how we work. 10 April 2019 Our low carbon ambitions Our ‘reduce, improve, create’ framework focuses the whole of BP on reducing emissions in our operations, improving our products, and creating low carbon businesses. We are backing this up with clear targets and I am pleased to report we made good progress in 2018. To maintain the momentum, we are now incentivizing around 36,000 employees who are eligible for an annual cash bonus to play a role by linking their reward to one of our emissions reduction targets. Consistent with the Paris goals We firmly believe our strategy is consistent with the climate goals of the Paris Agreement and have welcomed a resolution from a group of institutional investors for a range of additional reporting. This will help further understanding of how our strategy is consistent with the Paris climate goals. Collective action We have a role to play in solving the dual challenge but can’t do it alone. Everyone, from consumers to corporations to governments, needs to take responsibility. That’s why we’re working with partners and a number of organizations across the industry, including the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI). Now representing 30% of global oil and gas production, the OGCI is supporting efforts to tackle methane emissions and create opportunities for carbon capture, use and storage. 1 How we run our business From the deep sea to the desert, Business model foundations from rigs to retail, we deliver energy products and services Safe and reliable operations Talented people to people around the world. We strive to create and maintain a safe We work to attract, motivate, develop and retain We provide customers with fuel for operating culture where safety is front and the best talent the world offers and equip our transport, energy for heat and light, power centre. This is not only safer for people people with the right skills for the future. Our for industry, lubricants to keep engines and the environment – it also improves the performance and ability to thrive globally moving and the petrochemicals products reliability of our assets. depend on it. used to make everyday items such as See Safety on page 30. See Our people and ethics on page 56. paints, clothes and packaging. We have a diverse portfolio across businesses, resource types and geographies. 1 Finding oil and gas Having upstream, downstream and renewables businesses, along with well-established trading capabilities, helps to mitigate the impact of commodity pricing cycles. Our geographic reach gives us access to growing markets and new resources, as well as diversifying exposure to geopolitical events. We are helping to meet the dual challenge of society’s need for more energy while reducing emissions through our ‘reduce, improve, create’ framework (see page 10). 2 Developing and extracting oil and gas Our role in society Creating value 1 Finding oil and gas We also seek to grow or extend the life of The energy we produce helps support existing fields – such as our Clair Ridge project, New access allows us to renew our portfolio, economic growth and improve quality of which is helping unlock additional resources discover additional resources and replenish life for millions of people. We strive to be a from the Clair field in the UK North Sea. our development options. We focus our world-class operator, a responsible corporate exploration activities in the areas that are 3 Transporting and trading citizen and a great employer. competitive in the portfolio, and develop and We move oil and gas through pipelines and by We believe the societies and communities we use technology to reduce costs and risks. ship, truck and rail. We also trade a variety of work in should benefit from our presence. products including oil, natural gas, liquefied We aim to create positive, meaningful and 2 D  eveloping and extracting oil and gas natural gas, power and carbon products, as well sustainable impacts in those communities We develop the resources that meet our as derivatives and currencies. BP’s traders serve through our social investments. return threshold and produce hydrocarbons more than 12,000 customers across some 140 We contribute to economies around the world that we then sell to the market or distribute countries in a year. Our customers range from by employing local people, helping to develop to our downstream facilities. Our upstream independent power producers to utilities and national and local suppliers, and through the pipeline of future projects gives us choice municipalities. We are the largest trader of funds we pay to governments from taxes about which we pursue. natural gas in North America. and other agreements. We use our market intelligence to analyse See Society on page 41. supply and demand for commodities across our global network. 2 Technology and innovation Partnerships and collaboration Governance and oversight New technologies help us produce energy We aim to build enduring relationships with Our risk management systems and policy safely and more efficiently. We selectively invest governments, customers, partners, suppliers provide a consistent and clear framework in areas with the potential to add greatest value and communities in the countries where for managing and reporting risks. The board to our business, now and in the future, including we operate. regularly reviews how we identify, evaluate building lower carbon businesses. and manage risks. See Creating low carbon businesses See Engaging with our stakeholders on See Governance and risk management on page 24. page 67. on page 63. 3 Transporting and trading 4 Manufacturing and marketing 6 Venturing 5 Generating renewable energy 4 M  anufacturing and marketing In petrochemicals our proprietary technology efficiency. And in solar energy we target the fuels and products solutions deliver leading cost positions growing demand for large-scale solar projects compared to our competitors. In addition worldwide through Lightsource BP. We produce refined petroleum products at to our own petrochemicals plants, we work our refineries and supply distinctive fuels and See page 26. with partners and license our technology convenience retail services to consumers. to third parties. Our advantaged infrastructure, logistics 6 Venturing network and key partnerships help us to have See page 18. We invest in small high-tech companies differentiated fuels businesses and deliver to help accelerate and commercialize new compelling customer offers, including lower 5 Generating renewable energy technologies, products and business models. carbon products. We have been investing in renewables for many Our focus is on five areas that are core to our Our lubricants business has premium years. Our focus is on biofuels, biopower, wind strategy for advancing the energy transition: brands and access to growth markets. energy and solar energy. We operate a biofuels advanced mobility, bio and low carbon products, It also leverages technology and customer business in Brazil, using one of the world’s carbon management, digital transformation relationships, all of which we believe most sustainable and advantaged feedstocks to and power and storage. gives us competitive advantage. We serve produce renewable ethanol and power. We also See bp.com/venturing. automotive, industrial, marine and energy provide renewable power through our significant lubricant markets across the world. interests in onshore wind energy in the US, and we develop and deploy technology to drive BP Sustainability Report 2018 3 Our key issues We conduct a materiality review to evaluate the issues that matter most to our stakeholders and our business. Who How we’ve engaged with we assess the issues In preparing this report, we met with around We prioritize the issues according to how 100 different organizations including investors, important they are to our stakeholders and non-governmental organizations and business how they could impact BP’s ability to deliver partners, who collectively represent some of its strategy. our main stakeholder groups. We validate this with representatives from our group risk, environment, human rights and society, government and political affairs, upstream, downstream, policy and technology teams, as well as our board-level safety, ethics and environment assurance committee. Our material issues tend to be relatively consistent year to year. Carbon capture, use and storage, as well as diversity and inclusion, were issues that gained greater prominence in 2018. 4 What The energy transition Our role in advancing the energy transition 7 we report Greenhouse gas emissions 14 We include issues in our Sustainability Report Energy efficiency of our products 18 if we assess them as being of high or medium Future mobility and electric vehicles 21 Carbon capture, use and storage 23 importance in terms of stakeholder interest and Renewable energy 26 potential business impact. Safety Process safety 31 Personal safety 32 Security (including cyber) 33 Human rights Rights of people in communities 37 Labour rights and modern slavery 38 Security and human rights 40 Society Social contribution 42 Community engagement 48 Revenue transparency 49 Environment Decommissioning 51 Sensitive areas and biodiversity 52 Hydraulic fracturing 53 Water 54 Air emissions 55 Our people and ethics Diversity and inclusion 57 Skills and capability 60 Business ethics 61 Public policy and lobbying 62 Governance and risk Board oversight 64 Managing risks in our operations 66 BP Sustainability Report 2018 5 The energy transition The world needs more energy but with fewer emissions. BP is playing an active role in meeting this dual challenge. How is the transition to a lower Q carbon economy changing BP? Our strategy embraces the transition and A is intended to be flexible and resilient to change. Since launching our low carbon ambitions in 2018 we’ve seen real momentum across BP to reduce our own emissions, improve our products to help customers lower their emissions and create low carbon businesses. The focus on the role we play in the energy transition is helping to drive tangible actions towards delivering a cleaner, better energy future. Dominic Emery, vice president, group strategic planning, BP 6 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Our role in advancing the energy transition Our strategy is designed to grow A key element of our strategy is our ‘reduce, improve, shareholder value while also helping to create’ framework, which focuses on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our own operations, meet the dual challenge. We believe it improving our products to help our customers and is consistent with the climate goals of consumers lower their emissions, and creating low the Paris Agreement, which calls for the carbon businesses. world to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas We believe we are uniquely placed to lead in emissions in the context of sustainable advancing the energy transition: development and eradicating poverty. We are actively managing our portfolio to remain resilient in a changing world, and believe we have enough flexibility in our portfolio to reshape our Our strategic priorities business and balance sheet in around 10 years. This enables us to monitor changing trends, Growing advantaged oil and gas consumer preferences and legislation, and provides in the upstream us with optionality to adjust our portfolio and adapt to Invest in more oil and gas, producing both with increasing efficiency. the future. Our approach to the energy transition is grounded Market-led growth in the experience we’ve gained since we first called in the downstream for action on the threat of climate change more than Innovate with advanced products and 20 years ago. strategic partnerships. We have the skills and expertise, and are already in Venturing and low carbon action to meet our low carbon ambitions. across multiple fronts Pursue new opportunities to meet evolving A shared challenge technology, consumer and policy trends. To meet the Paris goals, we believe the world must take strong action on a range of fronts: Modernizing the whole group Reducing emissions rather than promoting one Simplify our processes and enhance our productivity through digital solutions. energy source as the answer. Improving energy efficiency. Recent steps Using and deploying new technologies, such as carbon capture, use and storage. 2019 Included our sustainable emissions Putting a price on carbon to help drive action in reduction target in the annual bonuses of an efficient and cost-effective way. eligible employees. In 2019 we are supporting a resolution from a group 2018 Launched our low carbon ambitions in our of institutional investors to describe in our corporate ‘reduce, improve, create’ framework and reporting how our strategy is consistent with the our Advancing Low Carbon programme. Paris goals. Subject to shareholder approval for the See pages 10 and 28. resolution at our annual general meeting we will provide more information on this in future reports. 2017 Set out our strategy designed to grow shareholder value under a range of scenarios, while also helping to meet the dual challenge of providing more energy with fewer emissions. BP Sustainability Report 2018 7 The changing energy mix The BP Energy Outlook explores the 2040 – and in other scenarios more. That forces shaping the global energy said, oil and gas could meet at least 50% of the world’s energy needs in 2040 – even in a scenario transition out to 2040 and the key consistent with the Paris goals, with the share uncertainties surrounding that of gas growing, aided by increasing use of carbon transition. Insights from the Outlook capture, use and storage. help shape our strategic thinking. Gas offers a cleaner alternative to coal for power generation and can lower emissions at scale. The demand for energy continues to grow – largely It also provides a valuable partner for renewables driven by increasing prosperity in fast-growing intermittency, delivers heating at the high developing economies. In the evolving transition temperatures required by industry and is scenario, the rate of this growth however is slower increasingly used in transportation. Across our than in the previous 20 years, as the world scenarios, gas grows robustly, overtaking coal increasingly learns to produce more with less as the second-largest source of energy by 2030. energy. Despite this, a substantial proportion of the Oil demand grows for the next 10 years in our world’s population in 2040 could live in countries evolving transition scenario, before gradually where the average energy consumption per person levelling out due to factors such as accelerating is relatively low. gains in vehicle efficiency and greater use of Renewables are now the fastest-growing energy biofuels, natural gas and electricity. The source in the world today and in our evolving largest source of oil demand growth is the transition scenario we estimate that they could non-combusted use of oil, for example as a account for 15% of all energy consumption in feedstock for petrochemicals. Energy consumption – 2040 projections Evolving transition 34% 34% 23% 23% 28% 28% 4% 4% 7% 7% 4% 4% This scenario assumes Actual energy mix Change in Actual energy mix that government policies, 2017 2017 CO2 emissions technology and social from 2017 preferences continue to Evolving transition evolve in a manner and speed 27% 27% 26% 26% 20% 20% 15% 15% Evolving transition 2040 2040 4% 4% 7% 7% 7% seen over the recent past. More energy This scenario sees more More energy 27% 27% 26% 26% 20% 20% 15% 15% countries with energy More energy 2040 2040 4% 4% 7% 7% 38% consumption per person closer to levels in advanced Rapid transition economies. 23% 23% 26% 26% 29% 29% Rapid transition 2040 2040 7% 7% 6% 6% 9% 9% 46% Rapid transition This scenario is consistent 0 5 10 15 20 25 with the Paris goals and 0 5 10 15 20 25 is broadly similar to the Billion tonnes of oil equivalent. The sum of the fuel shares may not equal 100% due to rounding. Billion tonnes of oil equivalent. The sum of the fuel shares may not equal 100% due to rounding. reduction in carbon emissions in the IEA’s Sustainable Oil Gas Coal Nuclear Hydro Renewables Oil Gas Coal Nuclear Hydro Renewables Development Scenario. See bp.com/energyoutlook for more information on our projections of future energy trends and factors that could affect them out to 2040. 8 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Calling for a price on carbon We believe that well-designed carbon We have engaged with policymakers in Europe, pricing provides the right incentives in relation to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, and in Australia, Canada and China. for everyone – energy producers and consumers alike – to play their While we support well-designed carbon pricing, we are prepared to oppose poorly-designed proposals. part in reducing emissions. It makes We opposed the ballot initiative proposal to energy efficiency more attractive and introduce a carbon fee in Washington state in the makes low carbon solutions, such as US in November 2018. The poor design of the policy renewables and carbon capture, use would have harmed Washington’s economy without and storage, more cost competitive. significantly reducing carbon emissions. The terms of the proposal exempted six of the biggest polluters in the state, effectively subsidizing some A fifth of the world’s greenhouse gas (GHG) companies at the expense of others. The ballot emissions are now covered by carbon pricing initiative was not passed by voters. We continued systems. We expect around two thirds of BP’s to work with legislative leaders in the state in 2019 direct GHG emissions will be in countries subject and supported a cap and trade bill, which we believe to emissions and carbon policies by 2020. would work to most effectively lower carbon We think a well-designed price on carbon is the emissions. most efficient way to reduce GHG emissions and At a global level, we are working with our peers and we have set out our carbon pricing principles at other companies, governments and civil society to bp.com/carbonpricing. They include our view help support the expansion of carbon pricing that a price on carbon should: through the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. Apply to all quantifiable GHG emissions in all And we are a founding member of the US-based sectors of the economy on a CO2 equivalent basis. Climate Leadership Council, which is considering a carbon tax that would be returned to citizens in the Pre-empt future and replace existing regulations form of dividends. that overlap or duplicate the carbon price. Prevent the shifting of emissions and jobs from one country or jurisdiction to another. Our internal carbon price We use a carbon price when evaluating our plans for certain large new projects and also those for which emissions costs would be a material part of the project. This is currently $40 per tonne of CO2 equivalent, with a stress test at a carbon price of $80 per tonne. Until late January 2019 we used these specific prices in industrialized countries, but have now expanded this to apply globally. BP Sustainability Report 2018 9 Our low carbon ambitions Embedded within our strategy is BP’s approach to lower carbon and Reducing emissions in our operations reducing emissions. We call it our ‘reduce, improve, create’ framework. Zero net growth in operational We have set targets and aims to reduce emissions emissions out to 2025 in our operations, improve our products to help our customers reduce their emissions, and create low carbon businesses. We are already in action and have made progress in 2018 towards 3.5Mte of sustainable GHG these ambitions. reductions by 2025 We’ll review these regularly so we can keep them up-to-date with changes in our portfolio, protocols Targeting methane and other factors. intensity of 0.2% Our progress in 2018 Zero Achieved zero net growth in operational emissions with no offsets required. net growth in operational emissions See page 14. 2.5Mte Implemented actions such as using waste heat to generate steam at our Whiting refinery of sustainable GHG in the US. reductions since the See page 13. beginning of 2016 0.2% Reduced our total methane emissions by more than 10% – a large part of this was due to methane intensity operational changes in Angola. See pages 14 and 15. 10 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Improving Creating our products low carbon businesses Provide lower Expand low carbon and emissions gas renewable businesses Develop more efficient and lower carbon $500 million invested in low carbon fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals activities each year Grow lower carbon offers Collaborate and invest in the OGCI’s for customers $1bn+ fund for research and technology Started up the landmark Shah Deniz 2 development in Established a solar presence in five new countries Azerbaijan, which will bring new supplies of gas to Europe. through our partnership with Lightsource BP. See page 22. See page 27. Acquired Chargemaster – operator of the UK’s largest electric vehicle charging network. Collaborated with Neste to explore opportunities to increase the supply of sustainable aviation fuel. $500m Supported low carbon businesses such as FreeWire for mobile rapid electric vehicle charging and Launched Castrol GTX ECO, an oil range that uses a base invested oil blend of at least 50% re-refined base oil, in the US. Voltaware, a company that has developed a monitoring system Offered customers globally the opportunity to purchase to track energy consumption. PTAir Neutral, the world’s first certified carbon neutral PTA. See page 25. See page 76. Gave UK drivers the option to offset the CO2 emissions Worked with the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative to progress from the fuel they buy from us, through our BPme fuel the UK’s first commercial full-chain carbon capture, use payment app. and storage project. Expanded our BP Target Neutral carbon offsetting See page 23. programme for car dealerships in Mexico and Singapore. Supported OGCI Climate Investments, which included investments in satellite technology to measure GHG emissions from industrial facilities. Our accreditation programme for lower carbon activities. See page 28. See bp.com/targets for specific information on our targets and aims. 11 Reducing emissions in our operations What progress are you We are working to improve the Q making against your emissions efficiency of our operations. reduction targets? We have set a target of 3.5 million tonnes of sustainable GHG emissions reductions by 2025. In 2018 across BP we achieved zero This includes actions taken by our businesses to A net growth in operational emissions, a improve energy efficiency and reduce methane emissions and flaring – all leading to permanent, methane intensity of 0.2%, and 2.5Mte quantifiable GHG reductions. We are already well of sustainable greenhouse gas (GHG) on the way to meeting this target with 2.5Mte of emissions reductions activity since reductions achieved since the beginning of 2016. the beginning of 2016. The response From 2019 progress against the target will be a factor in determining bonuses for around 36,000 from BP employees to our tangible employees, as well as executive directors. and measurable targets has been To ensure that as our business grows, our carbon tremendous. They are generating new footprint does not, we’ll offset any net increase in ideas to reduce our emissions all the emissions above baseline levels that’s not covered time. To help them continue this, in by sustainable reductions activity out to 2025. 2019 we announced $100m of funding See bp.com/targets for the specifics of these targets. for new emissions reductions projects in our upstream operations. Gordon Birrell, chief operating officer, production, transformation and carbon, Upstream, BP Improving energy efficiency We implemented opportunities to reduce energy use at several of our upstream operating sites, for example tuning pumps and gas turbines to run more efficiently. Reducing flaring We’ve implemented changes to the way we operate our offshore plant to significantly reduce the amount of gas we flare in Angola. 12 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Using green hydrogen We piloted the use of green hydrogen, which is made exclusively from renewable energy sources, at our Reducing fuel Lingen refinery in Germany. consumption We’ve introduced three liquefied natural gas carriers with more efficient engines. Using waste heat recovery Monitoring We installed equipment to Reducing carbon methane emissions generate steam from exhaust emissions gas at our Whiting refinery in the We used drone-mounted US. This reduces the amount We replaced gas turbines that cameras to measure methane of steam generated from our drive compressors with ones emissions from our equipment boilers, which in turn reduces powered by electricity at our at our gas operations in the US the amount of fuel burned and production facility in Prudhoe Bay and Oman. associated GHGs. in the US. BP Sustainability Report 2018 13 Reducing Our GHG emissions performance We saw a decrease in our direct We saw a large decrease in the total volume of greenhouse gas emissions in 2018. flaring – the controlled burning of gas during oil and gas production – in our upstream business. This was driven predominantly by reduced This was primarily due to actions taken by our flaring at our assets in Angola, Asia Pacific businesses to reduce emissions in areas such and the North Sea. as flaring, methane and energy efficiency. We are aiming for zero routine flaring by 2030, Other factors contributing to the decrease as part of an initiative by the World Bank. included operational changes, such as lower throughput at some of our downstream sites in We also track GHG intensity, which is the quantity Germany and increased gas being captured and of GHGs emitted per a defined unit of production exported to the liquefied natural gas facility in or processing. In 2018 we saw an improvement Angola, as well as the divestment of some of in our upstream GHG intensity, mostly due to an our North Sea assets. overall reduction in GHG emissions due to flaring reductions, increased operational reliability and the completion of start-up activities. Direct greenhouse gas emissionsa Greenhouse gas intensityb Energy efficiency (MteCO2 equivalent) (TeCO2 equivalent/unit) (indexed to 2010) 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Upstream (per thousand barrels of oil equivalent) Upstream (production/consumption loss) 48.8 27.8 91.3 50.5 30.4 101.0 51.4 34.7 102.4 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 0 25 50 0 50 100 Refining (per utilized equivalent distillation capacity) Refining (energy intensity index performance) 915 101.0 103.9 923 101.0 104.4 Direct GHG emissions by sourcea 951 102.4 103.1 (MteCO2 equivalent) 0 750 1,500 0 50 100 Carbon dioxide Methane Petrochemicals (per thousand tonnes) Petrochemicals (energy intensity) 2018 325 101.0 86.5 2017 304 101.0 79.9 2016 287 102.4 82.3 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 0 250 500 0 50 100 a Comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are operated by BP. b BP’s equity share data comprises 100% of emissions from subsidiaries and the percentage of emissions equivalent to our share of joint arrangements and associates, other than BP’s share of Rosneft. 14 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Leading the methane challenge We are taking action to minimize By reducing the time taken to respond we can methane – the primary component reduce the total amount of methane emitted. The first unit will be installed at our Khazzan gas field in of natural gas – from entering the Oman and builds upon our experience of using gas atmosphere. cloud imaging technology at our Whiting refinery. In our US onshore gas business, we’re using Methane has a shorter lifespan in the atmosphere drone-mounted sensors to help us inspect our than carbon dioxide but has been assigned a equipment, which can cover multiple well pads higher global warming potential. Every methane more efficiently than hand-held devices. And molecule that we can keep in the pipe helps keep through OGCI we are investigating the use atmospheric concentrations down, which is why of satellite technology to measure GHG emissions we are targeting a methane intensity of 0.2%. from industrial facilities and aerial surveys of sources This refers to the amount of methane emissions of methane emissions. from BP’s upstream oil and gas operations as a percentage of the gas that goes to market from those operations. Our methodology is aligned with Continuous monitoring and aerial surveillance the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative’s (OGCI) methane can revolutionize global methane mitigation. intensity target. BP can extend its technology leadership by Methane regulation rapidly deploying solutions and sharing best We support well-designed regulations on methane practices with key joint venture partners. emissions that complement voluntary efforts by companies. In the US, we support federal regulation of methane emissions to eliminate overlap between Ben Ratner, senior director, EDF+ Business, Environmental Defense Fund different government agencies and state authorities. Using technology to improve Reducing emissions data reliability From upgrades in mature production fields to the We’ve been using hand-held infrared cameras to design of new projects, we’re working to reduce our detect small leaks before they become larger ones operational methane emissions. For example, our for several years. Improvements in technology now Khazzan site has a central processing facility, which make it possible to quantify the emissions that means there’s no need for processing equipment these infrared cameras detect, helping us to better at each well site. Fewer processing sites lowers target and prioritize our responses. We piloted this the potential for emissions. We conducted drone technology in Azerbaijan and the US in 2018 and surveys in 2018 that demonstrated that the Khazzan plan to deploy the cameras more widely in 2019. plant is operating according to its low methane This will help us to quantify emissions with greater emissions design. accuracy from more of our sites around the world. Of our 16 major projects scheduled to be delivered We are also in the process of deploying gas between 2019 and 2021, nine are gas. For BP-operated cloud imaging cameras that have the capability to projects, we consider GHG emissions reduction continuously monitor our facilities and identify new opportunities from the design stage. leaks earlier than when they are identified during routine inspections. The camera quantifies the leak and sends an automated alert to the control room. BP Sustainability Report 2018 15 Reducing Working with others Tackling methane in our We are taking a leadership role in addressing the US onshore gas business methane challenge – in our operations and through our work with our peers, non-governmental We are one of the largest natural gas organizations (NGOs) and academic institutions. producers in the US and have been taking action to reduce methane Oil and Gas Climate Initiative emissions for many years. OGCI has set a collective methane intensity target for member companies of 0.25% by 2025, with an ambition to bring that down to 0.20%. This compares with a baseline of 0.32% in 2017. Methane Guiding Principles We have endorsed five principles for reducing methane emissions across the gas value chain. The principles were developed by a coalition of industry, institutions, academics and NGOs. Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 1999  orking with industry, NGOs and governments, this W Used enhanced automation to reduce initiative – part of the Climate and Clean Air Coalition – methane emissions during a process in aims to minimize methane emissions from global oil which we periodically remove liquids and gas upstream operations by sharing good practice that have accumulated in a well. and information. The Environmental Partnership Our US onshore gas business has signed up to this American Petroleum Institute initiative, in which more than 55 member companies are working together to reduce methane emissions and to share information on technology deployment. Carbon Mitigation Initiative We’re supporting Princeton University in its work to improve scientific understanding of the global 2009 methane cycle. Introduced a carbon price in our investment decisions for certain large projects. Methane roundtables We convened stakeholder roundtables in London, Washington and Beijing in 2018 to discuss actions to tackle methane emissions. More than 100 people participated from industry, universities and NGOs. Participants discussed approaches 2015 to continuous monitoring and measurement at Completed our first multilateral well. Drilling multiple production sites, as well as actions to reduce horizontal wells from one vertical wellbore requires less equipment than drilling individual wells from methane emissions across the value chain. multiple well pads. This reduces the potential for leaks from equipment. 16 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting 2000 2001 Pioneered a technique known as Began tracking sustainable green completions that captures greenhouse gas reduction gas that would otherwise be flared activities in our operations. or vented as wells are completed. Began programme to replace high-bleed controllers with ones that emit less methane. 2007 2005 Began using solar-powered Started using solar pumps generators in place of thermal electric instead of gas pneumatic ones to power equipment that helps pumps for chemical injection. prevent corrosion. 2017 2018 Trialled the use of drones and Began using solar pumps instead of gas pneumatic truck-mounted laser sensors to pumps to circulate heated fluid that helps protect detect and quantify methane leaks. pipes from freezing. Neared completion of the programme we started in 2000 to replace 10,000 high-bleed controllers. BP Sustainability Report 2018 17 Improving our products What is BP doing to help consumers We provide customers with fuel for Q lower their emissions? transport, energy for heat and light, power for industry, lubricants to keep BP’s global portfolio of products engines running and the petrochemicals A includes fuels and lubricants that help products used to make everyday items improve engine efficiency and reduce such as paints, clothes and packaging. emissions and we’re seeking to expand the range of options we offer. For Three quarters of cars on the road in 2040 could example, we supply BP Biojet to our still be using internal combustion engines, based on recent trends. It’s estimated that cars with airline customers in certain markets. conventional engines could be nearly 50% more For the past 13 years we’ve also been efficient by 2040 than they are today. So gains in helping consumers take action on their fuel and vehicle efficiency are tremendously emissions through our carbon offsetting important in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. programme, BP Target Neutral. So far, That’s why we are always looking for a wide we’ve created more than 20 different variety of ways to innovate with fuels, lubricants carbon neutral products and services and chemicals that can help our customers and consumers lower their emissions. across the aviation, commercial transport and automotive industries. Many of our products and services are accredited as part of our Advancing Low Carbon programme. Andrea Abrahams, global director, See page 28 for more information. BP Target Neutral 80-90% of carbon dioxide emissions from oil and gas products are from their use by consumers in transportation, power plants, industries and buildings. 18 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Carbon neutral lubricant Lower carbon chemicals Jet fuel made from Castrol’s VECTON has been Our PTAir, used to make household waste specifically formulated to meet items such as clothes We’ve invested in the needs of the commercial and packaging, has a Fulcrum BioEnergy, who are trucking industry and is certified carbon footprint almost constructing a facility to turn as carbon neutral, in accordance 30% lower than the household waste that would with PAS 2060. average European PTA. otherwise go to landfill into fuel for transport. Offsetting via an app We are giving UK drivers the opportunity to offset the CO2 emissions from the fuel they buy from us, through our BPme fuel payment app. Boosting wind turbine efficiency Carbon offsetting programme Renewable gas from food Our joint venture with Romax We expanded our carbon and agricultural waste Technology, trading as ONYX InSight, offsetting programme for Our biogas joint venture in provides engineering and software dealerships in Mexico and the US turns raw gas from services to wind farm operators so that Singapore, through BP Target nearby landfill sites into they can monitor the condition of wind Neutral, which supports biomethane, which is used turbines and avoid breakdowns. emissions reduction projects. as a fossil fuel substitute. Plastic waste and the circular economy • Developing technologies for chemical recycling We are looking at how we can advance the circular that can make previously unrecyclable plastics economy – where resources stay in use for as long destined for landfill and incineration infinitely as possible, with the maximum value extracted in recyclable. We are looking to commercialize the that time, and are then recovered and regenerated technologies by 2025. at the end. • Reducing plastic in packaging – we’ve redesigned We see some of the greatest opportunities in some of our Castrol engine oil packaging in the the chemicals and plastics sector. We produce US to use less plastic, resulting in a reduction of purified terephthalic acid, a feedstock used to around 1,500 tonnes a year. make items such as beverage and food packaging, We are conducting a study on how the circular as well as fibres for clothing and carpets. To help economy affects BP and how we might contribute the world meet its need for sustainable plastics to it, with the aim of identifying opportunities for solutions, we are: our existing and future business operations. • Partnering with Virent and Johnson Matthey to advance the commercialization of Virent’s Bioforming process for the production of bio-paraxylene, a key raw material for renewable plastic. BP Sustainability Report 2018 19 Improving Fuelling jets with recycled We are also working with Neste, a leading producer of renewable products, and cooking oil other airline manufacturers to explore We fuel more than 6,000 flights around opportunities to increase the supply the world every day and are committed of sustainable aviation fuel for our to helping our aviation customers customers across our global network. meet the International Air Transport We supplied our biojet to Bombardier Association’s target of cutting net carbon and Airbus in 2018. dioxide emissions in half by 2050, relative to 2005 levels. To help achieve this, we are offering We believe that by 2050, it’s unlikely customers an aviation fuel – BP Biojet that electric engines will play a – made using recycled cooking oil which is blended with conventional jet fuel. significant role in commercial aviation. This helps to reduce greenhouse gas So the use of sustainable fuels in emissions by more than 60% compared conventional aircraft can make the with conventional jet fuel. biggest impact on emissions. BP Biojet is currently available at airports in Norway and Sweden and has been Tom Parsons, Biojet commercial development used in the US at Chicago O’Hare, one manager, Air BP of the busiest airports in the world. 20 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Future mobility and electric vehicles The use of electric vehicles (EVs) is expected to increase and by 2040 there could be around 350 million electric vehicles on the road. We are exploring opportunities to support this growth in demand. Central to this is the provision of a fast and convenient charging network. We’re investing in new technologies and infrastructure solutions. We now have more than 6,500 charging points across the UK, thanks to our acquisition of the UK’s largest electric charging network, run by BP Chargemaster. And we’ve invested in: • Storedot – to support their development of ultra-fast battery charging, which could reduce the time it takes to recharge an EV battery to five minutes. • FreeWire – whose mobile rapid EV charging We expect a big shift in EV adoption will start technology was piloted successfully at a UK in the early 2020s, when vehicle manufacturers retail site. bring on new models, battery range improves, • PowerShare – one of China’s leading EV charging times reduce and when the cost of an charging platforms. electric vehicle meets the cost of a combustion engine vehicle. Roy Williamson, vice president, advanced mobility, BP Kilometres driven by passenger cars by fuel type 4m+ 96% 3% 1% 2017 electric vehicles are now on roads worldwide. Almost half 95% 4% of them are in China. 1% 2020 92% 5% 3% 2030 79% 4% 17% 2040 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Trillion kilometres. The sum of the share of kilometres travelled may not equal 100% due to rounding. Source: BP Energy Outlook Oil Gas Electricity BP Sustainability Report 2018 21 Improving Producing natural gas Gas offers a cleaner alternative to coal Already widely used for heating homes and for power generation and can lower businesses, gas can also deliver the high temperatures needed in heavy industries like steel emissions at scale. and cement. And it is becoming more accessible around the world thanks to a growing global Natural gas produces about half as much carbon gas market connected by ship and pipeline. dioxide (CO2) emissions as coal when burned for We are active in finding and producing gas, in power, which is why expanding its use globally is addition to its transport, storage and sale. This critical to reducing CO2 emissions. Gas also emits means we are in a good position as the market fewer pollutants, so it is better for air quality. continues to grow. And by tackling methane Gas is an ideal, cost-effective partner to renewable emissions – the main component of natural gas energy sources, such as wind, solar and hydropower, and a potent greenhouse gas – we are helping providing a consistent back-up source of power to make sure that gas is a major lower carbon to their variability. resource for years to come. See page 15 for more information on the actions we are taking to reduce methane emissions. Meeting gas demand in Turkey Black Sea Georgia The Southern Gas Corridor is set to change the energy Azerbaijan map of an entire region – connecting gas supplies in the Caspian to markets in Europe for the very first time. We Turkey Shah Deniz 2 began supplying gas to Turkey in 2018 and gas deliveries to Europe are expected to begin in 2020. At full production, the Shah Deniz 2 field – located in the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea – is expected to deliver enough gas to meet the needs of every capital city along the Southern Gas Corridor more than twice over. At its peak, during construction, the project supported 30,000 jobs. The Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline is the longest pipeline ever built in Turkey. This is an important achievement; gas from the Caspian Sea means a diversified, cleaner energy source for the country. Emily Olson, vice president communications and external affairs, Southern Gas Corridor, BP 22 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Carbon capture, use and storage We’ve also invested in C-Capture, a company which We believe carbon capture, use and storage (CCUS) uses chemicals to remove CO2 emissions from has a vital role to play in limiting emissions and power stations and industrial facilities. helping to meet the objectives of the Paris At BP, we are exploring opportunities to deploy Agreement. It can significantly reduce emissions CCUS in our own operations and projects. And we from gas power generation and energy-intensive are participating in a joint venture in the UAE which industries that rely on the use of fossil fuels. uses CO2 from industrial processes to enhance Collaboration is needed to make CCUS a reality. oil recovery. The technology has been in use for more than 20 years, but needs governmental support – through carbon pricing and other policy measures – to A cost-effective solution accelerate its deployment. Through the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), we are identifying the CCUS is often referred to as an expensive policy mechanisms that could be most effective technology. While it requires significant upfront in scaling up CCUS on a regional basis. investment, the overall cost depends on a number of factors, such as the source of CO2 to be And we are working with OGCI Climate Investments captured and transportation. Over time, to help progress the UK’s first commercial full-chain deployment at scale will bring costs down. CCUS project. The Clean Gas Project plans to capture CO2 from new efficient gas-fired power With the average CCUS project today capturing at generation and transport it by pipeline to be stored least one million tonnes of CO2 every year, CCUS in a formation under the southern North Sea. The offers a cost-effective way to decarbonize many infrastructure would also allow other industries in energy-intensive industries and transition to a Teesside to store CO2 captured from their processes. lower carbon economy. It also delivers socioThe project, which is currently undergoing a economic benefits, helping to create jobs and, in feasibility study, could be in operation by the some cases, providing a new source of income – mid-2020s. with the CO2 sold for other uses. How CCUS works CO2 capture CO2 use Building materials Carbon is captured and stored, typically in underground CO2 storage geological formations. The captured carbon can be injected into oil fields to stimulate production or be used to create building and other materials. BP Sustainability Report 2018 23 Creating low carbon businesses Why is innovation important to BP is growing low carbon and digital Q creating low carbon businesses? businesses to help accelerate and commercialize new technologies, Renewable energy is growing partly products and business models. A because technology and innovation are making it more efficient and affordable. We are investing at least $500 million a year We see this in solar energy where to support low carbon activities, including our renewables businesses and acquisitions. Around costs have reduced by over 80% in the $200 million of this is used to develop options for past decade and in wind energy where new lower carbon businesses in five areas that turbine technology has dramatically are core to our strategy for advancing the energy improved capacity. This is underpinned transition. These are areas we believe have the by robust operating performance, potential to make a real contribution to our future and build resilience in existing operations. leveraging digital and human capabilities. We are also developing digital platforms Advanced mobility which identify ways to generate power more efficiently and how that power We look for opportunities in advanced mobility across the broad themes of new mobility models, can be monitored, stored and traded. electric vehicles, batteries and charging. As part of And we see opportunities to create this, we are investing in technologies to help meet innovative lower carbon energy offers the changing needs of customers across our global by partnering gas with renewables, network of retail sites. using gas to complement the Mobile charging for electric vehicles intermittency of renewables. Our investment in FreeWire is helping us respond Dev Sanyal, chief executive, alternative energy to demand for electric charging facilities on our and executive vice president, regions, BP forecourts. We successfully piloted the company’s mobile rapid charging systems at one of our UK retail sites and are now exploring options to offer FreeWire’s charging services elsewhere. Ultra-fast battery charging We’ve invested in StoreDot, a start-up that is developing ultra-fast battery charging technology for the mobile device and industrial markets. We expect the technology to be used in mobile devices by 2020 and will be working with StoreDot to bring this technology to electric vehicles. The company aims to reduce charging times to five minutes – almost as quick as filling a car’s tank. 24 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Bio and low carbon products Digital transformation Demand for lower carbon fuels, industrial materials Digital technologies have the potential to transform and other products is growing. The airline industry, the way we work and how we respond to our for example, has ambitious carbon reduction targets customers’ changing needs. With the pace of – pledging to cut its emissions in half by 2050, change increasing, it is essential to spot the next despite anticipated growth in air travel. waves of opportunity and digital developments. Our focus includes blockchain, robotics and From waste to fuel cognitive computing – as demonstrated by our We invest in Fulcrum BioEnergy, which investment in artificial intelligence company, is constructing the US’s first commercial scale Beyond Limits. waste-to-fuels plant. The facility will incorporate technology developed by BP and Johnson Matthey Creating connections to help convert household waste, that would Digital platforms can simplify how people access otherwise be sent to landfill, into fuel for transport. transport solutions. Our investment in Chinese company, PowerShare, supports its work to simplify Carbon management the charging experience for customers by connecting electric vehicle drivers, charge point operators and We work with organizations that aim to reduce power suppliers through its online platforms. And the amount of carbon dioxide released into the we’ve invested in Drover, which has developed a atmosphere and apply carbon capture, use virtual marketplace for car sharing that is helping to and storage. connect people to a network of rental companies Capturing carbon and other fleet partners with under-used vehicles, We invest in Carbonfree Chemicals, which has reducing the need for new vehicles on the road. developed technology to capture carbon emissions from industrial processes and turn them into Power and storage chemicals that can be used to make household products, such as baking soda. We also invest in Our Energy Outlook suggests that, if recent trends Solidia Technologies, which has developed continue, three quarters of the growth in world technology that has the potential to reduce the energy demand over the coming decades is in the carbon footprint of concrete by capturing and storing power sector. New technologies are shaping the CO2 and by using less energy in production. way that energy is consumed and managed. Enabling carbon offsets Energy monitoring Through our carbon trading business, we help We invest in Voltaware, a company that has to enable emissions reduction projects that allow developed a monitoring system to track energy businesses and other organizations to offset consumption. Voltaware sensors relay real-time their carbon footprint. A fifth of the world’s information from individual appliances to a greenhouse gas emissions are now covered by smartphone, so users can adjust their electricity carbon pricing systems and we anticipate further usage, improve efficiency and reduce costs. growth in this area. BP Sustainability Report 2018 25 Creating Growing our renewables business BP has been in the renewable energy Renewable products business for more than 20 years. We Butamax, our 50/50 joint venture with DuPont, has developed technology that converts sugars from remain one of the largest operators corn into bio-isobutanol – an energy-rich bio product. among our peers and we’re expanding Bio-isobutanol has a wide variety of applications. For in areas where we see opportunities example, it can be used in the production of paints, for growth. coatings and lubricant components. It can also be blended with gasoline at higher concentrations than Renewables are the fastest-growing energy source ethanol. Butamax has upgraded its ethanol facility in in the world today and we estimate they could Kansas to produce bio-isobutanol. provide at least 15% of the global energy mix by 2040. Biopower We create biopower from bagasse, the fibre that Biofuels remains after crushing sugar cane stalks, and export We believe that biofuels offer one of the best around 70% to Brazil’s local electricity grid. In 2018 large-scale solutions to reduce emissions in the we generated 892GWh – enough to supply power transportation system. to 1.25 million people in Brazil. We produce ethanol from sugar cane in Brazil, This is a low carbon power source, with part of the which has life-cycle greenhouse gas (GHG) CO2 emitted from burning bagasse offset by the emissions around 70% lower than conventional CO2 absorbed by sugar cane during its growth. transport fuels. Our three sites produced 765 million litres of ethanol equivalent in 2018. Wind energy BP has significant interests in onshore wind energy Brazil is one of the world’s largest markets for in the US. We operate 10 sites in seven states and ethanol fuel. In order to better connect our ethanol hold an interest in another facility in Hawaii. production with the country’s main fuels markets, Together they have a net generating capacity of just we established a joint venture in 2018 with over 1,000MW. Copersucar – one of the world’s leading ethanol and sugar traders. This includes operating a major We’ve partnered with Tesla to test how effectively ethanol storage terminal in Brazil’s main fuels wind energy can be stored at our Titan 1 wind distribution hub. energy site in South Dakota. The electricity captured is then available for the site to use whenever we Our Tropical and Ituiutaba biofuels sites are need it – even when the wind isn’t blowing. The certified to Bonsucro, an independent standard for project will help us learn more about energy storage sustainable sugar cane production. We are working applications that could be useful across our entire towards certification for our Itumbiara site in 2019. portfolio. See page 33 for how we are using technology in our biofuels business. In 2018 we divested three wind energy operations in Texas, as part of a broader restructuring programme designed to optimize our US wind portfolio for long-term growth. 26 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Solar energy Solar could generate 12% of total global power by 2040, in a scenario based on recent trends. That Partnering with BP has afforded us the ability could grow to 21% in a scenario consistent with to deliver real growth momentum for solar. the Paris climate goals. Working together we are able to create real We have a 43% share in Lightsource BP and plan value and advance low carbon across energy to invest $200 million over a three-year period. markets that we are both active in. Lightsource BP aims to play a vital role in shaping the future of global energy delivery by developing substantial solar capacity around the world, and Nick Boyle, group chief executive officer, Lightsource BP we are working with Lightsource BP to expand its global presence. Advancing solar As at 31 December 2018 Lightsource BP has doubled the number UK Completed the UK’s biggest-ever of countries where it has a presence unsubsidized solar power deal to since December 2017. Belfast supply AB InBev, the Budweiser brewer, with 100MW of solar Lightsource BP sites Wales power at its UK operations in South Wales and Lancashire. Australia Bath London Awarded the project to provide 105MW of solar power to Snowy Hydro, the country’s fourth-largest US national energy retailer, through Agreed to bring 25MW of a 15-year power purchase locally generated solar power to agreement. western US, through new collaborations in California and New Mexico over 20+ year terms. Dublin and Amsterdam Limerick Milan San Francisco Philadelphia Madrid Cairo Mumbai Brazil Announced plans to develop solar and smart energy storage solutions for Chennai Brazil’s domestic, commercial and industrial sectors. São Paulo Sydney Melbourne 5 new India countries Established EverSource Capital with Everstone in 2018 Europe Egypt to manage the Green Growth Equity Fund aiming Extended operations Formed a joint venture with to raise up to $700 million of investment in low into the Italian and Hassan Allam Utilities to carbon energy infrastructure projects across India. Iberian renewable develop and operate utility energy sectors. scale solar projects in Egypt. BP Sustainability Report 2018 27 Accrediting our lower carbon activities To reinforce our low carbon ambitions, we have implemented our Advancing Low Carbon accreditation programme, which aims to inspire every part of BP to identify lower carbon opportunities. Since its launch in 2018, the programme has motivated people across BP to do more to advance low carbon, with 52 activities being accredited or reaccredited in 2019, up from 33 in 2018. Each activity supports one of our low carbon ambitions – by reducing emissions in our operations, improving our products or creating low carbon businesses. These activities take place through our own businesses, as well as in partnership with others. Deloitte conducts independent assurance on the Advancing Low Carbon activities, including It’s great to see a 50% increase in the number assessing the application of BP’s process and of activities we’ve accredited this year and the criteria for accrediting activities, and GHG enthusiasm the programme is generating emissions offset and saved within the programme. among our people and businesses. We estimate that 53 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent have been saved or offset through activities delivered by BP, and 4.7 million tonnes Kathrina Mannion, director, Advancing Low Carbon programme, BP through activities delivered by BP partners since the programme began in 2017.a Delivering a better carbon outcome See page 75 for the full list of accredited activities and bp.com/advancinglowcarbon for more details on the To gain accreditation by BP, each activity must programme and Deloitte’s assurance statement. meet certain criteria, including delivering what we call a ‘better carbon outcome’ by doing one of the following: Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Producing  less carbon than competitor or industry benchmarks. Providing  renewable energy. Offsetting  carbon produced. Furthering  research and technology to advance low carbon. Enabling  BP or others to meet their low carbon objectives. a The total emissions saved or offset from the accredited activities are estimated using a variety of methodologies and baselines. The figures aim only to illustrate the impact of the activities within the programme, and delivered by BP or a BP partner only refers to the organization leading on delivering the activity. Savings or offsets may be claimed by or attributed to other parties. The scope of accredited activities is wider than, and does not seek to align with, our GHG reporting boundaries. Therefore, the figures are not directly comparable to BP’s reported emissions. 28 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Operating efficient tankers Producing renewable diesel BP operates 26 oil tankers that go beyond the Our Cherry Point refinery in the US now International Maritime Organization’s energy manufactures diesel made from biomass-based efficiency regulation requirements. feedstocks, alongside traditional fossil fuel feedstocks. This fuel has a lower carbon footprint compared with the petroleum-based alternative. Being part of the programme has Reducing operational emissions helped us to communicate the Earning this accreditation Our sustainable GHG emissions benefits of our low carbon efforts demonstrates the role traditional reductions programme includes actions taken by our businesses to to a much wider audience. refineries can play in the transition improve energy efficiency and reduce to a lower carbon world. GHG emissions and flaring in our operations around the world. Gopalakrishnan Hariharan, engineering manager, shipping, BP John Risser, business improvement manager, Cherry Point refinery Creating biopower Sponsoring CCUS research BP creates biopower by burning BP sponsors the Gulf Coast Carbon bagasse, the fibre that remains after Center (GCCC) at the University of crushing sugarcane stalks to make Texas’s Bureau of Economic Geology. biofuels. Some of this renewable power Investing in electric transport The GCCC studies the technology, runs our three biofuels mills in Brazil, We invest in Lightning Systems, engineering, stakeholder relations, with the rest exported to the local a company that makes electric policy and economics needed to electricity grid. powertrains for truck, van and make carbon capture, use and storage bus fleet companies. (CCUS) a widely deployable option. BP Sustainability Report 2018 29 Safety Safety is the foundation for everything we do at BP, which is why it continues to be our top priority. Q How do you learn from incidents? It’s easy to think that human error causes A incidents. However, when we dig deeper we find that actions and decisions are influenced by the conditions in which people work – including the equipment, systems, processes and environment. We can fix those issues to reduce the likelihood of mistakes. It can be as simple as making it clear which button to press. Or it could be more complex, like asking where there are opportunities for misunderstanding in a procedure. Behind every metric or statistic is a real person. That’s why, for us, safety is about taking care of each other by fixing these issues. Diane Chadwick-Jones, human performance director, BP 30 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Preventing incidents Our goal is no accidents, no harm to people and no damage to the environment. To deliver this, we carefully plan our operations, with the aim of identifying potential hazards and managing risks at every stage. We design our facilities in line with process safety – the application of good design and engineering principles. If we can’t eliminate a hazard, we take steps to reduce or manage it. For example, as Our approach part of our downstream corrosion management Preventing incidents programme, which proactively identifies integrity Monitoring security risks, the team at our Kwinana refinery in Australia Keeping people safe. discovered a condensation corrosion risk,which we inspected and repaired to avoid a potential incident. We focus on these so people can go home safely. Human performance in safety People, and how they interact with equipment, processes and each other, underpin any safe Systematic learning working environment. We have trained more To strengthen our safety performance, we investigate than 5,000 people on human performance and incidents and near misses, take corrective action, provided techniques that help teams to analyse apply what we have learned and focus on continually and redesign specific tasks to reduce the chance improving how we work. Our systematic approach to of mistakes occurring. learning is also informed by good practices from other industries, such as aviation and nuclear. We are integrating these human performance techniques into our existing practices, such as Collaboration incident investigation, risk assessment and the We share what we have learned with our contractors. way we design facilities and equipment, to help They carry out more than half the hours worked by prevent errors. As an example, we asked operators BP, so their skills and performance are vital to our with different levels of experience in our UK fuels ability to carry out our work safely. business to assess the way in which fuel storage Our standard model contracts include health, safety tanks are typically drained. They discovered that the and security requirements. We also use documents to risk of opening an incorrect valve – and potentially define how our safety management system co-exists causing a fuel spill – could be greatly reduced with with those of our contractors to manage risk on a site. clearer labelling and new valve locks, so we put For our contractors working on more hazardous tasks, these in place at the site. we conduct quality, technical, health, safety and security audits before awarding contracts. Once they start work, we continue to monitor their safety performance and work together to resolve issues. BP Sustainability Report 2018 31 Keeping people safe We focus on keeping employees and Health and wellbeing contractors safe and alert to potential One in four people are affected by mental health issues at some point in their life. We signed the UK hazards in their work. Time to Change employer pledge in 2018 to change the way we think and act about mental health at Tragically we suffered one fatality in 2018. In our work. We also ran a series of employee events on lubricants business a heavy goods driver working World Mental Health Day and offered resilience for one of our contractors in the US was struck training to around 500 people across the group. by a passing vehicle while checking a tyre. We are deeply saddened by this loss and are working closely with our contractors to continue to improve safety and to seek to prevent injuries in our Our mental health fluctuates from day to day. work together. As with physical health, at times we are ill and One of the ways we are doing this is by working may need treatment. We can help by changing with our peers on consistent standards. For the way we view and talk about mental health. example, through the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers we have encouraged other members to use new cars with an internationally Richard Heron, vice president health recognized five-star safety rating from January 2019. and chief medical officer, BP Wearing a vest to signal heat stress We work in some of the hottest places on the planet including the Omani desert, where temperatures can reach 55°C. We manage heat exposure in a number of ways and the Omani government mandates breaks and shorter working hours during the hottest months. However, it is not always clear that an individual is suffering from heat stress. So, we piloted a new wearable technology at one of our rigs. Following a health examination, the special vests are tailored to the wearer and send data on heart rate, respiratory rate and skin temperature to their smartphone. If the data exceeds the individual’s parameters, a text message and email alert is sent to the rig medic and health and safety lead so that they can intervene. We’ve learned a number of valuable lessons from this pilot and are now looking at additional uses in our wider operations. 32 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Using technology to improve efficiency Our Brazilian biofuels business is spread across a number of geographically remote locations, which means that every day across our sites our team makes around 800 trips, covering 45,000 kilometres. This often takes place in remote locations with poor network and communications coverage, making it difficult to stay in touch. Our SmartLog programme is helping to overcome some of these challenges and improve performance across our three sites by driving efficiencies and reducing costs. Using a combination of mobile satellite technology, sensors and radio, we can connect our people and their vehicles to a central control room. Here we receive 24-hour, real-time information about what’s happening in the field to help manage activities remotely, as well as monitor and analyse behaviour and give advice or intervene on safety and efficiency. Since introducing SmartLog in 2018, we’ve reduced the equipment needed by 20% and our remote monitoring is helping to reinforce our safety culture in the field. We also use in-vehicle monitoring systems and cameras to improve transportation safety and further understand driving behaviour. Security Cyber threats As a global business, BP monitors hostile actions Cyber attacks are on the rise and our industry is that could harm our people or disrupt our operations. subject to evolving risks from hacktivists, cyber We focus on operating areas affected by political criminals, terrorists and insiders. We have and social unrest, terrorism, armed conflict or experienced threats to the security of our digital criminal activity. infrastructure, but none of these had a significant impact on our business in 2018. Our 24-hour response information centre in the UK monitors global events and related To encourage vigilance among our employees, our developments, which means we can assess the cyber security training programme covers topics safety of our people and provide timely advice if such as email phishing and the correct classification there is an emergency. This meant that in 2018 and handling of our information. we were aware of events such as the earthquake We also collaborate closely with governments, in Mexico almost immediately. Our team was law enforcement and industry peers to understand quickly able to confirm the safety of employees and respond to new and emerging threats. in the area and provide advice. 100+ events held around the world during cyber week to raise awareness of the risks and actions to take. BP Sustainability Report 2018 33 Our safety performance We track our safety performance Our Cherry Point refinery in the US marked a historic using industry metrics and work to milestone in April 2018, when its employees and contractors – representing more than 80 local continuously improve personal and companies – passed 25 million work hours and more process safety across BP. than five years worked without a single day away from work case. In 2018 we saw a reduction in the number of tier 1 See bp.com/hsechartingtool for safety data. and tier 2 process safety events. We also saw an overall decrease in our recordable injury frequency and day away from work case frequency. However, our goals stay the same – to have no Safety is our first priority – on every job, every accidents, no harm to people and no damage to the day. Our values determine how we work, environment. There is always more we can do and and no value is more important than safety. we remain focused on achieving better results today We want all our people to go home in the same and in the future. We do that by: way that they came to work, or even better. • Training our staff and giving them the tools they need to do their job. Bob Allendorfer, Cherry Point refinery manager, BP • Promoting a working environment that encourages everyone to speak up and care. • Focusing on the systematic and disciplined application of our processes. Process safety eventsa Tier 1 Tier 2 Recordable injury frequencyb c Day away from work case frequencyb d (number of incidents) – workforce (per 200,000 hours worked) – workforce (per 200,000 hours worked) 150 0.60 0.15 0.40 0.10 100 0.20 0.05 50 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Workforce 0.31 0.24 0.21 0.22 0.20 Workforce 0.081 0.061 0.051 0.055 0.048 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Employees 0.27 0.20 0.19 0.20 0.15 Employees 0.091 0.063 0.050 0.056 0.046 Tier 1 28 20 16 18 16 Contractors 0.34 0.28 0.22 0.23 0.23 Contractors 0.072 0.059 0.052 0.054 0.049 Tier 2 95 83 84 61 56 American Petroleum Institute US benchmark American Petroleum Institute US benchmark International Association of Oil & Gas International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmark Producers benchmark a Tier 1 process safety events are losses of primary containment of greater consequence, such as causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to equipment, or exceeding defined quantities. Tier 2 events are those of lesser consequence. b API and IOGP 2018 data reports are not available until May 2019. c The number of reported work-related incidents that result in a fatality or injury. d The number of incidents that resulted in an injury where a person is unable to work for a day (or shift) or more. 34 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Human rights We are committed to identifying, preventing and addressing human rights risks and impacts associated with our business activities. What is BP doing to protect Q worker rights? In petrochemicals we have been A undertaking assessments at selected sites. We are using the findings from these assessments to help our contractors deepen their understanding of the risks to the workforce and improve their labour practices. We are also using what we have learnt to inform how we can build labour rights and modern slavery risk prevention into our business processes to manage the risk more systematically across BP. Rita Griffin, chief operating officer, petrochemicals, BP 35 Respecting human rights We respect the rights of our workforce Our focus areas include ethical recruitment and and those living in communities working conditions of contracted workforces at our sites, responsible security, community health and affected by our activities. livelihoods and mechanisms for workers and communities to raise concerns. We set out our commitments in our human rights We encourage employees, contractors, policy and code of conduct, and our operating communities and other third parties to speak up management system contains guidance on if they see something they think could be unsafe or respecting the rights of workers and community unethical, including potential human rights abuses. members. We respect internationally recognized At our sites we help make sure people are aware human rights as set out in the International Bill of our confidential global helpline OpenTalk and our of Human Rights and the International Labour community and workforce grievance mechanisms. Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including the Core See page 48 for more information. Conventions. We are incorporating the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which set out how companies should prevent, address and remedy human rights impacts, into our business processes. International Labour International Bill of UN Guiding Principles on Voluntary Principles on Organization’s Declaration on Human Rights Business and Human Rights Security and Human Rights Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work International standards and principles • Health and safety • Fair  working and living conditions Labour rights • Forced labour and • Non-discrimination Our human rights human trafficking • Channels to raise concerns • Interaction between security forces, communities Security and and workers human rights focus areas Rights of people • Livelihoods and local employment •S  ocio-economic, health and • Consultation and environmental impacts in communities grievance mechanisms Our own standards Code of conduct Our values Human rights Operating Expectations of suppliers policy management system 36 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Livelihoods and communities We recognize that our activities could We screen our major projects to identify and adversely affect the rights of people manage any potential impacts, including on human rights. If we do cause, or contribute in communities near our sites. to, adverse impacts on the human rights of communities near our operations, we are We work hard to prevent, reduce and manage committed to providing for, or co-operating in, any negative effects on the livelihoods, land, the remediation of those impacts. environment, cultural heritage, health and wellbeing To bring a systematic approach to the way our of people in communities near our activities, sites identify and act on concerns raised by local including indigenous peoples. For example, in communities, we issued guidance on community Indonesia our liquefied natural gas operations are complaints mechanisms in 2018, in line with the situated close to the local community fishing UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human ground. We engage with local authorities and Rights criteria. In Brazil this led us to establish fishermen to get their views on actions we can a two-way channel to discuss and listen to take to reduce disturbance to the fishing area. stakeholder feedback at our biofuels sites which While no fishermen were expected to be are close to almost 30 communities. We introduced economically affected by our construction and a register to log and address concerns and operating activities, we put in place a livelihood requests, as well as training for employees and programme for local fishermen to help manage and contractors who work directly with external prevent any negative impact to the communities. stakeholders on managing community complaints. See page 48 for more information on community complaints. BP Sustainability Report 2018 37 Labour rights Our employees, contractors and suppliers should work in safe, Working with our peers healthy, secure and fair conditions. We are working with a number of our peers to create an oil and gas industry framework Employees for human rights supplier assessments, with Respect for our employees’ human rights is a particular focus on labour rights. When integral to our recruitment, management and developed, it is intended that the results of these diversity and inclusion processes. Our code assessments can be shared with the participating of conduct requires employees to report any companies through an independent third party. suspected human rights abuses in our operations The aim is to make it easier and more efficient or those of our business partners. for suppliers to demonstrate how they respect human rights and support improvements in We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, working conditions. career development, promotion, training and reward for all employees – regardless of ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status, disability or any other characteristic Labour rights and modern slavery assessments protected by applicable laws. We are developing a more systematic approach to managing the risk of modern slavery and Working with contractors and suppliers other labour rights issues by building it into our We operate in 78 countries and have around 54,000 management systems, processes and procedures. suppliers, including contractors, vendors, service Some of our business activities and parts of our providers and contingent labour, plus thousands supply chain may pose a higher risk of labour more in our wider supply chain. rights and modern slavery issues than others. We expect contractors and their employees to Since 2016 we have been taking a risk-based act in accordance with our code of conduct, human approach to monitoring our contractors and rights policy and our expectations of suppliers. suppliers by considering: Our standard procurement contracts include a • Countries that pose a high degree of risk, as requirement for suppliers to respect internationally identified by risk analytics firm Verisk Maplecroft recognized human rights, with a specific ban on the and other data sources. use of forced, trafficked or child labour. • Activities that rely on manual labour, such as Our labour rights due diligence process helps us construction, catering, cleaning and certain types to identify risks and impacts in our supply chain. of manufacturing. These tools and resources can be used to screen suppliers in a consistent way anywhere in the world. • Factors related to the vulnerability of the We use it with suppliers on a risk-prioritized basis to workforce, such as poverty levels, ethnic, religious understand how they manage these risks in their or gender minorities and migrant workers. business and supply chain. Using this approach, we have been reviewing the risk of modern slavery at selected businesses, including mapping supply chains to identify high-risk contractors. 38 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting This initial screening has led to further due diligence Where we find an issue, we try to work with the through questionnaires or on-site labour rights contractor to resolve it and improve the situation assessments, including worker interviews. In 2018 of those affected. If a serious breach is found and 18 businesses were under review. no corrective action is taken, we reserve the right to terminate contracts. The assessments focus on key warning signs, such as passport retention, recruitment or other fees, wage deductions, employment contracts, working hours, shift patterns and living conditions. Upholding labour rights in Oman We’ve been working with BP to develop We commissioned independent assessments of labour the Khazzan and Ghazeer gas projects. conditions in our contractor workforce in Oman, where In advancing Petrofac’s commitment to we work with contractors that employ migrant workers. enhancing human rights due diligence in The assessments, which included terms of recruitment our project supply chains, BP’s support has and employment, identified issues related to working been key to improving the protection of practices, passport retention, recruitment fees and subcontracted migrant workers. worker grievance mechanisms. Since the initial assessments three years ago, we’ve made significant progress by working with our Ray Richardson, Oman country manager, Petrofac contractors to: • Develop action plans to reduce the risk of modern slavery on site and in their supply chains. • Put in place policies that prohibit forced labour, including specifically requiring employers to pay recruitment fees and preventing restriction on workers’ freedom of movement. • Improve how we communicate our expectations on labour rights to our contractors, including hosting management forums to raise awareness and share good practices. To strengthen our controls, BP employees are on site monitoring conditions and raising worker awareness of their rights at work. This includes asking labour rights questions during workforce site inductions and making sure there is an effective mechanism for workers to raise concerns. Where we find contractors are not following our expectations we require them to take corrective actions – for example we have asked some contractors to repay recruitment fees to workers. See bp.com/modernslavery. BP Sustainability Report 2018 39 Security and human rights Providing security for our assets around We provide training on the principles for those the world can be complex, especially employees who are accountable for managing security and conduct assessments to identify in locations where there is a higher areas where we can improve. likelihood of conflict or violent crime. We report on our progress in relation to security and human rights issues in an annual report to BP works with security providers who protect our the Voluntary Principles plenary. facilities to reinforce the importance of respecting S  ee bp.com/vpshr for more information about human rights. We support the Voluntary Principles our progress on security and human rights. on Security and Human Rights. These principles guide the way we work with these security forces. They emphasize the need to understand and respect the human rights of our workforce and people living in communities near our operations. As an example of our continued implementation of the Voluntary Principles, we conducted an assessment of the practices of private security contractors and the way we work with public security forces in our operations in Georgia. The review found that potential impacts – both positive and negative – of our security arrangements on individuals and communities are regularly assessed and plans for mitigation of the associated risks are integrated into existing processes. 40 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Society We make a significant contribution to societies around the world – providing heat and light for homes, fuel to get people to their destinations and power for industry. Why is the UN Sustainable Q Development Goal of affordable and clean energy important to BP? Having worked in many parts of the world A for BP, I’ve seen first hand the benefits that energy projects can bring to societies. My own experience shows that there is a close relationship between improved access to energy and better living conditions. In fact, 80% of the world’s population live in countries where more energy can make a real difference. The challenge for our sector is to provide this energy in an affordable and sustainable manner, working closely with governments and local communities. William Lin, chief operating officer, upstream regions, BP 41 Providing heat, light and mobility The energy we produce helps to More energy could help lift 2.5 billion people improve the quality of life for millions out of low incomes over the next two decades. of people around the world. Our work helps countries around the world to grow their domestic energy supplies and boost their energy security. This in turn creates jobs, Today more than one billion people don’t have drives economic development and generates any access to electricity – that’s 15 out of every revenue for governments. The value we create 100 people on the planet. And our population is can transform communities, even nations. still growing, heading towards nine billion by 2040. Demand for energy will underpin this growth in population and prosperity and we project that global energy consumption could increase by around a third by 2040. The value we generate $303.9bn Suppliers Sourcing goods and Employees Providing jobs Capital providers Paying finance costs Governments Contributing Communities Supporting $18.9bn Economic value services from around for 73,000 people to our lenders. to economies through efforts to improve Economic value generated by BP 54,000 companies. around the world. the taxes we pay. standards of living. retained by BP $255.9bn $10.5bn $11.1bn $7.5bn $0.1bn 42 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting North Europe Asia America BP has a larger Our UK North Sea oil To improve urban air economic footprint and gas operations quality, China is rapidly in the US than in any have helped drive developing its electric other country. We economic growth vehicle industry and support more than in the UK for more is now one of the 125,000 jobs. Our operations contributed than 50 years. In 2018 we successfully world’s largest markets for electric $101 billion to the US economy in 2018. started up our Clair Ridge project, vehicles. We’re participating in this And we have spent more than $6 billion which, at peak, is expected to supply transformation through our $10 million with diverse suppliers since 2008. 10% of all UK oil production. During investment in the NIO Capital fund. the construction phase we invested The fund will support the development almost $2 billion with UK suppliers, of advanced mobility opportunities, awarded more than half the contracts including electric vehicles, new energy South to UK-registered companies and infrastructure and batteries. America created thousands of jobs. Australia Around 42% of Africa Brazil’s energy comes from renewable sources and more than half One of the ways we of its passenger cars contain flex-fuel Africa is one of the are investing in the engines, which combine gasoline and fastest-growing long-term future of sugar cane ethanol. We were the first energy markets with Australia is by building international energy company to demand expected to strong relationships invest in Brazilian sugar cane ethanol. rise by as much as with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander In 2018, our three biofuels sites 127% by 2040. We want to support that communities. We’ve set out our aims produced enough renewable power growth, which is why we’re working in our Reconciliation Action Plan, to meet the needs of all the homes with Kosmos Energy and two national which includes a commitment to spend in a city of 1.25 million people. oil companies to develop natural gas 3% of our addressable spend with resources off the coast of Mauritania indigenous businesses by 2023. We and Senegal. Our offshore liquefied have more than 5,700 employees and natural gas facility will supply gas to long-term contractors across the country, both domestic and global markets, of which approximately 2% identify as generating revenue and new energy Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander. supplies for the two countries. BP Sustainability Report 2018 43 Supporting local workers and suppliers We are committed to creating jobs Creating apprenticeships in the and growing local businesses in the North Sea communities in which we operate. BP supports a number of apprenticeship programmes in countries where we work, providing access to development opportunities to a wide We aim to recruit our workforce from the community range of young people. or country in which we are based. While some governments require us to do so, we try to do this In the North Sea we provided 12 oil and gas wherever we work because we believe it’s not just technical apprenticeships in 2018 in partnership good for the local community, it’s good for BP. with OPITO, the skills organization for oil and gas. Participants spend two years at college and a When vital skills, such as engineering and technical further two years on site, earning two qualifications abilities, are in short supply, we offer training and on completion of the programme. on-the-job learning. Nationals employed Working offshore on BP’s Glen Lyon vessel means that every day is different and brings a new challenge. It’s also a great opportunity for me to put my learning to the test and find out what I’m capable of in a safe Azerbaijan 91% Trinidad Egypt 78% Oman 77% and friendly environment. & Tobago 96% Indonesia 96% Angola 87% Rhiannan Flaws, OPITO apprentice, BP Developing skills in the West Nile Delta Building a Papuan workforce Our West Nile Delta project is located around Our Tangguh liquefied natural gas plant is located 85 kilometres offshore from Alexandria, Egypt’s in the remote Papua Barat province in Indonesia. second largest city. To bring lasting benefits to the We are committed to reaching an 85% Papuan communities where the gas comes onshore, we workforce by 2029, up from 56% in 2018, through provide local people with training on vocational skills internship and apprentice programmes that focus and health and safety standards. Almost 700 people on training graduates from Papua and Papua Barat. took part in 2018, studying topics such as defensive To create a sustainable source of income for driving, scaffolding, welding and working at heights. local people, we’ve also helped establish several Approximately 10% of the people trained now work businesses. These include a clothing manufacturer on the West Nile Delta project. The aim is to reach and a company that provides air conditioning around 1,500 people by the end of 2019. maintenance services. 44 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Using local suppliers in Senegal To help local suppliers develop their business skills, we jointly launched the Invest in Africa initiative in Senegal in 2018. The programme aims to improve understanding of international standards and contracting processes so that local companies can bid for work with businesses like BP. Together with other founding partners Cairn Energy, Kosmos Energy and Woodside, we plan to develop a database of local suppliers who have passed the initial due diligence process. This will allow international operators to identify appropriate suppliers more easily. We have already contracted more than 80 local companies for services such as catering, transport and site surveying across our businesses in Mauritania and Senegal. BP Sustainability Report 2018 45 Contributing to communities We engage with governments, local Economic communities and non-governmental development Education organizations to create social Our activities contribute to Many of the education investment programmes that can local economic development programmes that we support provide sustainable benefits. and we help communities encourage young people to build entrepreneurial skills. consider careers in science, We also work with local technology, engineering and We invest in community projects that align with partners to promote mathematics (STEM). local needs and our business activities. We consider commercial partnerships. how these projects support the UN Sustainable Egypt Development Goals, which aim to overcome India We support an annual worldwide challenges such as poverty, hunger, We developed a training scholarship programme that inequality and climate change. Based on our global programme to help gives Egyptian students the business activities, we have prioritized the goals motorcycle mechanics opportunity to pursue postthat relate to economic development, education working in small enterprises graduate studies in the UK. and environment. develop additional skills in After completing their studies, business management and the students commit to return BP’s community spend by region ($ million) customer service. Since to Egypt to apply their skills it began in 2009, the and knowledge in their home programme has trained more country. Graduates from US and Canada 22.6 Sub-Saharan Africa 35.9 than 200,000 mechanics. previous years currently Middle East and North Africa 23.8 work at various institutions, Europe 11.9 Mauritania including the Ministry Asia Pacific 12.1 Together with our partners, of Foreign Affairs, local South and Central America 7.9 we launched the Mauritaniauniversities and multinational British Business Council companies. (MBBC) and support its See page 60 for information work to strengthen economic on how we support STEM development, co-operation education in the UK and and trade relations with the the US. country. We have hosted several MBBC meetings on doing business in Mauritania, along with a series of educational and technical workshops on the oil and gas sector for private and public stakeholders. 46 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Environment Engagement The BP Foundation We support biodiversity and We want to make art more The BP Foundation provides money for conservation programmes, as accessible for audiences. humanitarian relief activities around the well as initiatives to promote We have supported arts and world. The foundation also matches personal sustainable development. cultural activities for more contributions from BP employees that are than 50 years in the UK and made to eligible charities of their choice. Georgia have long-term partnerships We created the Eco Award • $6.4 million in employee contributions that with the British Museum, the programme jointly with our the BP Foundation matched with grants of National Portrait Gallery, the co-venturers and the Georgian $6.1 million. Royal Shakespeare Company government to promote the and the Royal Opera House. • $424,250 contributed to local communities responsible use of natural We marked the 30th hit by extreme events including: resources, conservation and anniversary of our partnership ––$100,000 to the Indonesian Red Cross Society community wellbeing. In the with the Royal Opera House to support earthquake relief efforts in Lombok first round, three projects in 2018. In that time we have and Sulawesi. received funds, including one helped more than 900,000 that is introducing sustainable ––$50,000 for emergency relief and aid to people experience free opera land and water practices victims of the fires in California, via the and ballet performances. to reduce the risk of land California chapter of the American Red Cross. degradation in the south of the country. Australia We have agreed a five-year partnership with the food rescue organization OzHarvest. During that time our funds will help fuel food waste collection and delivery trucks and support an education programme to raise awareness of the role that food waste plays in climate change, sustainability and hunger relief. OzHarvest also collects food waste from 120 of our convenience stores. 47 Engaging with communities We work with local communities in an Community complaints open and constructive way to help avoid We require each of our operating sites to have a robust process to receive, document and minimize any adverse impact that and respond to complaints. our work might have. As an example, at our South Caucasus Pipeline Expansion project in Georgia and Azerbaijan, all We consult with communities so that we can complaints are logged within a seven-day period understand their expectations and address any of receipt and we aim to investigate and provide a concerns. For example, our offshore exploration formal response within 30 days. An internal panel drilling programme in Nova Scotia, Canada, had reviews the investigation outcomes and agrees the potential to affect local fishing activities. So we resolution of the grievance and any corrective worked with fisheries associations and indigenous measures, where necessary. communities to develop plans that outlined the way in which we would communicate with them Most of the concerns raised by communities during drilling operations. We also shared bi-weekly living near our operations in 2018 related to job updates throughout the drilling programme. opportunities and nuisance. We saw an increase in the number of complaints we received in 2018, In Mauritania and Senegal, where we are largely due to improvements in the systems we developing a cross-border floating liquefied have put in place to capture community complaints. natural gas project, we met with community Some of the increase is also due to the types of members to discuss areas of interest. One of activities undertaken by BP in 2018. For example, the areas discussed was how we can support there was a rise in the number of concerns from fishing activities. As a result, we are providing local community members at our Tangguh liquefied access to funding for small-scale fishermen and natural gas plant in Indonesia, where we are training on fish processing techniques for expanding the facility. The majority of these women’s co-operatives. related to concerns about employment and recruitment procedures. See page 37 for more information on human rights grievance mechanisms. Community complaints Damage to property or crops 23% Job opportunities 23% Nuisance (odour, noise and dust) 21% Community investment 12% Other 11% Security arrangements 7% Flaring 2% Discharges to water 1% 48 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Promoting revenue transparency We support transparency in the flow We are a founding member of the Extractive Industries of revenue from oil and gas activities Transparency Initiative (EITI), which supports the disclosure of payments made to and received by governments in relation to governments. This helps citizens to oil, gas and mining activity. As part of the EITI, we work hold public authorities to account with governments, non-governmental organizations and for the way they use funds received international agencies to improve the transparency of payments through taxes and other agreements. to governments. We supported EITI implementation in a number of countries where we operate, including Iraq and Trinidad & Tobago, in 2018. In addition, we disclose information on payments to governments for our upstream activities on a country-bycountry and project basis under national reporting regulations, such as those in effect in the UK. BP Sustainability Report 2018 49 Environment Our goal is to understand and sustain the health of the environments in which we operate and to respect the resource needs of the communities which depend on them. How do you manage environmental Q impacts at a local level? We conduct detailed environmental and A social assessments when planning our projects to identify impacts that could arise from our activities. We then take measures to address them. For example, at our Tangguh expansion project in Indonesia, the planned location of a new offloading facility and the route of a nearshore pipeline for our liquefied natural gas plant were identified as being close to mangrove habitat. We therefore took measures such as moving the location to the western side of the site and using horizontal drilling for the pipeline to avoid the habitat. Kelly Goddard, vice president of environment, social responsibility and HSSE compliance, safety and operational risk, BP 50 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Our environmental and social impacts We work hard to understand Operations environmental and social sensitivities At our major operating sites, we review performance each year and set local improvement in the areas where we operate with targets. These can include measures on flaring, air the aim of avoiding, minimizing and emissions and the use of water. mitigating any potential impacts. Many of our sites operate for several decades and we aim to manage environmental and social impacts The way in which our operating sites around the throughout their lifespan. In Indonesia, when we world manage their environmental and social began planning our liquefied natural gas plant in impacts is set out in our operating management 2002, we set up an independent panel to monitor system (OMS). This includes requirements on our progress. The Tangguh Independent Advisory consulting with stakeholders who may be affected Panel continues to review our performance in areas by our activities. To continue to improve the way such as human rights, security and governance. we manage potential impacts and our environmental See bp.com/id for the panel’s reports and BP’s responses. performance, we are further integrating the requirements of the ISO 14001 environmental management standard into our OMS. Decommissioning We consider environmental factors, such as the Project planning reuse of materials and appropriate disposal, when During the initial planning stages of our major closing down a site. For example, we undertook the projects, we complete a screening process to demolition of four tanks weighing 300 tonnes each identify potential environmental and social impacts. at a site of a former refinery in the Isle of Grain in These may include impacts on sensitive areas and the UK. The site was close to a special protected freshwater resources, as well as the prevalence area for bird habitat and we took measures so that of bribery and corruption in a host country, local the area was not impacted. In addition, nearly 99% employment and community health and safety. of the steel was recovered for recycling. We use the results to identify actions and mitigation We are also working with our partners to incorporate measures and then implement these in project environmental factors into decommissioning design, construction and operations. For example, projects in the North Sea. For example, removal of as part of our exploration activities in São Tomé and the Miller platform was completed in 2018, with Príncipe, we are using underwater sound recorders around 40,000 tonnes of material, mainly steel, and an autonomous vehicle to understand the moved onshore – enough steel to build the Eiffel distribution and movement of marine mammals. Tower four times over. Up to 97% of the materials The outcomes of this can inform planning for will be reused or recycled. potential future activities. BP Sustainability Report 2018 51 Sensitive areas and biodiversity We support the conservation of Biodiversity sensitive areas that house our planet’s When planning new projects we identify and take action to reduce potential impacts on biodiversity. rich natural and cultural heritage. For example, with the expansion of our liquefied natural gas facility in Indonesia, we are aiming for no In circumstances where our activities occur in net loss in biodiversity and we worked with the local places that have cultural significance, are home university to identify 22 priority tree species for to threatened or protected species, or have conservation. To support the growth of these outstanding biological, geographical or social value, species, we are planting saplings and are working to we take action to avoid and mitigate the potential restore degraded forest. We’re also using remote impacts of our work. sensing technology to detect changes in the habitat so we can monitor our progress. Every year we review the location of our operations in and close to the most sensitive areas. This can In Senegal, as part of our commitment to change from year to year as governments update environmental conservation in the region, we have protected area designations. helped train 50 members of the local community in biodiversity monitoring and management. We also We evaluate new projects to determine whether provided equipment for wildlife parks in both planned activities could affect protected areas. Mauritania and Senegal. If our screening process shows that a proposed project could enter or affect an international We work with conservation organizations, such protected area, we conduct a detailed risk as Conservation International, Fauna & Flora assessment to better understand any potential International, the Nature Conservancy, universities impacts. Executive approval is required before and other partners to understand biodiversity trends, any physical activities can take place. issues and threats. No new project sought permission to enter an international protected area in 2018. Major operating sites in and around international protected areas 4 4 8 11 Note: A site may exist within or near more than one type sites sites sites sites of protected area. Inside the Adjacent Near Close boundary within 1km 1-5km 5-20km See bp.com/protectedareas for more information on our sites in and close to international protected areas. 52 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Local impacts of unconventional gas Almost half of our gas portfolio Chemicals comes from unconventional resources, The water and sand that make up 99.5% of the injection material used in hydraulic fracturing are including shale gas. We acquired BHP’s mixed with chemicals that help reduce friction US unconventional assets in 2018 in and bacterial growth in the well. We list the a move that significantly upgrades chemicals that we use at each site and, to the our US onshore portfolio. extent allowed by our suppliers who own the chemical formulas, submit data on the chemicals used in our hydraulically fractured wells at Water use fracfocus.org or other state-designated websites. The volume of freshwater withdrawn by our unconventional gas operations was 3.7 million m3 Sensitive habitats in 2018, which represents 1.4% of the group total. We monitor the impact of new gas development We look at ways to reduce freshwater demand and and our operations on species. For example, in the support industry efforts to identify new water San Juan Basin we monitor potential impacts on the treatment technologies. population levels and movement patterns of species such as bald eagles and mule deer. This allows us to Water contamination schedule our activities and to reduce any impacts. We design, operate and decommission our wells in a way that reduces the risk of water contamination. Noise and community impacts We install multiple layers of steel into each well Drilling and truck traffic can raise concerns over and cement above and below any freshwater noise and disturbance to the local community. aquifers. We then test the integrity of each well We seek to design facilities and plan road, pipeline before we begin the fracturing process and again and well pad locations to limit disturbances and at completion. mitigate noise and other impacts from drilling and truck traffic. Earth tremors Hydraulic fracturing creates very small earth tremors To reduce the impacts from traffic, we aim to that are rarely felt at the surface. Before we start apply dust suppression techniques, install pipelines work, we assess the likelihood of our operations to transfer water where practical, and minimize causing such activity. For example, we work to the number of kilometres driven. We work with identify natural faults in the rock. This analysis communities to manage traffic movements informs our development plans for drilling and whenever possible. hydraulic fracturing and we seek to mitigate this See page 16 for information on how we manage methane risk through the design of our operations. emissions in our US onshore gas business. BP Sustainability Report 2018 53 Water Water is one of the planet’s most In our gas operations at our Khazzan development in precious resources, which is why Oman – an area where the availability of fresh water is extremely scarce – we withdraw brackish water we actively manage its use. under permit from a local underground aquifer that is only used for industrial purposes. We desalinate We have operations in many different countries the water and use it for drilling and hydraulic and the availability of water in areas where we work fracturing. We completed a modelling study in 2018 can vary greatly. That’s why it’s important to look at to assess the sustainability of this water supply. The local conditions, such as water stress and scarcity, results of the study have been incorporated into a in order to manage our impact. long-term water management plan to reduce water demand. How we evaluate water risk Each year we review water risks in our portfolio, We saw a small decrease in our freshwater considering the local availability, quantity, quality withdrawal, consumption and wastewater volumes and regulatory requirements. in 2018 primarily due to operational changes such as maintenance at selected refineries and We estimate that around half of our major petrochemicals plants. Overall there was a slight operations withdraw fresh water in areas where increase in consumption efficiency. its availability is considered stressed or scarce. See bp.com/hsechartingtool for water performance data. These operations account for 23% of our total freshwater withdrawals. 54 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Water use Water is required for drilling, hydraulic fracturing and We use non-fresh water, such as seawater, in our other upstream production processes and it is an oil and gas production and treated wastewater at essential component in refining, petrochemicals and some of our refineries. biofuels production. Freshwater consumption Wastewater and The volume of fresh water that produced water is not returned to the environment Produced 88m is considerably lower than the water In our upstream operations, m volume withdrawn. 101m we generate produced water, 3 which comes to the surface m3 during oil and gas production. Wastewater In many of our operations, Freshwater withdrawal particularly in our downstream We withdraw fresh water from 78m business, we manage rivers, lakes and aquifers. m3 wastewater from the site. 271m m3 Onshore production Offshore production Refining, petrochemicals and biofuels production Two thirds of freshwater withdrawn is returned to the 67% environment. Management of wastewater and produced water • Reinjected back into the oil and gas reservoir. • Treated to applicable regulatory standards and returned to rivers, lakes and the sea. • Disposed of through other permitted means. Air emissions Tackling local air quality is increasingly In our unconventional gas operations in the US, important to communities, governments we use lower sulphur fuels in our drilling rig engines and hydraulic stimulation equipment, which reduces and other stakeholders, driven mainly sulphur dioxide emissions. by public health concerns. In shipping, we are introducing six liquefied natural gas (LNG) carriers with energy-efficiency We monitor our air emissions and put measures in enhancements. They are designed to use place to reduce the potential impact of our activities approximately 25% less fuel and emit less on the surrounding community. nitrogen oxides than our older LNG ships. BP Sustainability Report 2018 BP Sustainability Report 2018 55 Our people and ethics Our people are our biggest asset, so we are creating an environment where everyone feels valued and able to contribute their unique skills and perspectives. Why is creating an inclusive workplace Q important for BP? Put simply, it generates value and is about A respect. My family came from a small town in Mexico. When we moved to the US I could not speak the language, but my teachers saw something in me and helped steer me towards maths. My love of engineering came from people valuing what I could do and seeing my potential. Today I lead engineering for our upstream assets and I make it a priority to create a culture where everyone’s contributions are heard and valued. People who feel included have a sense of belonging and contribute – this generates immense value for the team and the business. Aleida Rios, head of engineering, Upstream, BP 56 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace We want to build teams that reflect the We worked with MyPlus, a disability communities we serve. consultancy, to increase our understanding of the needs of disabled candidates in our application and hiring processes. Research shows that diverse, inclusive groups make  We received recognition as a best place to better, faster decisions and that diversity of thought work for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender inspires greater innovation and productivity. Creating and queer equality in the Human Rights this environment starts with our recruitment Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index in 2018. process and is driven by our people. Leaders are vital in instilling an inclusive culture Ethnicity and reinforcing our values of safety, respect, As a global business we are committed to increasing excellence, courage and one team. In 2018, our the national diversity of our workforce to reflect the employment engagement survey showed that 79% countries in which we operate. of respondents felt that leaders in their part of the In the US we have set goals to improve minority business were demonstrating our values. representation. Our aim is to have ethnic minorities Our employee-run business resource groups in represent 20% of our group leaders and 30% of our areas such as ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, employees by 2025, up from 17% and 26% in 2018. parenting and disability are a way of bringing Our recruitment, development, advancement and employees together. Each group is sponsored inclusion programmes underpin these goals. by a senior executive. These groups support our For example, we sponsor the Executive Leadership recruitment programmes and provide valuable input Council’s Institute for Leadership Development and to our policies. Research, which supports mid-career high potential African American employees. We made progress in a number of important areas in 2018: In the UK, we were named one of the Top 10 Outstanding Employers in the 2018 Investing  We launched our gender transition guidelines in Ethnicity Awards and we were also included to support employees who are transitioning, in Business in the Community’s Best Employers or helping someone who is. for Race listing. We use a tool called Textio, which assesses the way in which job descriptions appeal to different audiences. It highlights words or phrases in advertisements and job descriptions that are perceived as gender biased and helps create more balanced role descriptions. BP Sustainability Report 2018 57 Gender balance We are working with our peers to close the gender The proportion of women employed across BP is gap in our industry. For example, we partner with higher than ever before, with female representation POWERful Women, an initiative to advance gender at 35% in 2018. Women lead some of our core diversity and female leadership development in the businesses such as petrochemicals, shipping and energy sector. treasury, and countries such as Canada, China, UK gender pay gap reporting Mexico and the US. However, while we are making We make sure employees in similar roles are paid progress, women make up half the world’s equitably. However, our 2018 data shows we do population and we still have a lot more to do. have a gender pay gap that varies across our UK Shifting the gender imbalance will require a businesses. This is largely due to a higher proportion significant change in both our industry and society at of men in senior roles and specific roles, such as large. One of the ways in which we can support this offshore work, that attract higher pay, bonuses change is by having the right policies in place. For or allowances. We are working to address the example, our diversity and inclusion policy promotes differences, recognizing that this is a long-term diversity in our job shortlists and interview panels. challenge. We have seen a slight improvement We are also using mentoring, sponsorship and in female representation in leadership roles and coaching to help more women progress through our 2018 gender pay gap data shows some their careers and are working to improve and improvements compared with 2017. implement policies that support flexible career See bp.com/ukgenderpaygap. development for all. We refreshed our flexible working principles in 2018. These encourage flexibility beyond the formal areas of part time, job sharing or working from home. BP employees by gender (%) All staff Graduate hires Experienced hires Group leaders Executive team Board of directors 35% 48% 40% 24% 15% 36% Female 65% 52% 60% 76% 85% 64% Male We participate We work closely We support We are on track Two women joined We achieved our in industry with universities programmes for women to the executive team goal for women mentoring to to attract women that help women represent a quarter in 2018 – our chief to represent 30% advance gender into scientific and resume their of our most senior scientist and the of our board two diversity. engineering roles. careers after managers by 2020. head of our US years ahead of a break. business. schedule. 58 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Engaging our employees BP is committed to creating a positive We launched a new initiative called Energize! in and empowering work environment in 2018 to encourage employees to recognize their colleagues’ work and how they demonstrate our which all employees feel valued for the values. The online platform and social newsfeed work they do and the impact they make. allows individuals to publicly thank and recognize a peer. So far the uptake has been positive with To better understand how employees feel about BP, 77% of employees receiving recognition. we conduct an annual survey. The overall employee We invest in our employees’ development – with engagement score in 2018 was 66%. Pride in an average spend of around $3,200 per person. This working for BP was at the highest level in a decade includes online and classroom-based courses and at 76% in 2018. resources, supported by a wide range of on-the-job The area where our employees scored us as learning and mentoring programmes. needing attention was in the efficiency of our We reward our employees based on what they processes and ways of working. We know we still deliver and the way in which they demonstrate have work to do to streamline our processes and behaviour that reflects our values. All employees drive the benefits of digitization throughout BP. must set priorities on their contribution to safety and creating value. Our spotlight on respect and inclusion The actions we take as individuals often affect those around us. To help employees think about their own impact we ran a month-long respect and inclusion campaign in 2018. This included our #itstartswithme initiative to encourage employees to share a commitment to be more respectful and inclusive. Respect and inclusion doesn’t start or end with the campaign, it is something that we need to think about every day. Research shows that people perform better when working in a more respectful and inclusive environment, which is good for business. Rahul Saxena, group ethics and compliance officer, BP BP Sustainability Report 2018 59 Addressing the skills gap One of the challenges facing our US industry is that fewer young people BP’s STEM ambassador volunteer programme encourages employees to become mentors and are choosing careers in science, promote STEM careers in local schools and technology, engineering and maths communities. We also support Million Women (STEM). We support initiatives around Mentors, an initiative set up to encourage girls and the world to encourage students to young women to pursue STEM-based careers. pursue these subjects. BP Global STEM Academies We are partnering with non-governmental organization AFS Intercultural Programs on a new UK three-year international exchange programme that For the past decade, we have partnered with the combines hands-on STEM learning with intercultural National STEM Learning Centre to help science activities and problem-solving. In 2018, 100 students teachers continue their professional development. participated in the programme, which included the We also developed the five-year Enterprising opportunity to study abroad for four weeks in Brazil, Science programme with University College London, Egypt or the US. On completion, 92% of participants King’s College London and the Science Museum said they were interested in pursuing further STEM to better understand factors that affect the way in education and 93% said their interest in world which young people engage with STEM subjects. affairs had increased. The programme came to an end in 2018 but continues to inform our ongoing work with schools and universities as well as our STEM-related teaching resources. It is also the basis for the Science Museum Group Academy, which launched in October 2018 with BP as the founding partner. We supported the Royal Academy of Engineering’s This Is Engineering initiative in 2018, aimed at encouraging more young people, from all backgrounds, to pursue engineering careers. Graduate recruitment The number of graduates joining BP in 2018 was 296, a slight decrease from 314 graduates in 2017. We were pleased to be named the UK’s highestIntercultural learning is key to creating a more just ranking recruiter in the oil and gas sector in The Times newspaper’s Top 100 Graduate Employer and fairer world. By combining this with STEM, we rankings in 2018. hope to equip our students with the skills that will be needed to address the sustainable development issues of our time. Daniel Obst, chief executive officer, AFS Intercultural Programs 60 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Conducting our business ethically We are committed to conducting our Total number of concerns raised business in an ethical, transparent way, using our values and code 1,800 of conduct to guide us. 1,200 600 We expect our employees to treat others with respect, fairness and dignity. Our code of conduct sets clear expectations for how we work at BP. 2016 2017 2018 It applies to all employees and members of the OpenTalk Raised with management board. We also expect our contractors and their employees to act in a way that is consistent with our code. If those expectations are not met, we Concerns recorded take appropriate action. (by code of conduct chapter) We train our employees on how to apply the ● Operating safely, responsibly code in their daily work. In 2018 this training and reliably 215 focused on raising awareness of workplace ● Governments and communities 71 harassment, conflicts of interest and protecting ● Our people 862 confidential information. ● Our assets and financial integrity 328 See bp.com/codeofconduct. ● Our business partners 188 ● Other matters 48 Speaking up We want our employees, contractors and other third BP has zero tolerance for retaliation against parties to feel comfortable speaking up whenever anyone who seeks advice, raises a concern, reports they have a question or concern about our code or misconduct or participates in an investigation. if they see something that they feel is unethical The consequences for misconduct or retaliation or unsafe. range from coaching and performance management That’s why we encourage employees to discuss through to dismissal. their questions or concerns with their managers, Our businesses dismissed 50 employees for supporting teams, works councils or via OpenTalk, non-conformance with our code of conduct BP’s confidential helpline. A total of 1,712 concerns or unethical behaviour in 2018. This excludes or enquiries were recorded in 2018 through these dismissals of staff employed at our retail channels. The most commonly raised concerns service stations. were about fair treatment of people, workplace harassment and protecting BP’s assets. BP Sustainability Report 2018 61 Engaging with suppliers Lobbying and political donations We hold sessions with suppliers to help them We prohibit the use of BP funds or company understand our code of conduct and how we do resources to support any political candidate or business. We held an event in Trinidad & Tobago party. We recognize the rights of our employees in 2018 with around 50 suppliers to share BP’s to participate in the political process and these expectations of working. Topics discussed included rights are governed by the applicable laws in the anti-bribery and corruption, conflict of interest countries where we operate. For example, in the scenarios and grievance processes. We also US we provide administrative support for the BP issued our supplier expectations to our key suppliers employee political action committee (PAC), which in Indonesia. is a non-partisan committee that encourages voluntary employee participation in the political Anti-bribery and corruption process. All BP employee PAC contributions are BP operates in parts of the world where bribery and reviewed for compliance with federal and state law corruption present a high risk. Our code of conduct and are publicly reported in accordance with US explicitly prohibits engaging in bribery or corruption election laws. in any form. Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures include measures We are members of multiple industry associations and guidance to assess risks, understand relevant that offer opportunities to share good practices and laws and report concerns. We provide training to collaborate on issues of importance to our sector. employees appropriate to the nature or location of We aim for alignment between our policies and their role. A total of 10,957 employees completed those of trade associations, but understand that anti-bribery and corruption training in 2018. associations’ positions reflect a compromise of the assorted views of the membership. We assess any exposure to bribery and corruption risk when working with suppliers and business partners. Where appropriate, we put in place a risk mitigation plan or we reject them if we conclude that risks are too high. We also conduct anti-bribery compliance audits on selected suppliers when contracts are in place. For example, our upstream business conducts a number of supplier audits in higher-risk regions to assess their conformance with our anti-bribery and corruption contractual requirements. We issued a total of 27 audit reports in 2018. We take corrective action with suppliers and business partners who fail to meet our expectations, which may include terminating contracts. 62 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Governance and risk management Our governance structure includes the processes and policies which provide our framework for decision making. What role does the board Q play in helping BP achieve its strategic priorities? The board sets the long-term strategy A of the company. We challenge and monitor the performance of the group chief executive, Bob Dudley, and his team as they make the decisions that shape the future of the company. We make sure that we have the right leadership in place and that we continue to build a dynamic, inclusive and diverse culture. In my role as chairman, I meet with employees across our businesses in order to understand how we are rising to the dual challenge of providing more energy with fewer emissions – one of the defining issues of our times. Helge Lund, chairman, BP 63 Board oversight Our board is responsible for the overall and environmental risks; security; ethical conduct of the group’s business. misconduct; legal and regulatory non-compliance; and trading non-compliance. The oversight and management of other risks, BP’s board of directors reviews and monitors for example technological change, is undertaken in performance against our long-term strategy and the normal course of business and in the executive confirms that the processes for identifying and team, the board and relevant committees. managing key risks – both financial and non-financial – are in place. The safety, ethics and environment assurance committee, one of our six board committees, We identify risks for particular oversight by the looks at the processes that BP’s executive team board and its committees each year. In 2018 use to identify and mitigate operational and nonthese were financial liquidity; geopolitical risk; financial risk. cyber security; process safety, personal safety Climate governance BP’s governance framework applies equally to committees, various groups and committees in BP the management of the various aspects of climate bring together cross-segment and cross-functional change and the transition to a lower carbon expertise of relevance to this area, including those economy. In addition to the oversight provided set out below. by the executive team, the board and relevant BP governance framework See bp.com/annualreport. Renewal committee Reviews strategic, commercial and investment decisions outside of core activity and related to new lines of business. Chaired by our deputy chief executive. New energy frontiers steering committee Oversees strategy and development of growth opportunities in low carbon business models that can be scaled up to create new businesses for BP. Chaired by our deputy chief executive. Carbon steering group Focuses on strategy, policy, performance oversight and collaboration relating to carbon management activities across the group. Chaired by our vice president of carbon management. Upstream carbon Downstream advancing the steering committee energy transition committee Focuses on the delivery of lower carbon plans in the Develops and drives the implementation of advancing the Upstream. Chaired by our chief operating officer of energy transition in the Downstream. Chaired by our head production, transformation and carbon, Upstream. of technology, Downstream and BP chief scientist. Executive-level committee Cross-functional committee Business and segment committee 64 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting 1 Field visits In 2018 members of the 2  ooper River, the US C board visited our operations Cooper River is one of the in Oman and the US to give world’s largest producers them first-hand experience of of purified terephthalic acid, our assets and the chance to used to make items such as observe and ask questions. clothes and plastic food packaging. Board members 1 K  hazzan gas field, Oman met with site leaders and Members met with site discussed business leaders and discussed the emergency planning, safety, safety, risk and operating risk and operating culture culture. They also heard from at the petrochemicals plant. a local tribal leader who spoke They also heard about new about community interest in sustainability-related the development. During the technologies. trip, Melody Meyer, one of BP’s non-executive directors, 3 T  hunder Horse, the US visited our Muscat office and Board members saw how BP held a session with female operates in the Gulf of Mexico employees to share her when they visited our Thunder experience and insights on Horse platform. They met leadership attributes. with employees and discussed operational risk management and safety culture. They also visited our Westlake campus 2 in Houston and talked to employees about the response to Hurricane Harvey and saw the cyber security centre, 3 trading floor and the wells monitoring centre. Executive accountability The executive team reviews BP’s strategy • The ethics and compliance committee reviews with the board on a periodic basis. breaches against our code of conduct. Executive pay is linked to performance with safety, reliable operations and financial performance The executive team worked with the board in 2018 accounting for one third of executive bonuses. to understand the implications of the transition to a Tier 1 process safety events and recordable injury low carbon economy. They reviewed the BP Energy frequency are the two safety performance measures Outlook, which looks at projected energy trends for executive reward. over the next two decades, and discussed the strategic direction of the group. Progress against our strategic priorities accounts for 20% of the longer-term share awards for our group Supported by dedicated committees, our executive chief executive and chief financial officer. Many team oversees BP’s performance in a wide range performance measures, including those related to of areas: gas, renewables, venturing and renewables trading, • The operations risk committee reviews progress contribute to this. on issues such as carbon management, safety See bp.com/annualreport for more information performance and potential modern slavery risks. on remuneration. • The people committee looks at employee issues, including capability, reward and diversity. BP Sustainability Report 2018 65 Managing risks in our operations Our operating businesses are responsible for identifying and Assessing physical risks managing risks and our operating to our facilities management system helps We seek to assess the potential impacts of severe them do this in a consistent weather events and a changing climate – such as and rigorous way. heatwaves, extreme precipitation, drought, storms and rising sea levels – on our new projects from the design stage. Our operating management system (OMS) brings together BP requirements on health, safety, In Mauritania and Senegal, where we are developing security, the environment, social responsibility an offshore liquefied natural gas facility, we are using and operational reliability – as well as related climate models to assess potential vulnerability to issues, such as maintenance, contractor relations possible increasing air temperature, seawater and organizational learning – into a common temperature and precipitation. management system. Our operations and projects can draw on guidance, Any variations in the application of our OMS, in including in-house expertise, to help them manage order to meet local regulations or circumstances, potential risks from a changing climate. We are working are subject to a governance process. with industry and academia to build enhanced tools and methods to help assess potential changes. Setting expectations of our partners We’re also working with industry peers through the BP often partners with other companies in our International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). business activities – sometimes we are the operator We hosted an IOGP climate resilience conference in and sometimes our partner manages the operations. 2018 which brought together oil and gas operators and We monitor performance and how risk is managed academics to discuss physical risks for the industry. in our joint ventures, whether we are the operator or not. In joint ventures where we are the operator, our OMS, code of conduct and other policies apply. We aim to report on aspects of our business where we are the operator, as we directly manage the performance of these operations. Where we are not the operator, our OMS is available as a reference point for BP businesses when engaging with operators and co-venturers. We have a group framework to assess and manage BP’s exposure related to safety, operational, and bribery and corruption risk from our participation in non-operated joint ventures. Where appropriate, we may seek to influence how risk is managed in these types of ventures. 40% of our upstream production in 2018 was from joint ventures where BP is not the operator (excluding our US onshore gas business). 66 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Our repor ting Engaging with our stakeholders Investors Our stakeholders are the many We rely on the support of our investors and aim individuals and organizations who are to balance shareholder returns with investment in affected in some way by BP’s activities longer-term growth projects. We have ongoing – whether it is in our role as an energy conversations with shareholders and analysts provider, an employer or as a business through our programme of roadshows, one-to-one meetings, webcasts and our annual general meeting. that helps boost local economies We keep them informed of our strategy and plans through jobs and revenue. from both financial and non-financial perspectives. See bp.com/annualreport. We engage with our stakeholders and listen to their differing needs and priorities in our daily work. The input and feedback we receive helps inform Communities the decisions we make. Talking with local people helps us better understand the potential impacts of our activities and look Employees for ways to work that align with their needs. The engagement process typically begins long before We work to attract, develop and retain the best any physical work has started and continues talent the world offers. We make time to listen to throughout the lifespan of a project. We engage our people and create a variety of opportunities for with local communities through public consultations, open and honest conversations with them. These as well as regular and ad hoc meetings with include regular one-to-one meetings with line community representatives. managers, our annual employee engagement survey, See page 48 for more information. our intranet and local employee forums and works councils. Senior leaders regularly engage with employees through briefings. See page 59 for information on our employee engagement survey. 73,000 employees across the world BP Sustainability Report 2018 67 Non-governmental organizations Scope of this report We often consult with local and international NGOs This Sustainability Report concentrates on who bring valuable perspectives on the ways in performance and activities from 1 January to which our activities could affect the local community 31 December 2018. We aim to report on all or environment. NGOs are active members of aspects of our business, including joint ventures several initiatives that we take part in, including the where we are the operator. Where appropriate, Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, we seek to provide information on some of our the Methane Guiding Principles and the UN Global joint venture activities where we are not the Compact. We met with NGOs in 2018 to discuss operator, but where we have significant influence a range of sustainability issues, including our low on the operator. carbon ambitions, modern slavery risk, contract transparency and operating in sensitive areas. Governments Reporting standards We engage with governments on many fronts and aim to maintain dialogue at every stage of our We draw on sustainability reporting guidance from presence in a country. In many countries where we IPIECA, the industry association for environmental operate, lobbying activity is strictly regulated. We and social issues. We report in accordance with engage in policy debates that are of concern to us the core option of the Global Reporting Initiative and the communities in which we operate, such as standards. We also support the UN Global financial transparency, security and human rights, Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, labour, and safety. environment and anti-corruption. In some countries, we work in partnership with See bp.com/reportingstandards for more information. governments through production-sharing contracts. See page 49 for information on revenue transparency. Contractors and suppliers As more than half the hours worked for BP are carried out by contractors, their skills and performance are essential in helping us carry out our work safely and responsibly. Our standard model contracts include health, safety, human rights and security requirements. We held sessions with our contractors on topics including safety, our code of conduct and modern slavery risk in 2018. 54,000 suppliers, plus thousands more supporting them 68 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures The TCFD was established by the We support this aim. Our reporting provides Financial Stability Board with the aim information supporting the principles of the TCFD recommended disclosures. of improving the reporting of climaterelated risks and opportunities. TCFD recommended disclosures Where to find more information Governance Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related issues and opportunities. a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Sustainability Report – page 64. b) Describe the management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. Sustainability Report – page 64. Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s business, strategy and financial planning where such information is material. a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over Sustainability Report – the short, medium, and long term. pages 1, 7, 18, 27 and 66. Annual Report – page 55-56. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, Sustainability Report – page 7. strategy and financial planning. c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different Sustainability Report – page 7. climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. Energy Outlook 2019 – pages 4-5. Annual Report – pages 10-12. Risk management Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks. a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. Annual Report – page 45. b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. Annual Report – page 45. c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are Annual Report – pages 45, 53-54. integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material. a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities Sustainability Report – in line with its strategy and risk management process. pages 10-11. Annual Report – pages 17, 48. b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. Sustainability Report – pages 14, 72. Annual Report – pages 17, 48. c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and Sustainability Report – performance against targets. pages 10-11. BP Sustainability Report 2018 69 UN Sustainable Development Goals The UN Sustainable Development Our core business of delivering energy to the world Goals (SDGs) aim to overcome global contributes directly to goals 7, 8 and 13. The way we operate supports the implementation of goals challenges such as poverty, hunger, 3, 6, 9, 12, 14, 15 and 17 in the countries where inequality and climate change. we are present. Some examples of how we are contributing to the goals are outlined below. Lightsource BP established We are working with our oil EverSource Capital with and gas peers to create an Everstone to manage the industry framework for human Green Growth Equity Fund rights supplier assessments. aiming to raise up to $700 million of investment in low carbon energy infrastructure projects across India. To promote an inclusive With the expansion of our culture we support liquefied natural gas plant employee-run advocacy groups in areas such as 7 17 in Indonesia, we have b le Partne committed to achieving no ethnicity, gender, sexual orda rsh Aff clean for t ips net loss in biodiversity. orientation, parenting he and rgy goal and disability. ene s De ic 8 and cent on 15 Li e w fe d gro cono ork lan wt m h We’ve set out our low In Angola we support a carbon ambitions to turtle conservation project, Life below reduce emissions in our Climate which aims to promote operations, improve our 13 water 14 environmental research products and create low action opportunities and conserve carbon businesses. critically endangered marine turtles. es alt ns pon he i n u pr mpt ble si od ll-be od Go ion we h R uctio 3 and g co n 12 an d Cle try, We developed a programme, wa an ter a Indus and in collaboration with local t on i We consider greenhouse san itatio nd innova cture government, NGOs and the n as tru gas reduction opportunities i nf r private sector, that reduced 6 9 from the design stage for our major projects. the rate of malaria infection from 9% in 2006 to 0.02% in 12 pilot villages in Bintuni Regency, Indonesia. We completed a study to We are investing at least assess the sustainability $500 million a year in low of the water supply at our carbon activities such as our Khazzan gas development in acquisition of Chargemaster, Oman and incorporated the the UK’s largest electric results into a long-term plan vehicle charging network. to reduce water demand. 70 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Lead2030 partner We are proud to be part of the first coalition of global and mentor an initiative with a tangible impact on improving businesses working together to support youth-led innovation access to sufficient and reliable energy that is affordable for the SDGs. As the challenge partner for SDG 7, we will fund and clean. See lead2030.com for more information. The Project Selection Forum strongly supports BP Target Neutral‘s efforts to integrate the UN SDGs into the project selection process. It acknowledges the broader role of carbon reduction projects in creating opportunities to not only reduce carbon emissions, but also deliver improved socio-economic outcomes for communities around the world. Damian Ryan, acting chief executive officer, The Climate Group Using the SDGs to select Projects must disclose their impact on a range of SDGs, such as good health and carbon offsetting projects wellbeing, affordable and clean energy, We are helping our customers offset decent work and economic growth. their emissions through BP Target BP Target Neutral uses this information Neutral, which has offset more than to rank the projects based on their 4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent (CO2e) contribution to the SDGs relative to the on behalf of customers since 2006. CO2e reduced. This provides the detail required for a shortlist, which the panel An independent panel made up of can then approve for site visits and representatives from three international final selection. NGOs – Fauna & Flora International, The Climate Group and Forum for the Future – selects the projects that carry out the activities generating the offsets. BP Target Neutral has applied the UN SDGs 800,000+ as part of the project selection process, so that projects are not only chosen tonnes of CO2e offset by Target Neutral across based on emissions reductions potential, all projects but also on their broader impact to society and the environment. BP Sustainability Report 2018 71 Performance data Safetya 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fatalities – employeesb 0 0 0 1 0 Fatalities – contractorsb 3 1 3 0 1 Day away from work cases – workforce 145 108 94 97 79 Day away from work case frequencyc (DAFWCF) – workforce 0.081 0.061 0.051 0.055 0.048 Recordable injuries – workforce 547 428 385 384 328 Recordable injury frequencyc (RIF) – workforce 0.31 0.24 0.21 0.22 0.20 Tier 1 process safety eventsd (number) 28 20 16 18 16 Tier 2 process safety eventsd (number) 95 83 84 61 56 Loss of primary containmente (number) 214 202 200 205 186 Oil spillsf – number (> one barrel) 156 146 149 139 124 Oil spills contained 93 91 91 81 63 Oil spills reaching land and water 63 55 58 58 57 Oil spills – volume (million litres) 0.4 0.4 0.7 0.9 0.5 Oil unrecovered (million litres) 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.1 Severe vehicle accident rate (per million kilometres driven) 0.13 0.11 0.05 0.03 0.04 Total vehicle accident rate (per million kilometres driven) 1.18 1.08 1.04 1.08 0.87 Greenhouse gas emissions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operational control g Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) (Mte CO2 equivalent (CO2e)) 54.1 51.2 51.4 50.5 48.8 Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) (million tonnes (Mte)) 51.6 48.5 48.4 47.8 46.4 Direct methane (Mte) 0.12 0.11 0.12 0.11 0.09 Methane intensityh (%) – – 0.2 0.2 0.2 Sustainable GHG emissions reductionsi (Mte CO2e) 0.1 0.2 0.7 0.5 1.3 Indirect emissionsj (MteCO2e) 7.5 7.0 6.2 6.1 5.4 Flaringk (upstream) (thousand tonnes of hydrocarbons) 2,188 1,863 1,896 1,987 1,634 Equityl Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) (Mte CO2 equivalent (CO2e)) 48.7 49.0 50.1 49.4 46.5 Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) (million tonnes (Mte)) 45.5 45.1 46.1 45.8 43.3 Direct methane (Mte) 0.15 0.16 0.16 0.15 0.13 Sustainable GHG emissions reductionsi (Mte CO2e) 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.6 Greenhouse gas intensity (TeCO2 equivalent/unit) Upstream (per thousand barrels of oil equivalent) 32.0 32.7 34.7 30.4 27.8 Refining (per utilized equivalent distillation capacity) 978 944 951 923 915 Petrochemicals (per thousand tonnes) 291 290 287 304 325 Indirect emissionsj (MteCO2e) 6.8 6.9 6.2 6.8 5.7 Customer emissionsm (MteCO2) 406 402 395 412 437 Carbon dioxide avoided through our renewables businessn (MteCO2e) 3.2 3.3 2.8 2.7 2.8 72 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Society 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Benefits to employees – including wages, salaries, share-based payments, benefits and pensions ($ million) 13,936 12,928 11,233 10,204 10,490 Taxes to governments – comprising income taxes and production taxes paid ($ million) 7,980 3,516 2,174 5,797 7,527 Total dividends distributed to BP shareholderso ($ million) 7,168 7,301 7,469 7,867 8,080 Contribution to communitiesp ($ million) 85.0 67.2 61.1 89.5 114.2 Environment 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Freshwater withdrawal (million m3) Group 280 285 257 276 271 Upstream 7.6 6.8 5.7 6.4 5.7 Downstream 263 264 239 259 254 Other businesses and corporate 9.9 13.5 12.2 10 11 Freshwater consumption (million m3) 93 92 87 91 88 Percentage of withdrawal 33 32 34 33 33 Water consumption – group intensity (tonnes water/tonnes production) 0.37 0.38 0.36 0.38 0.36 Discharges to water – Upstream Mass of produced water managed per unit mass of production 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.7 Discharges to water – Refining and chemicals Wastewater treatment measured as chemical oxygen demand (mg/l) 52 40 49 41 44 Air emissions – nitrogen oxides (thousand tonnes) 129 123 125 122 115 Air emissions – sulphur oxides (thousand tonnes) 39 36 36 35 32 Air emissions – non-methane hydrocarbons (thousand tonnes) 99 94 91 87 64 Environmental expenditure ($ million) 4,024 8,017 536 971 1,223 Environmental and safety fines ($ million) 1.0 0.6 15.0 3.6 1.9 a This represents reported incidents occurring within BP’s g Comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are m Based on BP’s total reported production of natural gas, operational HSSE reporting boundary. That boundary operated by BP. natural gas liquids and refinery throughputs. includes BP’s own operated facilities and certain other h This includes the methane emissions from BP’s upstream oil n Based on BP’s total ethanol production and wind generating locations or situations. and gas operations as a percentage of the gas that goes to capacity. The 2016 and 2017 figures are restated in line with b A fatality is any death of an employee or contractor as a market from those operations. Data was not reported prior the grid emissions factor which was published by the US result of a work-related incident. to 2016. In 2018 we aligned the way we calculate methane EPA in 2018 but is applicable from 2016 onwards. c DAFWCF and RIF are the annual frequency per 200,000 intensity with that of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative. On a o This includes dividends paid in cash and scrip dividends. hours worked. like-for-like basis this shows a reduction from 0.3% in both p The increase from 2017 to 2018 is mainly driven by the d We report tier 1 process safety events, which are losses 2016 and 2017 to 0.2% in 2018. $20m spend in São Tomé and Príncipe and higher spend of primary containment of greatest consequence – causing i This measure reflects actions taken by our businesses in Egypt due to new legislation. harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to that reduce their GHG emissions. See page 12. equipment or exceeding defined quantities. Tier 2 events j Indirect emissions include those resulting from the are those of lesser consequence. electricity and steam we import in our operations. e Loss of primary containment is an unplanned or uncontrolled We report the total hydrocarbons flared from our k  release of oil, gas or other hazardous materials from a tank, upstream operations. vessel, pipe, truck, rail car or other equipment used for l BP’s equity share data comprises 100% of emissions from storage, separation, processing or transfer. subsidiaries and the percentage of emissions equivalent to Oil spills are defined as any liquid hydrocarbon release f  our share of joint arrangements and associates, other than of more than, or equal to, one barrel (159 litres, equivalent BP’s share of Rosneft. to 42 US gallons). BP Sustainability Report 2018 73 Our people and ethics 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of employees – group 84,500 79,800 74,500 74,000 73,000 Number of employees – group leadership 501 431 394 394 376 Women in group leadership (%) 18 19 22 21 24 Women at management levelq (%) 27 28 29 30 31 People from racial minorities in UK and US group leadership (%) 9 10 11 11 11 People from beyond the UK and US in group leadership (%) 21 21 23 24 24 Employee engagementr (%) 73 71 73 66 66 Employee turnovers (%) 12 16 16 12 12 Concerns raised (OpenTalk cases and concerns raised to management)t 1,114 1,158 1,701 1,612 1,712 Dismissals for non-compliance and unethical behaviour u 157 132 109 70 50 q Includes employees who are group leaders, senior level s These figures relate to non-retail employees only. In 2018 leaders or in other management positions. voluntary turnover (resignations and retirements) was 4%. r We conduct an annual employee survey to understand and t The figures from 2016 are restated to include concerns raised monitor levels of employee engagement and identify areas to line management, as well as OpenTalk cases. for improvement. We changed our survey questions in 2017 Any employee, contractor or other third party can contact to reflect the new priorities set out in our refreshed strategy. our confidential helpline, OpenTalk. The scores prior to 2017 are based on questions on priorities u Excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail sites. set out in 2012, so the numbers are not directly comparable. Data tool See bp.com/hsechartingtool to filter and analyse our health, safety and environmental data. 74 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Advancing Low Carbon accredited activities in 2019 A total of 52 activities met the criteria The activities must deliver a better carbon outcome needed for our Advancing Low Carbon by doing one of the following: accreditation programme in 2019. Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Producing less carbon than competitor or Each activity supports one of our low carbon industry benchmarks. ambitions – by reducing emissions in our Providing renewable energy. operations, improving our products or creating Offsetting carbon produced. low carbon businesses. Furthering research and technology to advance See page 28 and bp.com/advancinglowcarbon low carbon. for more information on each of the activities. Enabling BP or others to meet their low carbon objectives. Reduce LNG carriers BP’s participation in: BP’s academic support for: We introduced liquefied natural gas (LNG) carriers that are the most fuel-efficient and technologically Climate and Clean Air Coalition’s Oil and Gas Harvard Kennedy School advanced vessels ever built by BP. Methane Partnership BP sponsors the Harvard Kennedy School’s Energy BP is a member of this initiative, which aims to and Climate Policy Programme, which is looking Oil tankers deepen industry’s understanding of the core sources at policy options under the Paris Agreement for BP operates 26 oil tankers that go beyond the of methane emissions in upstream operations so climate change mitigation, adaptation, finance and International Maritime Organization’s energy that it can take action to address them. energy technology. efficiency regulation requirements. CO2 Capture Project Princeton’s Carbon Mitigation Initiative OzHarvest partnership BP is a founding member of this project, formed Princeton’s Carbon Mitigation Initiative brings We’ve partnered with OzHarvest, an Australian with other energy companies in 2000. Participants together scientists, engineers and policy experts perishable food-rescue organization, to reduce have carried out more than 150 projects to improve to design carbon mitigation strategies that are food waste and help deliver more meals to people understanding of carbon capture, use and storage. safe, effective and affordable. in need across Australia. This results in a reduction of food to landfill and associated potential Methane Guiding Principles Tufts University’s Climate Policy Lab methane emissions. BP is a signatory to the Methane Guiding Principles The Climate Policy Lab explores which climate which were drawn up by a coalition of industry policies work and why – providing independent Sustainable GHG emissions reductions peers, international institutions, non-governmental advice to governments as they implement policies BP is taking steps to tackle emissions across organizations and academics to develop best in response to the Paris Agreement. its operations through delivering sustainable practices on methane emissions reductions. emissions reductions. University of Texas Gulf Coast Carbon Center World Bank flaring reduction initiatives BP supports this institute, which works to further BP participates in the Global Gas Flaring Reduction understanding of the practical and cost-effective Partnership and World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by ways to plan, operate, monitor and close carbon 2030 initiative, which aim to eliminate routine flaring capture, use and storage projects. and to remove technical and regulatory barriers to progress. BP Sustainability Report 2018 75 Improve Acetic anhydride Castrol carbon neutral car dealership offer Castrol Transmax BP has developed a unique method of making the BP’s carbon offsetting programme gives car In Japan, two Castrol transmission fluids used to chemical acetic anhydride that requires less energy dealerships the opportunity to offset their own lubricate automatic gearboxes in passenger vehicles than traditional methods. emissions and offer customers the same service – have been certified as carbon neutral in accordance for a set mileage – within the sale or service with the BSI PAS 2060 standard. Air BP into-plane fuelling services of their vehicle. BP’s programme to maintain carbon neutrality Castrol VECTON for the operation of our global into-plane fuelling Castrol EDGE and MAGNATEC BIO-SYNTHETIC Castrol VECTON was the world’s first certified service across Air BP operated locations. Two Castrol lubricants made with 25% sugar carbon neutral commercial vehicle engine oil in cane-derived oil compounds. Both have accordance with the BSI PAS 2060 standard and Air BP’s low carbon offer to private customers been certified carbon neutral to the BSI PAS is specifically formulated to meet the needs of the An initiative between Air BP and BP Target Neutral 2060 standard. commercial vehicle industry. to help aircraft operators offset the carbon dioxide emissions from the fuel they buy from BP. Castrol GTX ECO Cherry Point renewable diesel Castrol engine oil range that uses a base oil blend BP’s Cherry Point refinery now manufactures BP and Aral fuel cards (fleet) of at least 50% re-refined base oil to reduce carbon diesel made from biomass-based feedstocks, BP and Aral offer business customers the dioxide emissions by a minimum of 10% during alongside traditional fossil fuel feedstocks. This opportunity to offset the carbon emissions from its production. fuel has a lower carbon footprint compared with the fuel they buy from us, as well as access training the petroleum-based alternative. and data to improve their own fuel efficiency. The Castrol low viscosity lubricants initiative is available in Germany, the Netherlands, Castrol has developed a number of engine lubricants NEXCEL Austria and the UK. for passenger cars with low viscosities that help NEXCEL reduces tailpipe CO2 emissions through a reduce friction. This improves fuel economy, leading combination of thermal management – faster engine BP Biojet to lower carbon dioxide emissions. warm-up – and new bespoke oil formulations. BP’s sustainable aviation fuel made with recycled cooking oil. Castrol Optigear Synthetic PTAir Castrol is the world’s first supplier to offer the PTAir offers customers in the polyester value chain BP fuels with ACTIVE technology wind-industry certified carbon-neutral lubricants the opportunity to buy lower carbon feedstock. BP is developing and deploying advanced fuels in accordance with the BSI PAS 2060 standard. that contain its ACTIVE technology formula designed PTAir Neutral to improve engine efficiency. This helps reduce Castrol passenger car oil carbon The world’s first certified carbon neutral PTA, fuel consumption, which, in turn helps to lower neutral initiative giving BP customers the opportunity to CO2 emissions. The passenger car oils that Castrol sells in Japan purchase a carbon neutral product with net have been certified carbon neutral in accordance zero carbon emissions. BP Target Neutral with the BSI PAS 2060 standard. BP’s carbon offsetting programme that develops carbon neutral products and services. Castrol Professional Castrol’s high-performance engine oil is the world’s Butamax advanced biofuels first certified carbon neutral oil in accordance with Working in partnership with DuPont, BP has the BSI PAS 2060 standard. developed Butamax technology, which converts sugars from corn into an energy-rich bio-product known as bio-isobutanol. 76 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Create Biofuels Global Environmental Products StoreDot BP’s biofuels business in Brazil converts sugar cane BP’s Global Environmental Products business BP has invested in this ultra-fast-charging battery into ethanol for use as a fuel for transport. Ethanol supports carbon pricing by helping to enable start-up company, which is developing technology reduces GHG emissions by up to 70%, compared projects that reduce GHG emissions and generate that could reduce recharging times for electric with conventional transport fuels. environmental credits for use in carbon emissions vehicles to five minutes. trading markets. Biopower Titan 1 Battery Storage Project BP creates biopower by burning bagasse, the fibre Lightning Systems Working with Tesla, BP is piloting high-storage that remains after crushing sugar cane stalks to make BP has invested in this US-based company, battery technology at its Titan 1 wind farm in the US. biofuels. Some of the power runs our three biofuels which makes electric powertrains for trucks, The technology stores excess energy that can then mills in Brazil, with the rest exported to the local vans and buses. be used across the site when the wind isn’t blowing. electricity grid. Lightsource BP Tricoya Technologies BP Chargemaster Lightsource BP is focusing on funding, developing BP has invested in this wood modification technology BP now has more than 6,500 chargepoints for and managing major solar projects and smart company, which uses proprietary acetylation electric vehicles across the UK, following its energy solutions around the world. technology and the chemical acetic anhydride to acquisition of Chargemaster in 2018. alter wood’s chemistry to improve its durability. ONYX InSight BP’s participation in OGCI This joint venture between Castrol and Voltaware BP was one of the founding members of the Romax Technology provides engineering and BP has invested in this electricity data intelligence voluntary, CEO-led Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, software services to wind farm operators so company, which has developed an internet-enabled which aims to increase the ambition, speed and that they can monitor the condition of their energy monitoring device that allows business and scale of the initiatives undertaken by its individual turbines and avoid breakdowns. residential users to track energy demand. companies to help reduce manmade GHG emissions. Peloton Wind Carbonfree Chemicals BP has invested in this automated vehicle technology BP has significant interests in onshore wind energy BP has invested in this company, which has company, which has developed a wireless system in the US, operating 10 sites in seven states and developed new technology to convert GHG that allows freight trucks to travel closely together holding an interest in another facility in Hawaii. emissions from waste gases into chemicals that can to reduce aerodynamic drag and fuel consumption. be used to make products such as baking soda. Solidia Technologies Encourage Capital EKO Green Carbon Fund BP has invested in this US-based company, which BP has invested in this fund which, in turn, invests has developed technologies that have the potential in the development of carbon offsetting opportunities. to reduce the carbon footprint of concrete, as well as reduce water consumption from the FreeWire manufacturing process. BP has invested in FreeWire, which makes ultra-fast electric vehicle charging technology. Fulcrum BioEnergy BP has invested in Fulcrum BioEnergy, which has developed a process to turn certain types of household waste into fuel for transport. BP Sustainability Report 2018 77 Independent assurance statement Scope of work Our conclusion Our independence and competence We have provided independent limited assurance, Based on our procedures described in this report, We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies, in accordance with the International Standard for nothing has come to our attention that causes us to which address and, in certain cases, exceed the Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000 (Revised),1 on believe that the selected subject matter stated above, requirements of the International Ethics Standards selected sustainability information (“subject matter”), for the financial year ended 31 December 2018, as Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional for the financial year ended 31 December 2018. The presented in BP’s 2018 SR, has not been prepared, Accountants in their role as independent auditors, and subject matter is reported in the 2018 Sustainability in all material respects, in accordance with BP’s in particular preclude us from taking financial, Report (“SR”) of BP p.l.c. (“BP”). Reporting Requirements and Definitions. commercial, governance and ownership positions which might affect, or be perceived to affect, our Select subject matter for assurance The basis of our work and level independence and impartiality, and from any • Safety indicators:2 recordable injury frequency, of assurance involvement in the preparation of the report. day away from work case frequency, number of We used the ISAE 3000 to carry out a limited We have confirmed to BP that we have maintained fatalities, number of oil spills, process safety assurance engagement. To achieve this, the ISAE our independence and objectivity throughout the events (Tier 1 and Tier 2),3 and 3000 requires that we review the processes, systems year and that there were no events or prohibited • Environmental indicators: operational control-based and competencies used to compile the areas on which services provided which could impair our Scope 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, we provide assurance. This is designed to give a independence and objectivity. equity-based Scope 1 GHG emissions,4 total similar level of assurance to that obtained in the We have applied the International Standard on Quality sustainable GHG emissions reductions towards review of interim financial information. It does not Control 1 and accordingly maintain a comprehensive 3.5m tCO2e target,5 and methane emissions include detailed testing of source data or the operating system of quality control including documented intensity. effectiveness of processes and internal controls. policies and procedures regarding compliance with The above subject matter has been assessed against ethical requirements, professional standards and BP’s Reporting Requirements and Definitions.6 Inherent limitations applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Inherent limitations exist in all assurance Key assurance procedures engagements due to the selective enquiry of the Roles and responsibilities information being examined. Therefore fraud, error To form our conclusions, we undertook the following BP is responsible for the preparation of the or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. procedures over the subject matter: sustainability information and statements contained Additionally, non-financial information, such as that • Reviewed the documents relating to BP’s within the 2018 SR. It is responsible for selecting included in BP’s 2018 SR is subject to more inherent sustainability performance, including safety and appropriate KPIs with which to describe the entity’s limitations than financial information, given the nature operational risk documentation, internal audit performance, and establishing and maintaining and methods used for determining, calculating, and outputs, and board committee minutes, to appropriate performance management and internal sampling or estimating such information. understand the level of management awareness control systems from which the reported information Our work has been undertaken so that we might is derived. and oversight of sustainability performance; state to BP those matters we are required to in this • Interviewed staff responsible for managing data Our responsibility is to independently express report and for no other purpose. Our work did not processes and data management systems at conclusions on the selected sustainability information include physical inspections of any of BP’s group level; subject matter as defined within the scope of operating assets. work above to BP in accordance with our letter of • Reviewed a sample of control documentation for While we acknowledge that this report will be engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that non-financial management information; published on the BP website, the maintenance we may notify BP of those matters we are required • Reviewed disaggregated data reported by a and integrity of that website is the responsibility of to inform them of in this statement and for no other sample of businesses to assess whether the data BP. The work that we carried out does not involve purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we has been collected, consolidated and reported consideration of the maintenance and integrity of do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone accurately; and that website and, accordingly, we accept no other than BP for our work, for this report, or for the responsibility for any changes that may have conclusions we have formed. • Tested the completeness of the data and whether occurred to this report and BP’s 2018 SR since it has been collected, consolidated and reported they were initially presented on the website. Deloitte LLP, London accurately at group level. 10 April 2019 We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. 1 ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard for Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. 2 For personnel safety metrics, the metric assured is for the entire workforce (employees plus contractors). 3 For process safety events reporting, BP’s methodology follows the American Petroleum Institute guide RP-754 Process Safety Performance Indicators for the Refining and Petrochemical Industries, Second Edition, 2016. 4 As disclosed by BP in the GHG emissions performance reporting in the 2018 SR, the percentage of greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to BP’s share of Rosneft is not included. 5 The total sustainable GHG emissions reductions are the sum of sustainable GHG emissions reductions from the years 2016, 2017, and 2018, on an operational control basis. 6 BP’s Environmental Performance Group Reporting Requirements and Health, Safety and Environmental Reporting Definitions. 78 The energy transition Safety Human rights Society Environment Our people and ethics Governance and risk management Our reporting Cautionary statement BP Sustainability Report 2018 and bp.com/ Material is used within this document to describe sustainability contain certain forecasts, projections issues for voluntary sustainability reporting that we and forward looking statements – that is, statements consider to be of high or medium importance in related to future, not past events and circumstances terms of stakeholder interest and potential business – which may relate to the ambitions, aims, targets, impact. Material for the purposes of this document plans and objectives of BP – as well as statements should not, therefore, be read as equating to any that include but are not limited to statements about use of the word in other BP p.l.c. reporting or how we run our business; expectations regarding filings. Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 may be world energy demand including the growth in relative downloaded from bp.com/annualreport. No material demand for renewables; plans, expectations and in the Sustainability Report forms any part of that targets in relation to BP’s approach to lower carbon document. No part of this Sustainability Report or and reducing emissions; plans and expectations bp.com/sustainability constitutes, or shall be taken in relation to future mobility and electric vehicles; to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest advancing the circular economy and in particular the in BP p.l.c. or any other entity and must not be relied chemicals and plastics sector; investments in new upon in any way in connection with any investment technologies and low carbon businesses such as decisions. BP p.l.c. is the parent company of the BP solar energy and biofuels and including advanced group of companies. Unless otherwise stated, the mobility, bio and low carbon products, carbon text does not distinguish between the activities management, digital transformation and power and operations of the parent company and those and storage; carbon capture, use and storage and of its subsidiaries. the Clean Gas Project; safe and reliable operations; creating a diverse and inclusive workplace; and actions of contractors and partners or our work with them. Forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are outside the control of BP. Actual results or outcomes may differ from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors including those set out in the ‘Risk factors’ in our Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 and any other matters referred to at bp.com/energytransition. BP Sustainability Report 2018 79 Our reporting suite Sustainability Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 Covers our sustainability performance Details of our financial and operating with additional information online. performance in print and online. bp.com/sustainability bp.com/annualreport BP Energy Outlook BP Technology Outlook Provides our projections of future How technology could influence the energy trends and factors that could way we meet the energy challenge affect them out to 2040. into the future. bp.com/energyoutlook bp.com/technologyoutlook 80 Acknowledgements Design: SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP Typesetting: SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP Printing: Pureprint Group Limited, UK, ISO 14001, FSC® certified and CarbonNeutral® Photography: Abdoulaye Ndao, Bob Wheeler, Christopher Churchill, Edmundas Stundzius, Graham Trott, Jon Challicom, Marc Morrison, Mehmet Binay, Richard Davies, Simon Kreiton, Stuart Conway. Paper: This report is printed on Munken Polar Smooth paper and board. This paper is made from elemental chlorine free pulps. Munken Polar Smooth benefits from the highest level of environmental certification, including FSC® chain of custody, EMAS and ISO 14001, the pulp is sourced from sustainably managed forests. You can order BP’s printed publications free of charge from: bp.com/papercopies US and Canada Issuer Direct Toll-free: +1 888 301 2505 bpreports@issuerdirect.com UK and rest of world BP Distribution Services Tel: +44 (0)870 241 3269 bpdistributionservices@bp.com Feedback Your feedback is important to us. You can email the corporate reporting team at corporatereporting@bp.com BP p.l.c. 1 St James’s Square London SW1Y 4PD © BP p.l.c. 2019 bp.com/sustainability
