Our contribution to the SDGs Our Sustainability Action Plan, This is Forward, is our way of defining the role we can play in supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which provide the global roadmap for sustainable development. Our strategy is closely aligned with the SDGs, with each of the commitment areas supporting one or more of the goals. Our Action on Drinks commitments support the UN Sustainable Development Goal 3, ensuring good health and wellbeing. By reducing the sugar in our drinks and evolving our recipes and portfolio to offer a greater choice of low sugar options, we’re making a contribution to the global fight against obesity. Our Action on Packaging commitments support the UN Sustainable Development Goal 12, ensuring sustainable consumption by helping to substantially reduce waste generation through waste reduction, recycling and reuse and the UN Sustainable Development Goal 14, protecting and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources. Our Action on Society commitments support the UN Sustainable Development Goal 11, by contributing to making the communities in which we operate more inclusive and sustainable. Through this work, we also support the UN Sustainabile Development Goal 4, for inclusive and equitable quality education, the UN Sustainable Development Goal 5, for gender equality; and the UN Sustainable Development Goal 8, improving access to employment and work. Our Action on Water commitments support the UN Sustainable Development Goal 6, by contributing to global efforts to protect the future sustainability of our water resources. Our Action on Climate commitments support the UN Sustainable Development Goal 7 and the UN Sustainable Development Goal 13. We are committed to playing our part in global efforts to tackle climate change, in line with the 2015 Paris Climate Change Agreement. Our Action on Supply Chain commitments support the UN Sustainable Development Goal 2, by promoting the development of sustainable agriculture, the UN Sustainable Development Goal 8, by seeking to protect labour and human rights, and eradicate forced labour and modern slavery within our supply chain and the UN Sustainable Development Goal 10, reducing inequality within countries. 1
