Responsible investment Government Pension Fund Global 2018 No. 05 b Our mission is to safeguard and build financial wealth for future generations 1 How we work Establishing principles We aim to contribute to well-functioning markets and good corporate governance. We recognise a set of international standards and contribute to their further development. Our expectation documents, position papers and voting guidelines make clear our priorities as a long-term investor. Excercising ownership We aim to promote long-term value creation at the companies in our portfolio. We use our voting rights to support effective boards. In our dialogue with companies, we discuss the board’s responsibilities and equal treatment of shareholders. We work with companies to increase the information available to investors and encourage good business practices. Investing sustainably We aim to identify long-term investment opportunities and reduce our exposure to unacceptable risks. We assess how companies impact on the environment and society. We see opportunities in companies that enable more environmentally friendly economic activity. There are also companies we choose not to invest in for sustainability or ethical reasons. 2018 at a glance 13 5 2,256 Submissions Academic projects Companies’ reporting assessed 11,287 98 50 Shareholder meetings Percent of shareholder Integrated voting as voted at ­meetings voted at ­percentage value of equity portfolio 199 56.7 − 8.3 Board level meetings Environmental investments. Return on environmental Billion kroner ­equity investments. Percent 107,441 30 13 Equity portfolio carbon New divestments New exclusions ­emissions. Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalents Contents 1 2 4 INTRODUCTION ESTABLISHING PRINCIPLES 1. Foreword ____________________________ 8 1. Standards __________________________ 22 2. Overview ____________________________ 12 2. Expectations _______________________ 32 3. Research ___________________________ 40 3 4 5 EXERCISING OWNERSHIP INVESTING SUSTAINABLY 1. Voting ______________________________ 44 1. Risk assessments ___________________ 90 2. Dialogue ___________________________ 56 2. Investments _______________________ 104 3. Follow-up __________________________ 70 3. Divestments _______________________ 112 6 Introduction | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global 1 Introduction 7 8 Introduction | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Introduction 1.1 Long-term and responsible We have a single objective – the highest possible return with moderate risk. This return is dependent on value creation at the companies we invest in. Oslo, 7 February 2019 Companies’ activities have a great impact on the world around them, and the world is asking ever more of how companies conduct themselves. Over time, this could affect their profitability and the fund’s return. As a long-term investor in around 9,000 companies in Yngve Slyngstad 70 countries, we have an interest in investors’ expectations for CEO, Norges Bank Investment profitability being aligned with society’s broader expectations of Management companies. We therefore express clear expectations of the companies we invest in. Good corporate governance promotes long-term value creation and protects our rights as an investor. It enhances transparency and 9 breeds confidence in the markets. The board represents a company’s investors and should therefore understand the environmental and social consequences of the company’s operations, set its own priorities and report on the results. In 2018, we published our position on the composition and independence of company boards. We expect the board to have sufficient expertise, capacity and independence from management to discharge its duties. The fund exists to help finance the Norwegian welfare state for future generations and must therefore have a long investment horizon. We want companies to be equipped to deal with long-term global challenges. We aim to promote good governance, increased profitability and responsible business practices. Our work on generating a long-term return is enhanced by investing in companies that act responsibly and create long-term value. 10 Introduction | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Introduction 1.1 Closer dialogue with companies 2018 was marked by several new initiatives. We published our principled position on anti-corruption, ocean sustainability, board composition and independence, and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Oslo, 7 February 2019 We participated in two international initiatives, met regulators in nine markets, and responded to 13 public consultations. We voted at 11,287 shareholder meetings, held 3,256 meetings with companies, and analysed the reporting of 2,256 companies. Carine Smith Ihenacho Chief Corporate Governance Corruption and marine pollution were two challenges we focused on Officer in 2018. We expect companies to work against corruption in all its forms, with the board setting clear policies, integrating them into business operations and reporting on this work. We also expect companies that use or affect the ocean to understand the associated 11 sustainability challenges and opportunities. We were invited by UN Global Compact to join a new international ocean platform during the year. The Global Compact’s role is to promote collaboration between the UN and business. The platform consists of companies, investors and researchers who are working together to develop principles for ocean sustainability. The principles will be launched by UN Global Compact in 2019. The dialogue we have with companies and their boards is among the most important tools we have as an investor. We raised a number of relevant topics in 2018 on the basis of our published expectations. We engaged with companies on banks’ climate disclosure, banks’ financing of deforestation, tax and transparency at UK companies, marine pollution from agriculture, and the marketing of breast-milk substitutes. As a global investor in around 9,000 companies, we must be principled and express clear expectations of all the companies in our portfolio on both profitability and responsible business practices. We follow up our expectations with voting and dialogue with companies to safeguard the fund’s long-term value. 12 The future value of the fund is dependent on the value created by the 9000 companies in which we invest. Introduction | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Introduction 1.2 Overview Our mission is to safeguard and build financial wealth for future generations. In delivering a long-term return, we are dependent on sustainable growth, well-functioning markets and good corporate governance. The objective for the management of the fund is The fund invests globally. It has holdings in 70 the highest possible return with moderate risk. countries to spread risk and capture global Responsible investment supports this objective growth. We benefit from free and open markets in two ways. First, we seek to improve the longthat enable global value creation and efficient term economic performance of our investments. allocation of resources. We trade daily in global Second, we seek to reduce the financial risks securities markets. Well-functioning markets associated with the environmental and social ensure that capital is channelled effectively from practices of companies in our portfolio. We do investors to companies. We have a clear interest this by considering governance and in regulation that results in better information 13 sustainability issues that could have an impact on markets and companies, and makes markets on the fund’s performance over time. We more stable. Markets that are less prone to integrate these issues into our work on shocks and facilitate sustainable growth are establishing principles, our long-term ownership important for the fund’s long-term return. and our investing. This report looks at responsible management of the fund’s equity The fund invests widely. It has holdings in and fixed-income investments. Responsible around 9,000 companies spanning every sector. investment in real estate is covered by other However, the fund’s percentage holdings in publications. these companies are small, so we must delegate responsibility to their boards. We expect boards Our motivation to set the company’s strategy, oversee The fund invests for the long term. It exists to management and be accountable to help finance the Norwegian welfare state for shareholders. Good corporate governance future generations and must therefore have a promotes transparency and protects our rights long investment horizon. We are dependent on as an investor. Good governance also breeds sustainable development for a long-term return. confidence in the markets and contributes to We have an interest in companies being able to long-term value creation. The future value of the meet the needs of the present without fund is dependent on the value created by the compromising the ability of future generations companies in which we invest. to meet their own needs. Sustainable development can make the companies in our portfolio more robust and contribute to the fund’s long-term return. 14 Internationally agreed standards on corporate governance promote long-term value creation. We recognise a set of international ­principles and standards from the UN and the OECD. Introduction | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Introduction 1.2 Establishing principles of their companies’ activities, take them into Standards provide consistency across markets account when setting strategy, analyse risks and and raise the bar for all companies. In Section 2 report on outcomes. of the report, we explain how we participate in the development of international standards and It is important in our work to understand global use them, together with our own expectations trends that could affect long-term creation of and positions, to guide companies. Our goal is financial value for the fund. Economic activity in well-functioning markets and good corporate one sector can impose considerable indirect governance. costs on other sectors and society as a whole. Understanding of how governance and The fund is invested in 70 countries. We benefit sustainability impact on financial risks and from internationally agreed standards that apply returns is still evolving. We support and initiate to all companies and promote long-term value research projects that contribute to this process. creation. We recognise a set of international We collaborate with academic institutions to principles and standards from the UN and the access the latest research and obtain analyses OECD which provide a framework for our work that can inform our investment strategy, risk with companies and other stakeholders. management and ownership. 15 We contribute to the further development of standards. We participate in consultations and engage regularly with international organisations, regulators and other standard setters, industry partners and academics. We can draw on our experience as an investor in 70 national markets and our in-depth knowledge of companies in our portfolio. Within this framework of internationally agreed standards, we set our own priorities based on our mandate and characteristics as a fund. We formulate expectations of companies, guidelines for our voting, and positions on governance issues. These public documents communicate our priorities to the wider market and ensure predictability in our long-term ownership. We see good corporate governance as a premise for responsible business practices. Shareholders must be able to influence important board decisions. We expect boards to understand the broader environmental and social consequences 16 The fund has a small stake in around 9,000 companies across the globe. We manage our responsibilities and exercise our rights as an owner to promote long-term value creation at companies. Introduction | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Introduction 1.2 Exercising ownership expectations of companies in these areas. We The fund has a small stake in around 9,000 have also published expectations on how companies across the globe. In Section 3 of the companies should address human rights, tax report, we explain how we manage our and transparency, corruption and ocean responsibilities and exercise our rights as an sustainability. We expect companies to integrate owner. Our aim is to promote long-term value material risks in these areas into their business creation at companies. strategy, risk management and reporting. We are constantly developing our understanding of Voting is the most important tool we have for these areas and the impact they could have on active ownership. Through our voting, we seek the companies in the portfolio. Our work has to strengthen governance, improve financial given us a better basis for assessing companies’ performance and promote responsible business strategies and engaging with their boards. practices. We hold boards to account for their decisions, and we consider who should sit on the board. Our voting guidelines provide a principled basis for our voting decisions, but we also take account of company-specific factors. 17 In our dialogue with companies, we raise governance and sustainability topics relevant to our long-term return. We prioritise our largest investments, where we know the companies best. We have a regular dialogue with these nearly 1,000 companies, which make up around two-thirds of the total value of the equity portfolio. In addition, we publish expectations and positions which are relevant to all of the companies in our portfolio, and we engage with individual companies on our strategic priorities and specific developments. We work with companies, investors and other stakeholders to advance standards, increase the information available to investors, and promote responsible practices. This is particularly important when many companies in an industry face the same challenges. We have a particular interest in the risks and opportunities associated with climate change, water management and children’s rights, and have formulated clear 18 Environmental, social and governance issues can have an impact on companies’ performance. We work to identify, measure and manage risks and opportunities that could affect the fund’s ability to generate a long-term return. Introduction | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Introduction 1.2 Investing sustainably Given our understanding of sustainable Responsible investment is an integral part of the economic growth, there are also sectors and fund’s investment strategy. In Section 4 of the companies where the fund should not be report, we explain how governance and invested. By not investing in such companies, sustainability data can inform our investment we reduce the fund’s exposure to unacceptable decisions. Our aim is to identify long-term risks. investment opportunities and reduce the fund’s exposure to unacceptable risks. The Ministry of Finance has established ethically motivated guidelines for observation and We encourage companies to move from words exclusion of companies from the fund. The fund to numbers, so that we can evaluate their efforts must not be invested in companies that produce and better understand financial risks and certain types of weapons, base their operations opportunities. To perform analyses of this kind, on coal, or produce tobacco. The fund must also we need governance and sustainability data. not be invested in companies that through their conduct contribute to violations of fundamental We support the recommendations of the Task ethical norms. The Ministry of Finance has Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures established an independent Council on Ethics to 19 (TCFD) set up by the G20’s Financial Stability make ethical assessments of companies. Board. We are working with companies to ensure that they are equipped for the transition Finally, the fund itself may decide to divest from to a low-carbon economy. We invest specially in companies that impose substantial costs on climate mandates, adjust the portfolio through other companies and society as a whole, and so divestments, and consider climate issues in our are not considered long-term sustainable. investment decisions. We also analyse green­ house gas emissions from companies in our portfolio and various climate scenarios for the fund. We see opportunities in investing in companies with solutions that enable more environmentally friendly economic activity. These investments can have positive effects on other companies in the portfolio. These positive externalities can include reduced pollution, lower energy costs and more efficient use of resources. Companies producing such technologies may profit in turn from changes in demand and regulation. We invest in such companies through among others dedicated environment-related mandates. 20 Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global 2 Establishing principles 21 Standards The fund is invested in around Standards provide greater consistency across 9,000 companies across the globe. markets and raise the bar for all companies. Our aim is to contribute to well-functioning markets We benefit from international and good corporate governance. We participate standards that promote long-term in the development of standards by engaging value creation, and we contribute to with regulators and other standard setters. their development. We also publish International standards expectations of the companies we We recognise a set of key international principles invest in. and standards. Our management mandate from the Ministry of Finance specifies three standards from the OECD and the UN as the framework for responsible investment management at Norges Bank. These principles and standards from the OECD and the UN are voluntary, non-statutory recommendations. They express expectations 22 for companies’ handling of environmental and social issues. We expect the companies in our portfolio to strive to observe these principles and standards. OECD The G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance mainly concern effective governance, such as shareholder rights, equitable treatment of shareholders, disclosure and transparency, and the responsibilities of the board. The principles form a natural starting point for our own positions and interaction with companies and other organisations. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises are a set of government-endorsed recommendations for companies that operate internationally. The aim is to support sustainable development through responsible business conduct, trade and investment. The voluntary nature of the guidelines means that compliance cannot be legally enforced, but there is an expectation that companies will apply the guidelines to the extent that they are applicable to their business. Companies themselves are to assess how this can best be achieved. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.1 UN The UN Conference on Trade and Development The UN Global Compact is a broad coalition (UNCTAD) has also published Principles on between the UN and the business world that Promoting Responsible Sovereign Lending and promotes corporate social responsibility. The Borrowing. These aim to prevent unsustainable initiative is based on ten general principles debt and stress the responsibilities of both derived from the Universal Declaration of Human lender and borrower. The principles are advisory Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental and are still under development. Principles and Rights at Work, and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. In 2018, we published a paper in our Asset Among other things, the principles require Manager Perspective series looking at the UN companies to respect human rights, uphold the Sustainable Development Goals in an economic freedom of association and the right to context and discussing the fund’s relationship to collective bargaining, and eliminate all forms of sustainable development. As a long-term and forced labour, child labour and discrimination in global investor, the fund has an inherent interest the workplace. The Global Compact also in a sustainable development. Our goals as a encourages companies to support the UN responsible investment manager largely coincide Sustainable Development Goals. The Global with the SDGs and the transition to a more 23 Compact’s principles for responsible business sustainable global economy. Joint solutions to continue to play a key role in the management of global challenges such as climate change and the fund. In autumn 2018, we signed up as a environmental degradation will increase the Global Compact participant, enabling us to resilience of our portfolio. The SDGs provide participate in its work on developing clear direction and a common framework for international standards that are relevant and addressing key global challenges. National important to the fund. authorities are responsible for achieving the goals by 2030. How they choose to mobilise Norges Bank’s Executive Board refers to two knowledge, technology and capital to realise the further UN standards in its own principles for goals will have a significant impact on the global responsible investment. The UN Guiding economy. Principles on Business and Human Rights are a global standard unanimously endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011. The principles encompass three pillars outlining roles and responsibilities for states and businesses with regard to human rights: the state duty to protect human rights, the corporate responsibility to respect human rights, and access to remedy for victims of adverse impacts. 24 In 2018, we had meetings with the OECD, the UN Global Compact and the European Commission as well as standard setters in France, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.1 Development of international standards such as differentiated voting rights, national As a market participant, we contribute to the corporate governance codes, sound voting further development of standards that serve the systems, and standards for corporate disclosure. long-term interests of the fund. We participate in We publish all of our consultation responses on consultations and engage regularly with our website: www.nbim.no. international organisations, regulators and other standard setters in our most important markets. Shares with unequal voting rights We can draw on experience as an investor in 70 We are a diversified investor with holdings in countries and an in-depth knowledge of the around 9,000 listed companies. The protection companies in our portfolio. of minority shareholder rights is necessary to safeguard and promote the fund’s long-term When we meet standard setters, we are financial interests. A company’s board has a duty interested to learn about their strategic priorities to act in the interests of all shareholders. 2018 and specific initiatives to promote wellsaw two key developments in this area. functioning markets and good corporate The first concerned listing criteria on the stock governance. At the same time, we can exchanges in Singapore and Hong Kong. Both communicate our own priorities, which in 2018 exchanges decided in 2018 to introduce a new 25 included board composition and independence, dual share class structure, with one class shareholders’ voting rights, executive carrying more votes than the other. At the same remuneration, anti-corruption and ocean time, the exchanges presented proposals sustainability. During the course of the year, we intended to provide protection for minority had meetings with the OECD, the UN Global shareholders’ interests. We support measures Compact and the European Commission as well that encourage companies to go public to raise as standard setters in France, Germany, Japan, capital and share risk. We also recognise that South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK. there is international competition for listings. In We were also invited by the UK Financial our responses to the exchanges, we reiterated Reporting Council to be part of a group of 12 our position on equal treatment of all investors advising on corporate governance and shareholders (one share, one vote). We reporting. supported the proposal to limit differentiated voting rights to specific situations and require We support initiatives to strengthen financial important decisions to continue to be based on markets in developing countries. For the past the principle of one share, one vote. We also three years, we have supported an initiative supported the proposal to restrict shares with under the African Union to develop guidelines special rights to key persons and make them for corporate governance in African countries. non-transferable. Through our support for the African Corporate Governance Network, we hope to help open up The second development concerned companies more African nations to international with no, or very few, voting shares listed. The investment. right to vote is fundamental for shareholders because it gives them formal influence over the We responded to 13 public consultations relating company. In 2018, index provider MSCI carried to responsible investment during the year. These out a further public consultation on unequal concerned issues that we consider important, voting rights and their implications for the composition of stock indices. We believe that proposal to increase the minimum holding indices that include companies with voteless period for equity-based executive remuneration. shares present challenges for users requiring formal influence over the companies they invest Recent years have seen Japan working on in. MSCI proposed weighting share classes by improving corporate governance and bringing its the percentage of votes in public hands. We code more in line with other OECD countries, commended MSCI on its robust methodology, especially when it comes to the board’s but also expressed concern about the impact on independence and oversight of management. investors’ portfolios and the wider market. Our Updates in 2018 mainly concerned crosscalculations showed that the proposal would ownership and board independence. In our restrict investors’ ability to diversify their response, we expressed support for a higher portfolios and also skew the index towards more ratio of independent board members. We also mature companies in traditional industries. We supported the recommendations on increasing repeated our position that the principal purpose diversity on the board, including through a of a benchmark index is to reflect the global better gender balance and more international equity opportunity set. MSCI eventually decided experience. 26 not to account for unequal voting rights in the composition of its benchmark index, but to Proposals for extensive updates of the German create a separate index that weights companies corporate governance code were also put partly on the basis of voting rights. forward during the year. We supported the proposal to require a majority of board members National corporate governance codes to be independent, and for this independence to As an investor in 70 countries, we support the be based on more stringent criteria. We also development of national corporate governance backed the recommendation that management codes that adapt the G20/OECD principles to should be rewarded with simple, transparent and the national context and promote good market long-term equity programmes. We noted clear practices. Most of these codes are not legally similarities here with our own position on CEO binding, but companies choosing not to comply remuneration. Finally, we supported a reduction will often need to explain why they have chosen in the term served by board members from five a different approach. to three years as a step in the right direction, as well as a limit of five directorships in line with The UK corporate governance code has a strong our position on time commitments. standing worldwide and is often used as a model for the development of recommendations in Sweden too proposed changes to its guidelines other countries. At the end of 2017, the UK on executive remuneration in the light of new authorities requested feedback from investors requirements for shareholder influence in the on an update of the code. We supported the revised EU Shareholder Rights Directive. In our emphasis on board independence as a premise response, we argued that the national code for good governance. We agreed that diversity should permit simple, transparent and long-term on the board is important in bringing a wide equity-based remuneration programmes. We range of perspectives and experience into the also supported the introduction of a limit on the decision-making process. We also backed the number of directorships, and greater emphasis on relevant qualifications when nominating Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.1 board candidates. We stressed the board’s The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) responsibility for environmental and social asked market participants for input on improving issues material to the company, and repeated the voting system at US listed companies. We our position that the number of votes received responded that the SEC could improve the by each candidate in board elections should be effectiveness of the system and strengthen counted and published. shareholder rights by making a number of technical changes. First, shareholders who have Australia has clear guidelines protecting issued voting instructions should receive shareholder interests and contributing to a confirmation that their votes have been cast at competitive market. We expressed our support the shareholder meeting. Second, the time for an update of the guidelines placing greater between the record date (the cut-off for voting emphasis on ethical conduct and responsible rights) and the actual meeting should be business practices. We highlighted the proposal reduced. In the US, the record date can be up to to require companies to publish their anti60 days before the meeting, as opposed to just a corruption policies and strengthen the board’s few days in other advanced markets, which role in work against corruption. We also backed ensures more accurate representation at the proposals to increase boards’ effectiveness, shareholder meeting. Third, it may be an 27 partly by attaching more importance to industry advantage to require all information relevant to knowledge and thorough evaluation of the the meeting to be provided in machine-readable board’s skills. form so that investors can use computer technology to analyse the situation more Sound voting systems efficiently. With holdings in around 9,000 companies, the fund is dependent on an effective system for voting at as many shareholder meetings as possible. The system consists of service providers that gather information about shareholder meetings and communicate them to shareholders. The system features multiple intermediaries and often varies from market to market. The European Commission published proposals in 2018 to harmonise the voting process across the EU. In our response, we expressed support for greater harmonisation to make it easier to vote across the internal market. We stressed the importance of digital solutions to simplify and accelerate the transmission of information between companies and shareholders in different countries. We also expressed support for public share registers to make it easier for companies to identify their shareholders. Reporting standards important that the questionnaires do not ask for We support the development of improved information already collected by other initiatives. standards for reporting on sustainability both We encouraged CDP to take companies’ nationally and internationally. As an investor, we perspective into account to ensure the benefit from timely corporate disclosure of highquestions are relevant and to avoid repetitions quality data and from having access to that may create an unnecessary burden for information on sustainability. respondents. The European Commission held a public The London Metal Exchange (LME) is the world’s consultation on corporate reporting in the leading market for metal futures. In autumn internal market and its fitness in the light of new 2018, the exchange published a position paper challenges such as sustainability and on responsible sourcing of metals. The paper digitalisation. In our response, we stressed the proposed requiring all metals traded on the importance of companies’ reporting on exchange to be assessed against indicators sustainability and investors’ disclosure of large developed by the OECD. The idea is for all metals holdings in companies. We also expressed our to meet the highest standards for responsible 28 support for the commission’s work on improving sourcing in addition to existing chemical and corporate reporting of non-financial data. This physical requirements. Metals that do not satisfy reporting should be based on materiality, i.e. these requirements could eventually be denied whether the information could impact on the quotation on the LME. We supported the user’s decisions. As an investor in the EU’s proposal, because we believe the OECD internal market, we pointed out that disclosure guidelines to be a useful framework that requirements for major holdings vary from captures the risk of violations of human rights in country to country. National differences within the supply chain. We also backed the possible the EU bring greater operational risk and higher future expansion of the requirements to include costs for cross-border investors. environmental factors. CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) requested input on two new questionnaires: one for financial services and one for metals and mining. We expressed our support for better sustainability reporting in these sectors. It is in investors’ interest to obtain material sustainability data that are sector-specific, quantitative, consistent and in a ready-to-use format. We also believe that CDP’s questions should reflect more closely the commercial implications for different financial institutions, as they are exposed to environmental risks in different ways. We also pointed out that it is Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.1 Submissions Recipient Topic Submitted Financial Reporting Council Revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code 28.2.2018 Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Proposal for a listing regime for companies from emerging 23.3.2018 Limited and innovative sectors Singapore Exchange Limited Proposed listing framework for dual class share structures 20.4.2018 Japan Exchange Group Revision of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code and 24.4.2018 establishment of guidelines for investor and company engagement European Commission Consultation on minimum requirements in the 9.5.2018 ­transmission of information for the exercise of shareholder rights 29 MSCI Inc. Consultation on the treatment of unequal voting 31.5.2018 ­structures in the MSCI equity indexes European Commission Fitness check on the EU framework for public reporting by 19.7.2018 companies Australian Securities Exchange Revision of the Australian Securities Exchange Corporate 24.7.2018 ­Corporate Governance Council Governance Council’s Principles and Recommendations CDP Consultation on Financial Services and Forests: Metal & 25.9.2018 Mining questionnaires Securities and Exchange Commission Staff roundtable on the proxy process 5.11.2018 Swedish Corporate Governance Revisions to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code 5.12.2018 Board German Corporate Governance Board Revisions to the German Corporate Governance Code 17.12.2018 London Metal Exchange Position paper on responsible sourcing 17.12.2018 30 The fund invests globally. It has holdings in 70 countries to spread risk and capture global growth. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.1 Membership of organisations and initiatives Topic Organisation Description Corporate African Corporate Governance Network Network of director membership ­governance (ACGN) ­organisations in Africa Asian Corporate Governance Association Membership organisation for investors and (ACGA) companies in Asia Council of Institutional Investors (CII) Association of investors in the US European Corporate Governance Institute Academia-practitioner research network (ECGI) International Corporate Governance Network International association of investors (ICGN) Sustainability CDP Climate; CDP Forest; CDP Water Environmental reporting initiatives Institutional Investor Group on Climate Investor initiative (Europe) 31 ­Change (IIGCC) Norsif Norwegian sustainable investment forum One Planet Sovereign Wealth Fund Working Group of Sovereign Wealth Funds Group Task Force on Climate-related Financial International reporting framework Disclosure (TCFD) Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) International principles for investors United Nations Environment Programme Multi-stakeholder initiative for sustainable Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) finance UN Global Compact International business principles UN Global Compact Action Platform on SustaiMulti-stakeholder initiative for ocean nable Ocean Business sustainability Expectations We publish expectations of companies, position papers on governance issues and guidelines for our voting. These documents communicate our priorities to the wider market and provide predictability in our long-term ownership. We see good corporate governance as a premise tax and transparency (2017), anti-corruption for responsible business practices. We expect (2018) and ocean sustainability (2018). boards to understand the broader environmental Besides publishing these two new documents, and social consequences of business operations we updated our expectations on climate change and manage relevant risks and opportunities. and water management during the year. We believe that some global trends are Climate change will impact on most sectors and 32 particularly relevant to us as a long-term markets in the longer term. Companies should investor. Economic activity can impose plan for relevant climate scenarios and assess substantial indirect costs on other companies climate risks in their operations. Water is and society as a whole. The inability of essential for life on earth and a key part of many companies to internalise such costs is a market production processes. Companies should use failure. In many cases, negative externalities are water sustainably and understand the not yet priced into companies’ market value. consequences of their water consumption. The Typical examples include climate change and legitimacy of sectors and markets depends environmental degradation. Child labour and partly on ethically acceptable operations and other forms of social exploitation violate products. Companies have a duty to respect fundamental human rights. Tax evasion and human rights, including children’s rights, in their corruption have negative impacts on society and operations, supply chains and other business the economy. relationships. Expectation documents Corporate taxes play a key role in most Since 2008, we have published expectation countries’ public finances. Companies should ­documents to support our ownership efforts. pay taxes where economic value is generated The purpose of these documents is to set out and report publicly on the taxes they pay in each how we expect companies to address global country. Corruption hinders economic challenges in their activities. Our expectations of development, undermines markets and exposes companies largely coincide with the UN Sustaincompanies to a significant risk of fines, able Development Goals. Our expectations are blacklisting and loss of reputation. Companies also based on the UN Global Compact and the should have clear anti-corruption policies, and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. the board should ensure that relevant actions We have issued expectation documents on are taken within the organisation. The ocean ­children’s rights (2008), climate change (2009), provides important natural resources and large water management (2010), human rights (2016), open spaces for transport and new industries. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.2 Companies should manage risks and organisation. Executive management should be opportunities related to ocean sustainability. involved in anti-corruption work to ensure that the company is in a position to prevent Our expectations are primarily directed at corruption, and should encourage employees to company boards. Our underlying expectation is comply with the anti-corruption programme. that the board takes overall responsibility for Analysis of corruption risks throughout the company strategy and addresses relevant business are important for taking effective sustainability challenges. The board should preventive measures in the areas where the integrate material risks in these areas into company is most exposed to risks. Measures to strategy, risk management and reporting. To prevent and detect corruption should also be analyse the risks and opportunities associated monitored continuously and improved on the with our investments, we need high-quality basis of both internal and external experience. information from companies. Another important premise for our work is therefore appropriate Expectations on ocean sustainability corporate disclosure in line with relevant In September 2018, we published our standards for the sector. expectations of companies on sustainable uses of the ocean. Many companies make use of the 33 When working on our expectation documents, ocean and marine resources in their business we invite companies, NGOs and researchers to operations, but some of this activity has a provide comments and discuss initiatives. We negative impact on the ocean. As a financial appreciate the input we receive and view it as investor, we have an inherent interest in part of our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. companies’ using the ocean in a sustainable manner. At the same time, the ocean offers new Expectations on anti-corruption and more sustainable business opportunities for In February 2018, we published our expectations many industries. of companies on anti-corruption. Corruption at companies and their agents, or in entire Our expectations are aimed both at companies markets, undermines economic efficiency, with activities directly in or on the ocean, and at disadvantages compliant companies and is land-based companies that are dependent on or detrimental to shareholder value. As a financial affect the ocean through their activities or investor, we expect companies to have clear products. The expectations cover topics such as policies and take effective action to prevent overfishing, land-based pollution, sustainable corruption. shipping, and economic activity in areas of particular ecological or biological significance. Our expectations reflect international antiWe expect relevant companies to integrate corruption legislation and global anti-corruption ocean sustainability into their strategy and risk standards. Boards should ensure that companies management, be transparent about their have clear anti-corruption policies and integrate priorities and report on their performance. This relevant measures into strategy, risk means, for example, that they should management and reporting. Boards should understand their impact or dependence on the ensure that measures are implemented and ocean, avoid taking fish from stocks that are enforced, and that the ensuing responsibilities overfished, and act responsibly in poorly are assigned and communicated in the regulated areas. The expectations form the basis 34 In September 2018, we presented our expectations of companies on ocean sustainability. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.2 for dialogue with companies, and we have also with employees and suppliers can support its used them to support our work on developing work on water management. principles for sustainable ocean business with the UN Global Compact. Position papers To support our ownership activities, we publish Updated expectations position papers that clarify our stance on We also made some updates to existing selected corporate governance issues. Our point expectation documents in 2018. We make minor of departure is that the board is responsible for adjustments regularly to ensure that the setting company strategy, monitoring documents reflect developments in practices. In management’s execution of that strategy, and the expectations on climate change, we clarified providing accountability to shareholders. Each our position on banks’ role in financing coalyear, we vote on more than 45,000 board based industries. Many banks have now candidates. We seek to understand what is introduced restrictions or discontinued such needed for boards to be effective, and how we financing. We expect those that continue to can contribute to better governance. In 2018, we finance coal to be open about their lending published three position papers on the policies and the assessments they perform effectiveness and composition of the board. We 35 before granting new loans. We also ask for will use these as a starting point for our voting information on other lending for activities based and our dialogue with company boards. on fossil fuels, such as extraction, infrastructure and power stations. At the same time, we ask for Industry expertise on the board information on lending for renewable energy. The board should collectively have a thorough This gives us a basis to assess how exposed understanding of the industry in which the banks are to risks in the transition to a lowcompany operates. It should have sufficient carbon economy, as part of the TCFD industry expertise to monitor management’s recommendations. In addition, we request implementation of corporate strategy, and it disclosure of physical climate risks and express should have an effective nomination process to expectations for the reporting of information on identify suitable candidates with industry assets and facilities, including location and expertise. technical data. As a global investor, we have observed that Our expectations on water management now boards place differing emphasis on industry set out requirements for site-specific disclosure expertise when recruiting and nominating new of water consumption and water risks. Droughts, members. Shareholders have an interest in pollution and overconsumption of water are boards whose members thoroughly understand generally limited to specific geographical areas. the industry in which the company operates. It is therefore necessary for us to understand Such a board will have a better understanding of where a company has facilities, what the the company’s business and risks, its main situation is in that area, and what specific steps competitors and the trends that will shape the the company is taking to address any challenges. industry. We have also clarified that a company’s organisation, culture, incentives and relations We therefore believe that a majority of independent board members should have fundamental industry insight, and at least two of shareholders can assess the functioning of the the independent members should have worked board. in the industry. The board should also explain to shareholders the relevance of candidates’ Separation of chairperson and CEO qualifications. The board should exercise objective judgement and be able to make decisions independently of Time commitment of board members management. Board members should devote sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities effectively. The As a global investor, we have observed that it chairperson is responsible for leading all aspects has become less common to combine the roles of the board’s work and should devote a of chairperson and CEO. However, there are still significant amount of time to fulfil his or her many large companies, especially in the US, responsibilities effectively. Board members where the board is chaired by the CEO. Minority should contribute to effective discussions and shareholders have an interest in clear separation decision-making by attending all meetings. The of the roles of board and management to ensure board is accountable to shareholders for the effective oversight and controls. This is 36 time commitment of its members. particularly important when it comes to the recruitment, monitoring and remuneration of As a global investor, we have observed that most the CEO. board members are keen to contribute to a company, but some take on too many The board should therefore be chaired by an commitments and so do not have enough time independent non-executive member, and the to prepare or perform their duties. Shareholders roles of CEO and chairman should not be held by have an obvious interest in boards whose the same individual. Where the board does members have enough time to perform the work decide to have a combined chairperson and CEO, they were elected to do. Board members should it should put in place measures to mitigate any be well prepared for meetings and participate conflicts of interest and safeguard shareholder actively in discussions. This requires time and rights. availability, which is why there will always be a limit to how many board roles one person can hold. We therefore believe that board members at listed companies should not serve on more than five boards at one time, and that the chairperson of a leading company should generally not chair the board of another company. The company should disclose individual attendance rates and explain any absences, and the board should disclose all external board assignments, committee roles and employment, so that Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.2 Corporate Governance Advisory Board companies in the equity portfolio. As a longÅse Aulie Michelet, Svein Rennemo and Harald term investor, we are particularly keen to Norvik were appointed as external members of a strengthen our understanding of the board’s role new Corporate Governance Advisory Board for and working processes in order to target our the fund in 2018. The board serves as an ownership work more effectively. advisory forum for the Chief Corporate Governance Officer, who chairs the board, and is The advisory board held five meetings in 2018 to meet six times a year. and considered matters such as the fund’s stance on board composition and independence, The three bring extensive board experience from and how we can use our voting to strengthen listed companies both in Norway and abroad, boards. The advisory board also discussed the and will advise on corporate governance fund’s voting in 2018 with a particular emphasis strategy, exercise of ownership rights, and on director elections, executive remuneration principles and practices relevant to listed and shareholder resolutions. 37 Corporate Governance Advisory Board From left: Svein Rennemo, Carine Smith Ihenacho, Harald Norvik, Åse Aulie Michelet 38 Since 2008, we have published our expectations of companies. We want companies to be prepared to handle long-term global challenges. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.2 Expectations of companies Markets The fund UN Global Compact 2000 established UN Principles for Responsible 2006 Children’s rights and climate Investment established change defined as focus areas 2007 Company dialogue on climate risk in the US and child labour in India 2008 Expectations on children’s rights, initiative against child labour in cocoa production 2009 Expectations on climate change 2010 Expectations on 39 water management UN Principles for Business and 2011 Human Rights adopted 2014 Publishing the fund’s carbon footprint UN Sustainability Goals and 2015 Executive Board principles for Paris Agreement adopted responsible investment management 2016 Expectations on human rights Task Force on Climate-related 2017 Expectations on tax and Financial Disclosures transparency established UN Global Compact 2018 Expectations on establishes Ocean Platform anti-corruption and ocean sustainability Climate scenarios for the fund Research We are keen to develop our understanding of good corporate governance and sustainability, and how they impact on financial risks and returns. We fund research projects and collaborate with academic institutions to obtain high-quality analyses that can inform our investment strategy. We prioritise global trends and topics that may A research project supported by the fund at be particularly important for long-term financial Boston College has found that the market value creation. The projects may contribute to reaction to equity issuances depends on improved market standards, access to important whether shareholders have to give their data, or our own responsible investment approval. This is because management and priorities. shareholders have different interests when a company issues shares. Some markets require Academic research projects shareholders to approve new issues, but 40 Norges Bank’s Norwegian Finance Initiative (NFI) practices vary between markets. When is one channel for supporting academic shareholders have to approve new issues, the research. We also initiate and fund specific market will, on average, react positively to the research projects outside the NFI. news. When a company issues shares without shareholder approval, the average market Effective ownership reaction is negative and the announcement The fund is broadly diversified across all main return is 4 percentage points lower. The closer sectors in 70 countries. We rely on effective the vote is to the issue, or the higher the ownership to safeguard the long-term value of required majority, the more positive the market the fund. We therefore aim to support academic reaction. The research also reveals that the rules inquiry into how ownership efforts can on shareholder approval affect the type of offer effectively support our financial objective. chosen. The market appears to interpret shareholder approval as a sign that the new With support from the NFI, the London Business issue will create value for the company. School is investigating effective ownership. As part of the project, researchers are studying the This research may be important for extent, impact and value of ownership activities understanding of agency problems in capital at the global asset manager Standard Life allocation and the value of voting rights at Investments. companies. The results were published during the year in the article “Equity Issuances and Shareholder approval Agency Costs” in the Journal of Financial As a long-term minority shareholder, we are Economics. The project was completed on keen to ensure that all shareholders are treated schedule and within budget in October 2018. equally and receive their fair share of the value a company creates. In this context, we are particularly interested in the rights of minority shareholders. Establishing principles | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Establishing principles 2.3 Climate change data expectations, and how this impacts on We are supporting research into the financial behaviour and trading decisions. Topics include impacts of climate change, an area previously asset pricing, corporate governance, profitability, given little attention in finance research. The NFI risk management and the consequences of invited proposals from institutions and climate change for real estate markets. The researchers capable of facilitating academic findings indicate that climate change can have discourse and contributing to the establishment implications for pricing, and that many of an international research community in this participants are trying to take account of this. field. We supported two such research projects in 2018. By supporting these two projects, we hope to pave the way for more research into how future New York University Stern School of Business’s physical and regulatory scenarios might affect Volatility Institute is conducting financial the markets, as well as tools for addressing research into environmental risks under Nobel climate uncertainty and variations across sectors laureate Robert Engle. The project is looking at and asset classes. The projects are proceeding methods for measuring and modelling to plan. environmental risks, and how modern risk 41 management techniques and hedging portfolios Mining industry data can be used to account for climate risks We have long supported work to expand and dynamically in the composition of investment improve non-financial data in the mining sector. portfolios. The researchers are also working on Information of this kind is, for example, improving estimates of the long-term discount important for our risk-based divestments in the rate when investing in climate projects. In April, sector. In 2014, we commissioned an academic the Volatility Institute dedicated its annual research project from Columbia University on conference entirely to finance research and the financial consequences of water-related and market practices relating to climate risks. The environmental risks in the mining sector. As part fund gave a paper on its work on responsible of the completion of the project, the research investment and experience of divesting from group published a synthesis report in 2018 coal companies. As part of the project, the looking at areas such as changes in climate institute publishes regularly updated climate risk cycles and the risk of dam failures, and how the data on its V-Lab website. environmental and social risks associated with mining projects can be integrated into valuation To encourage more leading finance scholars to models through real options modelling. look at climate issues, we also awarded a threeColumbia has also developed a modelling tool to year grant to Professor Harrison Hong at assist mining companies and investors in Columbia University to conduct research and assessing the financial consequences of water hold two research conferences on climate risks. The report and tools were presented at change and capital market efficiency. Together seminars with researchers, companies, investors with the Review of Financial Studies, the project and NGOs in January 2018. A number of mining has selected 11 promising research ideas which companies have shown an interest in some of have been discussed with peers at two the models. The project was completed six conferences. The researchers are looking at how months late but within budget. companies and markets form climate change 42 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 2.3 3 Exercising ownership 43 Voting We voted at 11,287 shareholder We are open about how we vote. Our guidelines, meetings in 2018. Voting is one of expectation documents, position papers and public reporting lend predictability and the most important tools we have for consistency to our voting. exercising our ownership rights. We use our voting rights to safeguard the Our voting decisions are published the day after fund’s assets and aim to vote at all the shareholder meeting on our website: www.nbim.no. shareholder meetings. Voting process Given the high number of shareholder meetings, we are dependent on a reliable voting process. We strive constantly to improve this process. The board puts a company’s annual financial statements and key decisions before the general Shareholder meetings meeting to obtain shareholder approval. These We aim to vote at all shareholder meetings at 44 decisions include director elections, executive companies in our portfolio. remuneration, amendment of the articles of association, changes in share capital, mergers Voting procedures vary across markets and and anti-takeover measures. Shareholders companies. Our systems and processes enable themselves can also table resolutions. These us to adapt to most situations. We voted at 97.7 tend to concern director elections, changes to percent of shareholder meetings in 2018, which the articles of association, and sustainability is in line with previous years. When we are issues. When we exercise our voting rights, we unable to vote at meetings, this is generally in aim to promote good governance, improved situations where voting would lead to share performance and responsible business practices. blocking, thereby restricting our ability to trade, or due to other market practices that make it Voting principles difficult to exercise our voting rights. We have drawn up voting guidelines that provide a principled basis for our voting decisions. The Voting by proxy guidelines are anchored in the G20/OECD Most companies permit shareholders to vote at Principles of Corporate Governance and provide shareholder meetings without attending in companies with the overarching rationale for our person. Voting by proxy means that a decision-making when we vote. We vote at all shareholder appoints a representative to vote shareholder meetings unless there are according to the shareholder’s instructions. This significant practical obstacles to doing so, and system enables us to vote at companies all we publish our voting decisions. We aim to vote around the world. in ways that further the fund’s long-term interests. As a responsible investor, we We use an online platform where an external emphasise long-term value creation, responsible service provider brings together all necessary business practices, board accountability, equal information about upcoming shareholder treatment of shareholders, well-functioning meetings. The platform includes all of the items markets and corporate transparency. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.1 Voting priciples G20/OECD Principle Norges Bank Investment Management voting guidelines Institutional investors, stock markets Vote in a principled and consistent manner to maximise the long-term and other intermediaries ­profitability of the companies we are invested in • Vote in order to support the return objective of the fund • Transparency on our voting Effective corporate governance Encourage companies to create long-term value framework • Accommodate market-specific practices and regulations • Accommodate company-specific circumstances The responsibilities of the board Hold company boards accountable for decisions and outcomes • Board composition • Director commitment and board renewal • Board accountability • Executive remuneration 45 The rights and equitable treatment Seek to enhance shareholder rights and work for equitable treatment of shareholders and key ownership of shareholders functions • Protection of shareholder rights • Equal rights within share classes • Equitable treatment of shareholders • Pre-emption rights Disclosure and transparency Promote timely, adequate and transparent company communication • Annual report and accounts • Discharge of directors and accounts • Compliance with local corporate governance codes The role of stakeholders in corporate Promote sustainable business practices governance • Risk management • Reporting of environmental and social risk • Shareholder proposals to be voted on, the board’s position on these Portfolio managers’ companyand sectoritems, and the relevant deadlines. specific knowledge provides valuable insights and improves our overall consideration of the Consideration of items voting items. The majority of our voting decisions fall within the scope of our published voting guidelines. Voting intentions There are, however, cases where the guidelines Shareholders can communicate their support for, are less relevant due to the nature of the or opposition to, specific resolutions by resolution. In these cases, we analyse the announcing publicly ahead of the meeting how agenda items individually and vote according to they intend to vote. In 2018, we published our the fund’s long-term interests. Executive voting intentions at five companies. We remuneration, shareholder resolutions on expressed support for the board’s proposed new sustainability issues, and extraordinary meetings policy for executive remuneration at The Weir on mergers and acquisitions are examples of Group Plc, better reporting on greenhouse gas where we must often exercise our judgement. emissions at TransCanada Corp and Kinder Morgan Inc, better reporting on water 46 Where our portfolio managers have an in-depth management at Imperial Oil Ltd, and the knowledge of the company, we use this unbundling of director elections at Boliden AB. information in the voting process. Voting Our aim in publishing our intentions is to be decisions at 581 companies were made in even more transparent about our voting collaboration with portfolio managers in 2018. decisions and communicate our principled These companies accounted for around 50 position to the wider market. percent of the equity portfolio’s market value. Announced voting intentions in 2018 Company Voting position The Weir Group Plc Support for remuneration policy Imperial Oil Ltd Support for water-related shareholder proposal TransCanada Corp Support for shareholder proposal on climate change Boliden AB Support for unbundled board elections Kinder Morgan Inc Support for shareholder proposal on methane emissions management Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.1 Voting at shareholder meetings board fails to act in the interests of all Once we have decided how we wish to vote, we shareholders. use the platform to send instructions to our agent, which then forwards them to the We consider it important that the board and its shareholder meeting. committees are sufficiently independent of management and large shareholders, and have Voting in 2018 no other conflicts of interest. We require a We voted on 113,546 resolutions at 11,287 majority of the audit committee to be shareholder meetings in 2018. Of these independent. We have observed a gradual resolutions, 97.8 percent were proposed by the increase in independent board members in a companies and 2.2 percent by shareholders. We number of markets, such as Japan. A lack of voted in line with the board’s recommendation in independence on the board or key committees 94.7 percent of cases. We voted against one or led us to vote against 1013 candidates in 2018. more resolutions at 27.5 percent of meetings. This was in line with our voting in 2017. The chairperson plays a key role in a company. We believe that clear separation of roles and Director elections responsibilities between chairperson and CEO is 47 Director elections account for nearly half of the necessary for board oversight of management. resolutions we vote on. The board is the Combination of the role of chairperson and CEO interface between the company and the capital was the most important reason for voting market. We expect the board to set company against director elections, leading us to vote strategy, monitor management effectively, and against 595 candidates in 2018. Combined roles act in shareholders’ interests. We are therefore are particularly common in the US but decreased keen for the board to have the right composition from 44 percent of companies in the Russell and organise itself appropriately. We hold boards 3000 index in 2012 to 33 percent in 2018. to account for their decisions, and give consideration to who should sit on the board. We also voted against candidates to hold them to account for the board’s conduct. This resulted We voted in line with the board’s in 405 votes against director elections. For recommendation in 94.6 percent of director example, we voted against members of elections, compared with 92.6 percent in 2017 remuneration committees where there was a and 93.3 percent in 2016. In markets where history of problematic executive remuneration, companies publish the outcome of shareholder members of corporate governance committees meetings, we observed that the board’s own where shareholders did not have the right to candidate attracted an average of 95.9 percent propose binding resolutions, and members of of the vote in 2018, which is in line with the 2017 audit committees where the external auditor had figure of 96.0 percent. found problems with the annual financial statements. In all of these cases, our conclusion When considering candidates, we attach was that the board had not acted in importance to board independence and shareholders’ interests. separation of the roles of chairperson and CEO. We will also hold members to account when the In a few cases, the candidate will not receive Chart 11 Share Chart Shareofofvotes against votes management, against by topic. management, Percent by topic. enough votes to be elected. In 2018, 409 Percent candidates were not elected due to a lack of 16 16 support. This corresponds to 0.9 percent of all director elections and compares with 0.7 percent 14 14 in 2017. 12 12 10 10 The required level of support is generally half of the votes cast, but less than 75 percent of the 8 8 vote will be interpreted as a sign of shareholder 6 6 dissatisfaction. Candidates received less than 75 percent of the vote in 1.9 percent of director 4 4 elections in 2018, compared with 1.7 percent in 2 2 2017. 0 0 48 Table 1 Voting at shareholder meetings. Per region 2018 2017 Shareholder Shareholder Region meetings Voted Percent meetings Voted Percent Africa 298 151 50,7 275 158 57.5 Asia 5,256 5,209 99,1 5,195 5,148 99.1 Europe 2,519 2,479 98,4 2,436 2,399 98.5 Latin America 529 511 96,6 541 526 97.2 Middle East 268 257 95,9 218 208 95.4 North America 2,281 2,280 100,0 2,307 2,305 99.9 Oceania 402 400 99,5 340 340 100.0 Total 11,553 11,287 97,7 11,312 11,084 98.0 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.1 Table 2 Votes against board recommendations among the fund’s top 50 holdings in 2018 Portfolio Resolutions Company rank Country voted against Subject of resolution(s) Apple Inc 2 United 1 Proxy Access States Alphabet Inc 3 United 4 Remuneration, equal treatment of shareholStates ders, enhanced reporting Amazon.com Inc 5 United 1 Combined CEO/Chairperson States Roche Holding Ltd 7 Switzerland 1 Shareholder rights Novartis AG 8 Switzerland 1 Shareholder rights Berkshire Hathaway Inc 9 United 1 Enhanced reporting States Johnson & Johnson 10 United 2 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder States rights Facebook Inc 11 United 6 Equal treatment of shareholders, enhanced States reporting, board accountability Total SA 15 France 1 Combined CEO/Chairperson JPMorgan Chase & Co 16 United 5 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder States rights, remuneration Taiwan Semiconductor 17 Taiwan 3 Missing information on board election Co Ltd candidates Exxon Mobil Corp 19 United 4 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder States rights, enhanced reporting Bank of America Corp 21 United 2 Combined CEO/Chairperson States 49 Pfizer Inc 22 United 4 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder States rights, enhanced reporting Verizon Communications 24 United 5 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder Inc States rights, remuneration, enhanced reporting Procter & Gamble Co 27 United 1 Combined CEO/Chairperson States GlaxoSmithKline Plc 29 United 2 Remuneration ­Kingdom Merck & Co Inc 31 United 2 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder States rights Intel Corp 32 United 2 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder States rights Chevron Corp 33 United 5 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder States rights, enhanced reporting AT&T Inc 35 United 4 Combined CEO/Chairperson, enhanced States reporting The Home Depot Inc 38 United 5 Combined CEO/Chairperson, shareholder States rights, remuneration, enhanced reporting AstraZeneca Plc 39 United 2 Remuneration ­Kingdom Wells Fargo & Co 42 United 1 Shareholder rights States 50 We voted on 9,718 proposals on executive remuneration in 2018. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.1 Executive remuneration Since we published our position paper in 2017, Remuneration plays an important role in we have been clearer about how we believe the attracting talented executives and motivating CEO should be rewarded. We communicate this them to do their best for the company. The view primarily through dialogue, but it also has board is responsible for recruiting the CEO and implications for how we vote. In 2018, we deciding on appropriate remuneration. “Say on focused particularly on transparency on pay” arrangements give shareholders in some executive pay, long-term remuneration plans, countries a right or a duty to consider executive and the pay-to-profit ratio. pay and express their views by voting. In some markets, such as the UK, France and Switzerland, In a few cases, a company’s resolutions on shareholders vote on both a forward-looking executive remuneration fail to attract a majority. remuneration plan and a retrospective In 2018, 168 resolutions on executive pay were remuneration report. In some of these markets, voted down. This corresponds to 1.7 percent of the vote on the plan is binding, but the vote on such resolutions, up from 1.2 percent in 2017. the report is normally only advisory. Shareholder resolutions We voted on 9,718 resolutions on executive Resolutions submitted by shareholders 51 remuneration in 2018. We voted against 7.2 accounted for 2.2 percent of all resolutions we percent of them, compared with 6.9 percent in voted on in 2018. Corporate governance topics 2017 and 2.8 percent in 2016. accounted for 95.1 percent of these, and sustainability issues for the remaining 4.9 We also observed growing shareholder percent. dissatisfaction with executive remuneration. In markets where shareholders get to vote on Governance resolutions executive pay, these resolutions attracted an Shareholders submit resolutions on corporate average of 90.7 percent of the vote, down from governance topics to protect their rights and 91.5 percent in 2017. This is probably because influence the board. These resolutions typically more markets, especially in Europe, have given concern the right of shareholders to call shareholders greater opportunities to vote on extraordinary meetings, propose competing executive remuneration, and because board candidates, or elect an independent shareholders have become more critical of chairperson. In many markets, these resolutions complex incentive structures and unpredictable are not controversial. In the US, however, it is maximum payouts. more usual for shareholders to submit these resolutions as a way of expressing their views on Our position is that remuneration should provide the company’s direction. an incentive for the CEO to create long-term value for the company. We support the principle that remuneration plans should be long-term and include a substantial equity component with a lengthy lock-in period. Remuneration plans should also be easy to understand and clear about how much the CEO is paid each year. We have seen a decline in the number of position that the roles of chairperson and CEO governance-related shareholder resolutions in should not be combined. the US. We voted on 398 in 2018, compared to 460 in 2017. Shareholder support for these We also supported nine shareholder resolutions resolutions has increased over time, with 12.8 calling for proxy access. This is in line with our percent gaining majority support in 2018. The long-term support for proxy access in the US. In fund supported 80.4 percent of these 2018, majorities at Netflix Inc, Hospitality resolutions. We have also seen more companies Properties Trust and Old Republic International making the changes demanded by shareholders Corp voted to grant shareholders proxy access. in these resolutions, even if the resolutions are not passed. According to proxy adviser ISS, Sustainability resolutions 67 percent of companies in the S&P 500 index Shareholders are increasingly raising have now introduced proxy access – the right to sustainability issues with companies. One way propose competing board candidates – of doing so is to put forward resolutions at compared with 50 percent in 2016. Resolutions shareholder meetings. These resolutions cover on the introduction of annual election of all areas such as how companies report on 52 directors attracted 83.4 percent of votes on environmental risks such as climate change and average in the US and are often passed. By way water management, and social risks such as of comparison, support for an independent human rights violations. chairperson in the US averages just 33.2 percent, and these resolutions are rarely passed. In 2018, we registered 123 sustainability-related shareholder resolutions, compared with 165 in Our starting point is that shareholders have 2017. Most were tabled in the US. One reason for delegated most decision-making authority to the decline in this type of shareholder resolution the board. For this delegation to function is that a growing number of resolutions are effectively, boards need to demonstrate a high withdrawn before they come to the vote. degree of accountability to shareholders. In According to ISS, 2018 saw more resolutions addition, we view the protection of shareholder withdrawn ahead of shareholder meetings in the rights as necessary to safeguard the fund’s longUS than ever before. This will often happen term interests. We will support well-founded when a company changes its practices in line shareholder resolutions that are aligned with with the proposer’s wishes. We are continuing to these principles. In 2018, we voted in favour of see growing support for this type of resolution. 65.1 percent of governance-related shareholder According to ISS, support for sustainability resolutions in the US. resolutions averaged 24.1 percent in 2018, compared with 19.5 percent in 2017. This We supported 44 shareholder resolutions calling continues a positive trend since 2012, when for an independent chairperson, including at support averaged just 16.0 percent. This also some of our largest holdings, such as Tesla Inc, indicates that the quality of the resolutions has Exxon Mobil Corp and JPMorgan Chase & Co. increased, and that they are generally seen as None received enough votes to be adopted. Our more relevant. voting in favour of an independent chairperson at some companies reflects our principled Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.1 However, only a small share of these resolutions resolution in accordance with our expectations win majority support: just 11 in 2018. These on tax and transparency. included environment-related resolutions at TransCanada Corp and Kinder Morgan Inc. We Recent years have seen increased interest in voted in favour of both resolutions and how internet companies manage information published our voting intentions ahead of both and content. We voted in favour of resolutions at meetings. Twitter Inc, Alphabet Inc and Facebook Inc to increase transparency on how they are Our starting point is that boards should addressing these challenges. These resolutions understand the broader environmental and won 35.6, 12.7 and 10.2 percent of the vote social consequences of business operations, set respectively. their own priorities, and report on outcomes. We will support well-founded sustainability resolutions that are aligned with our priorities. Any additional reporting requirements should be materially relevant and not place undue burdens on management. We have supported an average 53 of one in three sustainability-related shareholder resolutions since 2010. In 2018, we voted in favour of 43.1 percent of such resolutions, up from 28.5 percent in 2017. These included resolutions at Kinder Morgan Inc and Anadarko Petroleum Corp that asked management to report on the consequences of the two-degree global warming target for the companies’ portfolios and received majority support. Our voting reflected our published expectation that companies in our portfolio should plan for different climate scenarios. One type of resolution that stood out from previous years concerned responsible tax policies. One such resolution at Facebook Inc. won 1.4 percent of the vote. We supported the 54 Through our voting, we seek to strengthen governance, improve financial performance and promote responsible business practices. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.1 The fund’s voting at shareholder meetings 1998 First equity investments Public voting 2003 First vote at shareholder guidelines meeting: HSBC Holdings Plc, 28 March Executive Board principles for 2004 corporate governance 2005 All voting handled internally 2008 Annual disclosure of voting 2009 5 shareholder proposals on separation of chairperson 55 and CEO 2010 Voting at 95% of shareholder meetings Discussion note on corporate 2012 6 shareholder proposals on governance proxy access Advisory board on corproate 2013 All votes published a day governance established after the meeting Global voting guidelines and 2015 First voting intention positon paper on board published elections in Sweden and the US Position paper on CEO 2017 remuneration Position paper on board composition and independence 2018 Dialogue As a long-term investor, we engage in dialogue with companies. The aim of our dialogue is to promote good corporate governance and responsible business practices. In 2018, we held 3,256 meetings with 1,420 Besides direct dialogue with individual companies. The size of our investments gives us companies, we sometimes meet a larger number access to board members, senior management of companies to inform them about our and specialists at companies in the portfolio. We expectations. In 2018, we organised a are interested in understanding how companies conference in Tokyo for around 300 Japanese are governed and how they manage companies where we presented our sustainability issues. In addition, we discuss expectations for responsible business practices, more traditional topics such as strategy, reporting, board independence and executive operations, risk management and capital remuneration. In France, we presented our 56 allocation. We encourage portfolio companies to be open in their public reporting and communication. Investor meetings are an important Table 3 Company meetings by sector in 2018. communication channel between companies and FTSE classification their shareholders. We generally meet company Share of equity representatives at one of our offices. We also Company portfolio. visit some companies, especially where we are Sector meetings Percent interested in learning more about their Basic materials 253 3.5 operations. Meetings can also take place in conjunction with public events, such as investor Consumer goods 574 9.5 conferences, or take the form of conference calls. Consumer 223 5.3 ­services We are a large and long-term investor and communicate regularly with the boards of our Financials 893 15.9 largest companies. We are often one of the Health care 262 7.8 largest shareholders, and this dialogue is Industrials 411 6.0 important for being a responsible investor. In 2018, the dialogue with our 50 largest holdings Oil and gas 114 4.0 focused on the work of the board. We discussed Technology 205 9.0 how the board contributes to company strategy, Tele­ 164 2.6 the monitoring of performance and risk communications management, nomination processes and board composition, industry expertise on the board, Utilities 157 2.1 the chairperson’s role, executive remuneration Total 3,256 65.8 and sustainability. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.2 position on corporate governance to 20 are a natural part of our dialogue with the board. members of the business federation AFEP We believe that a company’s board and (Association française des entreprises privées) management should address relevant which issues the national corporate governance governance and sustainability challenges in their code. regular meetings with shareholders. We raised environmental, social or governance issues at Dialogue on strategic topics 1,493 meetings in 2018. This corresponds to 46 In our dialogue with companies, we prioritise a percent of our meetings with companies during set of strategic topics that we follow up over a the year. We raised environmental issues at 33 number of years. In 2018, the focus was on percent of meetings, social issues at 24 percent, sustainability, board accountability and and governance issues at 78 percent. effectiveness, executive remuneration and shareholder rights. In this dialogue, we inform companies about our expectations for good business practices, Our long-term investment horizon and governance and sufficient disclosure, particularly expectations for responsible business practices in areas where we have published expectation 57 Table 4 Company dialogue in 2018 Share of equity portfolio. Category Topic Number of meetings Percent Environment Climate change 272 16.3 Water management 75 4.9 Other environmental topics 214 12.9 Social issues Human rights 64 6.2 Children's rights 27 2.5 Tax and transparency 59 5.7 Anti-corruption 50 6.2 Other social topics 217 15.0 Governance Board accountability and 233 20.1 effectiveness Remuneration 196 19.0 Shareholder rights 108 8.2 Other governance topics 811 34.4 documents, position papers or voting themselves as a result of this. Of the 55 banks guidelines. Practices often vary between the we originally contacted in 2017, 37 intended to companies we engage with. We follow up areas report in accordance with the TCFD where we believe companies can improve. We recommendations. Methods for climate scenario also engage with leading companies to learn analysis are still evolving, and there is not yet from their experience. any widely accepted standard. Twelve of the banks we contacted, including Barclays Plc, Sustainability Citigroup Inc, BNP Paribas SA, Société Générale Our long-term investment horizon means that SA, Standard Chartered Plc and Banco Santander we have an interest in sustainable development. SA, participated in a pilot project with the UN Our dialogue on sustainability is anchored in the Environment Programme (UNEP) during the year expectations we have of companies. The most to define methods for scenario analysis. important topics raised in 2018 were banks’ climate disclosure, deforestation, automotive Deforestation and financing supply chains, tax and transparency at UK We continued our dialogue with Indonesian and companies, nutrient run-off from agriculture, the Malaysian banks on their lending policies in 58 marketing of breast-milk substitutes, and the 2018. We also asked them for improved management of corruption risks. reporting on deforestation risks in the light of climate change. This was a continuation of the Banks’ climate disclosure dialogue we initiated in 2017 on the banks’ We use our ownership to help ensure that policies on financing palm oil. We believe that companies in the portfolio are equipped for the banks that lend to palm oil producers should transition to a low-carbon economy. We consider have policies to protect natural carbon sinks and it to be in the fund’s interests for international avoid deforestation, destruction of peat bogs climate goals to be achieved in an economically and exploitation of indigenous peoples and local efficient manner. We want companies to give communities. These principles promote sufficient attention to climate issues and have sustainable management of tropical forests. the commercial flexibility to adjust to the Many leading companies have adopted a similar transition. line. CIMB Group Holdings Bhd is one of the banks we have contacted about taking action to In 2018, we engaged in dialogue with 24 global integrate sustainability issues into their banks on climate-related disclosure. This business, including their policies and followed up our dialogue with banks in 2017 on governance. adopting the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures We also entered into dialogue with banks in (TCFD). The aim of this dialogue is to promote Latin America during the year on their more relevant reporting and obtain a better deforestation policies. According to Global understanding of how banks are applying the Forest Watch, more than 60 percent of recommendations. We found that many banks deforestation in Latin America between 2001 back the recommendations. This means and 2015 was driven by the production of reporting on how they have addressed climate commodities. Our goal is to understand banks’ change in their governance work, strategy, risk approach to loans that contribute to management and the targets they have set Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.2 deforestation. We are also encouraging banks to origins of commodities, such as satellite improve their due diligence to avoid financing surveillance. Some companies have entered into deforestation. We have contacted five regional partnerships with farmers or at sector level to banks about these topics. develop joint standards. In 2018, Bunge Ltd launched a pilot project in a partnership with Deforestation in Brazil Banco Santander (Brasil) SA and The Nature We also continued our dialogue with companies Conservancy to offer loans to farmers in the that buy and sell soya and meat in Brazil. The aim Cerrado who commit to preserving uncleared is to understand what companies are doing to land. manage deforestation risks, and promote internationally recognised standards for supply Automotive supply chains chain management. In this dialogue, we stress The transition to a low-carbon economy will also the need for better traceability of commodities have social implications. In 2018, we engaged in in the supply chain, and the importance of dialogue with companies in the automotive ensuring that suppliers comply with buyers’ sector on how they can seize opportunities and policies. We are seeing various examples of manage challenges in the transition. For measures that can make it easier to track the example, the mining of cobalt, an essential 59 Deforestation in Brazil component of lithium batteries used in electric turn can cause oxygen depletion with severe vehicles, is associated with very poor working negative consequences for the affected conditions, including the use of child labour. We ecosystems. We have entered into talks with six contacted 14 companies to understand how large food and meat producers to understand they are managing the risk of human rights the extent of runoff in their value chains and how violations of this kind in their supply chains. We they are managing this issue. We also want to also asked them about their plans for electric draw attention to an area where corporate cars and how they will ensure sustainable disclosure is currently limited. The companies supplies of cobalt to realise these plans. Some of contacted include Tyson Foods Inc and General the companies we contacted, including Mills Inc. Responses received to date suggest Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW), Daimler that the companies are aware of the issue and AG, Toyota Motor Corp and Volkswagen AG, are have taken steps at their own production members of partnerships such as the facilities, but are not working on it systematically Responsible Minerals Initiative, Responsible throughout the value chain. Cobalt Initiative and Drive Sustainability. BMW has also announced plans to buy cobalt directly Marketing of breast-milk substitutes 60 from mining companies to reduce supply chain In 2018, we initiated a dialogue on responsible risks. marketing with producers of breast-milk substitutes. The aim of the dialogue was to learn Tax and transparency at UK companies more about the companies’ policies for As part of the follow-up of our expectations on marketing these products, assessing the risks to tax and transparency, we engaged in dialogue children’s rights, and monitoring this in their with a number of companies in 2018 that are value chains. Our expectations on children’s required by UK law to publish a strategy setting rights provide a basis for following up out their approach to tax, their management of responsible marketing at portfolio companies. tax risks and the board’s responsibility for tax Breastfeeding is closely associated with child matters. The strategy must be updated regularly. health and survival. Misleading marketing of A review of available strategies revealed breast-milk substitutes can pose a risk to considerable variations in scope and content. children’s fundamental rights. The aim of the dialogue is to discuss our expectations on tax and transparency, We contacted ten companies to discuss this encourage companies to develop their own topic, including those that we consider to be strategies, and learn from good examples of leaders in many areas, such as Nestlé SA and such reporting. By the end of 2018, we had Danone SA. To begin with, we requested entered into talks with six companies on this information on the companies’ implementation topic, including leading players such as Anglo and monitoring of actions to ensure compliance American Plc and BHP Billiton Plc. with the WHO’s International Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes. The responses we Nutrient run-off from agriculture received revealed major differences in We initiated a dialogue with companies in 2018 companies’ approach to this issue. Leading on agricultural runoff. Poor management of companies had formulated policies for how they fertiliser and organic waste can often lead to market their products and reported on the algal blooms in both fresh and salt water. This in Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.2 implementation of these policies. Some also Board accountability and effectiveness published statistics on policy breaches, the We believe that listed companies are best served reasons for them, and the actions taken to by a clear separation of roles and responsibilities prevent further occurrences. In our dialogue, a between board and management. Management number of Australian and Chinese companies takes operational business decisions and explained how they have been working to answers to the board on the company’s risk comply with national standards for marketing management, capital allocation and breast-milk substitutes, such as the MAIF implementation of long-term strategy. The Agreement for manufacturers and importers of board is responsible for setting company infant formulas in Australia. Other companies strategy, overseeing management and acting in have chosen not to produce their own policies shareholders’ interests. This presupposes that on marketing these products and publish little shareholders can evaluate the board’s work and information on how they approach marketing in hold it to account. For this reason, board practice. Some companies highlighted accountability is a priority for us. challenges with digital marketing and pointed out that it is difficult to control how customers We have an ongoing dialogue with the boards of refer to products. the largest companies in our portfolio and aim to 61 meet the largest 50 at least every three years. Managing corruption risks We have had meetings at board level with 40 of At the end of 2018, we initiated a dialogue with these companies in the past three years, 21 of seven companies on anti-corruption disclosure. them in 2018. We also have a similar dialogue The aim was to encourage the companies to with other companies in the portfolio and had a improve their reporting on how they manage total of 199 meetings at board level in 2018. corruption risks, and on the results of internal and external evaluations of their anti-corruption In this dialogue, we discuss the board’s selfefforts. assessment process and what experience it has gained. We request an overview of how the board After we published our expectation document identifies good board candidates, and we discuss on anti-corruption in February 2018, we began a the board’s current composition and planned dialogue with companies on the topic. Our changes. We want to understand whether its expectation is that companies take effective skills are aligned with the company’s strategy and action to prevent corruption. We assessed 30 challenges. The board’s independence, and its companies’ anti-corruption disclosure and found openness to members with different that some could improve their reporting. The backgrounds, are key elements in this dialogue. analysis included companies with operations in sectors with a high risk of corruption, including The demands on company boards have oil and gas, mining, construction, industrial increased in recent years. Members are required goods and services, telecommunications, to spend more time on board activities, and to financial services and pharmaceuticals. have a greater understanding of the company and its sector. We therefore systematically raise the matter of the board’s industry expertise and members’ insight into challenges and opportunities in the sector. Often we encounter the same individual on the The board should collectively have a thorough boards of more than one of our companies, and understanding of the industry in which the it is important to us that this person is in a company operates, and sufficient industry position to represent our interests on all of these expertise to monitor management’s boards. We find that companies understand our implementation of corporate strategy. We position. Some board members with numerous therefore believe that a majority of independent directorships have reduced the number of board members should have fundamental positions they hold, and some companies have industry insight, and at least two should have introduced policies for how many directorships worked in the industry. their members may have at other companies. Novartis AG, for example, has included in its Companies are attaching ever more importance articles of incorporation a limit of four to explaining and justifying the composition of directorships at other listed companies for its the board, and we are seeing greater openness board members, with a chairpersonship about the skills of individual members. counting double. The board must also approve all such positions in advance. In Sweden, we participate in the nomination 62 process for the boards of some of our largest Electoral arrangements are also important in investments. In 2018, we decided to remain on underlining the board’s accountability to the nomination committees of Volvo AB, Svensk shareholders. Some 90 percent of companies in Cellulosa AB (SCA), Boliden AB, Essity AB and the US S&P 500 Index now require candidates to Electrolux AB, and accepted an invitation to win a majority vote rather than automatically serve on the nomination committee at Alfa Laval being elected in the absence of other AB. In this work, we concentrate on a sound candidates. In Sweden, 41 companies nomination process rather than proposing accounting for about 60 percent of the value of specific candidates. Our priority is for the our holdings in the country have switched to process to be transparent and result in the individual director elections rather than having nomination of independent candidates with shareholders vote on the entire board. This relevant experience and expertise, taking due unbundling enables shareholders to differentiate account of the board’s existing composition and their voting and hold individual members to whether candidates have sufficient time to take account for matters that concern them on a new position. specifically rather than the board as a whole. Boliden AB introduced unbundled elections in In our work on strengthening the role of the 2018 with reference to our position paper on the board, we have looked particularly at the role of topic. the chairperson. A board must be able to make objective assessments of the company’s We raised the composition of the board and the operations and take decisions independently of need for sufficient industry expertise in our management. We therefore consider it most dialogue with 191 companies during the year. We appropriate for the board to be chaired by a observed, for example, that Akzo Nobel NV and person who is not also the CEO. In some Wells Fargo & Co reported an increase in the markets, including the US and France, combining amount of industry expertise on the board. the two roles is common. We raised this issue at Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.2 meetings with 67 companies in 2018. We standpoint. The resolution was supported by stressed that this did not reflect a lack of more than 92 percent of the vote. We have also confidence in the current incumbent, but called followed up cases where companies have met for a commitment to separate these roles the strong opposition from shareholders to their next time a CEO is recruited. remuneration plans. Executive remuneration We acknowledge that there can be a Executive remuneration is subject to some form considerable gap between our position on of shareholder approval in many advanced executive remuneration and the practices we see markets and was once again the most common at companies. When assessing existing topic that companies raised with us. Since we structures, we look first at whether the company published our position paper on CEO provides enough information for us to remuneration in 2017, we have observed understand the plan and its potential cost. We considerable interest in our position, which was then look at the shareholding requirements for the starting point for the discussion of executive the CEO and what happens to performancepay with 170 companies. We have mainly based pay on departure. We also look at the discussed executive remuneration with leading relationship between pay and performance, and 63 companies from most sectors in the US, the UK, how this is reflected in long-term value creation France, Germany and Switzerland, but we have for shareholders. also emphasised our position in talks with smaller companies. Despite the gap between standard practice and our position paper, we are seeing signs of other In this dialogue, we attach importance to the shareholders too calling for more long-term board’s future plans for executive pay. We want remuneration plans where shares remain locked remuneration plans to be more straightforward in after departure. The Investment Association, and transparent, and restricted to cash and the trade body for investment managers in the ordinary shares. Pension obligations should be UK, published an expectation in 2018 that the limited, and other benefits should have a clear CEO is required to remain a shareholder in the business rationale. One important part of our company for two years post employment. Dutch position is that the equity component of investor forum Eumedion has argued for the executive pay must be locked in for a long period same, and the commission behind the German of at least five and preferably ten years, even if corporate governance code has signalled similar the executive leaves the company voluntarily by changes. resigning or retiring. This ensures that executive pay packages contribute to long-term, Shareholder rights sustainable strategies and good succession The future value of the fund is dependent on the planning at all times. value created by the companies we invest in, and on shareholders receiving a reasonable and Our dialogue with The Weir Group Plc is an proportionate share of corporate profits. We example of this. After extensive work on revising engage with companies to enhance shareholder its remuneration plan, the company tabled a rights and ensure equal treatment of all share­ resolution at the 2018 shareholder meeting to holders. We raise these topics regularly in our introduce a pay structure that largely reflects our dialogue with companies ahead of the annual Selected company dialogue on strategic topics Category Expectation Company Details Start EnvironClimate change DBS Group Holdings Ltd Financing of palm oil 2017 ment Banco do Brasil SA Financing of soy, beef 2018 Banco Bradesco SA Financing of soy, beef 2018 CJ CheilJedang Corp Soy commodity traders 2018 Barclays Plc Implementation of the TCFD 2017 ­recommendations Swedbank AB Implementation of the TCFD 2017 ­recommendations Water Hormel Foods Corp Nutrient run-off 2018 ­management WH Group Ltd Nutrient run-off 2018 Sanderson Farms Inc Nutrient run-off 2018 64 Social Children’s rights China Mengniu Dairy Co Ltd Infant formula marketing 2018 issues Abbott Laboratories Infant formula marketing 2018 Bellamy's Australia Ltd Infant formula marketing 2018 Human rights Peugeot SA Responsible cobalt sourcing 2018 General Motors Co Responsible cobalt sourcing 2018 Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Responsible cobalt sourcing 2018 NV Tax and Anglo American Plc Tax policies – UK companies 2018 ­transparency BHP Billiton Plc Tax policies – UK companies 2018 BP Plc Tax policies – UK companies 2018 Anti-corruption Novartis AG Reporting in exposed sectors 2018 Glencore Plc Reporting in exposed sectors 2018 Credit Suisse Group AG Reporting in exposed sectors 2018 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.2 Category Expectation Company Details Start Goverance Board Akzo Nobel NV Industry expertise 2017 ­accountability Wells Fargo & Co Industry expertise 2017 and effectiveness Total SA Industry expertise 2017 CEO The Weir Group Plc Long-term and transparent remune2017 remuneration ration Vodafone Group Plc Long-term and transparent remune2018 ration Inmarsat Plc Reaction to low shareholder support 2018 Shareholder Tesla Inc Proxy access 2018 rights Raytheon Co Right to an extraordinary shareholder 2018 meeting United Technologies Corp Right to an extraordinary shareholder 2018 65 meeting shareholder meeting, and when discussing Dialogue on incidents changes to their articles of association and In addition to these strategic topics for company authorities to increase or reduce share capital. dialogue in 2018, we monitored ongoing We discussed shareholder rights at 108 corporate governance and sustainability company meetings in 2018. developments at companies in the portfolio. We consider exercising our ownership rights where We looked during the year at shareholders’ right we see signs of weak governance that could put to call extraordinary meetings. This is an the fund’s assets at risk. In these cases, we may important right to ensure oversight of the board initiate dialogue with the board or management and give shareholders the right to decide on to obtain more information and express our fundamental strategic changes. Many viewpoint. We may also amend our voting, companies give shareholders this right, but in collaborate with other investors, contact our dialogue with companies such as Raytheon regulators or take legal action. Co and United Technologies Corp we are looking to strengthen this right by reducing the The events to which we responded in 2018 can minimum shareholding set by the company. mainly be divided into two categories: risk 66 incidents and corporate actions. We also continued our dialogue on giving shareholders proxy access – the right to nominate alterRisk incidents native board candidates on the ordinary agenda Risk incidents might be allegations of corruption, for the shareholder meeting. After we tabled fraud, pollution, deforestation, health and safety shareholder resolutions on this topic ourselves in violations or negative effects on local 2012 and 2013, proxy access has been introduced communities. We keep an eye on companies and on a large scale in the US in recent years. This diamarkets using various information systems and logue mainly now concerns changes to a right global media monitoring to capture incidents that has already been granted, but we also raise that may be relevant for the fund. Our goal as an the topic with companies that have still not introinvestor is to validate the information we have duced proxy access, such as Tesla Inc. received and assess the risk before deciding on further steps to safeguard the fund’s long-term We want all shares to carry the same voting interests. Examples of incidents in 2018 include rights. We nevertheless see companies issuing allegations of corruption at Glencore Plc, Kirin different classes of share with different voting Holdings Co Ltd’s handling of human rights in its rights in a number of markets, including Sweden, operations in Myanmar, and the ongoing review Germany and the US. We believe that any of Lundin Petroleum AB’s alleged involvement in differentiation in the treatment of shareholders the conflict in Sudan. Another example is our has the potential to lead to conflicts of interest. dialogue with Danske Bank A/S where suspicions An example of this is companies in France where of money laundering led to the replacement of the largest shareholder has consolidated its its CEO and chairman. influence by introducing double voting rights for long-term shareholders at the expense of other Other incidents may give us an opportunity to shareholders. This has meant that shareholders communicate on specific topics. For example, can no longer exercise influence in proportion to we participated in Standard Chartered Plc’s the size of their investment. consultation on its lending policies and Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.2 emphasised our climate expectations. The March 2018 to place the company under company subsequently announced that it would observation. no longer finance new coal-fired power production. UPL Ltd UPL Ltd produces artificial fertilisers, seeds and Corporate actions other agricultural products. The goal of our Corporate actions are initiated by a public dialogue with UPL Ltd is to reduce the use of company and affect the securities issued by that child labour at its subsidiary Advanta Seeds Pty company. They include dividends, rights issues, Ltd, which produces various varieties of seed in stock splits, mergers and acquisitions, and spinIndia. We expect the company to have offs. These actions typically require approval governance structures and good systems in from the board and shareholders. Our goal as a place to assess the risk of child labour and take shareholder is to gain sufficient understanding preventive action. of the proposed action and its likely impact on our investment, so that we can make considered We initiated a dialogue with UPL Ltd on this voting and investment decisions. Examples of topic in 2018. We held a first meeting with corporate actions in 2018 include Unilever NV’s representatives of the company’s management, 67 plan to simplify its corporate structure, the who informed us about their work to combat rejected takeover bid and subsequent board child labour and planned actions to further shake-up at Akzo Nobel NV, and governance and improve this work. We wanted a better remuneration changes at Tesla Inc. understanding of how the company monitors these actions at its subsidiaries, and how the Dialogue on ethical criteria company measures the efficacy of work to The ethical guidelines for the fund state that, combat child labour. The company has before making a decision on observation or introduced new measures to manage its supply exclusion, Norges Bank’s Executive Board should chain. These include better monitoring of consider whether other measures, including the suppliers, the use of financial incentives for exercise of ownership rights, may be more suppliers who can demonstrate that child labour suited to reduce the risk of continued norm does not occur, and consequences for suppliers violations, or whether such alternative measures that do not comply with the ban on child labour. may be more appropriate for other reasons. In The company is also working on various projects addition to earlier decisions, the Executive Board to raise awareness of children’s rights and decided in 2018 that active ownership was communicate zero tolerance of child labour to appropriate in one case. local farmers and suppliers. We will continue to monitor UPL’s plans and actions, and assess its Serious violations of human rights progress towards our goal of reducing child In April 2018, the Executive Board decided to ask labour in the company’s supply chain. Norges Bank Investment Management to raise the risk of child labour at Advanta Seeds Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of UPL Ltd, as part of our active ownership work. The decision followed a recommendation from the Council on Ethics in Severe environmental damage operated by Eni SpA continued to fall in 2018, In October 2013, the Ministry of Finance asked while total volumes increased. For Royal Shell Norges Bank to include oil spills and Plc’s activities both the number and total volume environmental conditions in the Niger Delta in of spills increased. Royal Shell Plc attributes this our ownership work with the oil and gas to an increase in theft and sabotage ahead of the companies Eni SpA and Royal Dutch Shell Plc for upcoming elections in Nigeria. a period of five to ten years. The ministry also asked us to follow up on the environmental In a dialogue with management at the two impact of the mining company AngloGold companies, we discussed progress on previously Ashanti Ltd’s operations in Ghana through active announced actions. These include increased ownership over a five-year period. surveillance of pipelines, preventive maintenance, better protection of wellheads, The goal of our dialogue with Eni SpA and Royal faster response to leaks, and improved relations Dutch Shell Plc is to contribute to a reduction in with local communities. We are encouraged by the number and volume of oil spills and ensure the reported improvements in preventive immediate and effective remediation of spills. measures and dialogue with local communities. 68 Oil spills due to sabotage, theft and operational These are a step in the right direction in reducing failures are a concern for onshore oil production the risks identified by the Council on Ethics, but and pipelines in the Niger Delta. The spills are a we will continue to monitor developments to main source of environmental damage in the see whether these actions lead to further delta. The number of spills from pipelines Chart 2 Eni SpA spil statistics. Number of spills (left-hand axis) Chart 3 Royal Dutch Shell Plc spill statistics. Number of spills and volume 2 EniofSpA Chart spills statistics. of in thousands spil tonnes (right-hand Number of spills axis). (left-hand Chart 3 axis) Royal and volume Dutch of spills Shell in thousands Plc spill statistics. tonnes (rightof Number Spills > 1 BBL. Data per November 30 2018 hand axis). Spills > 100 kg (left-hand axis) and volume of spills in of spills (left-hand axis) and volume of spills in ­thousands of tonnes (right-hand axis). thousands of tonnes (right-hand axis). Spills > 1 BBL. Data per 30 November 2018 Spills > 100 kg 300 3.0 180 4.0 160 3.5 250 2.5 Start of formal 140 ownership period 3.0 200 2.0 120 2.5 Start of formal 100 ownership period 150 1.5 2.0 80 1.5 100 1.0 60 1.0 40 50 0.5 20 0.5 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Volume operational Volume sabotage Volume operational Volume sabotage Number operational Number sabotage Number operational Number sabotage Source: Eni SpA and Norges Bank Investment Management Source: Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Norges Bank Investment Management Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.2 reductions in oil spills and environmental identifying and reducing corruption risks in 2018. damage in the Niger Delta. According to the company, this has helped draw attention to the activities that are most exposed In February 2018, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd to corruption risks. announced a plan to redevelop the Obuasi mine as a mechanised underground operation starting Training for employees on dealing with up in the third quarter of 2019. The plan was corruption risks was another focus area for Eni ratified by the Ghanaian parliament in July 2018 SpA in 2018. For the first time, the company and has also been approved by the country’s carried out a detailed survey of all employees environmental protection authorities. and identified the level of exposure to corruption risks for each individual employee. Eni SpA also The original five-year period for excercising provided training for its partners in a number of ownership in AngloGold Ashanti has elapsed. An countries. Eni SpA developed a new selfoverall assessment indicates that the company assessment method for the efficacy of antihas made progress towards our goals. It remains corruption work in 2017, and 14 of its companies to be seen, however, whether the reopened carried out these assessments in 2018. mine will be operated in accordance with 69 internationally recognised standards, and Saipem SpA strengthened its approach to whether older pollution in the area will be identifying corruption risks at its subsidiaries in adequately dealt with by the company. Norges 2018. The company’s anti-corruption Bank’s Executive Board decided in December department is now working with management 2018 to continue working with the company for at the subsidiaries to map corruption risks. another three years. Changes have also been made to the subsidiaries’ governance structure. Gross corruption The Executive Board decided in May 2017 to ask Saipem SpA’s anti-corruption programme was Norges Bank Investment Management to raise certified in accordance with ISO 37001 in 2018. the risk of gross corruption with Eni SpA and The certification also covers its subsidiaries. In Saipem SpA as part of our active ownership line with the recommendations of this work. This followed an initial recommendation certification scheme, Saipem SpA has by the Council on Ethics in December 2016 to strengthened its approach to identifying place the companies under observation. corruption risks and improved its internal information management systems. At our We held meetings with the two companies in meetings, we raised the topic of internal 2018 to obtain information on their work against controls and regular evaluation of the efficacy of corruption. Our understanding from these actions taken. meetings is that the companies have taken steps to prevent corruption. For example, Eni SpA has set up a dedicated anti-corruption department. The company has also revised its anti-corruption policy and had its anti-corruption programme certified in accordance with ISO 37001. Eni SpA developed a new approach and method for Follow-up We work with companies, investors We have been assessing companies’ and other stakeholders to improve sustainability reporting since 2008. the information made available to Our sustainability analyses rely on satisfactory the market and promote responsible corporate disclosure. Our assessments uncover business practices. This is particularly practices and trends that are useful when relevant where many companies in the following up our expectations of companies. The assessments can provide information that we same industry or value chain face the can use in our voting, strategic dialogue and same challenges. follow-up of risk incidents. We reach out to companies with poor or limited disclosure. In An important part of our work is to understand this dialogue, we encourage them to improve global trends that could affect the fund’s ability their reporting by participating in established to generate a long-term return. Economic disclosure initiatives. In 2018, we sent letters to activity in one sector can impose substantial 35 companies on children’s rights, 35 on climate indirect costs on other sectors and society as a change and 30 on water management. Of the 70 whole. We want to learn whether companies in companies we contacted about poor disclosure high-risk sectors are equipped to manage risks in 2017, 36 percent of those contacted about and take advantage of business opportunities. climate change have now introduced climate Understanding of how sustainability can impact reporting. With 39 percent of companies on company performance and fund returns is contacted about water management and 18 constantly evolving. We assess companies’ percent contacted about children’s rights we reporting on strategy, policies, risk have seen improved disclosure. management, supply chain management and objectives. Due to companies’ limited disclosure We support initiatives that bring companies of performance indicators in these areas, these together to find joint solutions and standards for assessments will not always reflect the actual sustainable business conduct. These initiatives results of their work on sustainability. work best when numerous companies in a particular sector or value chain face the same Academic institutions, the media and NGOs are challenges. The starting point for our important sources of information. We encourage expectations of companies is that boards should stakeholders to share information that they establish suitable strategies, control functions believe could be relevant for our investments. and reporting procedures. At the same time, many companies face practical challenges in In 2018, we assessed 1,700 companies’ reporting doing so. The need for standardisation and more on climate change, 598 companies’ reporting on universal approaches is considerable. Our water management and 600 companies’ initiatives look at topics such as supply chain reporting on children’s rights. We also looked at management, disclosure frameworks, and key how selected companies report on metrics. By participating in initiatives to develop deforestation, anti-corruption, human rights, tax knowledge and solutions in these areas, we and ocean sustainability. The companies create a better basis for assessing individual assessed accounted for 62 percent of the equity companies’ strategies and discussing them with portfolio’s market value at the end of the year. their boards. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 Good results on sustainability disclosure. Examples from various sectors Childrens' righs Climate change Water management The Coca-Cola Co Iberdrola SA Danone SA NIKE Inc SSE Plc Kellogg Co Stora Enso OYJ Westpac Banking Corp Gildan Activewear Inc Marks & Spencer Group Plc Akzo Nobel NV Enel SpA Anglo American Plc Tokio Marine Holdings Inc Anheuser-Busch InBev SA 71 Human rights Tax and transparency Anti-corruption ArcelorMIttal BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc thyssenkrupp AG Unilever Plc Anglo American Plc UPM-Kymnmene Oyj Anglo American Plc Deutsche Telekom AG Stora Enso Oyj Banco Santander SA Novo Nordisk A/S Aperam SA HSBC Holdings Plc Roche Holding AG 72 Children are the key to future prosperity but also the most vulnerable members of society. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 Children’s rights lower scores for having good action plans in Children are the key to future prosperity but also place to combat child labour, collaboration with the most vulnerable members of society. As a other stakeholders, and disclosure and metrics fund investing for future generations, we attach for child labour. importance to companies respecting children’s rights and taking action to prevent child labour. There were major variations between sectors. Technology hardware and equipment companies We have been assessing how selected had the best reporting overall, along with mining companies address children’s rights since 2008. companies, carmakers and garment producers. These are companies with activities or supply Many of these companies have global brands chains in high-risk sectors. In 2018, we assessed and value chains in areas with a high risk of child 600 companies in the automotive, retail, mining, labour. apparel, food and beverage, commodities, basic materials, and technology hardware and Children’s rights in global supply chains equipment sectors. We also looked at selected Child labour is a challenge in the supply chain for companies in different sectors. The assessments the apparel and footwear sector, but children’s were based on the most recently reported rights can also be affected by the sector in other 73 information from the companies. ways. Children are impacted directly and indirectly throughout the value chain, for The companies’ reporting was evaluated against example through working conditions for their indicators for governance structure, policies for guardians. preventing child labour, risk assessment, strategy and implementation, supply chain management, performance reporting and dialogue with stakeholders. In 2018, we identified 39 companies with very good results Chart 4 Results for companies we assessed on children’s rights in 2018. Number of companies and 119 with good results. Chart 4 Results for companies we assessed on ­children’s rights in 2018. Number of Overall, there were no major differences in ­companies companies’ reporting from 2017 to 2018, but 23 250 250 percent of companies that published no significant information on children’s rights in 200 200 2017 began to do so in 2018. There was also a slight increase in the number of companies 150 150 publishing their own policies on child labour, having relevant action plans to prevent child labour, and having monitoring systems to avoid 100 100 violations of children’s rights. 50 50 The companies assessed had relatively good results for policies and having integrated 0 0 children’s rights and wider social topics into their Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good strategy. The companies generally received In 2017, we signed an agreement with UNICEF to Learnings from the initiative were distilled into a establish a network for children’s rights in the manual that companies can use in their work. apparel and footwear sector. The aim is to help The manual is based on how children are improve the management of children’s rights in affected in the apparel supply chain and on companies’ supply chains. challenges in the current approach to children’s rights, and provides recommendations and Since 2017, the network has brought together a actions that the companies can assess their group of leading companies in the sector, work against. At the most recent gathering in including the likes of Hennes & Mauritz AB, Geneva in November, the companies provided Kering SA and VF Corp. In 2018, we organised feedback on the manual and discussed how they meetings where the companies exchanged can use it in their supply chains. Some expressed experience and discussed challenges from an interest in continuing to work with the working on children’s rights in their supply recommendations and actions presented by the chains. Companies, suppliers and experts also manual. attended a meeting in Bangladesh, which included a visit to factories and talks with its 74 management and local civil society. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 Water management published some relevant information on water Companies that use water unsustainably can management. Supply chain management and impose substantial costs on other companies performance reporting were the indicators and society as a whole, and this in turn can where disclosure was generally weakest. impact on the fund’s long-term return. Again, there were variations between sectors. We have been assessing companies exposed to Around 80 percent of the oil and gas companies water risks since 2010. In 2018, we assessed 598 assessed had policies on water management, companies in the chemical, consumer goods, but only around 50 percent of companies in farming and fishing, food and beverage, mining, farming and fishing. Pul and paper was the oil and gas, pulp and paper, and power sectors. sector with the best overall reporting. Our analyses included a large number of companies with operations in emerging markets Water risk in agricultural value chains that are exposed to water shortages. The Farming accounts for around 70 percent of assessments were based on the most recently freshwater consumption worldwide and is an reported information from the companies. important source of pollution of groundwater, rivers and lakes. Companies that are dependent 75 Companies’ reporting was assessed against on agricultural produce – primarily food and indicators for governance structure, beverage producers – may be exposed to risks transparency on risk management, action plans from overconsumption and pollution of water in for identified risks, supply chain management, their value chains. They could end up having and performance reporting. As in previous years, reduced access to water, having penalties there was considerable variation in the level of imposed by the authorities, or coming into reporting. In 2018, we identified 123 companies conflict with local communities. with very good results and 114 with good results. Chart 5 Results for companies we assessed on water management in 2018. Number of companies Chart 5 Results for companies we assessed on water In general, we saw an improvement in management in 2018. Number of companies companies’ reporting on water management from 2017 to 2018. On average, companies 200 200 assessed in both years improved their scores by 175 175 around 8 percentage points. The greatest improvement was against the indicators for risk 150 150 management and governance structure. We saw 125 125 more companies publishing an assessment of 100 100 water risk in their own operations and their value chains, and either the board or a board 75 75 committee directly overseeing water 50 50 management at the company. Around 30 percent of companies with no reporting in 2017 25 25 began to report on water management in 2018. 0 0 Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good All in all, 93 percent of companies assessed In June 2018, we organised a working meeting with several layers of suppliers, and the potential with CDP’s water programme, inviting a number for joint solutions where multiple players of companies and investors to discuss how operate in the same water systems. We companies can best manage and report on this encourage companies to report on water type of risk. Large companies such as Anheuserconsumption and pollution through CDP’s water Busch InBev SA, the Coca-Cola Company and programme, and we participate in CDP’s Water the Campbell Soup Co attended the meeting and Advisory Council to contribute to the further discussed how investors use the information development of the water questionnaire and the companies provide, the challenges of working water programme. 76 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 Climate change for the first time at how companies in the Climate change could affect company and consumer goods, food and beverage, and pulp portfolio returns over time. It could also open up and paper sectors report on deforestation. Our business opportunities. We have been assessing assessment was based on information how companies disclose on climate risks since submitted by companies themselves to CDP’s 2010. In 2018, we assessed the reporting of forests programme. We also considered data 1,700 companies in 12 sectors: automotive, from Global Canopy’s Forest 500 and the Soft banks, insurance, basic materials, building Commodity Risk Platform (SCRIPT). The materials, chemical, consumer goods, diversified reporting covers strategy, risk management and industrials, utilities, oil and gas, real estate and transport. We based the assessments on company data reported to CDP and selected additional data. Companies’ reporting was assessed against indicators for corporate governance, strategy, risk management and performance reporting. 77 There was considerable variation in the level of climate reporting across both companies and sectors. In 2018, we identified 313 companies Chart 6 Results for companies we assessed on climate change in with very good results and 458 with good 2018. Number Chart 6 Results of companies for companies we assessed on climate results. 46 percent of companies in the selected change in 2018. Number of companies sectors did not report data to CDP, compared with 55 percent in 2017. We also saw a slight 900 900 improvement in companies’ reporting on climate 800 800 change in 2018. In general, we are seeing better reporting on governance and processes for risk 700 700 management than on strategy and actual 600 600 performance against specific metrics. Power 500 500 utility companies, banks and carmakers had the 400 400 best overall reporting. More than half of the 300 300 companies in the building materials, oil and gas and real estate sectors had very weak reporting. 200 200 For the first time, we looked at whether 100 100 companies disclose information in line with the 0 0 TCFD recommendations. Only 61 of the Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good companies assessed did so – mostly in the banking and insurance sectors and a number of oil and gas and power utility companies. On the other hand, 26 percent of companies stated that they are now conducting scenario analyses. Fewer than 20 percent integrate internal carbon prices in investment decisions. We also looked 78 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 metrics as described in our expectation The Sovereign Wealth Fund Working Group document on climate change. We found that 60 In the longer term, climate change may impact percent of companies had very weak reporting on investors’ ability to deliver returns. Sovereign on deforestation. Reporting by pulp and paper wealth funds are by their very nature long-term companies is better than that of consumer vehicles and often diversified across numerous goods companies. Generally speaking, European different investments. They are therefore companies’ reporting was better than that of exposed to financial risks from long-term climate companies elsewhere. change. Since December 2017, we have been part of a working group alongside five other Climate information for the financial sector sovereign wealth funds to develop a framework We expect the companies we invest in to for integrating opportunities and managing risks consider the sensitivity of their long-term in investment portfolios in the transition to a business strategy and profitability to future low-carbon economy. The group published its climate scenarios. Shortages of data, methods framework for managing climate risks in and tools are hampering the development of sovereign wealth funds the same day. The such practices. premise for the framework is that a sovereign wealth fund has a long investment horizon and 79 In 2018, we took part in a pilot project led by UN should therefore take account of the long-term Environment (UNEP) to develop methods to effects of climate change in its strategy. The support investor disclosures in line with the funds in the working group called on portfolio recommendations of the TCFD. The group companies to manage climate risks and report consists of 20 global institutional investors. on the actions they are taking. The funds will Most of the group’s work has involved integrate risks and opportunities from climate developing analytical tools to assess portfolio change into their investment strategies in line risks and opportunities in different future with their respective mandates. climate scenarios. The tools look at both physical risks and transition risks and The working group has continued to work on opportunities to equities, corporate bonds and exchanging experience of how large sovereign real estate. We participate in working meetings wealth funds can manage opportunities and and contribute insights from our own work on risks from climate change, partly through climate analyses. UNEP has chosen the supplier expectations of external managers, use of Carbon Delta to contribute to the development climate scenarios and measurement of carbon of models and perform various scenario analyses footprints. The group has also been in contact for the project. The project gives us an with other investors to establish broader opportunity to explore different models for support for the framework. scenario analysis and look at issues in different asset classes, such as equities, bonds and real estate. The group will present will present a synthesis report written by the independent adviser Vivid Economics in 2019. The report will discuss project findings, methods for scenario analysis and provide selected case studies. Human rights of standards and reporting in this area. We want We consider respect for human rights to be to gain a better insight into what determines fundamental to good business practices and whether the steps that businesses take to legitimate markets. We therefore encourage support human rights are effective. companies to be transparent about how they work on human rights and integrate them into In 2017, we signed an agreement with Shift, a business operations. We also want to know non-profit organisation working with the UN more about companies’ processes, findings and Guiding Principles, to provide financial support actions in areas such as risk management and for its new initiative Valuing Respect for a period supply chain management. In 2018, we of three years. Shift is looking to find more expanded our assessment of companies with appropriate ways of evaluating companies’ work activities in sectors with an elevated risk of on respecting human rights and preventing adverse impacts on human rights. These include violations, including more accurate performance companies in the automotive, retail, mining, indicators. Our aim in supporting this initiative is apparel, food and beverage, basic materials, to help ensure that companies channel commodities and technology hardware and resources into measures that have a positive 80 equipment sectors. The assessments were effect on human rights and improve reporting on based on third-party information on the content this area. of the companies’ human rights policies. The initiative was launched in February 2018, Around 60 percent of the 600 companies and Shift has mapped existing models and tools assessed reported that they integrated the used to evaluate companies’ work on human economic impact of social issues, including rights. Shift organised four seminars during the human rights, into their strategic planning. For year – in New York, London, Singapore and the companies that were assessed in both 2017 Johannesburg – where companies, investors, and 2018, this represented an increase of 6 NGOs, trade bodies and researchers discussed percentage points. challenges and new approaches to companies’ work on human rights. Shift has published a We also looked at a selection of companies in research agenda with three objectives: to the group to assess the scope and content of establish an empirical baseline for the current their public policies on human rights. We reality and current problems, to engage across observed that around 40 percent either had no sectors and disciplines to obtain broad input and public policy or had only issued a general contribute to better practices, and to identify statement on human rights. The other innovative solutions with the potential to companies had specific policies, but of varied improve evaluation of the business sector’s scope. human rights performance. Summaries from the seminars are available on the project portal: Business and human rights www.valuingrespect.org. The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights set out companies’ responsibility to respect human rights. At the same time, there is a need for more knowledge about companies’ work on human rights, and for the development Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 The global apparel supply chain The Gap Inc., Hennes & Mauritz AB and Nike Inc. Good working conditions are essential for a are among the companies that are actively sustainable apparel sector. However, there is no supporting the SLCP’s work. universal standard for assessing and monitoring working conditions in the apparel supply chain. In 2018, we provided input to the Sustainable Companies perform assessments of this kind as Apparel Coalition on the development of a part of their own processes for supervising and standard enabling apparel and footwear auditing suppliers. This leads to extensive producers to self-assess their environmental and duplication of the same work, resulting in higher social efforts in the supply chain, known as the costs for the sector as a whole. This companyHigg Brand & Retail Module. We stressed the specific monitoring makes it hard for companies benefits of greater standardisation of how to be transparent, and prevents outsiders from companies report and are evaluated in this area, comparing companies. and the need for good quantitative indicators to make it easier for the market to gauge progress The Social & Labor Convergence Project (SLCP) and draw comparisons between companies. believes that joint assessments and support for joint indicators may help improve working 81 conditions in the sector. We signed up to the SLCP, an initiative of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, in 2016. Since January 2017, we have continued our support for the project with a two-year grant to build knowledge about more Chart 7 Companies with a policy on human rights. Sub-sample of sustainable business practices in the apparel Chart 7 sectors. selected Companies Number with a policy on human rights. of companies sector and its supply chain. Sub-sample of selected sectors. Number of companies The SLCP is industry-led and has been working 25 25 since 2016 with a broad group of stakeholders to improve understanding of working conditions in the apparel supply chain through standardised 20 20 processes, joint tools and the possibility of certifying companies and their supply chains. In 15 15 2018, the project finalised an agreed methodology and tool for assessing working 10 10 conditions in the value chain, including children’s rights, forced labour, health and safety, and pay. 5 5 The benefits of a standardised tool of this kind include greater transparency and comparability, 0 0 more accurate measurement and monitoring, No General Weak Adequate Strong policy statement policy policy policy and easier reporting. Implementation of the final tool has begun in China and Sri Lanka. The SLCP has adopted a five-year plan for rolling out the tool across more countries and sectors. Tax and transparency relations with tax authorities. Some provided Corporate taxation plays a key role in funding information on the relationship between tax and public services in industrialised countries and the company’s more general objectives. A small may be even more important in many developing number of companies explained how they work countries. Companies for their part benefit from on internal pricing between related companies society’s legal and financial infrastructure. By and activities in secrecy jurisdictions. paying taxes, they help finance this infrastructure. Tax policies in the consumer sector We have launched an initiative on tax policy for In 2018, we performed an initial analysis of 30 companies providing consumer goods and selected companies to understand how their services. The sector has been in the spotlight in boards decide their tax management policies. recent years due to a number of tax-related The analysis looked at companies that generate controversies. Consumers are also questioning substantial revenues from activities outside their more often how much tax companies in this domestic market. We looked primarily at sector pay in different countries. The aim of the companies in the consumer goods and services, initiative is therefore to increase companies’ 82 financial, mining, oil and gas, pharmaceutical and technology sectors. Global norms and standards for tax disclosure are evolving. Our provisional analysis therefore covered a smaller number of companies then our analyses of our other expectations. The companies’ reporting was evaluated against a number of indicators, including the company’s Chart 8 Results for companies we assessed on tax and transparency Chart 8 Results for companies we assessed in 2018. Number of companies policy for and approach to tax planning, its on tax and transparency in 2018. management of tax risks, and the board’s Number of companies accountability for tax matters. We based our assessment on the most recently reported 14 14 information from the companies. 12 12 Our analysis revealed major differences between 10 10 markets. Companies required to publish their tax 8 8 strategy under UK law were more open about their tax practices than companies registered in 6 6 other jurisdictions. There were also some 4 4 variations between sectors, with mining and consumer goods and services generally being 2 2 more transparent about tax. We also found variations in companies’ reporting on 0 Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good 0 governance, policies and risk management, particularly in the level of reporting. Most companies provided information on tax risks and Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 transparency on tax, share experience and be misinterpreted when taken out of context. challenges with tax policies, and encourage There was therefore a strong consensus that companies to publish the board’s strategies and companies must publish information explaining policies on tax. the numbers. The third challenge is the importance of anchoring the company’s Companies have highlighted three main approach to tax internally. Policies for challenges when it comes to tax transparency. responsible tax management are not just about The first has to do with public country-bycommunicating with the outside world, but country reporting and how standardised must also be part of a company’s internal disclosure can best be achieved across culture. The board and executive management companies and sectors in the absence of can play an important role in this work. Further regulation. Companies take different approaches transparency and disclosure in these three areas to this type of disclosure. Some report tax data will help increase understanding of how by country, others by region, and some not at principles for responsible tax management can all. The second challenge is how companies can be observed in practice. best communicate tax data. Figures can easily 83 Chart 8 Results for companies we assessed on tax an in 2018. Number of companies In 2018, we launched an initiative on tax policy for 14 companies providing consumer goods and services. 12 10 84 In 2018, we surveyed corruption risks in the pharmaceutical sector. Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption in the Corruption at companies and their agents, or in pharmaceutical sector entire markets, undermines economic efficiency. In 2018, we surveyed corruption risks in the Corruption disadvantages compliant companies pharmaceutical sector and raised the topic with and can reduce investors’ returns. a number of companies. Corruption is a challenge throughout the sector’s value chain, In 2018, we published expectations of compafrom research and development through nies on combating corruption. Based on these registration and authorisation to tendering, expectations, we performed a provisional analyproduction, transport, marketing and sales. sis of 30 selected companies with operations in Many companies in the sector have been sectors with a high risk of corruption: construcinvestigated in recent times for alleged tion, finance, industrial goods and services, illegalities related to corruption. In response, the ­mining, oil and gas, pharmaceuticals and telecompanies have increasingly sought to improve communications. Our findings have provided a their anti-corruption programmes. The aim of basis for further developing our analyses. the initiative is therefore to promote broad dialogue in the sector on the efficacy of antiThe companies’ reporting was evaluated against corruption programmes, develop methods to 85 14 indicators covering transparency on compare programmes in the sector, and governance structure, policies for combating exchange experience of internal and external corruption, risk assessment, supply chain evaluation of these programmes. We have management, reporting on corruption-related invited selected pharmaceutical companies to incidents, external evaluation of anti-corruption participate in further dialogue on this topic. programmes, and dialogue with stakeholders. The assessments were based on the most recently reported information from the companies. Chart 99 Results Chart Resultsforfor companies we assessed companies on anti-corruption we assessed on antiin Most companies were relatively open about how 2018. Number of companies corruption in 2018. Number of companies their board and management address corruption risks. We also found that many companies make their anti-corruption policies and strategies 14 14 public. Some reported in more detail on 12 12 measures to prevent and detect corruption, such as staff training and internal whistleblowing 10 10 systems. Companies provided less information 8 8 on the follow-up of anti-corruption actions and the results of internal and external evaluations of 6 6 the efficacy of these actions. There were also variations between sectors, with companies in 4 4 the pharmaceutical and financial sectors 2 2 generally being more transparent about their anti-corruption work. 0 0 Very weak Weak Medium Good Very good 86 Exercising ownership | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Exercising ownership 3.3 Ocean sustainability As part of the platform, we are leading a working How companies manage risks and opportunities group developing international principles for related to sustainable uses of the ocean could ocean sustainability. A number of meetings were affect our long-term return as an investor. arranged in New York with the whole ocean platform as part of the UN high-level week in We published expectations on ocean sustainabilSeptember. Our contribution to the working ity in 2018. We used these to perform an assessgroup builds on our stated expectation that ment of which companies discuss issues relecompanies should address risks and vant for ocean sustainability in their public opportunities relating to ocean sustainability reporting. The assessment covered the same and the effects they might have on companies’ companies assessed on water management in future development and performance. the chemical, consumer goods, farming and ­fishing, food and beverage, mining, oil and gas, paper and utilities sectors. To varying degrees, these companies base their operations on the ocean, rely on marine resources, or may have a negative impact on the ocean through pollution 87 of water systems or the production of plastic packaging. Only 16 percent of the companies assessed report on relevant ocean-related issues. Ocean sustainability is an area with very little standardised reporting, and we expect both disclosure and metrics to improve in the years 10 Results Chart10 Chart Results forfor companies companies we assessed we assessed on ocean sustainability in 2018. Number on oceanof companies sustainability in 2018. ahead. Number of companies Action Platform on Sustainable Ocean Business 600 600 In June 2018, the fund joined the UN Global 500 500 Compact’s new Action Platform on Sustainable Ocean Business. The aim of the platform is to 400 400 develop an international framework for business leadership on the sustainable use of marine 300 300 resources. Other participants include companies from sectors with activities connected with the 200 200 ocean, UN institutions, NGOs and research bodies. 100 100 The platform was launched in New York on 0 Relevant issue not mentioned Relevant issue mentioned 0 8 June 2018, World Ocean Day, and will run until the end of 2020. 88 Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 3.3 4 Investing sustainably 89 Risk assessments One important task in our responsible We monitor our investments and assess investment management is to get sustainability issues as part of our risk management and our investment decisions. We companies to move from words to concentrate on issues that we believe may have numbers so that we can measure a material effect on the fund’s financial value. For and evaluate their efforts and better our analyses, we need both qualitative understand risks and opportunities in information and quantitative data on environmental, social and governance issues. our investments. We aim to identify, measure and manage all relevant risks and opportunities the fund is exposed to. Sustainability disclosure We are working on improving our understanding of potential links between sustainability on the one hand, and portfolio risk and return on the 90 other. As an investor, we benefit from the timely disclosure of high-quality data and access to qualitative and quantitative sustainability information. Our work on sustainability draws on statistics and data for countries and sectors as well as data on specific topics such as corruption, executive remuneration, greenhouse gas emissions, deforestation and human rights. As a result of this work, we now have increasingly comprehensive databases of sustainability data that span a number of factors at country, sector and company levels. These data are integrated into our analysis of individual companies and sectors, as well as at the portfolio level. We closely monitor developments and seek access to information on emerging governance and sustainability issues. There is increasing interest in measuring business operations that may have a positive environmental and social impact. One example of this is green revenue – the percentage of a given company’s revenue or activities that can be linked to a positive environmental impact, such as renewable energy or clean technology. Our in-house Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.1 analysis is supplemented, where relevant, with Climate scenarios analyses from external data providers. Some of Scenario analyses are useful for exploring the this is publicly available or made available via our consequences of different actions, whether participation in various initiatives. We also passive or active. They help us illustrate different commission research from specialists when we outcomes and better understand the processes need more sophisticated analysis. over long time periods with given levels of uncertainty. They are not predictions of the Climate risk disclosure future. There is no standard method for In 2016, we developed our own framework to investors’ scenario analysis. Ideally, the increase our understanding of climate-related scenarios should be based on well-founded risks and opportunities in the fund. In addition assumptions about future greenhouse gas we analyse greenhouse gas emissions from emissions, physical climate changes and companies in the portfolio. macroeconomic conditions. The scenarios must also use reasonable assumptions for companies’ The portfolio’s climate-related risks may be future development given their sectors, regions, either physical risks or financial risks related to regulation, technological developments, companies’ transition to a low-carbon economy. installations and assets. It is essential to have a 91 These risks have different time horizons. good understanding of the model’s core Physical risks might be exposure to extreme assumptions, uncertainties in the data, and weather events such as floods, droughts or heat interactions between the drivers in the model. waves. Transition risks include regulatory changes, technological innovations and evolving We are working on developing a number of consumer preferences. The risks we face as an different methodological tools for climate investor are not the same as the risks managed scenarios that can give us a broad and deep by individual companies. The price of the assets understanding of where and how climate risk an investor buys, and the degree to which this might affect individual companies and the price reflects climate risks, affects the financial portfolio as a whole. For example, we look at risks. A broadly diversified and market-weighted future cash flows and carbon emissions at portfolio will, in principle, have roughly the same company level, and also at how possible future financial climate risks as the underlying markets regulation in the form of carbon pricing and and sectors in which it is invested. carbon quotas might impact on different companies, sectors and regions. The aim of this To obtain a better understanding of these risks, work is eventually to be able to understand how we have obtained analyses and participated in climate risks could affect portfolio returns. projects to assess and, where possible, quantify physical and transition risks at companies. In our work on assessing companies, we have focused on producers of cement, chemicals, oil and gas, power and steel, as they are exposed to particularly high climate risks. 92 Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.1 Carbon footprint variants, we report emission data at sector level We have been analysing the fund’s carbon for the fund, the benchmark index and the FTSE footprint since 2015. This analysis provides an Global All Cap index, which is the starting point insight into the level of greenhouse gas for the benchmark index defined by the Ministry emissions from the companies we are invested of Finance. This analysis of greenhouse gas in. It can also provide an insight into risks and emissions provides only a snapshot for 2018, opportunities across sectors and shed light on however, and does not take account of how changes to the fund’s mandate affect its companies’ strategy, industry structure and carbon footprint. other factors. We follow the recommendations for asset Reporting on greenhouse gas emissions still managers from the TCFD when calculating the varies in frequency and quality. Emission data fund’s carbon footprint. We start from the are generally published in connection with a greenhouse gas emissions of each individual company’s annual report early the following year. company in the equity portfolio, measured as When analysing emission data for 2018, the tonnes of CO2-equivalents. These emission data most up-to-date numbers will therefore come are supplied by analysis firm Trucost and cover from companies’ annual reports for 2017 93 companies’ Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. published in 2018. Where a company has not Emissions within Scope 3 are not included in this published emission data for 2017, we will use analysis. At portfolio level, we calculate data reported for 2016 or estimates. In this emissions in three ways – based on holding, analysis, only 17 percent of companies disclosed revenue and market value. In all of these data on greenhouse gas emissions directly in Chart 12 Changes in contribution to carbon footprint from 2017 to 2018. Chart1111Data Chart Dataon on greenhouse greenhouse gas emission gas emission of of companies. Number of Chart 12 Changes in contribution to carbon footprint Percent companies ­companies. Number of companies from 2017 to 2018. Percent 6,000 6,000 40 40 5,000 5,000 30 30 2017 4,000 4,000 20 20 2016 3,000 3,000 10 10 2,000 2,000 0 0 1,000 1,000 Portfolio -10 -10 Reference index 0 0 -20 -20 Reported by Estimated from Model estimate Sector median company company report their reports or via CDP. 15 percent provided company’s emissions by our percentage holding relevant information permitting the calculation in that company. We can then obtain a figure for of emissions. For 60 percent of the companies in the fund’s share of total greenhouse gas the portfolio, emissions have been estimated emissions for all companies in the portfolio by using models. This results in greater uncertainty adding together the results for each individual than hard emission data. For 8 percent of company. The emissions calculated for the FTSE companies, emissions have been estimated Global All Cap are the total for all companies in simply on the basis of the median for their the index excluding Norway. sector. In these cases, uncertainty about actual emissions is considerable. Emission intensity Then companies in our equity portfolio emitted Total emissions and our percentage share around 187 tonnes of CO2-equivalents for every Based on our percentage holdings in each million dollars of revenue. This is referred to as company, the fund accounted for total emissions equity portfolio’s emission intensity. of 107 million tonnes of CO2-equivalents in 2018. This is around twice the amount of Norway’s The equity portfolio’s emission intensity is three 94 total emissions in 2017 as reported by Statistics percent below that of the benchmark index. The Norway. The total emissions of the companies in difference can largely be put down to our our portfolio increased by 6 percent from 2017 investments in basic materials, industrials and to 2018. The reason for this is an increase in utilities having a lower emission intensity than companies’ emissions, as can be seen from an the companies in the benchmark index. increase of 6 percent in emissions for the reference benchmark. The emissions of the The emission intensity of both the equity companies in the equity portfolio was about the portfolio and the benchmark index have same as in the benchmark portfolio. increased by four and two percent respectively compared to 2017, mainly because companies’ These emissions are driven largely by sectors revenue increased. with high energy consumption, such as commodities, heavy industry, metals, oil and gas We calculate companies’ emission intensity by and power. Within these high-emission sectors, dividing the emissions of an individual company there are in turn a number of large companies by its revenue. This enables us to compare how that account for the bulk of emissions. We have much different companies and sectors emit for also calculated what the emissions of the the same amount of revenue. It is worth noting companies in the benchmark index’s would have that emission intensity is affected by changes in been without any ethical exclusions under the the prices of the products companies sell. For Ministry of Finance’s guidelines for observation example, an oil company’s emission intensity will and exclusion. These exclusions have reduced decrease when oil prices rise, even if the size of the benchmark index’s carbon emissions by 14 its emissions is constant. Similarly, a company percent, due mainly to exclusions under the coal that sells expensive cars will have a lower criterion. emission intensity than one that sells cheaper cars, even if both produce the same number of When reporting our share of companies’ cars. greenhouse gas emissions, we multiply each Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.1 Table 5 Scope 1 and 2 emissions by sector as at 31 December 2018 Equity portfolio Reference index FTSE All Cap Sector Tonnes CO2 equivalents Tonnes CO2 equivalents Tonnes CO2 equivalents Basic materials 25,884,091 25,558,317 3,176,961,413 Consumer goods 4,752,213 4,521,544 456,633,469 Consumer services 8,615,816 6,337,238 857,014,193 Financials 2,160,439 2,011,901 245,109,687 Health care 1,048,314 974,321 73,882,887 Industrials 21,130,407 20,710,271 1,954,788,054 Oil and gas 19,861,028 19,250,688 1,998,709,715 Technology 1,387,691 1,372,780 125,660,711 Telecommunications 709,454 757,344 89,353,548 Utilities 21,891,067 25,760,999 4,985,354,670 Sum 107,440,520 107,255,402 13,963,468,347 95 Table 6 Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity by sector, weighted by market value of fund holdings. Equity portfolio, reference index and FTSE All Cap as at 31 Decemner 2018 Equity portfolio Reference index FTSE All Cap Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Sector million dollars in sales revenue million dollars in sales revenue million dollars in sales revenue Basic materials 864 888 945 Consumer goods 72 67 64 Consumer services 91 82 82 Financials 40 36 36 Health care 36 36 36 Industrials 269 283 263 Oil and gas 574 563 563 Technology 44 43 43 Telecommunications 47 49 49 Utilities 1,334 1,439 2,221 Weighted total 187 193 231 To compare the sectors in our portfolio, we This metric can give investors useful information weight each company’s emission intensity by for comparing the carbon footprint of equity multiplying it by the value of our investment in investments across sectors and companies. the company divided by the value of the fund’s investment in the sector. We then add together Emissions by market value are affected by a the results in each sector. Some sectors have a company’s share price. This means that external higher emission intensity than others. For factors unrelated to greenhouse gas emissions example, emission intensity is high in the can result in differences between two otherwise utilities sector because the benchmark index and identical companies. For example, a decline in a the fund have holdings in power companies that company’s share price will increase its emissions produce electricity from fossil fuels. by market value even if its actual emissions are unchanged. Nor does this metric take account of To calculate the total emission intensity of the different companies having different capital companies in our portfolio, we weight each structures (ratio between debt and equity). company’s emission intensity by the value of our investment divided by the value of the entire Emissions in the corporate bond portfolio 96 equity portfolio. This is the metric recommended The bond portfolio’s emission intensity is 16 by the TCFD, because it makes it possible to percent below that of the benchmark index. This compare emissions across companies, sectors is mainly because our investments in industrial and managers. companies have a lower emission intensity than the benchmark index. Emissions and market value The equity portfolio emitted 164 tonnes of CO2When we invest in bonds, we lend capital to equivalents for every million dollars in market companies that may have operations that value. This can also be described as emissions release greenhouse gases. This lending does per invested unit of money. The equivalent figure not, however, affect our percentage ownership for the benchmark was four percent higher, in the company. To provide a picture of the which is to say 170 tonnes of CO2-equivalents carbon footprint of the bond portfolio, we per million dollars. The difference can be therefore link the issuer of the bond to the explained by our investments in basic materials, parent company where the emissions actually and utilities having a lower emission intensity occur. We multiply the company’s emissions by than companies in the benchmark index. the value of our lending divided by the value of all corporate bonds. We then add these figures We report greenhouse gas emissions in relation together to produce totals for the fund and the to companies’ market value by dividing each benchmark index. The result is a measure of the company’s emissions by its market value. We carbon footprint of the bond portfolio. Finally, can then compare different companies’ and we disclose the bond portfolio’s emission sectors’ emissions for the same amount intensity, calculated in an equivalent way to that invested. In the same way as for emission for equities. We multiply the emission intensity intensity, we weight emissions by the size of our of each company by the value of our lending, investment and add them together to compare divide this by the value of all corporate bonds, the sectors in our portfolio. and then sum to fund level. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.1 Table 7 Scope 1 and 2 emissions by market capitalization, weighted by market value of fund holdings.1 Equity portfolio, reference index and FTSE All Cap. As at 31 December 2018 Equity portfolio Reference index FTSE All Cap Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Tonnes CO2 equivalents per Sector million dollars invested million dollars invested million dollars invested Basic materials 778 837 856 Consumer goods 62 59 57 Consumer services 116 94 94 Financials 14 14 14 Health care 14 13 13 Industrials 254 251 233 Oil and gas 533 485 485 Technology 17 17 17 97 Telecommunications 38 39 39 Utilities 1,210 1,394 1,931 Weighted total 164 170 197 1 Does not take into account companies’ different capital structure (debt-to-equity ratio) Table 8 Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the fixed-income corporate portfolio and reference index as at 31 December 2018 Average emissions intensity weighted by market value of fund holdings. Tonnes CO2 equivalents per million Tonnes CO2 equivalents dollars in sales revenue Fixed income corporate portfolio 5,595,059 175 Reference index 6,671,156 210 Difference -1,076,097 -35 Sustainability assessments emerging markets. These assessments are used We use our databases of sustainability data to internally in the management of our portfolio monitor and analyse the companies in our and as a basis for dialogue with external portfolio. We monitor environmental, social and managers, additional risk monitoring and, in governance risks in the countries, sectors and some cases, risk-based divestments. companies in which the fund is invested. Sector analysis Country analysis We performed sector analyses covering 905 In 2018, we continued to develop our companies in 2018. We analyse our portfolio understanding of sustainability risks at country using our risk framework and look at and sector levels. Our analysis of these risks is environmental, social and governance issues. based on an in-house risk framework which We then concentrate on sectors with particular includes country-level data and indicators for ten exposure to specific risks. Our attention may key sustainability themes. This makes it easier to also be drawn to particular sectors through identify high-risk areas of the portfolio and information from our external data providers, companies that warrant further analysis. other investors or NGOs. In addition to new 98 sector analyses, we are working on reassessing During the year, we reviewed the data sources sectors identified in the past. we use to analyse sustainability at country and sector levels. The aim is a more complete Based on the results of these country and sector understanding of companies’ risk exposure to analyses, we may decide not to invest in different activities and countries, both in their selected sectors in specific countries in order to own operations and in their value chain. This can reduce the fund’s exposure to unacceptable provide a basis for more advanced mapping of risks. individual companies’ sustainability risk exposure. Some markets have inherently higher sustainability risks. This is often the case in emerging markets, where regulation in areas such as pollution, child labour and corruption may not be as robust as in more advanced markets. Some of the companies in the fund’s portfolio do much of their business in emerging markets. Given the inherent risk in these markets, we pay particular attention to our investments in these companies. In 2018, we assessed sustainability risks at 515 companies in Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.1 Sector analysis Number of Environmental, social and Sectors companies assessed governance topics Clothing and accessories, 265 Health and safety of workers, wages and benefits, ­Footwear, Apparel retailers, labour conditions, child labour and forced labour Broadline retailers and Specialty retailers Mining (including General 89 Water-related risk mining, Gold mining, Platinum & precious metals) Pharmaceuticals and Drug 53 Direct or indirect involvement in opioids retailers 99 Food products and Farming, 239 Health and safety of workers, wages and benefits, fishing & plantations labour conditions, child labour and forced labour Agricultural commodities 46 Deforestation, sustainability certification, human (palm oil and rubber) rights and local communities Fuel retailers 24 Climate change transition risk exposure Marine transport 32 Greenhouse gas emissions and environmental pollution Real Estate (REITs) 17 Greenhouse gas emissions, green building activities, waste management, water management, health and safety, corporate governance Ocean fishing 8 Sustainable fishing practices Conventional utilities 51 Greenhouse gas emissions, water stress, waste, human rights, health and safety, renewable energy exposure, coal exposure, corporate governance Specialty chemicals and Commo34 Greenhouse gas emissions, water stress, waste, dity chemicals product quality and safety, health and safety, corporate governance Consumer goods (various) 47 Supply chain management, greenhouse gas emissions, product quality and safety, labour issues, health and safety, community impacts, water stress, corporate governance 100 In 2018, we assessed carbon emissions at 78 steel companies Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.1 Company analysis External mandates We divide company analysis into two categories: When investing in emerging markets, we rely material ownership reports and incident briefs. mainly on external managers. We monitor environmental, social and governance risks at all We produced five material ownership reports in of the companies in the portfolio, including 2018. Here, we systematically analyse those managed externally. External managers companies where the fund has a significant have a local presence and specialise in the percentage holding. These reports look in more markets they invest in. They have a good detail at business drivers and risk factors for the knowledge and understanding of these markets. specific company. We use information from our databases of sustainability and governance data New external managers must be able to in addition to publicly available data reported by demonstrate during the selection process that companies and regulators, among others, to they are familiar with the fund’s emphasis on assess how environmental, social and responsible investment and with our priorities. governance issues affect the company and how We require managers to take account of relevant the company is addressing these issues. environmental, social and governance risks in their investment activities. Established external 101 We produced 34 incident briefs in 2018. We managers must confirm and describe these looked at incidents such as alleged corruption, activities as part of the fund’s annual fraud, environmental pollution, deforestation, assessment of these managers. health and safety violations, and impacts on local communities. We monitor companies and markets using information systems and global media to capture incidents that may be relevant to the companies we invest in. Following an initial assessment, we select companies for further analysis in an incident brief. We may follow up these briefs with more extensive company analysis, additional risk monitoring or ownership measures. 102 Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.1 Development of the fund’s environmental mandates, exclusions and divestments Contributing to positive Avoiding negative externalities externalities From lender to owner 1998 Environmental fund established 2001 Initial exclusion mechanism for investments established 2002 Singapore Technologies Engineering excluded due to production of anti-personnel mines 2004 Council on Ethics established and exclusion mechanism expanded Investing in emerging markets 2005 Kerr-McGee Corp excluded due to activities in Western Sahara 103 Environmental mandate 2009 Tobacco companies excluded established with 20 billion kroner Environmental mandate 2011 increased to 20–30 billion kroner 2012 Risk-based divestment — palm oil Environmental mandate 2014 Risk-based divestments increased to — oil sands and cement 30–50 billion kroner 2015 Risk-based divestment — thermal coal Environmental mandate 2016 Coal companies excluded increased to 30–60 billion kroner Investments Our goal is to use sustainability data Environment-related mandates to identify long-term investment The management mandate from the Ministry of Finance requires Norges Bank Investment opportunities. We see potential in Management to invest between 30 and 60 billion companies that contribute to more kroner in dedicated environment-related environmentally friendly economic mandates. At the end of 2018, we had 43.3 activity. billion kroner invested in shares in 77 companies and 13.4 billion kroner invested in green bonds under these mandates. Equity investments under the environmentrelated mandates returned -8.3 percent in 2018, while the annualised return since inception in 2010 has been 4.5 percent. We have expanded the universe in recent years to include larger companies and place greater emphasis on 104 developed markets in order to reduce volatility. The environment-related mandates have since their inception been managed both internally and externally. To reduce cost in the management of the fund, the externally managed, environment-related mandates were terminated in 2018. Today, the environmentrelated mandates are in their entirety internally managed. We have built up extensive internal expertise in environmental technology. Much of our work now involves defining the universe for environmental investments. By analysing companies’ activities, we can identify suppliers of goods and services with a stronger environmental profile than the wider stock market. It is worth noting that some companies in our environmental investment universe do not focus exclusively on goods and services that enable environmentally friendly economic activity. It is nevertheless important to include these companies, as they often have the capital needed to develop and apply green technologies. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.2 We screen our environmental investments Low-emission energy and alternative fuels against information supplied by specialist Power generation and transport are major external data providers and integrated into our contributors to greenhouse gas emissions. sustainability databases. Our goal is to Technological advances in these areas can determine the extent to which our investments significantly reduce global emissions. are exposed to selected environmental themes Companies today are increasingly developing through their revenue or activities. We also flag capacity for the production of energy from any environmental, social and governance risks renewable sources such as wind, solar, hydro, in companies’ operations for consideration by geothermal and waste. our portfolio managers. Companies operating in the segments include We invest in three main areas: low-emission Sempra Energy, SSE Plc and Enel SpA. energy and alternative fuels; clean energy and energy efficiency; and natural resource Renewable energy and energy storage management. Companies must have at least 20 The commercialisation of renewable energy and percent of their business in one of these areas to energy storage is advancing rapidly. be included in our environment-related universe. Commercialisation and increased technology 105 These three categories also largely coincide with convergence between renewables, electric the UN Sustainable Development Goals for the vehicles and energy storage can be expected to environment, clean energy and resource bring dramatic changes in the energy mix. 2016 management. was a landmark year for low-emission energy 106 Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.2 Environmental universe — internal definitions Categories Groups Definitions Companies that provide Low-emission energy and Providers of energy, infrastructure and energy solutions to climate change alternative fuels ­solutions for transport, buildings and industry and pollution Clean energy and efficiency Providers of technology, equipment and services technology lowering emissions through clean and efficient ­generation and consumption of energy Companies that provide Natural resource Providers of technology, equipment, infrastructure ­solutions contributing to ­management and services lowering environmental impact through efficient usage of natural clean and efficient consumption and reuse of natural resources and pollution resources 107 Table 9 Key figures as at 31 December 2018. Annualised data, measured in the fund’s currency basket. Percent Since 01.01.2010 Last 5 years Last 3 years 2018 Return on the environment-related equity mandates 4.5 5.9 7.8 -8.3 Return on the FTSE Global All Cap Index 9.2 7.0 6.7 -7.3 Return on the MSCI Global Environment Index 7.3 4.5 7.9 -7.2 Table 10 Market value of investments in the enviroment-related mandates as at 31 December 2018. Millions of kroner Values Equities 43,283 Green bonds 13,411 Total 56,694 and alternative fuels, as it was the first year Companies operating in these segments include when more capacity was built for renewable Legrand SA, PTC Inc and Keyence Corp. power production than for coal-based and nuclear power. This trend continued in 2018, Efficient mobility with renewables accounting for nearly 70 Three main technologies are set to revolutionise percent of net installed power capacity. the cost and efficiency of transportation: electric Companies in our mandate for low-emission vehicles, autonomous driving and shared energy and alternative fuels are key drivers in mobility. The combustion engine accounts for this energy transition. most greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, and around a quarter of total Clean energy and energy efficiency greenhouse gas emissions. In the next decade, Investments in solutions to climate challenges progress in battery technology and costs will have traditionally been made mainly in energy enable electric vehicles to replace combustion production and concentrated on clean and technology. Fully functional self-driving vehicles renewable energy. More recently, opportunities will also lead to more efficient use of the existing on the demand side have begun to attract more vehicle stock. Finally, shared mobility will 108 attention. The transport sector is making increase utilisation, reduce the need to purchase progress, partly through more efficient cars, and aggregate transport routes for both traditional combustion engines and hybrid private and commercial users. The outlook for technologies. Major progress is also being made major efficiency gains and reductions in in electric vehicles. Despite this, the cost of greenhouse gas emissions has improved thanks producing batteries remains a challenge. to these three nascent technologies. Demand for energy efficiency technology for Technological advances and cost savings over buildings has increased. Substantial reductions the past two years have brought forward the in energy consumption can be achieved through supply side for electric vehicles by as much as better insulation, lighting, heating and five years. ventilation systems, as well as solutions that control these processes. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.2 Table 11 Top ten equity holdings in the low-emission energy and alternative fuel segment in the fund’s environmental portfolio as at 31 December 2018 Share of portfolio Company Country FTSE Global sector Millions of kroner Percent Iberdrola SA Spain Utilities 3,434 7.9 NextEra Energy Inc United States Utilities 3,283 7.6 Sempra Energy United States Utilities 3,281 7.6 Linde Plc United States Basic materials 2,421 5.6 National Grid Plc United Kingdom Utilities 1,025 2.4 Enel SpA Italy Utilities 708 1.6 Edison International United States Utilities 500 1.2 SSE Plc United Kingdom Utilities 429 1.0 Engie SA France Utilities 287 0.7 Tokyo Gas Co Ltd Japan Utilities 258 0.6 109 Table 12 Top ten equity holdings in the clean energy and efficiency technology segment in the fund’s environmental ­portfolio as at 31 December 2018 Share of portfolio Company Country FTSE Global sector Millions of kroner Percent Keyence Corp Japan Industrials 1,856 4.3 Daikin Industries Ltd Japan Industrials 1,568 3.6 Thermo Fisher United States Health care 1,467 3.4 ­Scientific Inc Legrand SA France Industrials 1,447 3.3 PTC Inc United States Technology 1,060 2.4 Infineon Technologies Germany Technology 861 2.0 AG Eaton Corp Plc United States Industrials 748 1.7 Shin-Etsu Chemical Japan Basic materials 595 1.4 Co Ltd Tesla Inc United States Consumer goods 582 1.3 Autodesk Inc United States Technology 429 1.0 Natural resource management Precision agriculture Efficient utilisation of natural resources is Estimates suggest that the current food system important for water management, waste is responsible for around a quarter of management, recycling, agriculture and forestry. greenhouse gas emissions and consumes Meeting the world’s need for high-quality water around 70 percent of available freshwater at a in an efficient manner is a global challenge. The global level. Agricultural practices can also result infrastructure to achieve this requires heavy in water pollution and soil degradation. The key investment, particularly as demand for water is to these challenges is technology, such as expected to grow substantially. In areas with precision agriculture. This type of farming scarce water resources, it is important to have enables sustainable intensification of food solutions that enable recycling of water through production, helping increase efficiency by treatment processes and efficient pumping, maximising yields while reducing inputs such as measurement and control solutions. Recovering water and fertiliser. This is achieved with energy from waste and making good use of software and tools that equip farmers with realorganic materials show how waste can be a time data and analysis for optimum decisionresource. One notable example is the collection making in areas such as planting and irrigation. 110 of methane gas from landfills. Efficient land Improvements in refrigeration technology in the management and agricultural production are transportation and storage of food are also an also needed to ensure availability of food for a important part of initiatives to reduce food growing population while limiting negative waste. environmental impacts. Companies operating in these segments include DS Smith Plc, United Utilities Group Plc and AO Smith Corp. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.2 Table 13 Top ten equity holdings in the natural resource management segment in the fund’s environmental portfolio as at 31 December 2018 Share of portfolio Company Country FTSE Global sector Millions of kroner Percent Waste Connections Inc Canada Industrials 1,676 3.9 DS Smith Plc United Kingdom Industrials 1,482 3.4 Xylem Inc/NY United States Industrials 1,101 2.5 LKQ Corp United States Consumer goods 1,099 2.5 Koninklijke DSM NV Netherlands Basic materials 823 1.9 Steel Dynamics Inc United States Basic materials 625 1.4 United Utilities Group Plc United Kingdom Utilities 597 1.4 Veolia Environnement SA France Utilities 549 1.3 Tetra Tech Inc United States Industrials 547 1.3 111 American Water Works Co Inc United States Utilities 503 1.2 Sewage treatment Divestments There are companies in which we The Ministry of Finance has established ethically choose not to invest. These include motivated guidelines for observation and exclusion of companies from the fund. The companies that violate fundamental guidelines contain criteria for exclusion based ethical norms or impose substantial either on the companies’ products or on their costs on society through their conduct. The fund must not be invested in operations. By not investing in these companies that produce certain types of weapons, base its operations on coal, or companies, we reduce our exposure produce tobacco. The fund must also not be to unacceptable risks. invested in companies that through their conduct contribute to violations of fundamental ethical norms. The Ministry of Finance has established an independent Council on Ethics to make ethical assessments of companies. The Council on Ethics sends its recommendations to Norges Bank’s Executive Board, which then 112 makes the final decision on exclusion, observation or active ownership. Finally, the fund itself may divest from companies that impose substantial costs on other companies and society as a whole and so are not long-term sustainable. Examples of activities that are unsustainable are business models that do not conform to prevailing technological, regulatory or environmental trends. Ethical exclusions In 2018, Norges Bank excluded 13 companies, placed four companies under observation, and decided on active ownership for one company. Product-based exclusions The fund must not invest in companies which themselves, or through entities they control, manufacture weapons that violate fundamental humanitarian principles through their normal use, or sell weapons or military materiel to certain countries. Nor may the fund invest in companies that produce tobacco. There is also a product-based coal criterion that applies to companies in two categories: mining companies Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.3 Ethical decisions in 2018 Category Criterion Number Company Exclusion Thermal coal mining or coal-based 2 PacifiCorp, Tri-State Generation and power production ­Transmission Association Inc Severe environmental damage / 4 Evergreen Marine Corp Taiwan Ltd, Human rights violations Korea Line Corp, Precious Shipping PCL, ­Thoresen Thai Agencies PCL Gross corruption 1 JBS SA Production of specific weapon types 4 AECOM, BAE Systems Plc, Fluor Corp, Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc Human rights violations 2 Luthai Textile Co Ltd, Atal SA/Poland Observation Thermal coal mining or coal-based 2 Berkshire Hathaway Energy Co, power production ­MidAmerican Energy Co Severe environmental damage / 1 Pan Ocean Co Ltd Human rights violations Human rights violations 1 Nien Hsing Textile Co Ltd Revoked Other particularly serious violations 2 Kosmos Energy, Cairn Energy Plc of fundamental ethical norms 113 Total company observation and exclusions as at 31 December 2018 Tema Criterion Number of companies Product-based Production of tobacco 18 exclusions Production of specific weapon types 19 Thermal coal mining or coal-based power production 68 Conduct-based Human rights violations 5 exclusions Severe environmental damage 17 Contributions to climate change 0 Gross corruption 2 Other particularly serious violations of fundamental 3 ethical norms Serious violations of the rights of individuals in situations 2 of war or conflict Severe environmental damage / Human rights violations 4 Observation Human rights violations 3 Severe environmental damage 1 Severe environmental damage / Human rights violations 1 Gross corruption 3 Thermal coal mining or coal-based power production 14 that derive 30 percent or more of their revenue reduce the risk of continued norm violations, or from the production of thermal coal, and power whether such alternative measures may be more companies that derive 30 percent or more of appropriate for other reasons. In 2018, seven their revenue from coal-based power production. companies were excluded on the grounds of In 2018, four companies that produce nuclear conduct considered to constitute particularly weapons and two coal companies were serious violations of ethical norms. A total of 33 excluded. A total of 105 companies that produce companies have been excluded for unethical certain types of weapon, tobacco or coal, or use conduct. coal for power production, have been excluded from the fund. Conduct-based exclusions Companies may also be excluded if there is an unacceptable risk of conduct considered to Chart 13 Return impact of equity benchmark index constitute a particularly serious violationChart 13ofReturn impact of equity benchmark index exclusions exclusions relative torelative to an unadjusted an unadjusted index. index at constituent level. ethical norms. Measured in dollars. Percentage points Measured in dollars. Percentage points 114 The Executive Board takes the final decision on 1.5 1.5 the observation and exclusion of companies after receiving a recommendation from the 1.0 1.0 Council on Ethics. The Executive Board bases its 0.5 0.5 decisions on an assessment of the probability of 0.0 0.0 future norm violations, the severity and extent -0.5 -0.5 of the violations, and the connection between -1.0 -1.0 the violation and the company the fund is invested in. -1.5 -1.5 -2.0 -2.0 The Executive Board may also consider the -2.5 -2.5 breadth of the company’s operations and -3.0 -3.0 governance, including whether the company is 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 doing what can reasonably be expected to Conduct-based exclusions Product-based exclusions reduce the risk of future norm violations within a Total reasonable time frame. Before the Executive Board takes a decision to exclude a company, it must consider whether other measures, such as active ownership, might be more suited to Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.3 Impact on the fund’s equity returns Conduct-based exclusions have increased the When companies are excluded from the fund, cumulative return on the equity benchmark they are also removed from the benchmark index by around 0.7 percentage point, or 0.03 index. Product-based exclusions have reduced percentage point annually. the cumulative return on the equity benchmark index by around 1.8 percentage points, or 0.07 Since 2006, the equity benchmark index has percentage point annually. The exclusion of returned 1.1 percentage points less than an some tobacco companies and weapons unadjusted equity benchmark index. On an manufacturers has contributed to reduced annualised basis, the return has been 0.04 returns. percentage point lower. Table 14 Contribution to return impact of equity benchmark index exclusions by exclusion criterion as at 31 December 2018. Market value in billions of kroner. Contribution measured in dollars. Percentage points Number of 115 ­excluded Market value in ­companies from benchmark if not 2006–2018 Criterion benchmark1 excluded 2018 ­annualised Product-based exclusions 105 141.9 0.17 -0.07 Production of specific weapon types 19 63.1 -0.07 -0.05 Production of tobacco 18 47 0.30 -0.02 Thermal coal mining or coal-based 68 31 -0.06 0.00 power production Conduct-based exclusions 33 44 -0.03 0.03 Human rights violations 5 13 -0.02 -0.01 Serious violations of the rights of 2 0 0.00 0.00 individuals in situations of war or conflict Severe environmental damage 17 27 -0.01 0.03 Gross corruption 2 1 0.00 0.00 Other particularly serious violations 3 3 0.00 0.00 of fundamental ethical norms Severe environmental damage and 4 0 0.00 0.00 human rights violations Total 138 186 0.14 -0.04 1 Includes companies that are not in the benchmark universe. Risk-based divestments other possibilities have been considered but In 2018, we divested from 30 companies deemed insufficient. We do not publish a list of following assessments of governance and companies from which we have divested, but we sustainability risks. Altogether, we have divested are transparent about the criteria underpinning from 240 companies since 2012. our decisions. We also publish annual holding lists showing all of the companies in our The integration of environmental, social and portfolio, which makes it possible to analyse governance issues into our risk management changes from one year to the next. may result in divestment from companies where we see elevated long-term risks. These are Climate change companies that do business in a way that we do We have assessed the risk associated with not consider sustainable, or could have negative greenhouse gas emissions from companies in financial consequences. These consequences the portfolio as part of our focus on climate may be direct – for example, where a company change. Companies that have operations or has to pay fines or is excluded from markets on value chains with particularly high greenhouse account of irresponsible conduct, or is gas emissions may be exposed to risks in the 116 outcompeted by others that manage event of regulatory changes or other market sustainability risks more effectively. They may developments. This may lead to higher operating also be indirect, with companies’ operations costs or reduced demand. having negative externalities for society and undermining sustainable economic development As part of our focus on climate change we also in the longer term. We wish to reduce our assess company activities that lead to exposure to such companies over time and deforestation, which is a significant contributor would rather allocate capital to companies with to greenhouse gas emissions. more sustainable business models. Risk-based divestments are one way of doing so. Coal-based power production and coal mining Power producers’ use of thermal coal as a fuel is We carry out divestments within the overall an area with particularly high regulatory risks in limits for portfolio deviation from the benchmark some markets. More and more countries have specified in the management mandate. Where introduced targets to reduce greenhouse gas we have substantial investments in a company, emissions from the power sector, especially in dialogue may be a more suitable approach than the wake of the Paris Agreement. divestment. We generally have better analytical coverage of our largest investments, and more Like coal-based power producers, mining contact with their management and board. companies that produce thermal coal for power production will face challenges in the transition Our diversified portfolio requires us to take a to a low-carbon economy. systematic approach to risk-based divestment. Many of the topics and sectors covered by our When we assess companies for divestment, we divestment analyses are also addressed in our look at what share of their operations is based ongoing work on standard setting and active on coal, be it the production of thermal coal or ownership. Recommending companies for riskthe use of this coal in power production. This based divestment is often the last resort after analysis has much in common with our process Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.3 for assessing companies under the coal criterion 2017. The companies we divested from were in the Guidelines for Observation and Exclusion considered to produce palm oil in a manner that of Companies from the Government Pension is not sustainable. Fund Global. The difference with our internal divestment criteria is that we have chosen to When considering companies for divestment, divest from companies where it is difficult to we focus on those that operate palm oil confirm their exposure to coal, but where we plantations in Malaysia and Indonesia, and have believe it to be above a certain threshold. Our palm oil production as a significant part of their analyses resulted in divestment from ten power business. We also look at whether companies producers and one mining company in 2018. have been certified by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, or plan to become Emission intensity certified. In 2018, we assessed companies Our analysis of climate risk in the portfolio previously divested, as well as companies includes companies’ emission intensity, i.e. currently in the portfolio that have direct greenhouse gas emissions in relation to exposure to palm oil production. This revenue. Emission intensity may be a useful assessment in 2018 lead to two divestment factor when analysing multiple companies decisions. 117 operating in the same sector or with similar business models, because it says something Rubber about how energy-efficient their operations are, The production of rubber from plantations is which in turn says something about the costs another known contributor to tropical and risks associated with that business model. deforestation in various parts of the world. In In 2018, we looked at a selection of companies in our analysis of rubber producers, we looked the portfolio with a substantially higher emission particularly at the share of their business for intensity than other companies in the same which rubber production accounts, and signs sector. Following this analysis, we chose to that this production is unsustainable. As a result divest from one company. of this analysis, we divested from one company in 2018. Palm oil Deforestation has significant environmental and Anti-corruption social consequences. Forests are an important Failure to address governance risks can lead to part of the ecosystem and help maintain production stoppages and fines, loss of biodiversity, store carbon and produce oxygen. contracts and reputational damage for In some regions, deforestation is one of the companies. In 2018, we continued to assess main sources of greenhouse gas emissions and significant governance issues in our work on risk can also threaten human rights and indigenous monitoring and risk-based divestments. rights. As a result of our analyses in this area, we There is a broad consensus that the production divested from nine companies with high of palm oil is a significant contributor to tropical exposure to corruption risks and signs of deforestation. We have therefore been analysing inadequate management of this exposure. this sector since 2012, leading to divestment from a total of 32 companies between 2012 and Divestments in 2018 Expectation Theme Criteria 2018 Climate Change Palm oil production Owns/operates plantations in Malaysia and Indonesia Relevant percentage of business mix allocated to palm oil production RSPO certification status and plans 2 Rubber production Owns/operates rubber plantations Indications of unsustainable plantation activities 1 Coal-based power Relevant percentage of business mix allcoated to production electricity production Coal at relevant percentage of fuel-mix 10 118 Thermal coal Owns/operates thermal coal mines mining Relevant business mix allocated to thermal coal extraction 1 CO2-intensity Considerably higher emissions intensity than industry peers 1 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Exposure to high-risk sectors and markets Indications of insufficient risk management related to corruption and corporate governance 9 Human Rights Human rights Exposure to high-risk sectors and markets 4 Indications of insufficient risk management related to human rights, labour rights or health, safety and environment Other Tobacco Activities with significant direct or indirect affiliation 2 with tobacco production Total 30 Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.3 Divestments in previous years Expectatation 2018 2017 and earlier1 Climate Change 15 127 Water Management 0 46 Anti-corruption 9 13 Human Rights 4 17 Other 2 7 Total 30 210 1 A  s of 2018, subsidiaries and financing arms of existing divestments are no longer included in the overall count. As such, the numbers in this table are lower than in previous years. 119 Rubber production Examples of such signs include documented Other unacceptable risks incidents relating to corruption or governance. In addition to the areas covered by our expectation documents, we also monitor other Human rights factors that may expose companies in our We have assessed companies’ exposure to social portfolio to unacceptable risks. For example, we risks in areas such as human rights, labour screen the portfolio for companies that have rights, and health and safety. In some cases, we direct or indirect links to tobacco production. found that companies with high inherent risk This screening has picked up two such exposure had documented incidents indicating companies, and we have therefore divested from possible violations of human rights or labour them. rights or poor management of health and safety. The risk of companies being involved in further Impact on the fund’s equity returns incidents was deemed excessive in some cases, The purpose of our risk-based divestments is to and so we chose to divest from four companies. reduce our exposure to companies with operations that may not be sustainable. In Ocean sustainability addition to reducing risk, such divestments can 120 In September 2018, we published our also have an impact on the return of the equity expectations of companies on ocean portfolio and the equity reference portfolio. sustainability. We are working on obtaining more When we carry out risk-based divestments, the detailed information to put us in an even better companies we divest will be removed from the position to understand and analyse companies’ fund’s equity reference portfolio. We can exposure to marine resources. We are keen for measure the impact of divestments on the companies to address ocean sustainability and fund’s equity return by comparing the equity manage relevant risks and opportunities well. reference portfolio adjusted for risk-based Companies that do not address these issues divestments with an unadjusted reference may be candidates for risk-based divestment. portfolio. Risk-baseddivestments have since 2012 contributed positively to the cumulative In previous years, we have looked at sectors and return on the equity referenceportfolio by topics relating to the ocean and divested from around 0.11 percentage point, or 0.01 three such companies where we saw indications percentage point annually. of inadequate management of issues related to sustainability. In 2017, we chose to divest from Over time, risk-based divestments linked to one company due to serious pollution of the climate change and human rights have ocean and fish deaths. In 2016, we divested from contributed positively to the cumulative return two companies in the seafood sector due to on the equity reference portfolio by 0.14 and proven violations of human rights in the supply 0.03 percentage point, respectively. Risk-based chain. The divestments were classified as divestments linked to anti-corruption and water relating to either water management or human management have reduced the cumulative rights. We will continue to analyse companies’ return on the equity reference portfolio by 0.05 impact on the ocean and make further and 0.01 percentage point, respectively. There divestments where their activities are not are many factors influencing market deemed sustainable. Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.3 developments and affecting the share price of Chart 14 Return impact of risk-based divestments on individual companies. In the short term, it is the reference portfolio for equities, compared difficult to isolate and measure the impact Chart 14thatReturn impact of risk-based divestments to a portfolio notreference on the adjustedportfolio for equities, compared to a portfolio not for risk-based adjusted for risk-based divestments. Measured in dollars. divestments. Percentage Measured in points dollars. companies’ approaches to corporate Percentage points governance and sustainability may have on returns. At the same time, we believe that 0.20 0.20 companies that integrate such issues in their strategy, risk management and reporting could 0.15 0.15 over time contribute positively to the fund’s return and to economic development at large. 0.10 0.10 0.05 0.05 The aim of our exclusions and divestments is to avoid having holdings in companies that are 0.00 0.00 responsible for violations of ethical principles, and to reduce the fund’s exposure to -0.05 -0.05 unacceptable risks. This is the final step in our responsible investment management, which -0.10 -0.10 121 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 furthers the fund’s objective of managing and building financial wealth for future generations. Climate change Water management Anti-corruption Human rights Other Total Table 15 Contribution to return impact of equity reference portfolio risk-based divestments as at 31 December 2018. Market value in billions of kroner. Contribution measured in dollars. Percentage points Market value in the Number of­ reference portfolio 2012–2018 Expectation companies divested1 if not sold 2018 annualised Climate change 142 11.9 0.01 0.01 Water management 46 3.9 -0.01 0.00 Anti-corruption 22 6.6 -0.02 0.00 Human rights 21 3.8 0.00 0.00 Other 9 0.7 0.00 0.00 Total 240 26.9 -0.01 0.01 1 Includes companies that are not in the reference portfolio universe. 122 Investing sustainably | Responsible Investment 2018 | Government Pension Fund Global Investing sustainably 4.3 Responsible Investment in the Management Mandate Chapter 1. General provisions OECD’s Principles of Corporate Governance and Section 1-3. The management objective the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational 1 The Bank shall seek to achieve the Enterprises. highest possible return after costs measured in the investment portfolio’s currency basket, see 4 The principles and the use of measures section 4-2, first paragraph, and within the to support them shall be published, cf. section applicable management framework. 2-1 and section 6-2, third paragraph, letter h). 2 The Fund shall not be invested in 5 In its management of the real estate companies excluded pursuant to the provisions portfolio, the Bank shall, within the in the Guidelines for observation and exclusion environmental field, consider, among other from the GPFG. matters, energy efficiency, water consumption and waste management. 3 The Bank shall integrate its responsible management efforts into the management of Section 2-3 Contribution to research and the GPFG , cf. chapter 2. A good long-term development relating to international return is considered dependent on sustainable standards for responsible management development in economic, environmental and 1 The Bank shall contribute to research social terms, as well as on well-functioning, within responsible management with the aim of legitimate and efficient markets. developing greater knowledge of matters relevant to the investment portfolio’s risk and Chapter 2. return in the long-term. Responsible management 123 Section 2-1 Responsible management efforts 2 The Bank shall actively contribute to The Bank shall seek to establish a chain of the development of relevant international measures as part of its responsible management standards in the area of responsible activities. management. § 2-2 Responsible management principles Section 2-4 Environment-related investments 1 The Bank shall establish a broad set of The Bank shall establish environment-related principles for the responsible management of mandates within the limits defined in section the investment portfolio. 3-4. The market value of the environmentalrelated investments shall normally be in the 2 In designing the principles pursuant to range of 30-60 billion kroner. the first paragraph, the Bank shall emphasize the long-term horizon for the management of the Section 2-5 Decisions on exclusion and investment portfolio and that the investment observation portfolio shall be invested widely in the markets The Bank shall make decisions on the included in the investment universe. observation or exclusion of companies, and on the revocation of such decisions, in accordance 3 The principles shall be based on the with the Guidelines for observation and considerations of good corporate governance exclusion from the GPFG. The Bank shall inform and environmental and social conditions in the the Ministry about decisions on exclusion of investment management, in accordance with companies and revocations of such decisions, cf. internationally recognised principles and section 3-1, third paragraph. standards such as the UN Global Compact, the ISSN 2387-399X Design: Scandinavian Design Group Photos: Hans Fredrik Asbjørnsen, Offset, Getty Images, Shutterstock. Paper: Galerie Art Silk 300 g / Matt 150 g Production: 07 Media AS | Print run: 500 NORGES BANK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Bankplassen 2, P.O. Box 1179 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo, Norway T: +47 24 07 30 00, www.nbim.no
