UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 October 22, 2019 To Our Stakeholders: Chain IQ Group AG became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Principles in 2016. We are pleased to confirm that Chain IQ Group AG reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, which covers the period October 2018 – October 2019, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Urs Dogwiler Nicole Patsch Group Chief Executive Officer Head Chairman’s Office & Company Secretary, Group Counsel Zurich | New York | London | Singapore | Bucharest | Mumbai Page 2 of 5 Chicago | Hong Kong | Shanghai | Tokyo | Sydney COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 1. About Chain IQ Group AG Chain IQ is an independent Swiss service company, operating around the globe from 6 main centers – Zurich (headquarters), New York, London, Singapore, Mumbai and Bucharest – currently servicing more than 20 countries (including China, Hong Kong, Japan and Australia). Chain IQ offers comprehensive strategic, tactical and operational procurement services along the entire end-to-end procurement value chain (Source to Contract, Source to Order, Source to Pay) on a global basis. A highly competent team of more than 300 sourcing and procurement specialists provides the over 50 international blue-chip clients with tailor-made solutions. Chain IQ has been continuously investing in digitization to ensure efficient best-in-class services to its clients. The own Innovation & Digitalization Lab leverages advanced solutions from the market (sustain innovation) as well as drives proprietary development of revolutionary solutions (disruptive innovation). Multiple digital projects support the strategy to further automate processes and provide advanced data analytics capabilities. The large-scale procurement services offered by Chain IQ perfectly accommodate the trends in the procurement sector. Zurich | New York | London | Singapore | Bucharest | Mumbai Page 3 of 5 Chicago | Hong Kong | Shanghai | Tokyo | Sydney COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 2. Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and Chain IQ Group AG’s commitment Human Rights Policies and Commitments Principle 1 Chain IQ is committed to strong business ethics and to Support and respect the protection of internationally working collaboratively with its employees, clients, suppliers proclaimed human rights and other stakeholders. All Chain IQ employees, Executive Principle 2 Committee and Board Members are required to adhere to Make sure that they are not the Chain IQ Code of Conduct. The Code applies in all complicit in human rights abuse circumstances and defines the way Chain IQ does business. Violations of the standards in this Code may result in Labor disciplinary proceedings, up to and including dismissal, and, Principle 3 if necessary, declaration to the appropriate authorities. All Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the employees are encouraged to promptly report any concerns, right to collective bargaining possible ethical breaches or misconduct by other Principle 4 employees, consultants, clients or third-party service Uphold elimination of all forms of providers to their manager or regional CEO. forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 Uphold the effective abolition of The Chain IQ Environmental and Social Responsibility child labor Policy sets out environmental commitments for Principle 6 environmental protection, prevention of pollution and The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation prudent management of natural resources and to reduce the environmental impact of products and services in line with Environment or above environmental legislation that relates to Chain IQ. The social commitments support the Universal Declaration Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to on Human Rights and the Declaration on Fundamental environmental challenges Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labor Principle 8 Organization. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 The Chain IQ Supplier Code of Conduct to which Chain IQ’s Encourage the development and diffusion direct suppliers are bound by contract, defines expectations of environmentally friendly technologies occupation towards suppliers and their subcontractors regarding legal compliance, environmental protection, avoidance of child Anti-corruption and forced labor, non-discrimination, remuneration, hours of work, freedom of association, humane treatment, health and Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, safety and anti-corruption issues. including extortion and bribery Zurich | New York | London | Singapore | Bucharest | Mumbai Page 4 of 5 Chicago | Hong Kong | Shanghai | Tokyo | Sydney COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Human Rights Implementation and measurement of outcomes Principle 1 Chain IQ empowers all employees to grow within their roles Support and respect the protection of internationally and take on new challenges, provides training and support proclaimed human rights when needed. All employees are offered competitive benefits and a working environment that protects health, Principle 2 Make sure that they are not safety and wellbeing. To monitor and ensure this, we complicit in human rights abuse engage with our employees through mandatory onboarding and refresh trainings, personal meetings, feedback sessions and regular employee surveys. Labor Chain IQ health and safety program includes an evacuation Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association checklist and a first aid procedures for which several first and the effective recognition of the responders are trained and receive refresher courses every right to collective bargaining 1-2 years. Principle 4 Uphold elimination of all forms of In order to support environmental protection, prevention of forced and compulsory labor pollution and prudent management of natural resources and reduce the environmental impact of products and services, Principle 5 we Uphold the effective abolition of child labor • minimize waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as possible, also by actively Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in promoting recycling. For our daily business operations respect of employment and in regard to waste management Chain IQ engages with an external recycling specialist who provides a comprehensive recycling solution. Environment • source and promotes a product range to minimize the Principle 7 environmental impact of both production and Support a precautionary approach to distribution environmental challenges • use latest information technology for communication Principle 8 purpose in order to reduce travel activities combined Undertake initiatives to promote greater with an accredited program to offset the greenhouse environmental responsibility gas emissions generated by the remaining air travel. Principle 9 Our air travel activities are calculated and offset Encourage the development and diffusion annually by certified projects in renewable energies in of environmentally friendly technologies occupation Switzerland and other regions. Anti-corruption In 2019 Chain IQ has established an Integrity Hotline, hosted by a third party provider, where all employees can Principle 10 place an anonymous report as compliance with applicable Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery laws and external as well as internal regulations is of utmost importance to us. Zurich | New York | London | Singapore | Bucharest | Mumbai Page 5 of 5 Chicago | Hong Kong | Shanghai | Tokyo | Sydney
