Communication on Progress (COP) for 2019 Business Year Green Development Limited (GDL) A statement by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) renewing the participant's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Green Development Limited (GDL) commits to the United Nations Charter, the global commitments and the 2030Agenda: Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), Paris Agreement and The Tendai Framework. The mission of GDL and its activities the reporting year reflects the company’s continued commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The years’ operations and corporate deliverables cut across all the four thematic areas of the Ten Principles; Human Right, Labor, Integrity and Environmental protection. The company takes pride in understanding and assisting all activities defining our value chain and supply chain to uphold the Ten Principles, including advocating and building its capacity and research and development. The company endeavors to support the UNGC Local Network in Ghana and the West African region by actively engaging the Network and support local activities to promote the Network’s visibility, relevance, outreach activities across the country and sectors. The Company is proud to mention here that its CEO, Prosper Burnson is serving Steering Committee Member of the UNGC Ghana Network since 2013, and representing the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMES) in Ghana. The company has plans to support revival of the SDG Working Group of the Local Network and currently offering pro-bono capacity building in sustainability reporting, for the smaller organizations. In various ways, the company has programs to support ther initiative at the global level. Thank you for the opportunity to express our commitment to the initiative and its principles. Yours faithfully, navPros₧Burnson Prosper Mensa Burnson (CEO, Green Development Limited). 74WBHA, No. 5 Gbobukoo Crescent Batsonna Spintex Road P. O Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana navburnson@gmail.com greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com +233248823811 www.gdlgh.com Practical Actions and Disclosures Environmental Management Energy Management This was the year we also made progress in renewable generation by partnering and providing consultancy services to Link Technology Limited and SUD Biogas Company. This means Link Technology and SUD Biogas will be well positioned to supply more and cleaner energy to utility, commercial and industrial customers throughout Ghana and Togo. SUD Biogas Company and Link Technology Limited supports sustainable private-sector led economic strategies in Ghana through the efficient utilization of clean energy resources. The company specializes in hybrid gasoline and electric vehicles and equipment to supply to following:  affordable transportation  clean energy and power in rural water resources management,  health facilities,  agricultural development  and various social services The consultancy and partnership agreements and project plans has been guided by Ghana’s energy policy and ISO 50001 Energy Management System (EnMS), which supports organizations in all sectors to use energy more efficiently, and World Bank’s energy sector strategies to support green growth. Our training and capacity building workshops involved learning objectives for both technical and financial management plans entailing systematic coordination of procurement, conversion, distribution and use of energy to meet rural community requirements, taking into account environmental and economic objectives. Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Green Development Limited provided business and Research and Development (R&D) services in importation, manufacture and assembling of battery storage systems and solar panels for homes, off-grid locations and remote settlements where customers can power their homes by self-generated solar electricity. We are also in the process of developing partnerships contracts, which will make it possible to bring cleaner energy from a wind turbine, solar farm or hydro power plant onto the power grid. 74WBHA, No. 5 Gbobukoo Crescent Batsonna Spintex Road P. O Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana navburnson@gmail.com greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com +233248823811 www.gdlgh.com Partnerships and Joint venture (JV) Climate Action Green Development Limited has entered partnership agreement with Green Carbon Ghana (GCG) to contribute to Ghana’s Climate Action and support for the Paris Agreement. Projects undertaken include the following: 1. “Developing advocacy programmes and stakeholder engagement systems on policies and policy instruments that shaped the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) fluxes and trends in Ghana between 1990 and 2019”. Objectives: The overall objective of the project is to achieve advocacy success on policies and programmes that contributed to GHG emissions reduction in Ghana, and to generate national and local climate debate on mitigation, adaptation and disaster risk reduction. 2. “Exploring the benefits and challenges of devolving climate finance to the local level, and helping to build local-level capacity to access and manage Climate Resilient Development (CRD) resources”. Objectives: The main objective is build capacity for innovative engagement strategy to mobilize transnational, national and local knowledge, technology and finance for local adaptation to climate impact, mitigation strategies to minimize GHG emissions and readiness for disaster risks planning, including involving indigenous knowledge that are culturally appropriate. Labour In June, 2019 Green Development Limited (GDL) entered into joint venture (JV) with Success Links Consults (SLC), in Human Resources management, including training and recruitment of professional in the Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), Agribusiness, Construction and the Extractive sector (Mining and Oil & Gas). The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and recruitment contracts incorporated the SDG Goal 8 of providing descent work economic growth and the Ten Principles of UNGC, especially on discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, child labour and forced and compulsory labour. 74WBHA, No. 5 Gbobukoo Crescent Batsonna Spintex Road P. O Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana navburnson@gmail.com greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com +233248823811 www.gdlgh.com The JV strives to deliver the highest level of career advice to our candidates, and offer strategic human capital consultation to our clients, whilst always operating with integrity and professionalism. We pride ourselves on our in-depth market knowledge, which gives our clients and candidates a competitive advantage within the wider industrial sectors. We look to empower individuals and organizations to be elite, and pioneering in their industry. Accountability and Anti-Corruption In order to work against corruption within the organization and among our [partners we instituted major financial reforms and capacity in business management. Two Senior and Junior staff have been sponsored to enroll on Master in Business Administration (MBA) and Bachelor in Business Administration at the University of the People, USA by online tuition. The company recruited an Internal Auditor and introduced a new budgetary system. This includes A financial plan for a single program, Capital budget, Income-expenditure budget, integrated Cash flow budget. We our budgeting system help us to better define our activities, and for that matter a well define Logframe on our projects, which enhances intended impact. We also need good understanding of the project budget design monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Our reporting system including sustainability reporting demands a comprehension budgeting for stakeholder accountability. Many of your stakeholders including business partners, local government agencies and Clients are interested in seeing how our organization spends its money. A single coordinated budget is a prerequisite for any financial report. Human Rights Green Development Limited (GDL) consulted on project development with Prolink Oganization, which is a national Non-Governmental Organization (NGO). The Mission of Prolink Organization is to empower and advocate with disadvantaged persons especially women and girls to uphold their human rights and improve their health, education and socioeconomic status. Our business partnership approaches in project and program design, implementation and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), including fundraising and proposal development identifies and emphasizes respect and support for the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights human rights abuses for the project beneficiary community. 74WBHA, No. 5 Gbobukoo Crescent Batsonna Spintex Road P. O Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana navburnson@gmail.com greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com +233248823811 www.gdlgh.com Measurement of Outcomes In the reporting year the company’s overhead cost has reduced by 13% mainly due to investment in energy efficiency by retrofitting, use of renewable energy resources including hybrid vehicles and equipment, solar power and battery storage, policies and awareness creation on energy efficiency use. The company invested 40% of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) budget on supporting Climate Change Club (CCC) in Alavanyo Agome basic schools. This increased knowledge and experience in climate action and climate resilient development among the teachers and students. The impact is also extended to the entire community. Our new finance and accounting policies and procedures yielded 23% decrease in expenditure and this is reflected in salary and incentive appreciation of staff and shareholders. The company now enjoys more trust and accountability from its stakeholders. The company’s partnership portfolio has appreciated by 36%, and this has increased our engagement levels in many aspects including profitability, visibility, reach and influence over our value chain and supply chain management systems, of our clients. The company is taking advantages of Goal 17 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The company has gained knowledge and experience on human rights and discrimination and equal opportunities for all disadvantaged and marginalized persons, including gender equality and equity. The company has greatly increased its professionalism, diversity and inclusion. Also local ownership, confidentiality and partnership. 74WBHA, No. 5 Gbobukoo Crescent Batsonna Spintex Road P. O Box CT 5609 Accra Ghana navburnson@gmail.com greendevelopmentghana@gmail.com +233248823811 www.gdlgh.com
