SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT PURSUANT TO ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE 254/2016 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN In the current social and economic context, organizations need to prepare growth plans that take full account of the impacts generated on people, the environment and society. The risks connected with climate change and social and political tensions in fact require companies to take a long-term view and identify sustainable development routes, envisaging speciﬁc goals. This is why 2014 saw us, as a Company, embark on a journey towards the integration of sustainability into our long-term growth strategies; it is a challenge we face with great professionalism and determination, in keeping with the values that have always been the hallmark of our family and organization. This commitment was formalized with the adoption, in 2017, of the Salvatore Ferragamo Group’s Sustainability Plan, created in a bid to involve all our employees, keeping them united in achieving shared sustainability goals. We owe it to our people, to allow for their professional growth and make them feel in harmony with corporate values. We owe it to the community, with which Salvatore Ferragamo has a long-standing, authentic bond. We owe it to our local community, which deserves to be preserved and valued. The sustainability strategy does not only call for awareness of our impacts and transparency towards stakeholders, it also demands creativity and inventiveness, to ﬁnd ever more innovative solutions to the critical issues characterizing today’s market. The promotion of circular economy models and the use of low environmental impact materials are just some of the certainties laid out in our route towards a more sustainable future. This is borne out by Salvatore Ferragamo’s commitment in the Italian Alliance for the Circular Economy and the Make Fashion Circular Initiative promoted by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. It is shown by our participation in the United Nations Global Compact, knowing that collaboration and sharing are key factors in identifying virtuous solutions on a system level. “Made in Italy” remains key to our route, allowing us to safeguard a priceless wealth of knowledge by supporting Italian manufacture. The “Art of Craftsmanship” prize awarded to our shoemakers at the Green Carpet Fashion Awards is the proof that quality and professional expertise remain our country’s excellences, recognized internationally. The Ferragamo Group’s 2018 Sustainability Report describes the Group's achievements during the year. We wish to improve our commitment more and more, placing respect, transparency and passion at the basis of each and every decision we make. “Make the ordinary extraordinary”. This is the catchphrase that guides us in the management of day-to-day operations, reminding us that every single project we develop, if approached with vision, courage and altruism, can generate positive value. Ferruccio Ferragamo Sustainability Report 2018 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 4 RESPONSIBLE PASSION 9 A SHARED HISTORY 50 Commitment Diversity and equal opportunity Sustainability Plan and SDGs Attracting and developing talent Stakeholders and materiality Wellbeing of people 2 5 SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP 21 CULTURE AND PARTICIPATION 62 Numbers Link with the community and the local territory History and market Museo Salvatore Ferragamo Responsible management Fondazione Ferragamo 3 6 MADE IN ITALY QUALITY 32 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 78 Tradition and innovation Responsible consumption Suppliers and contract manufacturers Emissions monitoring Customer focus Green initiatives METHODOLOGY ANNEXES BOUNDARIES OF THE GROUP'S MATERIAL ASPECTS GRI CONTENT INDEX AUDITOR'S REPORT 6 RESPONSIBLE PASSION Commitment Sustainability Plan and SDGs Stakeholders and materiality “Cultivate the grace but also the irreverence of tradition”. Simone Marchetti, Repubblica 9 RESPONSIBLE PASSION COMMITMENT “Since the introduction of the Brand, creativity, innovation, and worldclass craftsmanship have always been the core values of the Salvatore Ferragamo Group, guiding the design and production of any creation. Over the years, the deep connection with the local community and its culture has made the Salvatore Ferragamo Group increasingly aware of the need for a strong commitment to protect the places where it operates and the people that work for the Group, going above and beyond the requirements of domestic and international laws, rules and regulations”. For the Salvatore Ferragamo Group, investing in sustainable development means respecting the values handed down by the Founder and believing that the use of innovative materials, to the connection with the local community, and respect for the environment and the people are essential to the success, not only of the business, but of all stakeholders. Sustainability is a positive challenge that the Salvatore Ferragamo Group decided to take and interpret for the future generations, by committing to put corporate responsibility at the center of the decision-making process, and seeking to grow the business while considering also the positive and negative impact of its operations on society and the environment. The commitment to sustainability, intended as a model for how to act without compromise, has been structured over the years and is inspired by the values that underlie the very history of the Group: a passion for world-class craftsmanship, creativity and innovation. Understanding and respecting these values translate into ethically correct behaviors, both inside and outside the Group, supporting it in terms of economic growth and credibility. THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP IN 2018 ART OF CRAFTSMANSHIP PARTICIPATION IN THE UPDATE OF THE GROUP AWARD UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Green Carpet Fashion Awards 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL PARTICIPATION IN THE MAKE LAUNCH OF A RESPONSIBILITY AWARD FASHION CIRCULAR INITIATIVE POSITION PAPER UK-ITALY Business Awards 2018 promoted by the in collaboration with the Italian Alliance Ellen MacArthur Foundation for Circular Economy 10 Sustainability Report 2018 11 12 Sustainability Report 2018 13 To be transparent about its operamaterials research and developgovernance bodies, employees, In December 2018, the Salvatore in making responsible strategic deand the Brand, the Group has tions, the Group has committed to ment, communication, packaging, and collaborators to share ideas Ferragamo Group took part in the cisions to promote internationallyadopted a strategy that connects reporting on its corporate social information systems, logistics, opand recommendations to impleMake Fashion Circular initiative shared corporate goals. the online and ofﬂine worlds also responsibility initiatives. Salvaerations, environment and safety, ment sustainability in day-to-day promoted by the Ellen MacArthur for the purposes of sustainabilitytore Ferragamo S.p.A. has been community & charity, purchasoperations. Foundation, established in 2010 In addition, since 2011 the Salvarelated topics. In 2016, the Salvapreparing a Sustainability Report ing of raw materials, human rewith the aim of speeding up the tore Ferragamo Group has been tore Ferragamo Group launched a since 2014 (and, since 2016, for sources, mobility and store planIn addition, corporate committransition towards Circular Econa member of the Sustainability section entirely dedicated to corthe whole Group), according to ning. In 2017, the Merchandising ment over the years took the omy. The foundation brought the Workgroup sponsored by the Italporate responsibility on its webinternational guidelines and with function joined the Green Team, form of the Company’s participaissue in the agenda of some of the ian Chamber of Fashion, which site, highlighting the most impora view to presenting the projects strengthening the projects focustion in associations and networks most important decision-makers of aims to ﬁnd an Italian way to maktant social responsibility projects pursued in terms of corporate soing on innovative and sustainable that would strengthen the Group’s companies, governments and uniing fashion responsible and susthe Group has promoted over the cial responsibility. materials in accordance with the awareness of sustainability, with versities, extending the principles tainable as well as promote the years. Brand's creative spirit. In addition, a view on sharing experience and of circular economy also to the adoption of responsible business In 2018, we added new content At the organizational level, in order since 2016 the Control and Risk best practices. In November 2017 fashion industry. Indeed, the Make models throughout the fashion into our website to further engage to take an integrated approach Committee has been supervising the Group signed the Manifesto Fashion Circular initiative was esdustry's value chain. stakeholders: we published an to managing sustainability-related sustainability-related issues with for a Circular Economy, which established with the aim of stimulatinteractive digital version of the topics, since 2014 a cross-functhe goal of monitoring the inclusion tablishes an Alliance to promote ining the collaboration and innovation In November 2018, the Group's Corporate Sustainability Report, tional working group called Green of responsible practices into the novative and sustainable projects. necessary to create a new fashion commitment to sustainability was which offers a user-friendly exTeam has been set up, dedicated Group's business strategies. The Alliance, promoted by Enel industry, in line with the principles rewarded at the UK Business perience optimized for mobile deto designing and promoting corand Intesa San Paolo, involves of Circular Economy. The Brand’s Awards, an event during which the vices, as well as the video We are porate responsibility initiatives. To further testify to the Group’s various “Made in Italy” businesses participation further highlights the British government and the DeFerragamo made in collaboration The team consists of people from commitment, in 2017 we prepared from different sectors, recognized commitment towards the virtuous partment for International Trade with Business of Fashion, recountseveral corporate departments, and published the Sustainability worldwide. The collaboration aims model of Circular Economy. (DIT) reward the Italian and British ing the main intervention areas allowing to bring together crossPolicy to develop a corporate culto develop business models based companies that have stood out as as regards to sustainability. Addifunctional skills in order to proture oriented to equity and profeson sharing, extending products’ In order to implement the univerexamples of excellence in various tionally, the Brand's sustainability mote all-around sustainability. The sional expertise, promote honesty, useful life, re-using energy and ussal principles of sustainability and sectors. The ceremony was held initiatives were also promoted on main responsibility of the Green integrity and transparency, encouring renewable resources. support the United Nations’ goals, at the ofﬁces of Borsa Italiana, social channels: on the day of its Team is improving the quality of age sustainable growth, stimulate November 2018 saw the presenin December 2018, the Salvain Palazzo Mezzanotte. During upload, the announcement of the the workplace and the internal a conversation on business ethtation of the Position Paper setting tore Ferragamo Group joined the the course of the evening, varipublication of the Salvatore Ferand external impact of the Comics, and make stakeholders more out the Alliance’s commitment to United Nations Global Compact, ous awards were given and the ragamo Group’s Sustainability Repany's operations, as well as faaccountable. Prepared in accordbringing the Circular Economy isthe world’s largest corporate susSalvatore Ferragamo Group was port 2017 on the Brand’s LinkedIn cilitating a direct relationship with ance with the principles and rules sue at the very heart of the Italian tainability initiative. The Global assigned the Corporate Social Reproﬁle was viewed over 70,000 the local community in all its enviof the Group's Code of Ethics political agenda and making proCompact offers a universal lansponsibility Award. times and that relating to the pubronmental and human facets. The as well as the framework of the posals that can set the basis for guage for corporate responsibility lication of the video dedicated to particular structure of the Green United Nations Sustainable Develdiscussion in developing an Italian and a framework for businesses of To help people connect with the corporate responsibility projects Team enables the development of opment Goals (SDGs), the Policy approach to the matter. all sizes, complexity and location, Ferragamo world and strengthen was viewed over 120,000 times. sustainability initiatives as part of seeks to encourage the Group's thereby supporting organizations the bond between stakeholders THE SUSTAINABILITY PATH OF THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Creation of a cross-functional working Drafting of the ﬁrst 2014 Corporate Drafting and publication of the 2015 Drafting and publication of the 2016 Drafting and publication of the 2017 Drafting and publication of the 2018 group called Green Team, dedicated Sustainability Report for Salvatore Corporate Sustainability Report for Corporate Sustainability Report relating, Corporate Sustainability Report for the Corporate Sustainability Report for the to designing and promoting corporate Ferragamo S.p.A. (year zero). Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A., subject to for the ﬁrst time, to the Salvatore Salvatore Ferragamo Group, subject to Salvatore Ferragamo Group, subject to responsibility initiatives. limited assurance. Ferragamo Group, subject to limited limited assurance. limited assurance. Creation of an e-mail address speciﬁcally assurance. Identiﬁcation of stakeholders. dedicated to Corporate Social Responsibility. Creation of a section dedicated to Drafting and publication of the ﬁrst Update of the Salvatore Ferragamo Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility on the Achievement of the 2017 Business Sustainability Policy for the Salvatore Sustainability Plan. Initial deﬁnition of the most important Addition of a section dedicated to Corporate Salvatore Ferragamo Group’s website, International Finance Award in the Ferragamo Group. economic, social and environmental topics Social Responsibility on the Company's available in English and Italian. category “Financial Statements, Integrated Update of materiality analysis. for the Salvatore Ferragamo Group and its intranet. Reporting, and Financial Communication” Drafting of the Salvatore Ferragamo stakeholders (materiality analysis). Update of stakeholder map. Group’s Sustainability Plan. Participation in the UN Global Compact. as well as the “Identity and Vision” Special Mention from Biblioteca Participation in the Ellen MacArthur Update of materiality analysis. Adherence to the Manifesto of the Italian Bilancio Sociale for the 2016 Corporate Foundation’s initiative Make Fashion Alliance for Circular Economy. Sustainability Report. Circular. Adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 14 Sustainability Report 2018 15 SUSTAINABILITY PLAN AND SDGs As from 2016, the Salvatore Fermanagement in its processes to procollaborating with suppliers on ragamo Group launched a proceduce and consume resources, raw shared projects; dure for deﬁning its sustainability materials and packaging materials, constantly improving energy and goals, starting from the analysis investing in quality in order to reenvironmental efﬁciency; of the United Nations Sustainduce environmental impact and exreducing the use of resources as able Development Goals (SDGs) tend the life cycle of its products, part of production and consumpand translating them into concrete and reporting on its business on the tion processes; actions to be developed in-house. basis of the principle of transparency. monitoring chemical substances This process drew to a close with inside raw materials and ﬁnished the identiﬁcation of the main goals Moreover, with a view to strengthproducts; to be pursued in its operations, ening its effort, in 2017, the Compromoting and using sustainable speciﬁcally: pany drafted its ﬁrst Group Susmaterials and by-products; Good health and wellbeing: to tainability Plan, with a time horizon planning and implementing charipromote and support initiatives to 2020. The Plan, which is updattable initiatives to protect the looking to protect the health of ed once a year, was shared with health of women and children as women and children, in line with its top management and the Control well as promote Italy’s culture Charity Policy; and Risk Committee and aims to around the world; Quality education: in collaboracreate a Group vision of the direcLeveraging the Company’s tion with Fondazione Ferragamo, tion taken in terms of sustainability. know-how and heritage in the conto invest in the education and The desire to map out the achievetext of craftsmanship and Made in training of those who intend to ment of the objectives set and add Italy products as well as promotwork in the fashion and design new challenges for future developing relevant training opportunities world and in the highest and most ment led, in 2018, to the update of (initiatives promoted by the Museo artistic forms of Italian craftsmanthe Ferragamo Group’s SustainaSalvatore Ferragamo and Fonship, in line with the stylistic values bility Plan. The document identiﬁes dazione Ferragamo). and canons expressed in the work the main goals to be achieved in of the Founder; connection with strategy and govWith the 2018 update, the Group Affordable and clean energy: ernance, people and principles, enfurther enhanced its commitment, to protect and safeguard the environmental protection, culture and for example, as regards envivironment through continuous imparticipation, and identiﬁes specifronmental protection, human reprovement in energy efﬁciency in ic initiatives to be implemented to source management, health and its consumption and by promoting achieve the following goals: safety, and sustainability culture, the use of renewable sources; embedding sustainability into busiincluding actions such as obtainDecent work and economic ness strategies and making the reing additional environmental certigrowth: to facilitate and add value lationships with internal and exterﬁcations, the continuation of welto the professional development nal stakeholders more transparent; fare initiatives for its employees, of people, while respecting the hisincreasing the frequency of inextending audit activities to the toric community values, in order to ternal communication on sustainasupply chain and organizing susincentivize innovation and creativbility-related issues and promoting tainability training sessions in the ity, thus also guaranteeing health initiatives to engage stakeholders; Company. in its workplaces; promoting the Group’s sustainabilSustainable cities and communiity strategy externally; ties: to direct signiﬁcant attention maximizing human capital at the and resources to artistic and culGroup level; tural initiatives, in order to guarancontinuously improving occupatee more responsible management tional health; of cities and promote culture in all promoting Company Welfare iniits forms and manifestations; tiatives and strengthening internal Responsible consumption and procommunication; duction: to guarantee responsible monitoring the supply chain and 16 STAKEHOLDER AND MATERIALITY SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP'S MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Quality and Made in Italy The numerous elements of the The Salvatore Ferragamo Group in ﬁnal customers, schools and sustainability path undertaken by has identiﬁed and selected its universities, regulatory and govBrand image the Salvatore Ferragamo Group stakeholders based on the awareernmental bodies and the public and reputation Diversity, equal opportunity and are based on an approach foness of its social role and deep administration, local communities, non-discrimination Very Relevant cused on transparency, integrity connection with the local communon-governmental organizations Omnichannel experience and customer satisfaction Health and safety and reliability, with the aim of ennity, which is necessarily related (NGOs), media and inﬂuencers, gaging stakeholders in the ecoto its operations, for the purposes and trade associations. Security and protection Anti-corruption Operating and of clients’ data financial performance nomic, social and environmental of understanding their expectaRespect for human rights goals of its business. The Group tions and translating them into acThe Salvatore Ferragamo Group's Relevance for Stakeholder Responsible use of chemical products does not simply promote social tionable objectives. The following materiality analysis reﬂects the responsibility initiatives, but rechave been identiﬁed as internal topics material to the Group as Culture of sustainability, ognizes the value of sustainabilstakeholders: employees, sharewell as the concerns and expecgovernance and ethical business Attraction, development and employees’ welfare ity as part of its corporate stratholders, investors, distributors, tations of its stakeholders. After Commitment towards art, culture and community Circular economy and egy and puts forward innovative suppliers, and workshops. External conducting it for the ﬁrst time in Environmental responsibility responsible innovation proposals for its stakeholders. stakeholders have been identiﬁed 2014 with the participation of the Animal Welfare Responsible sourcing practices Relevant Responsible consumption LEGENDA Greenhouse gas emissions Governance, Compliance, and Anti-corruption Sustainable packaging Responsibility towards people Social responsibility Environmental responsibility Relevant Very Relevant SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP'S STAKEHOLDERS' MAP Relevance for the Salvatore Ferragamo Group TRADE ASSOCIATIONS Green Team and top management, Regional Directors and the Salvasocial responsibility projects, rethe Group updated the materiality tore Ferragamo Parfums’ CEO. sults and goals and through which analysis in 2016 and, subsequentthey can express an opinion on ly, in 2018, in accordance with Moreover, in order to identify the the relevance of such activities. MEDIA AND INFLUENCERS FINAL CUSTOMERS the Global Reporting Initiatives needs and expectations of its These stakeholder engagement SHAREHOLDERS Guidelines on identifying, mapping stakeholders, in 2018, the Group initiatives come in addition to those and deﬁning stakeholders’ expecorganized a stakeholder engagecarried out in previous years, SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACT tations as well as processing the ment activity with all suppliers inwhich saw the involvement of imMANUFACTURERS portant universities, Store Managresults of their engagement and volved in the value chain of the INVESTORS prioritizing them. In 2018, the maRainbow Future shoe, in order to ers and Assistant Store Managers teriality analysis was updated with identify which, from the Group of European boutiques and the NGOs the input of the Group's Green stakeholders’ point of view, were younger Group employees. Team and top management as the most important sustainabilThe outcome of the 2018 analysis well as by engaging stakeholders ity topics. This initiative was held is reﬂected in the materiality maboth within and without the Group, at Palazzo Spini Feroni and intrix. With respect to previous maEMPLOYEES DISTRIBUTORS asking them for their opinion as volved all those who, with their trices, the new “Circular economy part of the process to deﬁne, aswork and know-how, contributed and Responsible innovation” issue sess, and prioritize material topics. to make the Rainbow Future shoe was added in 2018, in line with the SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES To this end, a survey has been a sustainable design creation and strategic approach adopted by LOCAL COMMUNITIES prepared with the aim of identiexpression of Italian excellence. the Group in recent years. fying, through the assignment of Again in 2018, the Group launched scores, those topics which, for a digital platform for use by cortheir signiﬁcance and relevance, porate employees of Salvatore REGULATORY AND GOVERNMENTAL should be included in the SustainFerragamo S.p.A. and the Group’s BODIES AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION ability Report. This survey was American and European employsubmitted to the GreenTeam, the ees to explore present and future 18 Sustainability Report 2018 19 SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP Numbers History and market Responsible management “The transformation of a polished brand history into a contemporary story, where the expected makes space to intrigue”. Linda Loppa, Industry Expert 20 21 SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP NUMBERS The Salvatore Ferragamo Group, which has always been a byword for top quality and Made in Italy products, is one of the main players in the luxury industry and its origins date back to 1927. The Group is mainly active in the creation, production and sale of footwear, leather goods, apparel, silk products, and other accessories, as well as fragrances for men and women. In addition, the product range includes eyewear and watches manufactured under license by third parties in Italy and abroad, with the aim of taking advantage of local traditions and quality. The Salvatore Ferragamo Group includes Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A. as the Parent company and the following subsidiaries1 consolidated on a line-by-line basis in which the Parent company holds majority stakes, both directly or indirectly, and which it controls. The subsidiaries are grouped into ﬁve geographic areas: Europe, North America, Central and South America, Asia Paciﬁc and Japan. The Group works constantly to consolidate and increase over time the value of the Brand and maintains high quality standards for the products and distribution processes through investment in research, product innovation, IT and business support. THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP IN 2018 672 214 mln over 90 STORES IN THE WORLD EURO IN EBITDA COUNTRIES WHERE IT OPERATES over 4,200 88.4 mln 1,347 mln EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE IN NET PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE EURO IN REVENUES TO THE GROUP 1 For further information on Group companies and the income, equity and ﬁnancial position, reference should be made to the Annual Report as at 31 December 2018 of the Salvatore Ferragamo Group, which is available at the following link: group.ferragamo.com/it/investor-relations/documenti-ﬁnanziari 22 HISTORY AND MARKET 1898 1923 1927 1936 1938 1947 Salvatore Ferragamo born in Bonito in After joining his siblings in America, The Salvatore Ferragamo Italia set up, Salvatore Ferragamo transfers the Salvatore Ferragamo makes the famous In Dallas Salvatore Ferragamo receives the province of Avellino. Salvatore Ferragamo opens the producing women’s shoes. Opens the shoe laboratory to Palazzo Spini Rainbow model for Judy Garland, the the Neiman Marcus Prize for his Hollywood Boot Shop marking the ﬁrst laboratory in Florence. Feroni, which he then bought in 1938 year after inventing the patent for the Invisibile sandal. start of his career as shoemaker to and is still the registered ofﬁce of the cork wedge heel. the stars . Group. 1950s 1960s 1970s 1978 1986 1990 The women’s leatherwear and After the death of the Founder, his wife Launch of the ﬁrst men’s Ready-to-Wear Creation of Vara, one of the most Opening of the ﬁrst DOS in Asia (Hong Creation of the bag with the famous Ready-to-Wear lines are created. Wanda takes charge at the Company. collections, men’s footwear, silk and famous shoes by Salvatore Kong) and entry into the Asian market. Gancini decorative symbol. The success is now international and In 1965 the production of bags starts. accessories. Ferragamo. the shop in Florence is visited by celebrities such as Audrey Hepburn and the Dukes of Windsor. 1995 1998 2003 2006 2011 2018 Inauguration of the Salvatore Ferragamo Launch of the Salvatore Ferragamo Realization of the ﬁrst Salvatore Start of the Ferragamo's Creations Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A. listed on Micaela le Divelec Lemmi appointed Museum at Palazzo Spini Feroni, Fragrances and Eyewear lines. Ferragamo watches. collection, a limited production run of the Mercato Telematico Azionario new CEO. dedicated to shoes and the Company’s some of the most famous shoes made (screen-based stock exchange) organized history. by Salvatore. and managed by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. 24 Sustainability Report 2018 25 JAPAN No. OF STORES 71 NORTH AMERICA EUROPE No. OF STORES 99 No. OF STORES 174 ASIA PACIFIC No. OF STORES 265 CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA No. OF STORES 63 Considering the whole distribution ish capital. In its 320 square mein the Salvatore Ferragamo world structure, the Ferragamo Group ters, the store displays shoes, through the pop-up store inspired is present in over 90 countries bags, and accessories for men by the iconic Vara bow in the colors across the world. and women. The reopening of the of the Varina rainbow. In addition, At 31 December 2018 the Group’s store, which has been renovated in November 2018, London saw distribution network, consisting of highlighting the Brand’s style, was the celebration of the 80th annia total of 672 stores, could rely celebrated with an exclusive evenversary of the store on Old Bond on 409 directly operated stores ing event. In addition, in NovemStreet, with an event to launch the (DOS) and 263 single-brand stores ber 2018, the reopening of the capsule collection inspired by the managed by third parties (TPOS) Paciﬁc Place store in Hong Kong British ﬂag, the Union Jack. in the Wholesale and Travel Retail was celebrated. For the occasion, channel, as well as on its presence the #FollowVara pop-up store was in leading Department Stores launched, with the opening cereand top-level multi-brand Specialty mony attended by celebrities, folStores. lowers of the Brand and socialites. In 2018, the Group celebrated the Other #FollowVara pop-up stores, reopening of some of the Brand's supported by a digital campaign, most representative stores teswere inaugurated at Tokyo Isetan tifying to its constantly evolving Shinjuku from 21 to 27 November global presence. In June, the bouand Beijing Shin Kong Place from tique was reopened at number 68 27 November to 1 January 2019. on Calle Serrano in Madrid, the On this occasion, guests were able most elegant street in the Spanto enjoy a multisensory experience 26 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A.'s Concerning risks, the Salvatore those risks which impact directly 231/2001. For all the Company’s rights, worthy of note is the parvisions on environmental crimes. Corporate Governance system Ferragamo Group adopts an Enon the economic result and the administrative ofﬁces and stores ticipation in the Global Compact; Notiﬁcations linked to the violation complies with the principles of the terprise Risk Management (ERM) value of the Company’s assets. in Italy a valid Health and Safety • with particular reference to emof environmental principles conCorporate Governance Code for model to support top management The impacts in terms of sustainManagement System in workplace ployee-related matters, the Group tained in these documents may listed Companies issued by Borsa in identifying the main business ability are connected to the ecohas been implemented which is places great importance on its be directed to the whistleblowing Italiana S.p.A. The main corporate risks and how to manage them, as nomic-equity performance and the OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed. Veriﬁpeople and therefore commits to system, which has been regulated governance body is the Board of well as organizing the relevant consystems adopted for the reliability, cation of the Group’s health and maximize people’s potential by since 2018 through the adoption Directors, which has the primary trol system. The system adopted timeliness and completeness of safety requirements is achieved constantly monitoring risk factors. of a Group Whistleblowing Policy. responsibility for determining and deals with the following aspects: ﬁnancial reporting, as well as the through audits involving all the In the Code of Ethics, the Group Among the other controls put in pursuing the strategic objectives updating of the mapping of risks, involvement of stakeholders and manufacturing and retail sites. identiﬁes the centrality of human place by the Group to manage enof the Company and of the Group. identiﬁcation and assessment of the market generally and transparThese audits are undertaken by resources and non-discrimination vironmental risks, worthy of note is The current Board of Directors the risks and controls adopted to ent information in their regard; the Safety Department with the as fundamental principles and the adoption of an ISO 50001-cerwas appointed by the Shareholdcontain them and deﬁne suitable • compliance risks connected to support of specialist consultants. ethical rules, as similarly stated in tiﬁed energy management system ers’ Meeting of 20 April 2018 monitoring and management stratthe failure to comply with laws In addition, the Group is constantly the Sustainability Policy. Salvatore for the Osmannoro site, the adopbased on the single list submitted egies. In addition, the Company and regulations to which the Salactive in training, preparing and upFerragamo S.p.A. also wishes to tion of an environmental manageby the majority shareholder Ferhas an ERM Guidance Committee, vatore Ferragamo Group is subdating workers on health and safeformalize the care and attention ment system pursuant to ISO ragamo Finanziaria S.p.A., except appointed by and chaired by the ject. As far as sustainability within ty issues. Health and safety are towards its people by drawing 14064 standards for Palazzo Spini for the Director Micaela le Divelec Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and made this category is concerned, the controlled along the supply chain, up Company Regulation, which Feroni, the Osmannoro site and the Lemmi, who was co-opted by the up of managers with strategic reGroup has adopted an Organizathrough audits on subcontractors include the criteria underlying the ofﬁces in Corso Matteotti in Milan, Board of Directors on 31 July sponsibilities, to validate Risk Astion Model pursuant to Italian Legin order to check compliance with employment relationship, as well and the participation of Salvatore 2018, pursuant to art. 2386 of the sessment results with a view to islative Decree 231/2001, a Code HSE applicable regulations; this as workers’ key rights, and startFerragamo S.p.A., since the 2017 Italian Civil Code, and will remain in sharing them with the Control and of Ethics as well as implemented audit activities, which have been ed a project to obtain the SA8000 reporting period, in the Carbon the position until the next ShareRisk Committee. The ERM Guidan Anti-Corruption Policy; in addicarried out since 2014, were sigcertiﬁcation. In addition, the Group Disclosure Project (CDP) to report holder’s Meeting. ance Committee also reviews the tion, it has prepared and approved niﬁcantly enhanced during 2018. has implemented a whistleblowing information concerning CO2 emisThe Board of Directors has also monitoring of risk indicators. a Supplier Code of Conduct which The respect of human rights is system and a Group Whistleblowsions. Environmental risks are also set up three board committees In particular, hereafter there is a will be disseminated in the future. referred to in the Sustainability ing Policy to correctly handle any considered with reference to the providing advisory services and description of the macro-categoPolicy and it is an important issue notiﬁcations on the violation of supply chain: in the Supplier Code making proposals: the Nomination ries of risks outlined in the DirecAs regards sustainability, the Salalso for the supply chain. During laws and rights held by people in of Conduct which will be dissemiand Remuneration Committee the tors’ report and the main impacts vatore Ferragamo Group is com2018, the Group approved a Supthe Group. The Group highlights nated in the future, respect of ecoProduct and Brand Strategy Comin terms of sustainability: mitted to identifying the relevant plier Code of Conduct which will its commitment and the results systems and product responsibilmittee, and the Control and Risk • market and strategic risks, in risks and to putting in place adbe disseminated in the future and achieved by participating in the ity are among the principles which Committee. other words risks relating to the equate instruments to manage which includes all the ethical prinGlobal Compact; they are asked to respect. Finally, general and/or speciﬁc macrothem. ciples and rules of conduct which • in reference, on the other hand, in line with the commitment to enFollowing the amendments to the economic trends in the markets In particular: must be complied with throughto environmental risks, the Group vironmental protection, worthy of Corporate Governance Code for where the Group operates. As • as regards social aspects and out the supply chain in terms of constantly monitors the risk linked note is the Group’s participation in Italian listed companies, the Board part of this category, the main respect of human rights, the transparency and responsibility. to failure to comply with environthe Global Compact; of Directors of Salvatore Ferragimpacts in terms of sustainability Group monitors risks connected In addition, the Group has adoptmental laws and analyzes and • in terms of compliance and comamo S.p.A. resolved to assign the are connected to internal and exto the following aspects: violation ed a whistleblowing system and manages the risks arising from acbatting active and passive corfollowing powers to the Group's ternal events which could have an of the law on occupational health a Group Whistleblowing Policy to tivities, products or services over ruption, the risk is connected to Control and Risk Committee: impact on the Brand’s image and and safety, inadequate procurecorrectly handle notiﬁcations of which the organization has direct violations of laws, provisions and • support, with suitable inquiries, reputation. ment and supply chain model, vioviolations of laws and rights also in control, such as for example relatregulations and failure to comply the assessments and decisions • operating risks connected to lation of the identiﬁcation requirerelation to human rights. Finally, at ing to atmospheric emissions, the with codes of conduct and corpoof the Board of Directors relattypical processes, which include ments for “Made in Italy” products, the end of 2018 the Parent comconsumption of energy and water rate rules by the Parent company ing to the management of risks both external risks, such as those and events with an impact on the pany started a project to obtain resources, or over which it only and the Italian and non-Italian subderiving from unfavorable events relating to the abuse of intellecBrand’s image and reputation. the SA8000 certiﬁcation. has inﬂuence. The environmental sidiaries. In order to mitigate the and facts which the Board has betual property rights, and internal As regards health and safety, the In reference to the local commurisk is monitored also in regard to likelihood and impact of the occurcome aware of, including the risks risks related to the organizational Group has implemented several nity and area, the Group has had climate change and the impacts rence of such risks, the Group carwhich may be important in terms structure, processes and systems systems to manage risks, such as a Charity Policy for a number of and opportunities which these ries out several controls concernof sustainability (e.g. reputational adopted by the Group. The main the adoption of a Code of Ethics years which deﬁnes the sectors to changes can generate on the Coming the promotion of integrity and risks) in the medium/long-term for impacts in terms of sustainability in which health and safety protecwhich to donate funds and develpany’s business. The Group has ethics in business. In particular, the the Company’s business; are connected largely to safety tion in the workplace is included op initiatives, in order to generate adopted a Code of Ethics which Group has adopted an Anti-Cor• supervise sustainability issues and customer satisfaction, includamong the Group’s principles and positive impacts on the community includes among its principles that ruption Policy in line with internaconnected to the exercise of the ing product quality, health, safety ethical rules, the presence of a and local areas where it operates. of environment protection; in additional best practices and highest business undertaken by the Comand the quality of workers’ profesSustainability Policy and the adopFinally, by way of conﬁrmation of tion, the Organizational Model unstandards. This Policy formalizes pany and its interaction with all sional life and the value chain; tion in Italy of an Organizational the Group’s commitment to social der Leg. Decree 231/2001, which the strong commitment to comstakeholders. • ﬁnancial risks, in other words Model pursuant to Leg. Decree aspects and respect of human is applicable in Italy, includes probat corruption, rejecting it in any 28 Sustainability Report 2018 29 circumstance and whatever form. The Group’s commitment in ﬁghtDuring 2018, the Anti-corruption ing active and passive corruption is Policy, which had already been also conﬁrmed by the participation adopted by the Parent company, in the Global Compact. was adopted by all the subsidiaries, through approval by the individual Boards, its translation into local languages and dissemination to all staff. In addition, the Company has adopted speciﬁc Rules of Conduct for Employees which are detailed in the Company Regulation, which also include provisions concerning relationships with Suppliers and Customers in order to, among other purposes, discourage corrupt practices, and in the Code of Ethics there are bans on collusive and corrupt behavior and situations. In addition, failure to comply with the Code of Ethics and internal procedures, including the Organizational Model under Leg. Decree 231/2001 and the Anticorruption Policy, as well as with applicable laws and regulations, can be notiﬁed through the whistleblowing system, which applies to the whole Group together with the Group Whistleblowing Policy. The Group set up an Ethics Committee responsible for assessing any notiﬁcations received, implementing all the controls needed to assess their validity and promote the initiatives which are considered necessary. MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE PARENT COMPANY 31 DECEMBER 2018 30 50 > 50 Tot Men Women Men Women Men Women MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 15% 23% 47% 15% 62% 38% • OF WHICH EXECUTIVE 15% 15% • OF WHICH INDEPENDENT 15% 15% 30 31 MADE IN ITALY QUALITY Tradition and innovation Suppliers and contract manufacturers Customer focus “Sublime craftsmanship uses skill to preserve an emotional residence. In their work you can feel the heritage of production that dates back centuries, but you can also witness the ampliﬁcation of great innovation”. Julianne Moore, during the presentation of the Art of Craftsmanship Award won by Ferragamo cobblers, Green Carpet Fashion Awards 2018 32 33 MADE IN ITALY QUALITY THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP IN 2018 ISO 14067 94.3% over 310,000 FOR THE RAINBOW FUTURE LEATHER HIDES PURCHASED FROM COUNTERFEIT PRODUCTS SEIZED BY SANDAL ITALIAN TANNERIES CUSTOMS OFFICIALS + 30.1% + 70% over 350 LINKEDIN FOLLOWERS COMPARED WECHAT FOLLOWERS PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS TO 2017 COMPARED TO 2017 TRADITION AND INNOVATION Since 1927, the Salvatore Ferwere collected in the patent fund organic crocheted cotton (certiragamo Brand has been a byword of the State Central Archive, thus ﬁed in accordance with the strict for craftsmanship creativity, and holding a technical and scientiﬁc environmental and social GOTS innovation Made in Italy. As an esknowhow of inestimable value. Global Organic Textile Standards), sential value that underlies every The Founder's restless creativity with lining in leather ﬁnished with creation, quality has always been is reﬂected in the massive amount no carbon dioxide emission or wapart of the company's DNA, helpof ideas he patented over the ter consumption (Layertech teching the Brand spread and become years, such as the shell-shaped nology). Rainbow Future has obfamous all over the world. sole, the wedge, the sculpted heel, tained the ISO 14067 certiﬁcation, Salvatore Ferragamo has been a the invisible upper, the cage heel, by virtue of which it is possible to pioneering exporter of Made in Italy and the metal sole. To this day, quantify the emissions caused by quality, and the whole Group has the Archive represents a source the manufacturing process and always been interested in developof innovation and inspiration for to offset them through reforestaing and passing on the foundations new creations, allowing to pass on tion projects, thus making the sanof Italian craftsmanship. It is not Salvatore Ferragamo’s ideas and dal carbon neutral. To this end, just a question of manual skills, but technical expertise to new generaSalvatore Ferragamo S.p.A. has also of experience, utmost care tions of creative talents. called on the support of Treedom, and attention to detail, and cona Florence-based company which stantly searching for new materiWith a view to celebrating the conpromotes the implementation of als and technologies to be incornection between the Made in Italy agri-forest projects and carbon porated into a handmade, sophistitradition and the Brand’s commitoffsetting. Treedom has planted cated and contemporary product, ment to sustainable development, 100 orange trees in the countryin line with the Founder's creative in 2018 the Company presented side around Catania, in the conprinciples. Each product stands the Rainbow Future sandal, creattext of sustainable production of out for its original design, the ated with responsible materials and high-quality products by means of tention to the manufacturing protechniques. The model is based environmentally friendly processcess, and its strong ties with the on the legendary Rainbow sandal es. A code on the accompanying world of culture, art, and cinema. – one of the key creations of Salcertiﬁcate ﬁrmly ties each tree to Relentlessly pursuing innovation is vatore Ferragamo, made in suede a pair of Rainbow Future sandals: a key value for the Group, rooted in 1938 for the actress Judy Gara precious symbolic gift by Salvain Salvatore Ferragamo's legendland. Presented in a limited edition tore Ferragamo S.p.A. to the cusary creative talent. The Patent Arof 100 pairs in the Ferragamo's tomers buying them. chive of the Founder has over 350 Creations collection, Rainbow Fupatents and trademarks, which ture features a hand-ﬁnished platat the start of the 21st century form in veritable wood, crafted in 34 Sustainability Report 2018 35 The attention and passion for and have been present on the consumption or CO2 emissions materials have always charactermarket for years, combining tradi(naturally tanned and dyed leather ized Salvatore Ferragamo's Brand tion and innovation and ensuring a with “ﬁrst-class” Oekotex 100 heritage: many of the Founder's transparent and traceable supply certiﬁcation). During the event, most famous creations are prodchain. The 42 Degrees capsule 14 awards were given for a simiucts of his time and clearly show will be available in some selected lar number of categories. Among he was sensitive to the economic stores for the inauguration of the these, the Art of Craftsmanship and manufacturing changes that Sustainable Thinking exhibition award was assigned to the Salswept Italy in the 20th century. To to be held at Museo Salvatore vatore Ferragamo Brand for the strengthen the sole of his shoes Ferragamo from April 2019 and contribution provided in terms during the autarky of the 1930s, dedicated to sustainability in art of tradition and innovation. The Salvatore Ferragamo had the briland design. award was collected by a repreliant idea of using cork and creatsentative team of expert artisans ed the wedge, one of the fashion The use of sustainable materials from the fashion house in the presindustry's most revolutionary and was also promoted at the second ence of the Chairman Ferruccio enduring innovations. This is the edition of the Green Carpet FashFerragamo. same reason why he carefully seion Awards in September 2018. lected and constantly experimentDedicated to the celebration of The Group has always been worked with not only exclusive types of sustainability goals achieved in the ing with those committed to releather, but also the most humble fashion and luxury industry, the search and experimentation and and unusual kinds such as ﬁsh event was promoted by the Naacknowledging the importance skin, used in some of the Brand's tional Chamber for Italian Fashion of raising the awareness of its most iconic models. Following the (CNMI, Camera Nazionale della creative teams about the use of death of his Founder, the Group Moda Italiana) in collaboration with sustainable, innovative and highhas consolidated the tradition of Eco-Age and with the support of quality materials. Therefore, also experimenting with materials by the Ministry of Economic Develin 2018 the Group held an interacsetting up a dedicated function, opment, the Italian Trade Agency tive workshop on sustainable and so as to constantly update the and the Milan City Council. In the innovative materials, organized by materials used placing a spehistoric Teatro alla Scala in Milan C.L.A.S.S, for style, production, cial emphasis on environmentally there was a fashion show with and material research teams, so sustainable ones. creations made by the most imas to promote a culture of sustainportant Italian fashion houses in ability and stimulate their interest In 2018 an internal competition accordance with the criteria set in new materials. In addition, during was launched which saw the parby the guidelines of the “Manifes2018, the Company actively participation of very young creative to for Sustainability” of the CNMI. ticipated in several conferences designers from Salvatore FerragAmong the most eagerly awaited and working groups set up to start amo, according to the brief “creand admired guests of the evena conversation about sustainabilating accessories with sustainable ing was the Oscar-winning actress ity among Italian and international materials and consistently with the Julianne Moore, who arrived on the fashion leaders. Among others, the iconic style of the Brand”. The re“green” carpet accompanied by Company participated in the Sussult of this competition, which was Paul Andrew, the Creative Director tainable Luxury Academy organjudged by an international jury of of Salvatore Ferragamo women’s ized by Milan's Polytechnic Uniexperts, journalists and inﬂuenccollections. Julianne Moore wore a versity in partnership with Mazars ers, is the 42 Degrees capsule long jersey dress created speciﬁInternational. The Academy's goal collection. Consisting of men’s cally for the occasion in a special is to discuss and identify the next sneakers, women’s sneakers, a fabric, perPETual, which owes its steps required to completely embackpack and a shopping bag, name to the raw material from bed sustainability into the luxury the collection was conceived by which it is made: plastic recovered industry's supply chains. two young designers from Salvafrom oceans and transformed tore Ferragamo, Flavia Corridori into yarn through a patented poand Luciano Dimotta, who were lymerization process. The dress inspired by the iconic Rainbow was enriched with accessories: sandal, a model of 1938 with raina clutch bag and sandals with a bow colors. All the components sculptured heel in GOTS certiﬁed of the collection are made of Italsilk (produced in accordance orian materials and are prepared by ganic farming criteria) and metalcompanies that operate in Italy free leather treated without water 36 Sustainability Report 2018 37 SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS2 SUPPLIERS IN FIGURES 2018 Made in Italy, style, and elegance: shops, aimed at assessing whethcertiﬁed raw materials suppliers. these are the qualities that have er the potential new partners have Since 2016, the Salvatore Ferragalways characterized the Salvathe technical and qualitative preamo Group has been addressing tore Ferragamo Group's products. Staying true to these values, the requisites, the economic and ﬁnancial prerequisites and all the the topic of chemical substances by submitting its Restricted Sub99.7% 94.3% Group has always been commitdocumentation and certiﬁcation stances Lists (RSLs). The lists, ted to supporting the developrequired to start collaborating. Powhich were drawn up voluntarily ACCESSORIES PURCHASED FROM LEATHER HIDES PURCHASED FROM ment of local communities, protential new partners are requestin order to eliminate or restrict the ITALIAN SUPPLIERS ITALIAN TANNERIES moting Italy's world-class manued to meet speciﬁc requirements use of some chemical substances facturers and carefully purchasin order to qualify as workshops during the manufacturing process ing products and services almost exclusively from Italian suppliers. The philosophy of the Founder, and suppliers of raw materials or ﬁnished products for the Group, such as: acceptance of the Code were updated in 2018 and were shared with all suppliers and workshops and signed by them. In De97.8% 99.3% who always remained deeply conof Ethics, Privacy Policy, self-certicember 2018, the dissemination OTHER RAW MATERIALS PURCHASED TEXTILES PURCHASED FROM ITALIAN nected to his roots, still lives on in ﬁcation of successful veriﬁcation of the lists was also extended to FROM ITALIAN SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS the strategy of the Group, which of the professional and technical suppliers of special works and relies on a wide network of carerequirements, pursuant to Leg. structures with both direct and infully selected and qualiﬁed workDecree 81/08, the Certiﬁcation of direct relationships with the Comshops known for their outstandLabor Compliance (DURC – Docupany. ing craftsmanship. Many of them mento Unico di Regolarità Conhave been working with Salvatore tributiva), the signing of the ReThe Group relies on a procurement the Group and the contract manuprocurement of raw materials and processes, in accordance with the Ferragamo for years now. stricted Substances List (RSL), structure with a high level of techfacturers, and the highly specialcomponents. policy limiting subcontracting to the statement of compliance nical preparation and works with ized products and production projust one tier. In addition, the Group To deliver a quality product as well with social security, welfare and historic companies, with which it cesses involved. This integration In addition, by signing the tradeconstantly monitors workshops as make production and distribuoccupational safety regulations, has established an ongoing collabis supported by an IT system that mark protection agreement, the through inspections performed by tion more efﬁcient and ﬂexible, the statement of acceptance of oration. Against this backdrop, the connects the main workshops with Salvatore Ferragamo Group bans technical and production staff. the Salvatore Ferragamo Group the subcontracting policy, the list Group remains deeply connected the Group. This allows to share the external workshops from selling pays special attention to the key of subcontractors and the signto the local community: considerprogress of production and logisthe Brand’s products to third parstages of the supply chain, limiting of the trademark protection ing the geographical distribution tic processes, check whether raw ties. These workshops must dising subcontracting to only one tier agreement. by company name of only the supmaterials are in the workshops’ close if they work with any subin order to better monitor quality pliers related to production operastock, and effectively plan the contractors, to which they can throughout the supply chain. SimiThe Group recognizes the importions, Italian entities account for as production stages as well as the outsource different production larly, the Group directly manages tance of manufacturing and selling much as 97.4% of suppliers’ turnothe product development and inproducts which comply, in terms ver in 2018. dustrialization stages as well as of chemical security, to the laws in performs quality and safety conforce on global markets, in order As for workshops, the Salvatore trols, both at the start and at the to protect the health of workers Ferragamo Group works excluYEARS OF PARTNERSHIP CONTINUITY WITH CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS BY SECTOR 2018 end of the manufacturing process, and consumers as well as reduce sively with highly specialized manon the whole production. the environmental impact from ufacturers that meet the most manufacturing and throughout demanding quality standards. VirFootwear 11% 19% 38% 32% When selecting suitable suppliers, the product's life cycle. EU legistually all of them are located in Itthe Group places special emphalation relating to chemical security aly. The selection and retention of Accessories 15% 26% 22% 37% sis on the technical assessment of is based on the REACH regulation external workshops is key to the raw materials, semi-ﬁnished and concerning the use of chemical Brand, mainly for the purposes of ﬁnished products as well as the substances. For these purposes, maintaining the world-class quality Apparel 19% 16% 26% 39% acquisition of documents concernenvironmental and toxicity tests standards of its products as well ing manufacturing plants – and, are conducted on several comas protecting Ferragamo's extenin some cases, it follows up with ponents and ﬁnished products sive know how developed over dbags and suitcases 17% 9% 17% 57% a visit to the premises. In order to such as accessories, footwear the years. The retention of exterensure the essential quality of the structures, leather, textiles, leather nal workshops has been traditionSmall leather goods 6% 22% 31% 41% Brand’s products, the Salvatore goods, ready to wear, PVC shoes, ally guaranteed by ongoing partFerragamo Group uses a selection and rubber soles, by selecting nerships, the frequent exchange process for suppliers and workcollaborators exclusively among of information and skills between Jewellery 40% 40% 20% Non-consecutive 1-3 years 4-10 years ≥11 years 2 The reported data and information refer exclusively to suppliers related to production process. 38 Sustainability Report 2018 39 40 Sustainability Report 2018 41 YEARS OF PARTNERSHIP CONTINUITY WITH SUPPLIERS BY SECTOR 2018 To uphold corporate social responGroup sees collaborating with the shoes included in the historical arsibility within the supply chain, supply chain as key to achieving chive and Museo Ferragamo. The since 2014 the Salvatore Ferragthe highest ethical and sustainable models are manufactured in limit13% 53% 23% 11% amo Group has been performing business development standards. ed quantities and numbered. They audits on subcontractors. These By way of further conﬁrmation of are made entirely by hand using 32% 32% 10% 26% audits, based on a multi-year plan the actions undertaken in 2018, the techniques, materials, and and handled by an external spethe Group approved its own Supﬁnishing details of the Founder. cialist, seek to ensure the respect plier Code of Conduct, setting All Ferragamo's Creations shoes 11% 59% 19% 11% for human rights and workers as out the standards of ethics and feature the Brand's historic logo, well as compliance with occupaconduct that, along with legal, designed by Lucio Venna in 1930, tional health, safety and hygiene regulatory and procedural proviand provide the opportunity to ex14% 48% 25% 13% standards. The audit process insions, must govern the Group's plore Salvatore Ferragamo's creavolves a number of stages. First, business relations with its parttive tradition, celebrating his pioNon-consecutive 1-3 years 4-10 years ≥11 years the sub-contract manufacturers ners. The Code includes rules and neering vision and know-how. are required to ﬁll in a pre-assessstandards of conduct concerning In November 2017, the Group ment survey; then, an on-site audit business ethics and integrity, labor launched a renewed Modelleria is carried out by interviewing both and human rights, the respect of division for Men's and Women's employees and the management. ecosystems, including respect of Leather Goods: this approximateBased on the audit ﬁndings, the animals and environment protecly 1,200 square meter lab brings Group prepares an improvement tion, and product responsibility. together craftsmanship and replan with the sub-contract manuDuring 2019, initiatives have been search and is designed to pass facturers to prevent, mitigate, or planned for the coming into force the know-how of master leather remedy non-compliance. The plan of the Code, by providing informacraftsmen on to young talents. requires implementing speciﬁc action and training to its recipients, Staying true to its tradition and tions in a given timeframe agreed requesting a formal commitment craftsmanship, the Group wants to by the parties, as well as clearly to comply with the Code’s printo celebrate the “Ferragamo GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF ITALIAN CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS BY SECTOR 2018 identifying a person responsible ciples and provisions, monitoring touch” in the world of leather at the supplier. Since 2014, the compliance through an audit plan, goods, with inﬁnite possibilities for Group has conducted over 260 as well as providing any support testing innovative types of leather 41% 38% 8% 8% 5% audits and about 90 follow-ups. needed to achieve full compliance. and materials during the processDuring 2018, the assessment proing stages as well as improving the 30% 4% 2% 7% 2% 35% 7% 11% 2% cess involved the categories of Besides the attention which the quality and efﬁciency of developwomen’s footwear, men’s leather Company places on transparency ment processes. products and footwear, Readyand monitoring, particular imporTogether, Manovia and Modelleria 45% 3% 16% 7% 13% 13% 3% to-Wear and accessories. Also in tance is given to maintaining high are key to preserving the know2019, the Salvatore Ferragamo quality standards. Concerning how passed on by the Founder Group will be committed to confootwear production operations, and carried on by the skilled 83% 4% 9% 4% tinuing this monitoring, in order to the Group has always relied on craftsmen of the Salvatore Ferguarantee responsible managea small prototyping and manuragamo Group. 94% 3% 3% ment of its supply chain in complifacturing unit comprising materiance with the laws in force. Once als cutters, stitchers and ﬁtters: again in 2019, the group will audit the Manovia division. Established 90% 10% the following product categories: in 1967, Manovia mainly creates women's footwear, men's footsamples and prototypes as well as wear, leather goods, Ready-toﬁne-tunes the structures (stretchTuscany Campania Emilia Romagna Wear and accessories. In addition, ers, heels, insoles, and soles) for in order to ensure high standards the new models. It consists of Veneto Marche Lombardy of occupational health and safeapproximately 20 people, mostly Umbria Piedmont Other Regions ty, in 2018 the Company started young, who produce 30 to 40 pairs safety audits on workshops which of shoes a day. In addition, the will continue in 2019. Manovia division manufactures limited edition models that are In accordance with the Group's part of the Ferragamo's Creations Code of Ethics and in order to emcollection. Launched in 2006, the bed corporate social responsibilFerragamo's Creations line conity into day-to-day operations, the sists of new editions of original 42 Sustainability Report 2018 43 44 Bilancio di Sostenibilità di Gruppo 2018 45 CUSTOMER FOCUS Customer satisfaction has always sessions have been provided ing sessions were held in stores in by the RFID (Radio Frequency products, condemning them to payment methods, new product been the main goal for the Group to sales staff on the men’s and order to monitor interactions with Identiﬁcation) Tag. The NFC Tag pay an amount of USD 60 milcategories, and the introduction of when deﬁning its strategies, from women’s collections, which were customers and improve the cliis embedded into the product at lion to the Company. In addition, in exclusive products. Since 2016, the conception of the product to customized based on information ent experience. As for managerial the end of the manufacturing 2018 the Group carried out conUS customers can use the Rethe service offered at the stores. relating to purchases from the diftraining for store managers, the process and activated following stant controls on physical markets serve in Store, Stock Enquiry, and Respect is the foundation of the ferent stores. Training sessions focus is on the skills required to a quality control check. It cannot through various and numerous Pickup in Store services. All this is relationships with customers. This were offered through the new manage the store, upgrading the be counterfeited, as it is based out-of-court and in-court activities, part of the initiatives related to the is why the Group works on several iLearn digital learning platform, skills of employees, sales perforon a unique identiﬁer certiﬁed focusing their efforts on one of omnichannel project, which aims initiatives to deliver a satisfactory available in 9 languages to both mance coaching, and the alignand assigned by a manufacturer. the areas where counterfeiting is to steer customers from online and delightful purchase experiretail and wholesale sales staff. ment with the company's goals. It allows to encrypt or protect the most widespread, China. In 2018, channels to the physical stores – ence that meets the desires of its The platform, accessible from These sessions are key to optimizdata on it with a password as well 41,949 counterfeit products were and vice versa – in order to gather customers. PCs, tablets, and smartphones, ing customer greeting at the store as read it from a distance of only seized in China and 310,010 information allowing to customize is based on an adaptive technoland conveying the Brand's key a few centimeters using new genworldwide. The Group's commitonline offerings and communicaIn this light, the Group has adopted ogy allowing it to display perfectly values. eration smartphones. Industry inment to combating counterfeiting tion. In the United States, in 2018 a customer-centric strategy aimed ﬁne on any device. The contents siders can also access exclusively has delivered remarkable results On Behalf Of was launched in at anticipating the needs of existinclude a general introduction to In order to enhance customer relaan application that reads some of thanks to the relentless and efstores, a service which is present ing and potential customers in orthe history and legacy of Salvations in the various steps – before, the data stored in the Tag, such fective efforts to safeguard its also in Europe and makes it posder to create long-term value. In tore Ferragamo, information on during and after the sale – in 2018 as the serial number, the manufacbrands as well as the developsible for sales staff to purchase, 2018, the Group conducted sales product storytelling and the selling various activities were undertakturer number, and the collection ment of new tools to protect its on behalf of customers, particular and sector analyses and constantceremony, as well as more speciﬁc en. Each single moment of any the product is part of. Currently, industrial and intellectual property products which are not present in ly monitored market trends and and professional contents related interaction is an opportunity to thanks to the expansion of the rights. The Group will double down the range through a special iPad sector studies to guide the creato individual product categories. deepen knowledge of customers, project in past years, the Tag, exon these efforts in 2019. interface. The Pickup in Store tive teams in the development of The Group uses the iLearn platto understand their satisfaction cept for some models, is in all Ferfunction, which already exists in “glocal” collections that can even form also to distribute expanded drivers, to have a good approach ragamo leather products, as well As regards the focus on customthe United States, was extendbetter meet the expectations of seasonal training programs, opin offering experiences and servicas in ties and scarves. According er relationships, the Group has ed in 2018 to the Brand’s other the Brand’s customers. In 2018, timizing them in terms of form es and to talk to their heart. Durto the project, a pilot stage will adopted a strategy connects the eCommerce stores. The coming the Group also introduced thematand usability, as well as contents ing the year, a program was develbe implemented for the forthcomonline and ofﬂine approach in oronline of the new website in Korea ic offerings consistent with a Buy focusing speciﬁcally on the key oped of in-store experiences and ing collections for Ready-to-Wear der to encourage and promote and Australia saw the activation of Now/Wear Now approach, which selling points and storytelling. At events to be offered to speciﬁc products. interaction with the Ferragamo the Stock Enquiry service, which consists in allowing customers to the end of each training module, customers, and the after-sales apworld. Integrating the digital chanis already available in European buy an item they can start wearemployees are given tests whose proach was reviewed to improve In order to protect its customers nel in communication strategies eStores. This makes it possible to ing right away. In addition, a Global results are tracked by the digital the experience in a stage which is and the value of its trademarks, makes the brand experience for identify the stores where it is posCore Assortment has been creatplatform; everyone can download sometimes critical in the relationover the years the Salvatore Ferthe Salvatore Ferragamo Group sible to ﬁnd the item selected on ed in order to identify a selection their certiﬁcate of attendance and ship, thanks also to a review of the ragamo Group has implemented complete, offering them an effecthe website. In addition, in 2018 of products which are common to digital passport, which includes After-sales guidelines. a series of anti-counterfeiting active and hands-on opportunity to the Ship from Store function was all markets, with the aim of having a record of all digital courses tivities, both ofﬂine and online. learn more about the Brand. With introduced in China, which guara consistent Brand image worldattended. Concerning the initiatives for the For years now, its online monia view to increasing connection antees faster customer deliverwide and maximizing the impact beneﬁt of customers, the Group toring activities have enabled it between customers and the Feries. The experience of online purof marketing and communication Besides online training sessions, uses the Authenticity Tag systo achieve signiﬁcant results. In ragamo world, during 2018, the chasing in the United States was activities. the Group also offers in-class sestem, which protects the consum2018, 3,218,080 illicit contents Group updated its eCommerce also enhanced with the planning sions to client advisor teams with er that purchases a genuine and and proﬁles were removed from platform to provide an innovative of a post-purchase email which, To ensure customer understandthe goal of strengthening not only Made in Italy Salvatore Ferragathe main social media platforms, and intuitive user experience, highbesides providing information to ing and satisfaction, the Group their sales skills and customer apmo product, preventing and limitand 124,302 listings of counterfeit lighting the craftsmanship and outtrack the order, invites users to strives to make its sales staff proach, but also expanding their ing counterfeiting. Said innovative products were identiﬁed, blocked standing quality of Salvatore Ferkeep in touch with the Brand and capable of conveying the pasknowledge of speciﬁc topics such traceability project consists in the and removed from online auction ragamo products. In order to make evaluate their purchase experision for craftsmanship and quality as Chinese culture and the proimplementation and adoption of sites. In addition, during 2018, 256 its websites easier to use, in 2018 ence. In 2017, the ﬁve European that characterized the Founder. cessing and characteristics of an NFC (Near Field Communicaillicit websites were tracked and the Group introduced contents in eStores as well as those in AustralTherefore, retail staff training is leather hides. In 2018, in addition, tion) solution to uniquely identify taken down, and 128,346 uses of German in its eStore in Germany ia and Mexico introduced the funckey to keeping the Brand excluthe dissemination continued of the Salvatore Ferragamo products. “Ferragamo” as a keyword on digiand Austria, and completed the tionality to recover abandoned sive and driving engagement. The training format on customer reNFC is a radio-frequency technoltal Marketplaces were removed. migration to the new website in shopping carts. During 2018, the goal is to make every employee lationship management for sales ogy based on a chip, which stores A signiﬁcant result achieved in Korea and Australia and the soft Ready-to-wear category was inaware of the company's culture, teams: the program, developed the data, and an antenna that 2018 was the ruling by the Court restyling for the websites in Mexcluded in the ﬁve European eSwhich is made up of traditions as to be strongly interactive, also exsends signals using radio waves. of New York which issued an inico and Japan. Since introducing tores, ensuring eCommerce cuswell as strong and distinctive valplains the current interaction stratThe combination of chip and anjunction against 60 owners of ilthe eCommerce platform in 2009, tomers access to a broader produes. In order to communicate the egy and provides practical examtenna is the so-called Tag. A delegal online proﬁles regarding the the Group has been adding more uct range, in line with that found in inspiration and themes underlying ples and exercises to optimize its vice known as reader is able to use of the Salvatore Ferragamo and more functions to meet the physical boutiques, and the Store the collections, seasonal training implementation. In addition, coachdecode the radio signals emitted Brand and the sale of counterfeit needs of its digital customers: new Locator was improved. This allows 46 Bilancio di Sostenibilità di Gruppo 2018 47 users to obtain detailed informaCreative Director, celebrates the Bearing witness to the success tion on Ferragamo stores worldconnection between Italian tradiof the campaigns undertaken and wide. In China, the ofﬁcial WeChat tion and an innovative vision, imthe strong commitment which the miniprogram was launched, aimagining a scenario with a timeless Group places on digital commuing at increasing the visibility of design and rareﬁed atmosphere nication, 2018 was marked by a the Brand and of the eCommerce of a place of art. The relationship signiﬁcant increase in the number website. In addition, in order to between the Company and art is of followers on the main social ensure a safer experience for at the core of the #Ferragamo channels. In particular, WeChat and customers who purchase through StudioBag campaign, featuring Instagram saw important growth the eCommerce platform, in 2018 the artist Ana Kras and her stuin the number of followers comthe fraud-prevention system was dio, the space par excellence for pared to 2017, 70% and 42.2% strengthened, the contents were creatives where they can paint, respectively. updated to the new GDPR regudesign, photograph, dance, form lation in Italy and Secure Acceptnew ideas. Drawing inspiration ance was implemented in Japan. from elegant ﬂoral patterns from In 2018, a new Web Application the archives, the #FlowerInvasion Firewall was introduced globally, capsule collection focused on a ensuring greater data protection. storytelling experience on both Finally, the new release of the digital channels and at speciﬁc PIM (product information managestores. Another key issue in digital ment) system allows for easier campaigns was the connection beand safer management of onsite tween the Company and sustaincontents. The improved functions ability, which saw the celebration and services offered by the online of #RainbowFuture, the ﬁrst footchannel has caused the number wear item which bears witness of subscribers to the Ferragamo to the link between the tradition eCommerce newsletter to rise by of Made in Italy products and the 15% in 2018 compared to the priBrand’s commitment to sustainor year. able development, and the participation in the #GreenCarpetFahionThe digital evolution of the last few Awards, during which the Group years has signiﬁcantly changed received the Art of Craftsmanship also Salvatore Ferragamo's social award. In addition, there were nustrategies. Using social media almerous digital campaigns concernlows to further engage customers ing historic models, capsule collecand deliver a comprehensive extions and store events: #Swipeperience through short Brand stoToSwitch, #FerragamoMoccasins, ries posted in formats tailored to #ItalianJournery, #FutureHeritage, each channel. In 2018, the Group #UnexpectedFlorence,#FollowVa launched several digital camra, #FerragamoHoliday, #Ferragapaigns: THE WORLD IS A WORK moMadrid and, ﬁnally, #80thFerOF ART, which for the ﬁrst time ragamoLondon. sees Paul Andrew hold the role of THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP ON SOCIAL MEDIA GROWTH IN FOLLOWERS (2017 vs 2018) INSTAGRAM +42.2% LINKEDIN +30.1% FACEBOOK +3.1% WEIBO +32% PINTEREST +9.3% WECHAT +70% 48 Sustainability Report 2018 49 A SHARED HISTORY Diversity and equal opportunity Attracting and developing talent Wellbeing of people “However, despite evolving from a single individual to a global team of over 4.000 employees during its 90 year history, the same spirit of shared passion, teamwork and respect for communities, established by Salvatore Ferragamo's ﬁrst partnerships with Florentine craftsmen, continues to deﬁne the company today”. Business of Fashion 50 51 A SHARED HISTORY The Salvatore Ferragamo Group is aware that a fundamental role in maintaining its success are the people who every day, with competence, passion and dedication, contribute to carrying out its work, while respecting the heritage and the values that were promoted and transmitted, in the ﬁrst instance, by its Founder. The Group considers its human capital to be crucial and is committed to maximizing people's potential at each step of the production chain, investing in the professional growth of its employees and attracting new talents while complying with occupational health and safety standards. Therefore, for years now Salvatore Ferragamo has been formalizing its care and attention for its own people in Company Regulation that set out the principles underlying the employment relationship as well as the main rights of Ferragamo employees-which are summarized in the section on employee rules of conduct. The Regulations are available and freely accessible to all employees through the company Intranet. In December 2017, the Group reafﬁrmed its position by publishing the Sustainability Policy, which sets out the principles and values governing the social protection of its people. This document consolidates the Group's commitment to fully respecting human rights and the rights of its employees as recognized by national and international conventions and declarations as part of its operations, as well as rejecting any form of child labor, forced labor, and discrimination based on personal characteristics irrelevant to a person’s work. In addition, the Group wants to promote the well-being of its employees and is committed to initiatives aiming to improve their work-life balance. As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 4,228 employees, an increase of around 1% from the previous year. 62% of employees is in the age range between 30 and 50. THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP IN 2018 4,228 1,128 ≈ 70% EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE EMPLOYEES UNDER 30 WOMEN ≈ 70% over 50% 92% EMPLOYEES SUBJECT TO UNDER 30s AMONG THE NEW EMPLOYEES ON PERMANENT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT RECRUITS CONTRACTS 52 Sustainability Report 2018 53 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY The Group places extreme imporFerragamo Group in the transpareconomic incentives contingent tance on its human capital and is ent and responsible undertaking on individual and company perforcommitted to guaranteeing their of its business. Special emphasis mance goals aimed at promoting a management based on the princiis placed also on providing equal sense of belonging and teamwork. ples of correctness, integrity and opportunities, ensuring the same respect, aimed at valorising and work conditions for male and feFinally, as for industrial relations, protecting its people, demanding male employees and promoting inimore than 50% of the Group's respect of these essential and tiatives to help balance family and employees are covered by colabsolute values in both internal professional life through different lective bargaining agreements, relations and in dealings with third types of employment agreements. as required by applicable laws parties. Employee relationships and regulations in the countries are based on the principles of inAt 31 December 2018, there in which it operates3. In addition, clusion and diversity, preventing were 59 male employees and 247 these agreements, together with any discrimination based on age, female employees who were on the laws in force in the countries race, ethnicity, nationality, political part-time contracts. Women play where the Group operates, also views, trade union membership, a key role in the Salvatore Ferregulate the pay aspects as well religious beliefs, sexual orientaragamo Group: they account for as the minimum notice periods for tion, gender identity, physical and nearly 70% of its employees and signiﬁcant operating changes. In mental disabilities, and any other hold around 65% of senior manreference to the Parent company, personal characteristics, in line agement positions. In addition, in November 2018 negotiations with the Group’s Code of Ethwomen make up a signiﬁcant 39% started positively for the signing ics. In this regard, during 2018 of the Parent's Board of Direcof the corporate contract and for the Group worked to prepare an tors, above and beyond the applithe results bonus in relation to Inclusion Policy, which will be imcable laws. 2019-2021. plemented in the future, with the The Group adopts remuneration aim of formalising the commitment policies that recognize the personto favour the promotion and proal contribution of each employee tection of the values of diversity according to the principles of genand inclusion and setting out the der equality and merit. For several principles which, in keeping with years now, the Group has been imthe statements in the Code of Ethplementing a remuneration system ics and in the Sustainability Policy, differentiated for the various emhave always led the Salvatore ployee categories, including also EMPLOYEES OF THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP 31 DECEMBER 2018 NO. OF PEOPLE MEN WOMEN TOT PARENT COMPANY 411 563 974 EUROPE 140 277 417 NORTH AMERICA 289 347 636 CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA 119 93 212 ASIA PACIFIC 321 1,260 1,581 JAPAN 91 317 408 TOTAL 1,371 2,857 4,228 3 The topic related to industrial relationships has not been considered material for the Salvatore Ferragamo Group and its stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2018 55 ATTRACTING AND DEVELOPING TALENT Respect for the Brand and People met 714 students, 21 of whom with the Master in “Shoe Design” In 2018 the Internal Job Posting type of analysis, as were around responsibility section on Ferragatogether with Passion, the source started work with the Company. of Polimoda, with the aim of trainproject also continued, which con70% of all Group employees. mo Together as well as a dedicatof creativity and innovation, are In addition, for a few years now ing the new generation of designstantly updates available open ed e-mail address through which considered success factors for Salvatore Ferragamo has been ers who are destined to inherit positions, promptly informing emAmong the internal engagement employees can directly engage the Salvatore Ferragamo Group, the ofﬁcial partner of SDA Bocthe experience and know-how of ployees. The Group will continue initiatives, 2018 saw the creation with sustainability topics and subwhich is committed to attractconi School of Management's Ferragamo and acquire the skills developing the project in the upof “Ferragamo Together”, the innomit sustainability-related ideas and ing talented staff who believe in Master in Fashion, Experience & needed to design and develop a coming years to promote a closer vative company intranet, designed projects to the Green Team. these principles and to creating Design Management (MAFED), an footwear collection with a strong integration between all the areas to facilitate collaboration and sharan environment favourable to disinternational program for those and innovative creative direction. in which the Salvatore Ferragamo ing of ideas, information and proseminating these principles. Conwho want a managerial career in Group operates. jects among all the Group’s emﬁrming this commitment, in 2018 the fashion, luxury and design inWith a view to promoting the ployees, thus increasing the sense 1,553 employees joined the Salvadustries. In 2018, in collaboration growth of people in the Company, In order to valorise resources in of belonging and team spirit. Fertore Ferragamo Group, of whom with MAFED, the “New women’s in 2018 the activities to train and the retail segment and incentivise ragamo Together can also be used around 50% were under 30 and shoes business opportunities” prodevelop the talented staff identithe constant improvement of the through a mobile app. To the same around 67% women, thus recordject was completed. This enabled ﬁed at corporate level in the previexperience offered to customers end, in October 2018 the Coming a staff turnover of 37%. It students to present an action plan ous year continued, and a project in Boutiques, in 2018 the retail pany organised a packed lunch at considers offering a stable and to improve Ferragamo’s women’s was launched to design a Talent staff development program conthe Parco delle Idee (Park of Idelong-lasting employment relationshoes in terms of product, service Management system at global tinued, with the aim of establishas), involving over 60 employees ship as necessary to foster the and communication. During 2018 level. As part of its own Ferragaing structured career paths and and illustrating to them the evoluCompany's growth, as well as an the Parent collaborated with Domo Excellence model, the Parent facilitating internal mobility. During tion of this park created thanks to important motivational factor. The mus Academy, launching the “Susidentiﬁes nine essential compethe year the Stitching Together the Company. high proportion of employees on tainable Innovation” ﬁeld project tencies divided into Core Compeinitiative was also launched, which permanent contracts, accounting which involved the students of the tencies and Managerial Compeallowed retail staff to obtain an inIn addition, Ferragamo employfor 92% of the total in 2018, is eviMaster in Fashion Management in tencies, to be enhanced in each crease in variable pay, focussing ees were invited to participate dence of the Group's commitment developing projects focussed on employee. Core Competencies their energy on the sale of speciﬁc in two important sports events in this sense. analysing the link between Salvaare key for all employees and enitems and on achieving individual by forming a team: the Milan Retore Ferragamo, Sustainability and able them to achieve high levels of performance objectives. lay Marathon and the New York In Italy, Salvatore Ferragamo has Millennials. performance and quality as well Marathon in collaboration with the an Induction program for all new as promptly address issues and The Group pays special attention San Patrignano Running Team. On recruits aimed at transmitting Again in 2018, Salvatore Ferragaproblems as they arise by workto the families of its employees: both these occasions the Ferragthe Brand’s values right from the mo collaborated with the Costume ing in teams and exploring new in 2018, it continued the Store Inamo team was able to support imstart and creating a strong sense and Fashion Academy of Rome ideas and solutions. The Group ternship for Employees’ Sons and portant charities while promoting of belonging. The three-day Clasin launching the “High Tech High has identiﬁed additional compeDaughters program, offering the the values of sport and solidarity. sic Induction course consists in a Craft” project, which involved the tencies for middle and senior manchildren of its employees the optraining session to introduce new students of the Master in Accesagers focusing on knowledge that portunity to work at the Brand's Salvatore Ferragamo’s approach hires to the Brand, the history of sories in developing a men’s leathis crucial in order to create value stores and live a work experience to sustainability and the importhe Founder, and the Group's valer capsule collection on the theme and improve competitiveness over in the Ferragamo world. In 2018, tance attributed to team work ues, as well as guided tours of the of travel. The two most important time, inspiring enthusiasm and a the program has been extended are told through the video “We are new Logistics Center, La Manovia, initiatives to valorise young peopassion for work and excellence also to the siblings of the Group's Ferragamo”, made in collaboration the museum and the Historical Arple which were promoted in 2018 in other people. Over the next few employees. with Business of Fashion in 2018. chive in partnership with Fondaziand are planned for 2019 are: the years, the Group will gradually exThe video goes over the main acone Ferragamo and Museo SalvaSalvatore Ferragamo study grant pand the Talent Management sysTo facilitate the development tion areas for sustainability: from tore Ferragamo. The Customized for the Sustainability Management tem to all employees, regardless of their staff, the Group impleinnovation and digital to creativity Induction, which is reserved to extrack of the Master in Brand & of the geography in which they mented, in continuity with previand design, from craftsmanship ecutives and managers, is instead Business Management which will operate, maximizing the potential ous years, some performance asand the relationship with the local organized so that it is tailored to be held at the Milan Fashion Inof key resources across the entire sessment programs, including the territory to the need to work in a the role that the incoming managstitute, an inter-university consorSalvatore Ferragamo Group. Performance Appraisal System, team to promote the Company’s er is required to ﬁll. tium for high-level training in the in order to identify the strengths sustainable development. From its fashion ﬁeld founded in 2007 by The digitalisation process which and any areas for improvement publication in July 2018 up to DeTo select and attract top young Bocconi University, Cattolica Unithe Company is pursuing also led of each employee. The system is cember 2018, the “We are Ferragtalents, the Parent has partnerversity and Milan Polytechnic, and to the design and implementaconceived not only as a monetary amo” video recorded over 65,000 ships with several Italian Universiwill seek to teach how to manage tion of a new eLearning platform incentive system but also as an views, generated over 545,000 imties, Business Schools and Design sustainability using an holistic apwhich, with the aim of extending instrument for development: the pressions on social media and over Academies, organizing presentaproach, planning successful busithe supply of training contents, will performance appraisal is connect3,100,000 impressions in total. tions, career days, and ﬁeld proness strategies and responsible contribute to promoting greater ined to a position proﬁle and the jects. During 2018, 15 Employer innovation, welcoming the new teraction between employees and speciﬁc technical skills required. To embed sustainability into its inBranding sessions were held durtrends which are inﬂuencing the continuous training. During 2018, over 92% of Group ternal communication platforms, ing which Salvatore Ferragamo fashion sector; the partnership managers were subject to this the Group has set up a corporate 56 Sustainability Report 2018 57 WELLBEING OF PEOPLE The wellbeing of its workers is a developing an Occupational Health a view to improving work-life fundamental element for the sucand Safety Management Sysbalance. cess of the Brand: for this reason, tem to reduce or minimize the the Salvatore Ferragamo Group risks employees or other parties The communication to all the implements numerous initiatives in may be exposed to for differGroup’s collaborators of activities, the area of corporate welfare. ent reasons as part of the comshared values, projects, stratepany's operations. In late 2017, gic guidelines, corporate policies, Since 2014 a Flexible Beneﬁt Plan this system received the coveted goals achieved and future ambihas been in force in Italy, the purOHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation, which tions, is considered of primary impose of which is to support workis valid for all the Company's Italportance to consolidate a sense ers and their families in social and ian ofﬁces and stores. This result of belonging. cultural activities, in their developstrengthens the effectiveness of ment and in school fees and costs the existing administrative liability In addition, in June 2018, the ﬁrst for their children. The plan consystem pursuant to the 231/2001 Salvatore Ferragamo Green Day sists of the possibility to replace Model, ensuring the principles of was organised, in the spirit of or complement part of the varithe relevant policy are properly sharing and transparency towards able pay with beneﬁts in the form implemented in all work environthe Company’s people and with of services, to address personal ments. In addition, this regulation the desire to illustrate the Group’s and family needs. Speciﬁcally, emis valid internationally, which will alsustainability strategy. During the ployees can select their own type low to extend the certiﬁcation to day, which was organised for emof beneﬁt from a vast selection, inthe sales ofﬁces located abroad ployees at the Osmannoro site, cluding areas such as: education, over the next few years, thus coninitiatives were promoted linked to sports, culture and leisure, travel solidating the Group's reputation. the wellbeing of employees such and supplementary pensions. The Company has started the proas the company library, bike to cess to obtain SA8000 certiﬁcawork and walk to work. Salvatore Ferragamo has signed tion, the main social certiﬁcation a series of special offers through standard based on the Universal conventions with companies opDeclaration of Human Rights, on erating in other sectors, such as the agreements of the ILO, on infor example health and wellbeternational laws on human rights ing, banks, insurance, tourism and and on national labour laws. Fursport. In this context, the collabothermore, the Group, through inration with Orto del Borro continvolvement, training and preparaues. The agreement envisages the tion activities, aims at continuous possibility for the employees of improvement in performance in Salvatore Ferragamo who work in terms of workers’ health and safeFlorence to buy at a discounted ty, with particular attention to preprice boxes with food that is certiventing accidents and work-relatﬁed as organic. ed illnesses. The beneﬁts and advantages for the full-time employees of the Salvatore Ferragamo's attention Group's companies vary accordto its people is reﬂected also in ing to local laws and practices: the creation of workspaces that they include, but are not limited to, are both functional and pleashealth and life insurance policies, ant. Since 2016, the Foundation discounts at the Brand's stores, has been working together with pension contributions, and reimthe Company on the renovation, bursements of company canteen decoration and embellishment of services or beneﬁts in lieu thereof. workspaces by researching and The wellbeing of employees, colcreating new ﬁxtures and ﬁttings laborators, suppliers, and consultas well as evaluating spaces and ants has always been a core part their design. of the Group's DNA. Over the In addition, again in order to guaryears, the Company has made sigantee the wellbeing of employees, niﬁcant investments in safeguardduring 2018 a study was launched ing the wellbeing of its employees, relating to ﬂexible working with 60 Sustainability Report 2018 61 CULTURE AND PARTICIPATION Link with the community and the local territory Museo Salvatore Ferragamo Fondazione Ferragamo “We are pleased to have by our side a prestigious Maison that cherishes the beauty and the culture of Florence”. Dario Nardella, Mayor of Florence 62 63 CULTURE AND PARTICIPATION Salvatore Ferragamo was one of the ﬁrst to realize that fashion, art and culture are intimately connected. Since the beginning of his career in America, the Brand's Founder has always looked for inspiration, ideas and partnerships with the leading artists of the day. Over the years, the Group has acted on its Founder's insight, dedicating considerable attention and resources to cultural initiatives in order to promote art in all its forms. After redeﬁning, in 2014, the Charity Policy adopted by all Group subsidiaries, the Group decided to make several donations to charity initiatives promoting Italy's culture across the world as well as the health of women and children. The purpose of this policy is to provide a reference framework, for all the Group subsidiaries, to be followed in deﬁning donations, gifts and any participation in charitable associations, foundations and nonproﬁt organizations. This process therefore facilitates stronger governance and a new approval process, in order to coordinate more effectively charitable actions internationally. In 2018, the Salvatore Ferragamo Group thus supported communities, charitable bodies and non-proﬁt organizations which work for the causes identiﬁed by the Charity Policy, making around 70% of its donations for Italian culture around the world. Since 2017, the Group has doubled down on its commitment to culture and the local community by formalizing its intention to spread Italy's culture across the world in its Sustainability Policy. The Group is committed to promoting Italian products by leveraging and developing traditional craftsmanship as well as sponsoring initiatives that celebrate art, cinema, and music-which are key to the Brand's history. THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP IN 2018 over 5,800 over 34,000 1.5 mln MEALS DONATED TO THE T-SHIRTS MADE FOR EURO DONATED FOR THE RESTORATION OF BANCO ALIMENTARE IN ITALY CORRI LA VITA THE FOUNTAIN OF NEPTUNE SINCE 2016 over 23,100 ≈ 1,100 over 44,100 ITEMS AND MODELS CATALOGUED IN CHILDREN IN WORKSHOP WITH VISITORS TO THE MUSEO THE HISTORIC ARCHIVE FONDAZIONE FERRAGAMO FERRAGAMO 64 LINK WITH THE COMMUNITY AND THE LOCAL COMMUNITY In 2018, the Company ﬁnalized Piazza and Ponte di Santa Trinita cards were allocated to two work equipment, a latest-generation digchildren with learning disabilities. The commitment to social responthe donation, which had begun and curate the exhibition of Leongrants: these will help two girls ital mammography machine and a Additionally, around 150 items of sibility is not limited just to Italy in 2016, of 1.5 million euros for ardo's Saint Anne painting, curcontinue their work experience at modern biopsy table, were donatfurniture were donated to Solbut extends also to all the areas the restoration of the Fountain rently on display at the Louvre Muthe Community’s Leather unit afed to the Careggi Breast Diagnoslicciano prison in Florence: the in which the Salvatore Ferragamo of Neptune in Piazza della Signoseum in Paris. In addition, in 2017 ter completing their rehabilitation tic Unit, one of the most important furnishings went to laboratories Group operates. In Mexico, much ria, Florence, which was returned the Company helped preserve program. in Tuscany, thereby renewing the where the inmates can improve of the revenues from the sale of a to its original splendor. The FounFlorence's cultural heritage by partechnology equipment. and accrue skills, learn to collabolimited-edition sneakers model was tain of Neptune was made by the ticipating in the British Institute of In 2018, Salvatore Ferragamo rate with and respect others, and donated, thus allowing to continue sculptor Bartolomeo Ammannati Florence's fundraising campaign S.p.A. was again one of the main In line with its Charity Policy, durincrease their culture. supporting the Mexican region of under commission from Cosimo I for the renovation of the Harold sponsors of the charitable sports ing the year, Salvatore Ferragamo Chiapas, struck severely by the de’ Medici and the subject alludes Acton Library, located in Lungarno event Corri la Vita, winning the S.p.A. worked on multiple occaIn 2018, Salvatore Ferragamo September 2017 earthquake. to the maritime dominance of FlorGuicciardini. Most Numerous Group” award sions with Trisomia 21 Onlus, the S.p.A. also decided to support ence during the Renaissance. It thanks to the enrolment of 860 non-proﬁt association born to imCBM Italia Onlus in the Milan ReAdditionally, in line with the Group’s was the ﬁrst public fountain in Among other entities in Florence, people. Corri la Vita, which is held prove the social and personal skills lay Marathon, the charity race Charity Policy, additional donations the city and today is one of its the Company has been supportin September in Florence, directs of children with Down syndrome. raising funds to support some were made to support local charibest-known symbols. The project ing also the historic Istituto degli its proceeds go to non-proﬁt proThe Association could count on important charity projects. The ties, including End Child Sexual involved restoring the Fountain's Innocenti, which is a symbol of jects for national health facilities the support offered by the SalCompany supported the participaAbuse Foundation in Hong Kong, marble and bronze elements as children's care and houses the specializing in the treatment of vatore Ferragamo's employees tion of 13 employees-athletes who The Pearl S. Buck Foundation and well as renovating the water supUNICEF Innocenti Research Cenbreast cancer through psychothrough a fundraising initiative. took part in the relay marathon, Save the Children Taiwan, Korea ply system. The Company's comtre. The Company has contributed logical support, physical and social thereby helping support the work Disabled IT Education Community mitment to protecting and restorto the restructuring of the properrehabilitation, prevention, training, In July 2018, the “Cena per Viola” of CBM Italia Onlus, one of the and Arumjigi Culture Keeper Founing the Fountain, which is part of ties used as care homes for mothand palliative care. To give visdinner was organized in collabomost important international hudation in Korea, The British School Florence's historical heritage, was ers and children in distress. In adibility to the event, Salvatore Ferration with Fàedèsfa ONLUS, an manitarian organizations involved of Tokyo in Japan, Lido Isle Womrecognized also at the 2017 Cordition, the cooperation with the ragamo made over 34,000 t-shirts association that helps children in the prevention and treatment en's Foundation, Rhonda Walker porate Art Awards promoted by ItInstitute includes several support for the participants and offered with rare genetic disorders. The of blindness and disabilities in the Foundation, New Yorkers for Chilaly's Ministry for Cultural Heritage, projects in collaboration with Fonfree entry to the Museo Salvatore event raised funds to purchase an south of the world. dren, and Two Ten Foundation in where Salvatore Ferragamo redazione Ferragamo. Ferragamo during the day, recordelectric wheelchair for Viola, the the Unites States of America. ceived the Art Bonus award. The ing more than 2,580 visitors. The daughter of an employee of one of To help the needy and reduce contest drew 80 businesses and The Group supports Italy's culture funds raised in 2018 were allothe Company’s suppliers, who is 8 waste, starting from 2014, SalvaAs can be seen from the multiple 20 international institutions from across the world through additioncated to a major new project that and suffers from osteogenesis imtore Ferragamo S.p.A. has choactivities the Group carries out 18 countries across the world. al projects and donations in all the involves the whole Florence area perfecta, a disorder that prevents sen to donate through the Banco every year, the support and develareas in which it operates. In 2018, (Florence, Prato, Empoli, and Pisnormal bone growth and developAlimentare ONLUS Association opment of local communities are The Florence-based Brand has for instance, the Salvatore Fertoia) in the ﬁght against breast ment. Fàedèsfa ONLUS is one of (Italy’s food bank) the excess food essential goals: as proof of this always been actively supporting ragamo Group supported the Italcancer and assistance to cancer the several entities that Salvatore from the Company cafeteria to commitment, it is noted that, over countless cultural initiatives and ian Film Festival in Tokyo as well as patients; in addition to this, it also Ferragamo has hosted over the “CEIS Centro di Solidarietà” in the years, the Group has always projects-including the renovation sponsored events associated with cooperated with Florence’s LILT year on its premises for fundFlorence, where a canteen serves given a commitment to minimize of the Campatelli Tower-House, the Italian Chamber of Commerce the Italian League to Fight against raising initiatives: these included, both lunch and dinner. The Banco the risk of generating negative ima mid-12th century architectural in Mexico. Cancer to support the Ce.Ri.On. among others, the Italian Multiple Alimentare ONLUS Association, pacts, current or potential, on the masterpiece owned by Fondo Amthe ISPRO-LILT Cancer RehaSclerosis Society, the Italian Assowhich collects food and checks its community. biente Italiano (FAI, Italy's National As regards to the health of women bilitation Center in Villa delle Rose, ciation for Cancer Research, and integrity, received approximately Trust) and located in San Gimignaand children, in 2018, the CompaFILE Italian Foundation for Palthe Tuscany Cancer Association. 2,000 ﬁrst courses, more than no that reopened to the public in ny supported numerous initiatives liative Care and SenoNetwork Moreover, during refurbishment 2,000 second courses, over 1,800 2016. In memory of Marchesa Fifor the San Patrignano CommuniItalia Onlus, a portal that brings works at the Logistics Hub in Osside dishes, and over 100 kg of amma di San Giuliano Ferragamo, ty, which has been helping the retogether the Italian Breast Units. mannoro, the Company donated sundry food by the Company. who was the ﬁrst regional presihabilitation of young drug addicts Additionally, in 2018, Salvatore various items of furnishing and dent of FAI Tuscany in 1987, the in Italy for years. The Company Ferragamo S.p.A. donated 10% personal computers to Fàedèsfa Again as part of its charity initiatower was dedicated to her and has in fact supported the particiof the income of a day in March ONLUS. The furniture donated, tives, in 2018, Salvatore Ferragacalled Torre Fiamma. pation of 13 employees in the New 2018 in its Milan Women and Milan which included cupboards, bookmo S.p.A. supported the Charity Over the years, Salvatore FerYork City Marathon alongside the Men stores to the Italian League shelves, desks, chairs and comStar and Charity Buzz initiatives, ragamo S.p.A.'s charitable contriSan Patrignano Running Team, as to Fight against Cancer. plete computer stations, were aloffering tickets for the February butions have allowed to reopen 8 part of the “Oltre il Traguardo” proIn collaboration with Corri la Vita located to schools and nursery and September shows. The revrooms of the Ufﬁzi Gallery, conject, promoted by the San PatrigOnlus, in 2018 Salvatore Ferragschools that made a speciﬁc reenues obtained from auctioning taining approximately ﬁfty major nano Community in partnership amo S.p.A. donated two innovaquest to the association. More off the tickets was donated to asworks of art from 15th-century with Gabriele Rosa's Rosa Assotive items of equipment for early speciﬁcally, the PCs were donatsociations operating in research, Florence, as well as to renovate ciati. Additionally, the funds saved breast cancer diagnosis to the ed to disabled children needing healthcare and social integration. Florence's Colonna della Giustizia di by not printing Christmas greeting Careggi Hospital in Florence. The dedicated equipment or to assist 66 Sustainability Report 2018 67 68 Bilancio di Sostenibilità di Gruppo 2018 69 MUSEO SALVATORE FERRAGAMO Museums), the most important following the speciﬁc education exhibition had over 28,500 visitors THE MUSEO SALVATORE FERRAGAMO IN FIGURES and prestigious international orroute entitled “1927-2017 The Refrom May to December 2018. ganization for museums and muturn to Italy”. The Municipality of During the “Italy in Hollywood” exseum professionals. Florence made the exhibition part hibition, Fondazione Ferragamo, in of the “Keys to the City” project for collaboration with the Museo SalAdditionally, in March 2018, the the school year 2017-2018, which vatore Ferragamo, developed new ≈ 280 over 395,000 Museo Salvatore Ferragamo took part in the APRITIMODA! initook young students on a journey through the changes that swept education routes and workshops for primary and middle school tiative, which opened the hidden, Florence in the 19th and 20th cenchildren and families. Thanks to EXHIBITIONS AND PROJECTS MADE VISITORS TO THE MUSEO FERRAGAMO often inaccessible places of the tury. The initiative featured a visit the education publication “Italy in SINCE 2006 most important fashion ateliers to the Museo Novecento and the Hollywood. Inspiration and knowand perfume laboratories of FlorMuseo Salvatore Ferragamo. how”, the young visitors can disence. Created in Milan in 2017 and cover the 1920s California where presented in Florence for the ﬁrst On 24 May 2018, the “Italy in HolSalvatore Ferragamo lived, amidst ≈ 230 ≈ 250 time in 2018, the initiative was sponsored by Italy’s Ministry of Economic Development, the Mulywood” exhibition was opened, analyzing the presence of Italians in California during the ﬁrst deccinema, art and crafts. At the end of the exhibition, entering the Hollywood Boot Shop, the famous CONTACTS WITH SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES CONTACTS WITH MUSEUMS AND INSTITUTIONS nicipality of Florence, Confcomade of the 20th century and their Salvatore Ferragamo’s store remercio-Imprese per l’Italia Tusinﬂuence in various sectors, from produced in the very last room of cany, Florence Chamber of Comarchitecture to art, crafts and the the exhibition, children can be phomerce, Italy’s Fashion Federation, ﬂedging movie industry. The story tographed just like the great movthe National Chamber for Italian started in 1915, the same year ie stars. And, once again this year, Fashion, and Pitti Immagine. Durin which Salvatore Ferragamo the Municipality of Florence made The strongest evidence of our that has become one of Florence's ability dedicated to children was ing this initiative, the Museo Salvareached the sun-kissed lands of the exhibition part of the “Keys to commitment towards culture is most important cultural events and organized; tore Ferragamo was made accesthe West Coast. In that year, the the City” project for school year the Museo Salvatore Ferragamo, celebrated its 10th edition. The • renewed partnership with the sible for free, recording more than Panama-Paciﬁc International Ex2018-2019 and amongst the proestablished in 1995 inside the actors Christophe Montenez and Strings City festival, a music 2,200 visitors. position opened in San Francisco, posals of FAMU, the National Day Group’s historic headquarters by Vanessa Guide received the “Esmarathon featuring 80 string mufeaturing Marcello Piacentini’s legof Families at the Museum, held on Mrs Wanda Miletti Ferragamo and sence of Talent” award sponsored sic events for a total of 50 hours The exhibition “1927 The Return endary Italian city, which laid the 14 October 2018. her six children. The activities of by Ferragamo Parfums, which across more than 50 locations. to Italy”, celebrating the 90-year basis for the powerful, lasting inthe Museum do not only include was the event's main sponsor; Saturday December 1 the concert anniversary of Salvatore Ferragaﬂuence of renaissance styles on The Museo Salvatore Ferragamo temporary exhibitions and work• renewed partnership with the entitled “From Florence to America mo's return to his home country afthe local architectural language. plays an active role in the city's shops for children, the latter in River to River Florence Indian Film in Tuscany and back” took place, ter 12 years in the United States, On the backdrop of the Italian micultural events, consolidating each collaboration with Fondazione FerFestival, which celebrated its 18th with music by Italian and Ameriended on 19 May 2018. For the gration to these lands, which conyear the already strong relationragamo, but extend well beyond edition in December 2018 at Teacan composers like Castelnuovo occasion, the Museo Salvatore stitutes the common thread of the ship with the local community. One the site of the Museum. Speciﬁtro della Compagnia. Sponsored Tedesco, Bernstein and Copland, Ferragamo held an exhibition on whole project, and Hollywood that example is the participation of the cally, the Museo Salvatore Ferby the Indian Embassy, River to providing the perfect music backItaly in the 1920s, a period rife is becoming the world’s capital of Director of the Museum in several ragamo intends to represent the River is the world's ﬁrst festival ground to the “Italy in Hollywood” with returns-the return to order, to the ﬂedging movie industry, there congresses and conferences held Group by exhibiting its most imporentirely dedicated to Indian cinema exhibition. craft trade, and to the great Italare characters who were already during the year. tant signiﬁcant items, to pass on and movies about India; ian tradition. The thread running legends, like Rodolfo Valentino, culture within the Group in compli• renewed partnership with the In 2018, the Group continued through the exhibition curated Enrico Caruso, and Lina Cavalieri; ance with the Brand’s identity, to 11th edition of Lo Schermo working together with leading Italby Carlo Sisi was Salvatore Fermovies that marked an era, like create a sense of belonging, to dell’Arte Film Festival. This oneian cultural institutions such as ragamo's transatlantic crossing, Cabiria, Romola and Ben-Hur; the train and spread business culture of-a-kind project in Italy dedicated Museimpresa, the Italian associataken as a metaphor of his mental Star System and great directors; to the local community where the to the multiple interactions betion of company museums and arjourney through the visual culture the important role played by ItalGroup operates and, ﬁnally, to intween cinema and contemporary chives, the Portal of the 20th Cenof 1920s Italy-putting the topics ian musicians in the birth of jazz teract with other institutions. In art featured avant-garde ﬁlms and tury Fashion Archives at Rome's and works that inﬂuenced him on music; and the many Italians who, 2018, the Museum cooperated documentaries, including several State Archive, ANAI (the Italian display. The exhibition had over in working “behind the scenes”, with institutions, schools and uniItalian and world premieres; National Association of Archivists) 45,200 visitors from May 2017 to made an essential contribution versities throughout Italy, some• partnership with the 2018 Indoand Europeana Fashion, the EuMay 2018. During the exhibition, to the creation of the Hollywood times offering reduced-price entry nesian Film Festival held in Florropean digital library to which the Fondazione Ferragamo, in collabomyth. A complex tale made of tickets to the Museum and organence in October; Salvatore Ferragamo Group subration with the Museo Salvatore words and images of the most izing special tours. Here below are • partnership with Museimpresa to mitted more than 1,000 records Ferragamo, realized an education diverse shapes and colors: this is the main initiatives in this area: participate in the 17th edition of of historic footwear. The Museo program including guided visits the set where the exciting crea• renewed partnership with France the Week of Business Culture, durSalvatore Ferragamo is part of and different activities dedicattive adventure of the “Shoemaker Odeon, the French ﬁlm festival ing which a workshop on sustainICOM (International Council of ed to primary and middle school, of Dreams” in America begins. The 70 Sustainability Report 2018 71 72 Sustainability Report 2018 73 FONDAZIONE FERRAGAMO Amongst the other activities, FonFlorence's schools, the Foundawith Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A. dazione Ferragamo hosts “Worktion also participated in the Italian on the renovation, decoration FONDAZIONE FERRAGAMO IN FIGURES shops of ideas and creativity” for ministerial Work-Based Learning and embellishment of workspaces, children, teenagers and families program by offering high-school both by selecting existing ﬁxtures dedicated to artisan skills, fashion, students an inside view of how a and ﬁttings and designing new and design. To celebrate holidays company archive is managed and ones as well as evaluating spaces or events concerning children, the the chance of contributing to its and preparing speciﬁc projects. over 1,700 ≈ 15,000 Museum organizes learning activities or guided tours for the whole implementation. In 2018, the Foundation welcomed students from family to make adults and children two high schools in Florence. The HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS PARTICIPATING MODELS OF SHOES STORED IN THE work together. In addition, the class from Liceo Classico MichelIN CONFERENCES (AS FROM 2013) ARCHIVE Foundation develops the project angiolo took part in two training Fabulous Museums , which was projects: Story Telling Ferragamo, launched in 2013 and offers tours thanks to which the students prein Italian and English allowing famipared the gallery texts for the “It≈ 630 ≈ 6,000 lies to discover Florence's main cultural landmarks, including the aly in Hollywood” exhibition hosted at the Museo Salvatore FerragaMuseo Salvatore Ferragamo. mo and Business Archive, an acADULTS PARTICIPATING IN CHILDREN PARTICIPATING IN tivity dedicated to the digitization, WORKSHOPS IN 2018 WORKSHOPS SINCE 2013 In November 2018, the Foundacataloguing and refurbishment of tion presented its educational the photographic materials, both workshops at the Dreamers event physical and digital, relating to the in Turin, inviting the youngest parCompany’s advertising campaigns ticipants to imagine the future of and catalogues of the 1990s. fashion starting from mannequins, The class from Liceo Scientiﬁco The Ferragamo Family set up Fonheterogeneous funds that are imFoundation has been regularly dowooden shapes and sustainable Niccolò Rodolico took part in the dazione Ferragamo on 15 March plemented each day. The Archive nating some publications considcolors and materials. The two Business Archive project digitiz2013 to promote craftsmanship allows to protect and promote ered to be of particular interest workshops called “The shoe of my ing, cataloguing and refurbishing and Made in Italy products as well the Salvatore Ferragamo Group's but marked for disposal because dreams” and “Eco-atelier” were materials relating to the fashion as invest in the education and historical-artistic heritage, which they did not contain any articles part of the more extensive topic shows in the 1990s. training of those seeking a career represents the memory of an enabout the Group, to the libraries of of the event, dedicated to Rein the world of fashion, design, and tire industrial and social culture. It Florence’s Polimoda Institute and Wear and sustainability in fashion. The activities organized by the the most elegant and artistic forms is a constant source for inspiration Florence’s Istituto Marangoni. Foundation are directed also to of Italian craft, in keeping with the that is consistent with the Brand's The Foundation and the Museo the Company’s employees and values and style of Salvatore Feridentity, as it preserves its history As in previous years, the FoundaSalvatore Ferragamo participated to their families. In 2018, the Muragamo's works. To achieve these and inﬂuences the communication tion collaborated in the competiin the three-day festival “The Florseum hosted an event for the goals, the Foundation intends to and work of the designers and tion “Blogs & Crafts: young artience of Children. Inventiveness , children of Salvatore Ferragamo protect and promote Ferragamo's marketers developing new prodsans and the web”, promoted by which featured special events proS.p.A.’s employees, allowing them Historical Archive, sponsor and ucts. As a testament to its efﬁcienArtigianato e Palazzo now in its moted by the Municipality of Florto visit the place where their parhost fashion training courses, and cy and functionality, the cataloging 5th edition, which supports the ence and organized by MUS.E. ents work, visit the exhibition and provide scholarships and grants, in system used by the Historical Arnew generations of artisans and Children had the opportunity to learn about the values that charpartnership with the Museo Salvachive was taken as a case history increases their visibility online and explore 9 thematic cities in 10 loacterize the Brand's history. tore Ferragamo. The Foundation for the project of the Portal of the on social media, for a productive cations across Florence offering Moreover, Fondazione Ferragamo regularly holds conferences and 20th Century Fashion Archives as combination of “knowing how to workshops, music, art, opportuniorganizes induction days for new events open to the residents of well as for the Europeana Fashion do” and “knowing how to commuties for meeting new people, and employees and designers of the Florence and the general public, portal. nicate”. In May 2018, a selection spaces for creating. “The invenGroup, at which Salvatore Ferraglearning workshops for children, of 10 artisans aged under 35 had tiveness atelier” was organized for amo’s Brand Heritage is presentand various kinds of initiatives for In addition, in January 2017, the the chance to exhibit for free their this occasion at Le Murate comed by the Director of the Museum the young-the main beneﬁciaries Foundation launched a project to products in an area dedicated to plex, proposing 5 different workand of the Foundation, and a guidof an institution that considers manage, dispose of and digitize them in Giardini Corsini in Florshops dedicated to fashion. Chiled tour of the exhibition currently handing down technical expertise press clippings dedicated to Salence, at the 24th edition of Artigdren and teenagers were able to featured at the Museo Salvatore and educating people to experivatore Ferragamo and the Group. ianato e Palazzo . The ten young develop original collections, protoFerragamo and a visit to the Founment one of its main goals. In 2018, the control of national and talents selected during the competype shoes of the future and coldation and the Historical Archive international newspapers was comtition were also invited to visit the lage scarves inspired by art and is offered. Fondazione Ferragamo is at the pleted, with a total of 6,491 magaCompany’s Museum and Historical the city of Florence. Finally, since 2016, the Foundaforefront in managing and protectzines examined and 5,538 articles Archive. As part of its efforts to support tion has been working together ing its archive, which is made up of mentioning Ferragamo found. The 74 Sustainability Report 2018 75 76 Sustainability Report 2018 77 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Responsible consumption Emissions monitoring Green initiatives “As today real luxury combines with a low environmental impact, the Florence-based Brand, guided by its genetic far-sighted approach, has created “Rainbow Future”, the ﬁrst sandal inspired by sustainability principles”. Vogue Italia 78 79 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT The international development of the Brand and the increasing global awareness of the importance of preserving the environment in which we live have ensured that sustainability has become a real corporate objective, both in strategy and in governance and business management models. To protect the environment, the Group aims to positively contribute to safeguarding it through strategies and initiatives intended to minimize the environmental impact of its operations. In 2017, the Group adopted a Sustainability Policy including a special section that formalizes its commitment to protecting the environment and ecosystems. Speciﬁcally, the Salvatore Ferragamo Group strives to curb the consumption of materials such as paper and plastic, using certiﬁcated and traceable alternative sources instead, and to monitor the efﬁciency of energy and water use by measuring and evaluating greenhouse gas emissions, so as to help reduce environmental impacts. In addition, the Group also seeks to constantly improve its environmental efﬁciency and use renewable energy sources. The Company has adopted multiple Management Systems for monitoring emissions and using energy sources responsibly. In 2018, ISO 50001:2011 certiﬁcation was obtained for the Osmannoro site and the process was started to obtain ISO 140001:2015 certiﬁcation for the same site. To Salvatore Ferragamo, protecting the environment means also promoting sustainable mobility initiatives for its employees as well as monitoring the retail area's consumption and impacts. THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP IN 2018 396 kWp B ≈ 3,200 CAPACITY INSTALLED AT THE SCORE OBTAINED BY THE PARENT PHOTOVOLTAIC PANELS INSTALLED OSMANNORO PHOTOVOLTAIC PLANT COMPANY IN THE CARBON ON THE NEW LOGISTICS HUB DISCLOSURE PROJECT LEED ISO ISO Gold 14064 50001 FOR THE HISTORIC STORE IN FOR THE OSMANNORO SITE AND FOR FOR THE OSMANNORO SITE COPLEY PLACE, BOSTON THE OFFICES IN CORSO MATTEOTTI, MILAN 80 Sustainability Report 2018 81 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION4 In 2018 the Salvatore Ferragamo of electricity consumption. In addiIn addition, the Group is commitSalvatore Ferragamo, in keeping for clothing, are Made in Italy, too, from renewable plant sources that Group’s natural gas consumption tion, the Osmannoro site has been ted to reducing the production with responsible management of and made of 100% cotton. Also, can be disposed of as organic was 10,787 GJ. Electricity conequipped with a computerized sysof waste arising from its operaits business, is strongly commitfor the packaging of the Ferragwaste together with animal and sumption stood instead at 108,511 tem, the Building Management tions. The Group raises awareted to reducing the consumption amo's Creations line, which is fully vegetable food scraps, since it is GJ. In relation to the consumption System (BMS), which makes it ness among its employees about of materials such as paper and Made in Italy and recyclable, FSC compostable and biodegradable. of non-renewable fuel, i.e. diesel possible to control and monitor the properly managing and disposing plastic. paper has been used since 2016. Finally, as for non-packaging mateand petrol, this stood at 9,058 GJ mechanical and electrical systems, of garbage, encouraging to reuse For this line too, the packaging of rials such as catalogs, invitations, in 2018. As for the Italian scope, such as for example the microcliand recycle materials as well as Since 2014 Salvatore Ferragamo the “Rainbow Future” capsule colleaﬂets, stationery and, in gen100% of the energy used comes mate and lighting, on the basis of minimize waste. Waste production has been using institutional Made lection consists of special paper eral, printed materials, the Group from renewables and is certiﬁed the quantity of natural light comin 2018 stood at 1,051 tons (of in Italy packaging made with FSC made up of 30% recycled celluis placing increasing emphasis on as green energy by Enel. The soing from outside. which 99.4% was non-hazardous (Forest Stewardship Council) palose, 25% leather sub-products, ensuring that they are made with lar power plant at the Osmannoro waste and the remaining 0.6% per that is recyclable, biodegradand recycled cardboard, and FSC certiﬁed paper, inks and prosite can produce 396 kWp: thanks The Group promotes a sensible was hazardous waste)6. Among able, and post-consumer. FSC is produced using 100% green cesses that do not negatively imto the photovoltaic panels the and responsible use of the wathe waste produced in the year, certiﬁcation bears witness to corenergy. pact the environment, integrating electricity self-produced by the ter for employees’ domestic and 8.6% was recycled, 0.2% was inrect forest management and the this goal in the Sustainability Plan. Company is 1,107 GJ. With a view hygiene-sanitary purposes. During cinerated, 22.2% was treated in traceability of the derived prodThe Group's environmental goals, Finally, in order to promote better to energy efﬁciency, during 2018 2018 water consumption in relawaste tips and the remaining 69% ucts and guarantees that the set out in the Sustainability Plan, informed use of printers and to reSalvatore Ferragamo arranged to tion to the Group’s ofﬁces alone through other disposal methods. product has been made with raw include extending the use of FSCduce paper consumption, in 2018 install multimeters throughout the was 39,544 m³ (of which 56% materials taken from forests mancertiﬁed and post-consumer pathe Company started an awareOsmannoro site, in order to allow from aqueducts, 2% from aquifers aged in accordance with sustainper for packaging purposes to ness-raising campaign for employprecise and structured recording and 42% from surface water)5. ability principles. “Post-consumer” other product categories. In seees on more responsible consumppaper consists for 40% of ﬁbers lecting its packaging suppliers, tion of printed paper, setting all the recycled post-consumption and Salvatore Ferragamo veriﬁes multifunction printers to Secure for the remainder of pure ECF that not only they are based loPrint with black/white and printing THE SALVATORE FERRAGAMO GROUP IN FIGURES on both sides as default settings. (Elementary Chlorine Free) cellucally, which is the main guarantee 2018 2017 lose. These characteristics make of Made in Italy quality, but they it possible to use the related symalso have important certiﬁcations NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (GJ) 10,787 11,963 bols on corporate and outlet packsuch as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (GJ)7 108,511 89,334 aging and Museo shopping bags. SA8000, OHSAS 18001, GOTS, The bags used for products such OEKO-TEX and BCI. In addition, NON-RENEWABLE FUEL CONSUMPTION (GJ) 9,058 9,266 as footwear, bags and accessofor e-commerce packaging, the ries, as well as the covers used Company uses bubble wrap made TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) 128,356 110,563 4 On the basis of their availably and materiality, the data for 2017 and 2018 have the following limitations: as for energy consumption, on the basis of the scope under consideration, approximately a 3,000 headcount in both 2017 and 2018: MATERIALS CONSUMPTION (Kg) 2018 2017 natural gas consumption covered 82% and 83% of the scope in 2017 and 2018, respectively; electricity consumption covered 82% and 91% of the scope in 2017 and 2018, respectively; A3 PAPER 2,725 3,175 non-renewable consumption covered 88% and 83% of the scope in 2017 and 2018, respectively. as for water consumption and waste production, on the basis of the scope under consideration and set out in the Methodology section, approximately a 3,000 headcount in 2017 and 1,300 in 2018: A4 PAPER 32,980 31,988 water consumption covered 68% and 80% of the scope in 2017 and 2018, respectively; the production of waste covered 64% and 77% of the scope in 2017 and 2018, respectively. 5 PAPER FOR SHOPPING BAGS 361,179 392,049 In 2017, water consumption, for the scope under consideration with approximately a 3,000 headcount, covered 68% of the scope and stood at 257,860 m3. 92.3% of water extraction was from aqueducts, 0.3% from aquifers and 7.4% from surface water. The figure for 2017 recasted in accordance with the same methodologies used in 2018 (exclusion of the stores from the reporting scope) would be around CLOTHES HANGERS 4,221 5,476 40,000 m3, of which 49% from aqueducts, 2% from aquifers and 49% from surface waters. 6 In 2017, the production of waste, for the scope under consideration of around 3,000 headcounts, accounted for 64% of the scope and stood at 1,159 tons, of which 99.7% was non-hazardous waste and the remaining 0.3% hazardous waste. Of this, 19.5% was recycled, 9.1% treated in tips and the remaining 71.4% through other disposal methods. The figure for 2017 recasted in accordance with the same methodologies applied in 2018 (exclusion of the stores from the reporting scope) would be around 950 tons, of which 99.6% non-hazardous waste and the remaining 0.4% hazardous waste. Of this, 10% was recycled, 4% treated in waste tips and the remaining 86% through other disposal methods. The figures for 2017 and 2018 are directly provided by the companies which handle waste disposal. 7 The increase in electricity consumption recorded in 2018 is due to the improvement in the data collection process and the related methods for making estimates. For some Group stores, the data relating to consumption provided in this chapter are hard to source given the location of the stores, the nature of their activities and the indirect management of these types of data. Finally, some data could be based on estimates or calculations. 82 Sustainability Report 2018 83 MONITORING OF EMISSIONS8 In addition, with a view to reducing initiative was ﬁnancing and buildinitiative reduces commuting CO2 CARBON FOOTPRINT 2018 2017 the environmental impact linked to ing the Parco delle Idee (Park emissions. This year, the carpoolthe supply chain, an initiative was of Ideas) on land owned by the ing service has been integrated SCOPE 1 Direct emissions (t CO2 eq) 1,034 1,327 launched which promotes the reUniversity of Florence at Sesto by Bici&Piedi, which makes it posuse of cardboard boxes by footFiorentino's Science Campus. In sible for anyone coming to work wear manufacturers in order to 2017 the project involved planting on foot or by bike to take part in SCOPE 2 Indirect emissions associated with electricity generation (t CO2) 12,517 10,404 reduce CO2 emissions from the approximately 230 native trees, the initiatives and to reduce CO2 (location based) production of cardboard. The pilot also with the help of some of emissions. In addition, with the aim project, which started in 2016, led the Parent company's employees, of incentivizing sustainable transSCOPE 3 Indirect emissions not attributable to the product and, 2,832 3,132 to a saving of over 19 tons of CO2 and was made possible thanks to port and the use of JoJob, prize in particular, linked to business travel (t CO2 eq) thanks to emissions avoided for the partnerships with local insticompetitions were organized, both the production of new cardboard tutions and entities such as Lifefor carpooling and for Bici&Piedi. boxes. Gate, Carbonsink, and the DepartIn 2018, a total of 60,552.70 km ment of Agri-Food Production and were travelled in 3,912 trips in Climate changes due to manaround 25% compared to 2017, best international practices in the In 2018 the agreement with UPS Environmental Sciences. The procarpooling, by bike and on foot, made greenhouse gas emissions and relates to almost all the transmanagement, measurement and continued to offset all the emisject will bring several social and which made it possible to save have been identiﬁed as one of porters that work with Salvaveriﬁcation of data and informasions caused by deliveries in Euenvironmental beneﬁts: from an around 4,700 kg of CO2. Always the main challenges that nations, tore Ferragamo. Concerning the tion in reference to greenhouse rope and the United States of improved air quality, with positive to promote sustainable mobility, governments, economic systems Group's other entities, the availagas emissions, and its extension products ordered through eComimplications for public health, to a the Group held a bike to work day, and citizens will have to face in ble data reveals that the subsidiarrepresented important progress merce. This offset takes place by new green area that will promote showing employees the safest bicoming decades and consumers ies made over 320,000 shipments in the path of continuous improveadhering to carbon neutral prolocal biodiversity and enhance the cycle route from downtown Florare increasingly aware that they for a total of more than 4,500 tons ment towards ever higher sustainjects and in 2018 over 27 tons of urban landscape, and it will give loence to the Osmannoro site. can inﬂuence the way the market of goods transported. ability standards. CO2 eq. were offset. cal schools the opportunity to conworks, by paying greater attention duct play-based learning activities Finally, in 2018 the Group conto products, services and activities In order to facilitate the developFinally, again with a view to moniIn order to reduce CO2 emissions in the ﬁeld of biology, ecology, and ﬁrmed the preferential agreements with a lower environmental impact. ment and implementation of plans toring greenhouse gas emissions, from the delivery of goods and nature preservation. Through the for its employees with car and moto manage greenhouse gases by in 2018 the Rainbow Future sanproducts over a short distance, in methodology approved and rectorcycle manufacturers that offer In order to respond to the needs of the organization itself, in 2018 Saldal was presented which obtained 2018 the collaboration continued ognized by the UNFCCC (United hybrid or electric vehicles and car its stakeholders, the reduction in vatore Ferragamo extended the the ISO 14067:2013 certiﬁcation, with UBM bike couriers for delivNations Framework Convention sharing services. Again in 2018, greenhouse gas emissions and the ISO 14064:2012 certiﬁcation to by virtue of which it is possible eries in Milan. Again, to the same on Climate Change), starting from in order to assess solutions to imcalculation of the carbon footprint the Osmannoro site and to the ofto quantify the emissions due to end, collaboration was started the species’ biomass it was posprove and speed up travel, thus have a central role in the commitﬁces located in Corso Matteotti in its manufacture and offset them with Ecopony, a bicycle delivery sible to estimate the quantity of also reducing the related environment adopted to reduce the enviMilan. The certiﬁcation, which was through reforestation projects, service which enables Salvatore carbon dioxide so far absorbed mental impact, a questionnaire ronmental impact; in this context already obtained in May 2016 for thus making the sandal carbon Ferragamo to transport products by the trees in the Park of Ideas, was given out relating to the possiduring 2018 the Group continued Museo Salvatore Ferragamo, the neutral. With the support of Treeto its boutique in Florence with no at around 1,400 Kg of absorbed ble provision of a company shuttle, the process to deﬁne its own carﬁrst green company museum in dom, 100 orange trees were plantenvironmental impact. CO2. This estimate was made which would enable connection of bon footprint. This measurement, Italy, and in 2017 for Palazzo Spini ed in the countryside around Cathrough non-destructive methods the T2 tramway stop in Florence for deliveries by sea, rail and road Feroni, aims to quantify the greentania, in the context of sustainable Since 2017, bearing witness to the using allometric equations, which to the Osmannoro site. The Comfrom the Parent company’s warehouse gas emissions connected to manufacture of high-quality prodGroup’s commitment to reduce make it possible to determine biopany is assessing the insights that house to the regional warehouses the activities carried out. Obtainucts, made with methods which environmental impacts, the Parmass on the basis of diameter. In emerged in order to propose satisand stores and European customing the ISO 14064 certiﬁcation, respect the environment. ent company has voluntarily tak2018 the Company supported the factory solutions that can help its ers, stood at around 15,600 tons as speciﬁed in the related Policy, en part in the Carbon Disclosure maintenance of the Park and will employees. of CO2 eq Well-to-Wheels, down by makes it possible to deﬁne the Project (CDP) to report on CO2 continue this also in 2019. emissions. The goal of the CDP is to promote transparency about The search for sustainable mobil8 On the basis of the availability and the materiality of the data, the scope under consideration, with approximately a 3,000 headcount in both 2017 and 2018, the emissions generated by busiity solution is another key part of has the following limitations: nesses, cities, states, and regions, the Group's sustainability vision. the emissions from natural gas and from non renewable feul consumption (SCOPE 1) and electricity consumption (SCOPE 2) covered the same scopes set allowing anyone to obtain informaIn Italy, Salvatore Ferragamo has out in the note on page 82; tion on the environmental impacts appointed a mobility manager to the emissions related to rail business travel (SCOPE 3) covered 80% and 82% of the scope in 2017 and 2018, respectively; of each of these entities. The asoptimize employee travel and prothe emissions related to air business travel (SCOPE 3) covered 80% and 81% of the scope in 2017 and 2018, respectively. sessment was conducted for the mote solutions allowing to curb In 2018 SCOPE 2 market-based emissions totaled 9,687 tons of CO2. The data relating to SCOPE 2 market-based emissions for 2017 has not been provided, “Climate Change” section through environmental impacts. In 2018 since it was not provided for by GRI-G4. a comprehensive survey on emisthe collaboration with JoJob conTo calculate the SCOPE 1 and SCOPE 3 emissions, the factors used, respectively for 2017 and 2018, are those published by the Department for Business, sions and consumption. For two tinued, an innovative company Energy & Industrial Strategy in 2017 and 2018. consecutive years Salvatore Fercarpooling service which makes it To calculate SCOPE 2 location-based emissions, the factors used, respectively for 2017 and 2018, are those published by Terna referring to 2015 and 2016. To calculate SCOPE 2 market-based emissions for 2018, for European countries, excluding Austria, the factors used are those published by the AIB (Association ragamo received a score of B, possible to share a car with work of Issuing Bodies) in 2018, while for non-European countries and Austria the data used were those published by Terna in reference to 2016. which is a very positive result. colleagues or with employees of SCOPE 2 emissions are expressed in tons of CO2; however, it is speciﬁed that the percentage of methane and nitrous oxide has a negligible effect on total companies nearby. Besides gengreenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalent), as can be seen from the technical literature. Another environmental protection erating economic savings, the 86 Sustainability Report 2018 87 88 Sustainability Report 2018 89 GREEN INITIATIVES As evidence of its commitment tioning of the useable areas takes achievement of the objectives deto efﬁciency and protecting the place through radiant ﬂooring. ﬁned in the Policy, such the comenvironment, in recent years the The site will feature a photovolmitment to projects aimed at imGroup has endeavored to obtain taic plant with a peak capacity proving energy performance, the the most important environmental of 863.50 kWp and consisting of dissemination within the company certiﬁcations for its facilities. approximately 3,200 solar panels, of the objectives of the Energy resulting in a net 5,350 sq. m. inManagement System and the reAt the Osmannoro site in 2018 stalled surface area. In addition, lated implementation programs, construction was completed of adjustments were implemented the optimization of the use of enthe new Salvatore Ferragamo that are coherent with the LEED ergy resources and the increase in Logistics Hub, a building of around standard, for both mechanical the use of alternative and renew20,000 sq.m. consisting of a new and electric systems, such as the able energy sources. The certiﬁcagatehouse, a new warehouse and use of lamps which minimize light tion will also be extended to some all the outside areas whether used pollution. Finally, a commissioning stores of the retail area over the for greenery or for the new road process was designed aimed at next few years. system. Right from the design optimizing comfort and reducing stages, the project has followed consumption, as well as thoroughthe process for LEED certiﬁcation ly analyzing the efﬁciency of plant with the aim of reaching the highperformance. est possible level, Platinum, which was already obtained in 2016 by The commitment to obtain certithe Q building of the Osmannoro ﬁcations also involved the retail site. The hub project envisaged area: in October 2017 the historic revision of the access and transstore in Canton Road in Hong Kong port system within the facility in obtained the LEED Gold certiﬁcaaccordance with the concepts of tion, followed by the LEED Silver path simpliﬁcation and rationalizacertiﬁcation for the Troy store in tion. In addition, it is planned to reMichigan in December 2017 and store the outside areas through the the LEED Gold certiﬁcation for the creation of a green area of around Copley Place store in Boston in 8,000 sq.m., an open green space April 2018. In addition, the Group designed to improve the comfort has undertaken, as conﬁrmed in and external environment for the the Sustainability Plan, to certify Company’s employees. In addiother stores in the coming years. tion to the 475 parking spaces in the garage, Salvatore Ferragamo Concerning the retail area, in 2017 has designated 25 spaces for lowCamera Nazionale della Moda Italiemission vehicles to promote the ana (CNMI, the Italian Chamber of use of alternative means of transFashion) issued the “CNMI Retail portation. In addition, thanks to Sustainability Standards”. These numerous adjustments in the techguidelines concern sustainable denical systems, water consumption sign techniques for fashion retail has been optimized, leading to a operations, and Salvatore Ferrag50% reduction in total water conamo actively contributed to develsumption for irrigation and a 100% oping them by participating in the reduction in the consumption of CNMI's Sustainability Workgroup. drinking water. The electrical and mechanical systems have been Finally, in 2018 the Company designed to minimize light polluachieved the ISO 50001 certiﬁcation, and the property will feature tion for the Osmannoro site, which a BMS (Building Management Sysspeciﬁes the requirements to estem) allowing to regulate mechanitablish, implement, maintain and cal systems as well as monitor and improve a more efﬁcient and susmanage electrical ones. In order to tainable management of energy. optimize consumption and staff Through a systemic approach, the comfort, heating and air-condicertiﬁcation aims to facilitate the 90 Sustainability Report 2018 METHODOLOGY This document represents the environmental point of view. This Reporting Initiative Sustainability Speciﬁcally, the Sustainability now. As regards culture and the Policy which will be implemented second Consolidated Non-Finanreporting scope accounts for over Reporting Standards”, deﬁned in Plan, which includes four macrolocal community, the Group directs in the future. cial Statement (hereinafter also 70% of the Group's headcount. In 2016 by the Global Reporting Iniareas and multiple objectives, designiﬁcant attention and resources referred to as “NFS” or “Sustainaddition, it is noted that, in refertiative (GRI), Core option. At the ﬁnes the Salvatore Ferragamo to developing artistic and cultural Anti-Corruption and Bribery ability Report”) pursuant to Italian ence to stores, the data on water end of the document, the Group Group's strategic vision on susinitiatives in line with the Charity Matters Legislative Decree no. 254 of 30 consumption and waste produchas included an index listing the tainability and will guide the shortPolicy it has been adopting for To make its operations as transDecember 2016 implementing Dition for 2018 was not disclosed reported GRI indicators along with and medium-term actions of the several years now. As for health parent as possible, in accordance rective 2014/95/EU of the compasince not considered material. The the relevant page numbers. This Group. To this end, below are the and safety, the Group is placing with ethical and compliance standnies belonging to the group consistchapter “Culture and Participadocument is to be published anobjectives which have already growing emphasis on this topic; ards, during 2017 the Group ﬁing of Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A. tion” includes data and informanually in accordance with Italian been achieved and those yet to the Italian administrative ofﬁces nalized an Anti-Corruption Policy. and its subsidiaries (hereinafter tion relating to Fondazione FerragLeg. Decree 254/16. For informabe reached relating to the various and stores of Salvatore FerragaIn addition, the Group relies on a also referred to as the “Group” amo which, although not included tion on the Consolidated Non-Fitopics considered as material. mo S.p.A. are OHSAS 18001-cerwhistleblowing system and in 2018 or “Salvatore Ferragamo Group”) in the scope of consolidation of nancial Statement, please contact tiﬁed. This aspect is also imporimplemented a Group Whistleblowfor the period from 1 January to the Salvatore Ferragamo Group, csr@ferragamo.com. This SustainEnvironment tant along the whole supply chain: ing Policy. For further information 31 December 2018. In compliance plays a signiﬁcant role in the way ability Report is also available in The Group considers protecting as a matter of fact, during 2018 on the initiatives undertaken by with Art. 5 of Italian Leg. Decree the Group has an impact on socithe sustainability section of the the environment in which it operthe Group further strengthened the Salvatore Ferragamo Group, 254/16, this document is a sepaety. Anyway of disclosing quanGroup's website (https://csr.ferates to be key: to this end, it is the health and safety audit activion the main risks generated or rate report with speciﬁc denominatitative data other than what is ragamo.com/en). This document committed to implementing initiaties undertaken on its suppliers. faced, including the relevant mantion in order to consider it as the mentioned above as for the data was submitted to the Control and tives to make its ofﬁces increasFinally, the Group acknowledges agement procedures and objecNFS required by the law. The NFS boundary is expressly indicated Risk Committee and subsequentingly environmentally sustainable the intrinsic value of each person tives, reference should be made was prepared to ensure the underin speciﬁc notes. In addition, in orly approved by the Board of Diand efﬁcient as well as optimize and constantly strives to ensure to the relevant sections in this standing of the Group's operations der to present fairly the Group's rectors of Salvatore Ferragamo production processes throughout respect for human rights both document. performance, results, and impact, performance and ensure data reS.p.A. on 12 March 2019. The the supply chain. Palazzo Spini within the Group and throughout addressing the topics considered liability, the use of estimates has cross-functional working group Feroni, the Osmannoro site and the supply chain. These rights are material and set out in Art. 3 and 4 been limited as much as possible. dedicated to sustainability of Salsome ofﬁces in Milan are ISO detailed in the Group’s Code of of Italian Leg. Decree 254/16. Any estimates in this document vatore Ferragamo S.p.A. man14064 certiﬁed and, at the end Ethics and, as regards the supply are made using the best available aged data and information gatherof 2018, the Osmannoro site also chain, are included in the Supplier The contents have been selected methods and expressly indicated. ing and processing, through forms obtained the ISO 50001 certiﬁcaCode of Conduct, which was apbased on a structured analysis of Where possible, the information sent to the heads of the Group's tion. In addition, during 2018, the proved by the Board of Directors materiality, which was updated in contained in the NFS has been functions concerned and included Rainbow Future sandal, a new in 2018 and will be disseminated in 2018 and made it possible to idenprovided along with a comparison in the relevant scope. The entity version of an iconic sandal by the the future. In addition, the Parent tify the most important sustainto the year 2017. Recasting of engaged to the limited assurance Brand produced in a limited edicompany has started its own proability issues for the Group and previously disclosed comparative of this NFS is Deloitte & Touche tion, obtained the ISO 14067 certicess to obtain the SA8000 certiits stakeholders, as detailed in the data relating to 2017 are clearly S.p.A., which certiﬁes the compliﬁcation. The Group intends to conﬁcation. section “Stakeholders and mateindicated as such in the docuance of the information provided tinue its commitment dedicating riality”. In addition, in order to dement. Finally, for the sake of unherein with Art. 3, paragraph 10 greater attention and resources Employee-Related Matters ﬁne the contents, reference was derstanding of the information of Italian Leg. Decree 254/16 in to the environment optimizing and The Group has always been comalso made to the provisions of the contained herein, please note that a separate report. The limited asmaking consumption and greenmitted to promoting and maxiEuropean Commission’s “Guidethe following terms are used in the surance engagement was conhouse gas emissions more efﬁmizing the potential of its human lines on Non-Financial Reporting”. document: ducted in accordance with the cient, both for the Group’s ofﬁces resources as well as offering a The scope of economic data is • “the Group” refers to the Salvaprocedures outlined in the secand stores, and continuing the prostimulating, healthy and safe work the same as for the Group’s Contore Ferragamo Group (“Group” tion of this document “Independcess to obtain certiﬁcations. environment, in accordance with solidated Financial Statements for means the Parent Company Salent Auditor's Report”. Since the corporate welfare principles. The 2018; the scope of the social and vatore Ferragamo S.p.A. and the very beginning, the Salvatore FerSocial Matters and Respect for care and attention for employees environmental data information subsidiaries consolidated on a lineragamo Group has always conHuman Rights are outlined not only in the Group’s consists of companies included on by-line basis); sidered sustainability as a model To provide customers with prodSustainability Policy, but also in the a line-by-line basis in the Consoli• “Salvatore Ferragamo”, “the of conduct to follow without any ucts that meet the highest interCompany Regulation available at dated Financial Statements. NoneCompany”, “the Parent Compacompromises, and it has achieved national safety standards, the Parent company level and in the theless, it is noted that in reference ny refer to Salvatore Ferragamo signiﬁcant results in this area over Group has adopted Restricted process undertaken by Salvatore to the information and data relating S.p.A.; the years. In order to reinforce its Substances Lists for the different Ferragamo S.p.A. to obtain the to environmental issues, in line with • “Italy” refers to the main area of commitment, in 2017 the Group product categories and has been SA8000 certiﬁcation. In addition, 2017, also during 2018 an analysis business of Salvatore Ferragamo developed a Sustainability Policy conducting eco-toxicological tests to conﬁrm the importance of the was undertaken in order to identiS.p.A. and Ferragamo Parfums as well as a continuous improveon numerous components and ﬁnprinciple of inclusion, during 2018 fy the stores which are considered S.p.A., unless otherwise speciﬁed; ment program through a 2020 ished products for several years the Group drafted an Inclusion important to ensure the neces• “Ferragamo” refers to the SalvaSustainability Plan, which has sary understanding of the Group’s tore Ferragamo Brand. been updated during 2018. Both business, its performance, results The NFS has been prepared documents were submitted to We wish to thank all the Group's functions and the employees involved in the development and preparation of this and the impact produced from the in accordance with the “Global the Control and Risk Committee. Sustainability Report. 92 Sustainability Report 2018 93 ANNEXES TOTAL EMPLOYEES BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER10 2018 2017 2018 2017 No. people Men Women Tot Men Women Tot No. people Men Women Tot Men Women Tot Employees 1,371 2,857 4,228 1,327 2,856 4.183 Full Time 1,312 2,610 3,922 1,266 2,594 3,860 BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, GENDER AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA9 Part Time 59 247 306 61 262 323 2018 Total 1,371 2,857 4,228 1,327 2,856 4,183 TEMPORARY CONTRACTS PERMANENT CONTRACTS BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY TYPE (HEADQUARTERS AND RETAIL), AGE GROUP AND GENDER No. people Men Women Tot Men Women Tot 2018 Parent Company 37 45 82 374 518 892 No. people <30 30-50 >50 Tot Europe 25 60 85 115 217 332 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women North America 26 52 78 263 295 558 Headquarters 49 99 366 560 111 116 526 775 Retail 322 658 443 1,274 80 150 845 2,082 Central and South America 12 1 13 107 92 199 Total 371 757 809 1,834 191 266 1,371 2,857 Asia Paciﬁc 9 44 53 312 1,216 1,528 EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED A PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY AND Japan 7 15 22 84 302 386 GENDER Total 116 217 333 1,255 2,640 3,895 2018 2017 BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AND AGE GROUP Percentage Men Women Tot Men Women Tot 2018 2017 Managers 91.5% 93.4% 92.7% 89.1% 89.5% 89.2% <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 White collars 62.7% 69.1% 67.2% 68.4% 72.0% 71.1% N° % N° % N° % N° % N° % N° % Blue collars 39.7% 17.7% 31.5% 47.2% 19.6% 36.8% Managers 19 0.5 574 13.6 136 3.2 25 0.6 598 14.3 139 3.3 Total 64.9% 71.1% 69.1% 69.8% 73.2% 72.1% White collars 1,052 24.9 1,885 44.6 260 6.1 1,079 25.8 1,836 43.9 228 5.5 Blue collars 57 1.3 184 4.4 61 1.4 59 1.4 164 3.9 55 1.3 BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AND GENDER 2018 2017 Men Women Men Women N° % N° % N° % N° % Managers 258 6.1 471 11.1 267 6.4 495 11.9 White collars 924 21.8 2,273 53.8 884 21.1 2,259 54.0 Blue collars 189 4.5 113 2.7 176 4.2 102 2.4 10 The data relating to 2017 has been recasted compared to that published in the previous Sustainability Report in order to guarantee uniform calculation methodologies over the two years. The methodology used corresponds to the requirements of the GRI Standards. 9 This breakdown is required by the GRI Standards and therefore is not available for 2017. For the historic data which has been published previously, reference should be made to the 2017 Sustainability Report. 94 Sustainability Report 2018 95 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA, GENDER AND AGE GROUP Incoming employees 2018 INJURIES No. people <30 30-50 >50 Tot Turnover Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women 2018 2017 Parent Company 29 62 40 41 3 6 72 109 17.5% 19.4% No. of cases Europe 36 65 35 70 1 1 72 136 51.4% 49.1% Injuries 57 66 North America 59 90 27 53 2 12 88 155 30.4% 44.7% (24 for men; 33 for women) (30 for men; 36 for women) Central and Occupational diseases 2 1 20 7 20 8 1 0 41 15 34.5% 16.1% South America (1 for men; 1 for women) (1 for women) Asia Paciﬁc 129 290 85 260 2 6 216 556 67.3% 44.1% HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS11 2018 Japan 6 9 26 48 0 4 32 61 35.2% 19.2% Total 279 523 233 480 9 29 521 1,032 38.0% 36.1% Parent Company Europe North America Outgoing employees 2018 Rates Men Women Tot Men Women Tot Men Women Tot No. people <30 30-50 >50 Tot Turnover Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Lost day rate 7.1 13.0 10.5 1.6 211.5 141.0 5.6 55.4 33.8 Parent Company 22 41 31 46 10 8 63 95 15.3% 16.9% Occupational diseases rate 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Europe 33 51 37 57 0 6 70 114 50.0% 41.2% Injury rate 1.1 1.0 1.1 2.4 5.6 4.5 11.9 4.7 8.0 North America 45 71 53 55 10 12 108 138 37.4% 39.8% Centre and South America Asia Paciﬁc Japan Central and 7 6 16 16 0 0 23 22 19.3% 23.7% South America Rates Men Women Tot Men Women Tot Men Women Tot Asia Paciﬁc 109 279 80 278 1 10 190 567 59.2% 45.0% Lost day rate 0.0 16.4 7.2 96.7 8.7 26.8 197.4 11.1 52.7 Japan 3 11 16 71 4 13 23 95 25.3% 30.0% Occupational diseases rate 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 219 459 233 523 25 49 477 1,031 34.8% 36.1% Incoming employees 2017 Injury rate 0.0 2.2 1.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.3 0.3 No. people <30 30-50 >50 Tot Turnover HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS11 2017 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Parent Company 43 65 29 47 6 5 78 117 19.4% 21.3% Parent Company Europe North America Europe 33 75 43 53 0 2 76 130 55.1% 51.0% Rates Men Women Tot Men Women Tot Men Women Tot North America 70 113 39 60 3 16 112 189 36.2% 57.3% Lost day rate 22.2 17.4 19.4 19.3 217.3 147.8 1.1 10.9 6.2 Central and 14 16 17 14 0 0 31 30 30.7% 30.0% South America Occupational diseases rate 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Asia Paciﬁc 125 322 73 257 0 8 198 587 67.1% 46.2% Injury rate 2.3 1.9 2.0 2.4 3.0 2.8 4.7 5.1 4.9 Japan 6 13 11 56 1 2 18 71 22.0% 20.2% Centre and South America Asia Paciﬁc Japan Total 291 604 212 487 10 33 513 1,124 38.7% 39.4% Rates Men Women Tot Men Women Tot Men Women Tot Outgoing employees 2017 No. people <30 30-50 >50 Tot Turnover Lost day rate 13.9 9.9 11.9 80.7 0.2 15.3 166.3 3.4 34.3 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Occupational diseases rate 0.0 0.8 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Parent Company 24 44 27 40 12 5 63 89 15.7% 16.2% Injury rate 3.3 0.8 2.1 0.6 0.3 0.4 2.7 0.6 1.0 Europe 23 58 34 86 5 5 62 149 44.9% 58.4% North America 54 79 44 65 8 17 106 161 34.3% 48.8% Central and 7 9 18 14 1 4 26 27 25.7% 27.0% 11 The lost day rate is calculated as the ratio of total days lost for occupational diseases or injury to total working hours South America during the same period, multiplied by 200,000. Asia Paciﬁc 108 279 76 309 2 12 186 600 63.1% 47.2% The occupational diseases rate is calculated as the ratio of total occupational diseases to total working hours during the same period, multiplied by 200,000. Japan 2 10 13 57 3 13 18 80 22.0% 22.8% The injury rate is calculated as the ratio of total injuries to total working hours during the same period, multiplied by 200,000. Total 218 479 212 571 31 56 461 1,106 34.7% 38.7% The absentee rate is not currently reported. 96 Sustainability Report 2018 97 TOPICS OF LEG. MATERIAL TOPICS BOUNDARY OF THE MATERIAL TYPE OF IMPACT TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARD LINKAGE 98 DEC. 254/16 TOPICS Responsible use of chemical products Group, suppliers and workers Caused by the Group and directly connected to its Customers health and safety activities Circular economy and responsible Group Caused by the Group N/A innovation Efﬂuent and waste, environmental Environmental responsibility* Group Caused by the Group Environmental compliance Responsible consumption** Group Caused by the Group Water, energy Animal Welfare Group, suppliers and workers Caused by the Group and directly connected to its N/A activities Greenhouse gas emissions Group, logistic distributors Caused by the Group and contributed to by its Emissions activities Sustainable packaging Group Caused by the Group N/A Made in Italy and quality Group, suppliers and workers Caused by the Group and directly connected to its Procurement practices activities Brand image and reputation Group, suppliers and workers Caused by the Group and directly connected to its N/A The following table shows the material aspects identiﬁed for the Salvatore Ferragamo Group and its stakeholders activities Health and safety Group’s employees*** Caused by the Group Occupational health and safety Omnichannel experience e customer Group Caused by the Group N/A satisfaction Social BOUNDARY OF THE GROUP'S Culture of sustainability, governance Group Caused by the Group Socio-economic compliance, anti-competitive and ethical business behavior Security and protection of customers’ Group Caused by the Group Customers privacy data Responsible procurement practices Group, suppliers and workers Caused by the Group and directly connected to its Child labor, forced or compulsory labor activities Commitment to art, culture and Group Caused by the Group Local communities community Attracting and developing employees Group Caused by the Group Employment, training and education Employeerelated Diversity, equal opportunities and Group Caused by the Group Diversity and equal opportunity, non-discrimination non-discrimination Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Employees of the Group, suppliers Caused by the Group Anti-corruption and bribary and workers matters through the materiality analysis, grouped into the areas identiﬁed by Leg. Decree 254/16, the related scope, the Respect of Respect of human rights Group, suppliers and workers Caused by the Group and directly connected to its Child labor, forced or compulsory labor human rights activities N/A Operating and ﬁnancial performance Group Caused by the Group Economic performance * The scope of the information reported in relation to waste production and management is limited to the Group’s ofﬁces. ** The scope of the information reported in relation to water consumption is limited to the Group’s ofﬁces. ***The Group will further assess signiﬁcance in relation to other workers who are not employees starting from the next reporting period, MATERIAL TOPICS in order to assess the need to collect data from employers of external collaborators and suppliers who work at the Group’s sites and/or under the control of the Group, assessing the quality and the accuracy of this data over which the Group does not have direct control. type of impact and the related topic-speciﬁc Standard. CODE GRI 102-9 GRI 102-8 GRI 102-7 GRI 102-6 GRI 102-5 GRI 102-4 GRI 102-3 GRI 102-2 GRI 102-1 GRI 102-18 GRI 102-17 GRI 102-16 GRI 102-15 GRI 102-14 STRATEGY GRI 102-13 GRI 102-12 GRI 102-11 GRI 102-10 GOVERNANCE Sustainability Report 2018 GRI CONTENT ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Supply chain INDICATOR 12 Markets served ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Statement from senior decision-maker about the relevance of Externally-developed economic, environmental and social Governance structure Membership in national and/or international industry Location of operations Signiﬁcant changes to the organization’s size, structure, Scale of the organization Ownership and legal form Location of headquarters Name of the organization GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURE 2016 All the General Disclosures, the management approaches and topic-speciﬁc Standards provided in the GRI Content Index are those published by Here below is the GRI12 Content Index prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Any omisINDEX Key impacts, risks and opportunities Precautionary Principle or approach sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization Activities, brands, products, and services Information on employees and other workers Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics associations Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior ownership or supply chain in the reporting period sustainability subscribes, or which it endorses Pag. 5 During 2018 there were Pag. 22 Pag. 26 Pag. 25 Pagg. 14-16; 28-30; 43; Pagg. 28-30 Pagg. 28-30 Pagg. 28-30 Pagg. 38-43 Pagg. 94-95 Pagg. 28-30 Pagg. 22;26 Pagg. 22-25 no signiﬁcant changes to Pagg. 5;92-93 PAGE/NOTES Pagg. 10; 28-30 Pagg. 28-30; 80 Pagg. 14-15; 66-67; 90 the Group’s size, structure, 52; 87; 90 ownership or supply chain. the GRI in 2016. 99 sions are reported as notes to the individual indicators, if applicable. CODE INDICATOR PAGE/NOTES CODE INDICATOR PAGE/NOTES GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 38-43 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Pag. 38 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Pagg. 18-19 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Pag. 55 Anti-Corruption GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pagg. 18-19 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Pagg. 18-19 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Pagg. 18-19 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30 by stakeholders GRI 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken During 2017 and 2018 there were no incidents of REPORTING PRACTICE corruption. GRI 102-45 Entities included in the Sustainability Report Pagg. 92-93 Anti-competitive behavior GRI 102-46 Process for deﬁning the Sustainability Pagg. 18-19; 92-93 Report content GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 102-47 List of material topics Pagg. 18-19; 92-93; 98 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information given in the previous Pagg. 92-93 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30 Sustainability Report GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and During 2017 and 2018 Pagg. 92-93 monopoly practices there were no legal actions GRI 102-49 Signiﬁcant changes in the list of material topics and topic for anti-competitive boundary behavior, anti-trust and GRI 102-50 Reporting period of the Sustainability Report Pagg. 92-93 monopoly practices. GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report Pagg. 92-93 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Pagg. 92-93 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Pagg. 92-93 Energy the report GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Pagg. 92-93 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 80-90 GRI 102-55 GRI content index Pagg. 99-105 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 80-90 GRI 102-56 External assurance Pagg. 92-93; 106-108 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Pag. 82 Material Topics Water ECONOMIC INDICATORS GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 Economic Performance GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 80-90 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 80-90 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 22; 28-30 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal Pag. 82 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 22; 28-30 Emissions GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government In 2018, the Salvatore Ferragamo Group received approximately GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 50,000 Euro in government grants for training purposes, compared to GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 80-90 85,000 in 2017. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 80-90 For both years the grants relate only to Salvatore Ferragamo S.p.A. GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Pagg. 86-87 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Pagg. 86-87 Procurement Practices GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Considering the nature of its business, the Salvatore GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 Ferragamo Group has not GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 38-43 identiﬁed other signiﬁcant emissions of ozone-depleting substances in 2017 and 2018. 100 Sustainability Report 2018 101 CODE INDICATOR PAGE/NOTES CODE INDICATOR PAGE/NOTES GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Considering the nature of GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Pagg. 57; 95 signiﬁcant air emissions its business, the Salvatore and career development reviews, by gender and by Ferragamo Group has employee category not identiﬁed signiﬁcant emissions of NOx, SOx, or other gases in 2017 and Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2018. GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 Efﬂuents and Waste GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 52-60 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 52-60 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees, Pagg. 30; 52; 55; 94-97 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 80-90 breakdown by gender, age group and other indicators of GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 80-90 diversity GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Pag. 82 Material Aspect: Non-Discrimination Material Aspect: Environmental Compliance GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30 Pagg. 28-30; 80 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30 Pagg. 28-30; 80 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken* GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations During 2017 and 2018 there were no cases Material Aspect: Child Labor of non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 regulations. GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30; 43; 92-93 SOCIAL INDICATORS GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30; 43; 92-93 GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents Material Aspect: Employment of child labor** GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 52-60 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 52-60 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Pagg. 56; 96 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30; 43; 92-93 gender and region GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30; 43; 92-93 GRI 401-2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided Pag. 60 GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents to temporary or part-time employees of forced or compulsory labor** Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Material Aspect: Local Communities GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30; 60; 97 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 64-75 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30; 60; 97 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 64-75 GRI 403-2 Type of injury and rate of injury, occupational diseases, lost Pagg. 60; 97-98 GRI 413-2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative Pag. 67 days, and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities There were no fatalities in impacts on local communities by region and gender of employees 2017 and 2018. Material Aspect: Training and Education GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 52-57 *Conﬁdentiality obligation in relation to 406-1: data cannot be disseminated outside the Group. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 52-57 **Information not available for 408-1 and 409-1. The information will be available as from subsequent reporting periods, when the company launches an audit plan to verify the compliance of its suppliers to the principles of the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which include forced and child labor. 102 Sustainability Report 2018 103 CODE INDICATOR PAGE/NOTES CODE INDICATOR PAGE/NOTES Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Material Topic: Brand Image and Reputation GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30; 38-39; 46-48 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30; 34-48 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30; 38-39; 46-48 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30; 34-48 GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and During 2017 and 2018 safety impacts of products and services there were no incidents Material Topic: Omnichannel Experience and Customer Satisfaction of non-compliance with regulations on health and GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 safety of products and GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 46-48 services during their life cycle. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 46-48 Material Aspect: Customer Privacy CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND THE GRI STANDARD GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 INDICATORS GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30; 46-48 For the Salvatore Ferragamo Group the Sustainability Report is also a Communication On Progress (COP), in other words the annual document which offers stakeholders information on the progress made in applying the Ten PrinGRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30; 46-48 ciples of the UN Global Compact in carrying out its activities. In light of this, the table below provides a precise GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of During 2018 there were no correspondence between the GRI Standards and the Principles. customer privacy and losses of customer data substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and CATEGORIES PRINCIPLES GRI STANDARD INDICATORS losses of customer data. PRINCIPLES 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 408-1; 409-1; 413-1; 413-2 Material Aspect: Socioeconomic Compliance internationally proclaimed human rights; HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 2 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 412-1; 412-3 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 28-30; 80 abuses GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 28-30; 80 PRINCIPLES 3 During 2017 and 2018 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 102-41; 402-1; 407-1 GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social there were no cases of and the effective recognition of the right to collective and economic area non-compliance with laws bargaining and regulations in the social PRINCIPLES 4 and economic area. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 409-1 LABOR labor Material Topic: Circular Economy and Responsible Innovation PRINCIPLES 5 The effective abolition of child labor 408-1 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 10-16; 34-36; 80-82 PRINCIPLES 6 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 10-16; 34-36; 80-82 The elimination of discrimination in respect of 102-8; 202-1; 202-2; 401-1; 401-3; 404-1; employment and occupation 404-3; 405-1; 405-2; 406-1 Material Topic: Animal Welfare PRINCIPLES 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 301-1; 302-1; 303-1; 305-1; 305-2; 305-3; Pagg. 19; 98 environmental challenges 305-6; 305-7 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pag. 43 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES 8 301-1; 301-2; 301-3; 302-1; 302-2; 302-3; 302-4;302-5; Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 303-1; 303-2; 303-3; 304-1; 304-2; 304-3; 304-4; 305-1; GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pag. 43 responsibility 305-2; 305-3; 305-4; 305-5; 305-6; 305-7; 306-1; 306-2; 306-3; 306-4; 306-5; 307-1; 308-1; 308-2; 419-1 Material Topic: Sustainable Packaging PRINCIPLES 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 302-4; 302-5; 305-5; 102-16; 102-17 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pagg. 19; 98 environmentally friendly technologies GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Pagg. 82-87 PRINCIPLES 10 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pagg. 82-87 Businesses should work against corruption in all its 205-1; 205-2; 205-3; 415-1 ANTI-CORRUPTION forms, including extortion and bribery 104 Sustainability Report 2018 105 106 Sustainability Report 2018 107 108
