COP 2018-2019 General This Communication on Progress covers the period: From: 02-10-2018 T0: 02-10-2019 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Atelier 2000 Uniforms-skrædderi A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. When working with the Global Compact Ten Principles during the 2018-2019 period, Atelier 2000 has focussed on creating the preconditions necessary for the successful implementation of our integrated management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR. By implementing this management system, our work with due diligence will become more systematic, and the Global Compact Ten Principles will become even more integrated in our company’s policies and strategies. This is our main aim for the coming year. On a more concrete level, Atelier 2000 has made a great effort integrating local refugees in our organisation. The success we have had with this has been honoured by the Sønderborg Kommune integration prize 2019, which we are very proud of. We plan to continue our work with diversity at the workplace on the 2019-2020 period. Sincerely yours Heidi Moisen Adm. Director Human rights and Labour Principles: Principle 1: Businesses should Assessment, Policy and Goals support and respect the Atelier 2000’s CSR policy confirms the Global Compact human rights protection of internationally principles and supports The Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaimed human rights as well as the ILO and other internationally accepted standards. Principle 2: Make sure that Atelier 2000 will not trade with companies that do not comply with they are not complicit in these principles and standards. human rights abuses Assessment of the risks within our operational value chain occurs through the use of our code of conduct and the requirement that all our suppliers must follow this code. We have filled-in questionnaires from all our suppliers showing their commitment to Human Rights and Atelier 2000’s code of conduct. Atelier 2000 respects the employees’ right to representation, including the right to join industry associations. We do not tolerate harassment and we are committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and avoiding unlawful discrimination. Principle 3: Businesses should The well-being of our employees, both physically and uphold the freedom of psychologically, is one of our priorities and our aim is to keep association and the effective improving our working conditions and working environment to recognition of the right to ensure this priority. collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes all forms of forced and Atelier 2000 has in place procedures regarding human rights and compulsory labour labour issues covering our internal and external operations. Principle 5: The effective In our own organisation, we make sure that all new employees are abolition of child labour informed about their rights, our policies and procedures upon commencement of work at Atelier 2000. Each new employee Principle 6: The elimination of receives a contract that covers amongst other things, human rights discrimination in respect of issues. employment and occupation. We continue working with our yearly work environment assessment, as well as the 2-3 evaluation meetings we are holding each year to determine whether our solutions and actions have been successful. In this connection, we also go through employee/management input and examine any new applicable laws and regulations on work environment issues. In the 2018-2019 period, we have continued with our work on health among our employees. We have upgraded the health insurance of our administrative employees, so their expenses on physiotherapy, counselling etc. are covered at the same level as these expenses are covered for our production workers. At the same time, we have raised general awareness of the possibilities within our employee health insurance agreement. This has motivated some of our employees to start working on their more or less severe health issues resulting in potentially less sick leave and happier employees. We have also introduced a new gymnastics programme with elastic bands that should help prevent injuries in especially the neck and shoulder area. One of our employees has taken responsibility for guiding his colleagues through the exercises in a 5-minute session on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The fact that we have introduced an official instructor for the gymnastic sessions has significantly increased the number of employees participating in the exercises. Another focus in the 2018-2019 period has been job satisfaction and happiness at the workplace. We have improved communication and working processes in our company including regular newsletters, improved information flow, better defined responsibilities and updated job descriptions. We have employed a professional administration and supply chain manager who will support us in our continuous improvements throughout the 2019-20 period. Non-discrimination and diversity at the workplace are very important to us, and we are a well-functioning international team at Atelier 2000. In the 2018-2019 period, we have continued our efforts to integrate local refugees in our organisation, which have resulted in the employment of three new tailors from Syria. We have already had good experiences with employing local refugees before, and our municipality has honoured our efforts by awarding Atelier 2000 the Sønderborg Kommune integration prize 2019 (Brobyggerprisen). This reward has been a nice surprise and compliment for all our employees, and has further strengthened team spirit in our organisation. We have clear policies regarding human rights and labour issues concerning our suppliers and we are undertaking due diligence as a way of managing these issues. Our human rights and labour policies have become an integrated part of our management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR already during the 2017-18 period. In the 2018-2019 period, we have worked on the preconditions to further implement and intensify the strategic work with human rights, and we have educated one of our employees within Responsible Business Conduct in a course held by our trade association Danish Fashion & Textile. In the 2019-20 period, we plan to make a risk assessment on human rights for our own company and engage in a closer dialogue with some of our suppliers. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Our aim is to reduce environmental impacts throughout our operations and uphold applicable laws and regulations. We expect that our business partners as a minimum uphold the laws and regulations that are applicable to their business. We encourage our suppliers to work with environmental issues by using third party official certification schemes and standards. Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes During the 2018-2019 period, we have continued our work with the Principles: integration of our environmental management system into one combined management system for quality, environment, Principle 7: Businesses should occupational health and safety as well as CSR. The aim is to create support a precautionary better synergy between the interlinked areas of the combined approach to environmental management system. challenges; Principle 8: undertake In this process, we have found a few obstacles in our organisational initiatives to promote greater setup that make it difficult to successfully implement the updated environmental responsibility; version of the management system. Our focus in 2018-2019 has and therefore been to create the preconditions (i.e. better defined responsibilities and job descriptions) that are necessary for us, so we Principle 9: encourage the can further implement and intensify our strategic work with development and diffusion of environmental issues. environmentally friendly technologies. The process with eco-labelling some of our own products made from woollen fabrics with the Nordic Ecolabel “The Swan” has turned out to be rather challenging, as the wool sourcing is difficult to track. We are therefore currently considering alternative products, and will examine our possibilities and risks in this connection during the 2018-2019 period. Regarding our suppliers, we have in place an environmental requirements document and it is used in our due diligence work. Additionally, we are continuously working with third party standards and certifications. Several of our suppliers in high risk countries such as Pakistan, China and Slovakia have implemented an ISO 14001 environmental management system, audit by a third party as well as Oeko-Tex certifications. We will continue our dialogue and cooperation with our suppliers regarding environmental issues. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 10: Businesses should work against Atelier 2000 makes it clear in our code of conduct that we do not corruption in all its forms, tolerate corruption in all its forms. including extortion and bribery. Implementation and Measurement of Outcome Our anti-corruption policy has been integrated into our management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR already during the 2017-2018 period. In the 2018-2019 period, we have worked on creating the preconditions for further implementation of a more strategic approach to anti-corruption issues. This work is still in progress, and we plan to continue working on improvements in the 2019-2020 period, so we can soon implement the management system and intensify our dialogue with suppliers concerning anti-corruption. There have been no anti-corruption violations against Atelier 2000. Further Comments: Activities for the next year include: 1. Continue creating the preconditions necessary for a successful implementation of our integrated management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR. 2. Start implementing the management system where preconditions have been created 3. Improving communication and implementation of policies, strategies and processes into our daily operations and cooperation with business partners 4. Make a risk assessment concerning human rights for our own company, and engage in a closer dialogue with our suppliers with the aim to obtain similar risk assessments from them as a basis for continuous improvements.
