UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress FOREWORD 20 September 2019 Dear All, For our fourth update report I am pleased to confirm that Verisec AB continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress we present some of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles. By the very nature of our business we support public accountability and transparency. Therefore we commit to reporting our progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely, Johan Henrikson CEO Verisec AB 2 INTRODUCTION Sustainable and responsible business is important for and building new ecosystems. Using our technology we also Verisec to be able to create long-term value for the enable increased welfare at reduced cost by allowing both company and our stakeholders. Sustainable business local and central government to offer digital services according to our definition means integrating financial (e.g. eHealth initiatives). Digitalization can also reduce corruption responsibility, social responsibility and environmental by automating processes. Identity and security related to responsibility in all aspects of our business. these are core components to achieve these benefits. Verisec has been a member of the UN Global Compact for User-centric digital identities can be good not just for the many years and the ten principles of UN Global Compact users, but for society. The need for interoperability and a and its underlying conventions and declarations are always seamless user experience offers opportunities for the public present in the company’s business. and private sectors and civil society to work together. Therefore, Verisec took an active role in arranging the conference Verisecs mission is to manage digital trust by delivering e-legitimationsdagarna in Stockholm, together with the Swedish innovative solutions for digital identities. An app on your Agency for Digital Government, DIGG, and the other eID mobile device for login, instead of a token you rarely have in your providers in Sweden. For two days, more than 500 delegates pocket, or a lot of passwords that are easily forgotten, is one from the public and private sector had a chance to hear 50 example of how we operate in the area we call digital identities. speakers, among them two Swedish ministers, EU’s Director General for the EU-commission along with high level officials Verisec’s goal is to work to secure identity management for and experts. businesses, organizations and individuals. The average internet user has 92 online accounts, and it is likely to have over 200 The ten basic priciples of UN Global Compact are important by 2020. During the same time, the number of hacking attacks elements in the daily work of Verisec. We have policies regarding has increased. The World Economic Forum’s 2018 Global Risks health and safety, business ethics, communications, bribery Report listed cybersecurity as the third biggest global risk, and rehabilitation for employees. We continuously try to locate topped only by environmental threats. main offices in proximity to public transportation to minimize impact on environment. All employees have a health insurance, Social sustainability is at the core of Verisec business. By despite the fact that Sweden has subsidized healthcare. providing secure digital identities we provide a secure means All employees are also encouraged to use the health care for people across the globe to interact across digital channels contributions in the form of wellness grants that the company is while maintaining a high degree of privacy and personal integrity providing. Verisec has also achieved a number of improvements protection. Thereby we contribute to important social structures to minimise the company’s carbon footprint. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the The report emphasis one of five elements of designing protection of internationally proclaimed human rights user-centric digital identities – to be inclusive. “It should be within their sphere of influence. easy for individuals of any socioeconomic or demographic segment to enrol in identity systems of their choice. To avoid PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in excluding or marginalizing anyone, identity systems would human rights abuse. consider and design for differences in abilities, age, digital literacy, access to technology and use-cases. Engagement with individuals during design can ensure that an identity will meet their needs and be accessible.” There are still 1.1 billion people globally without no formal identity at all. It is an issue set for the world to address by Therefore, from last year, Verisec has started to organize 2030 through Sustainable Development Goal (UN General Usability testing in our R&D office in Belgrade (Serbia). We have Assembly, Global Indicator Framework for the Sustainable organized three Usability testing sessions with individuals of Development Goals and Targets of the 2030 Agenda for different age, gender, education, culture, nationality and among Sustainable Development). the people with special needs. All their comments were recorded and has been considered carefully in order to According to the World Economic Forum insight report improve the next step of the development and design of our “Identity in a Digital World” from 2018, technology can play a nationally (Sweden) approved electronic identityFreja eID pivotal role in providing access to healthcare and education app. Usability testing will be part of our continued work in and bringing financial and social inclusion to families and maintaining an inclusive identity. new generations worldwide. We are also proud to announce that in the study conducted However, a poorly designed digital identity can be worse than by Stelacon on behalf of the Swedish National Post and no identity at all. We need to safeguard against the possibility Telecom Agency (PTS) to evaluate accessibility in various of making the lives of the most vulnerable people on the e-credentials that Freja eID got the highest marks from users planet even more vulnerable. with special needs among other eID apps in Sweden. Verisec has offices in seven countries SWEDEN | GERMANY | UK | UAE SPAIN | MEXICO | SERBIA Established 2002 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of All employees shall have a written contract, be informed about association and the effective recognition of the right to and fully understand their employment conditions and rights. collective bargaining. The contract shall as minimum contain: working hours, notice period, wages and frequency of payment. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. A normal working week is 40 hours, unless otherwise regulated in national legislation. Employees have the right to yearly holidays PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour. and parental leave. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect All employees shall be free to form and to join, or not to join, of employment and occupation. trade unions or similar employee representative organisations. Verisec has a policy regarding the working environment and is responsible for work not to endanger the health or safety of employees and that the workplace safety in general is good. Verisec complies with the relevant laws relating to employment For example, in order for an employee to get appropriate training and employment conditions in each country we operate in. to drive a truck in our plant, his supervisor needs to have a truck We recognize that labour standards and conditions may vary driver license. The supervisor’s supervisor, in this case our from country to country. We ensure that our employees have CEO, also needs to possess a license of the same sort. satisfactory wages, working conditions and that there is no exploitation of labour. Steps to correct and prevent physical accidents and injuries as well as psychosocial illnesses are being taken to limit hazards No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal in the working environment. There are various initiatives in age for employment. We place high demands on suppliers that our different offices, depending on local needs and requests we are in business with continously, to not take part of or in from our employees. Some of the measures we take to prevent any way support, any form of child labour. physical and psychosocial illnesses in the work space are giving our employees the possibility to exercise during business Verisec offer equal employment opportunities to all. The persons hours, and benefit from a wellness grant. Workplace design recruited are selected on merits and are not discriminated provisions are also applied in all locations based on local because of gender, race, origin, religion, sexual orientation, regulations. Where such regulation is not available Swedish disability or age. To us, diversity is positive. norms form the basis of workplace design. Verisec offer equal employment opportunities to all 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary manage and distribute it in Sweden, of course means leaving approach to environmental challenges; an environmental footprint. Verisec’s effort to develop security solutions that use the mobile phone as the login device, are to PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater be seen as part of a reduced climate impact. We believe that the environmental responsibility; and mobile phone of the future will be the entity that most people use to securely connect to various services on the Internet PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion and in line with this, the number of physical devices will be of environmentally friendly technologies. reduced. Our plant in Upplands Väsby is an important link. We have Our business is to help other companies implement digitization. begun to reduce energy use in our distribution facility. We This means that our products and services reduce or eliminate invested in a more energy efficient heating /cooling system, paper-based processes and physical transport. Letters and and we changed our electricity supplier so that we are now other documentation can, with our technology, be replaced by consuming environmentally friendly sourced hydropower. digital communication. Physical communication can be replaced We signed a new lease agreement for the fourth floor in the by digital contacts and our technology makes it possible for people same building as our current office in Belgrade. Part of the to work from home /remotely with less travelling as a result. agreement with the landlord was installation of ventilation systems on both floors for cleaning the air and improving We only use printing shops that are environmentally certified, the working environment for our colleagues. and always select paper that is FCS-marked and Rainforest Alliance Certified. Recycling is also a natural part in all of our offices across the world. Sorting paper, metals, foods and plastics is part of this Verisec has invested in a system for remote meetings between ongoing project. We collect huge amounts of plastic bottle our offices so that we can cut down on travel. caps in our Serbian office to support the Bottle Caps for Handicapped humanitarian initiative. We are also committed We offer employees to work from home as a step to reduce to the EU WEEE initiative to minimize the impact of electronic travelling and also the impact on the environment. Verisec waste. All our electronic equipment is being collected, reused strive to minimize environmental impact in all parts of the and/or disposed off in accordance with EU regulations by business. The move to a refurbished plant in Upplands Väsby approved suppliers. was a part of our efforts to streamline our processes and minimize the number of transports. To manufacture a login We strongly encourage our employees to drive hybrid cars, token in China, transporting it several thousand miles and then and six out of seven leasing cars within the company are hybrid. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption Verisec has a policy on business ethics. Corruption does not in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. only create problems for the individual company, but also prevents communities from developing, especially in poor parts of the world. All forms of corruption, including but not limited to extortion, bribery, facilitation payments, nepotism, fraud, terrorism financing and money laundering, are forbidden. Digital payments and transactions – part of our core business, increase the traceability and thus prevent money laundering and other related forms of corruption. No one shall offer, ask for, give or accept, directly or indirectly, a personal payment, gift or benefit in exchange for favourable treatment intended to influence a business transaction or to obtain a personal or business advantage. Verisec has a policy that states that the principles relevant to business ethics is an integrated part of the business 7 About Verisec Verisec AB (publ) is a company on the cutting edge of digital security, creating solutions that make systems secure and easily accessible. The company provides a wide range of products and services within its two areas of business: Digital Identity and Information Security. Verisec has global distribution and operations in Stockholm, London, Belgrade, Madrid, Mexico City, Dubai and Frankfurt. Verisec is listed on Nasdaq First North Premier Growth Market in Stockholm. www.verisec.com © 2019 Verisec AB. All rights reserved. 8
