RAMADA HOTEL & SUITES BY WYNDHAM AJMAN P.O. Box 31631 Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, Ajman, United Arab Emirates 2018 Communication on Progress (COP) on the United Nations Global Compact Time Period: July 2018 till June 2019 Page 1 of 20 Contents 03 Introduction * About Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman * Sustainability at Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman 04 Letter from the Cluster General Manager 05 Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 08 Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 12 Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 18 Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 2 of 20 Introduction About Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman Ramada Hotel and Suites by Wyndham Ajman is a premier accommodation located on Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, in the centre of the main city of Ajman. The hotel provides easy access to the UAE’s main airports, commercial centres and cultural attractions. With its spacious and stylish 361 rooms, Ramada Hotel and Suites by Wyndham Ajman caters to both business and leisure travellers, whether on short trips or long-term stays. The hotel offers modern comforts matched with unparalleled service. Guests can enjoy sumptuous food selection at Orchid Restaurant, R Cafe and the 24-hour room service, as well as the hotel’s first-rate facilities including a gym, indoor swimming pool, spa, and free access to its exclusive beach club. Sustainability at Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman has been on the forefront of sustainability and CSR innovation for years, continuing to develop and implement initiatives that create positive experiences for associates, guests, and the surrounding community and environment. The property is known for its remarkable ground-breaking environment initiatives like the launch of Zero Landfill Project in 2012 -a waste management system of the property. Four years after the launch of the project, with the help of recycling and an in-house composter machine, the hotel was able to reduce its landfill waste disposal by 90% and divert more than a million kilogram of waste. The property improved more on its current waste management efficiency through installing new WasteStation dewaterer and macerator machine. With the new machine, it reduces the process of converting the waste into fertilisers from 24 hours to 12 hours, it simplify the process and cut down the labour cost. Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman pioneered an Urban Farming project, where the property converted 430 square meters of its vast parking space to an urban farm, growing seasonal vegetables and crops, which can be of use in the hotel’s kitchen. The property has been a pioneer in different CSR initiatives ranging from sustainable practices, and charitable programmes over the years. Renowned for Ramada Ajman’s green projects, the property continuously campaigns for sustainability by participating in various forums and sharing case studies and best practices on the hotel within and outside the UAE. All year-round, the team does their share for sustainable tourism through regular beach clean-ups and organising activities for Earth Hour, Earth Day, World Environment Day. Through their incessant efforts, the hotel looks ahead to well-preserved environment for the future generations. Page 3 of 20 Letter from the Cluster General Manager Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman is actively involved in altruistic sustainable activities since 2011. The property places high value on its commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are honoured to be part of the United Nations Global Compact since July 2016. Our management has always ensured the welfare of our work force and has been actively involved in various sustainable initiatives and charitable projects over the years. Through our membership, we seek to enrich our current business practices, and improve our existing CSR programmes. We will strive to become responsible role models in our field and in the community, and ultimately inspire our industry peers to do their share for a socially responsible global economy. In this third annual Communication on Progress of Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We would like to highlight and share our commitment and achievements during the 2018/2019. We aim to continuously support the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in its worldwide activities in the coming more years. Yours sincerely, Iftikhar Hamdani Cluster General Manager Page 4 of 20 Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman is committed to ensure a healthy environment without discrimination and protects all its employees, guests and business partners from any abuses. The hotel’s goal is to display fairness and integrity at all times. Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman continually following the implemented Anti-Discrimination Policy. To better understand the highlights of the Human Rights, the hotel’s Training Manager conducted several trainings to keep the team aware and refresh about Human Rights & Labour Practices. We believe that the persistence of human rights violations clearly demonstrates the need to focus more attention on preventive actions. To protect human rights is to ensure that employees, guests and business partners receive some degree of decent, humane treatment. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman had taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its work locations: · The hotel’s Training Manager is conducting regular trainings and awareness about discrimination & human rights as well as providing trainings on safety and healthy environment on a regular basis. Page 5 of 20 · As normal procedures, Human Resources Department is well-versed in each of the human resources disciplines and conducts fair judgment in any misconduct transpire and with unfair treatment issues. · Continuously, All Head of the Departments are conducting their regular briefings where staff can also share their thoughts and opinions. · Employee Handbook is available for staff which tackles not only hotel’s information but also include Code of Conduct brief. · Continued membership with United Nations Global Compact (member since July 2016) · Hired different nationalities to avoid Racial, Sexual, Disability and age discrimination. · Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman provided employment for people of determination as part of its continuous commitment to reach out to the community and present equal opportunities for different members of the society. Under Ajman Tourism Development Department’s Zayed Day for Humanitarian Initiative, in cooperation with the Ministry of Community Development, Ramada Ajman provided training and internship to a deaf and mute trainee who worked at Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman in Front Office Department as bell boy cum valet parking driver for a month. · Offered internships for the school students, locally and internationally · Allocated Disabled Rooms for disabled guest as their right to be treated fairly with the other guests. · Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman is official member of The Code (We Protect Children from Sex Tourism) since September 09, 2018. Measurement of Outcomes As of December 2018, Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman analysis of workforce as part of the Human Rights advocate of the property is as follows: Employees 2017 (as of Dec. 2017) 2018 (as of Dec. 2018) Men Women Men Women Employed 234 57 229 72 Internship 27 8 16 5 Total No. of Employees 261 65 245 77 Nationality count 25 23 Page 6 of 20 At Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman, we ensure that both Men and Women are equally treated with fair work. Giving the same opportunity in each work filed regardless of their gender. On record, there is increased of 4% hiring of Women for the year 2018 compare to 2017. Hired 20% of Women in 2017 while 24% of hired Women in 2018. Internship: Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman tries as much as they can to accommodate internship. Internship is a great tool to build professional foundation of the interns. Employees 2017 (as of Dec. 2017) 2018 (as of Dec. 2018) Men Women Men Women Internship 27 8 16 5 There is decreased of 14 Trainee/Interns for 2018 compare to 2017. Year 2017, Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman had total of 21 Trainee/Interns in 2018 while year 2017 had 35 Trainee/Interns. Human Right violations: At Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman, there is no human right violation has been reported till date. Page 7 of 20 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment & Policy To continuously achieve excellence in the human resources and leadership practices, Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman constantly comply in the hotel’s Employment Policy where the policy operates a fair and consistent approach to all associates which can help improve their career development. Additionally, Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman eliminates all forms of forced and compulsory labour, child labour. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman intends to ensure to be a socially responsible employer. · The developed Employee Handbook is available for staff’s awareness about the hotel’s information, Terms of employment, Health & Safety procedures including the emergency procedures in case of Fire, Code of Conduct, Disciplinary & Grievance procedures, Bribery & Corruption, Socio-Cultural, Environmental Commitment, Human Trafficking & Child Exploitation / Employee Exploitation & Abuse including Discrimination & Harassment. Page 8 of 20 · The Hotel Committees are still ready for assistance in case of any concerns that the employee would like to share with. This Committee organizes sports activities, annual staff party, environmental activities, community participation, etc. · The hotel’s Training Manager is conducting regular trainings and awareness about discrimination & human rights as well as providing trainings on safety and healthy environment on a regular basis · Continuously empowering labour with recognition for the staff in order for them to be felt appreciated and for them to encourage working for the betterment not only for the hotel but for them too. Such recognitions are Star of the Month (Front & Back of the House); Supervisor of the Quarter; Star of the Year (Front & Back of the House) and Supervisor of the Year. Other awards/recognitions were given to the selected employee/s for exceptional contribution towards the hotel. Recognitions are given every quarter of the year during the Quarter Staff Gathering. · We continuously encouraged employees to engage in community training participation to enhance and develop their social skills. Measurement of Outcomes Grievance: No grievances were reported by any of the employees. Employee Engagement Activities (July 2018 till June 2019) September 09-15, 2018 | International August 05, 2018 | Summer Sports Housekeepers Week Page 9 of 20 January 11, 2019 | Dept. of Tourism Development Ajman’s Ajman Run (series 2/3). October 31, 2018 | Beach Sports Fiesta January 15, 2019 | Football Championship February 26, 2016 | Annual Staff Party “Global Night” March 20, 2019 | Dept. of Tourism Development March 15, 2019 | Dept. of Tourism Development Ajman’s Old School Challenge. Ajman’s Ajman Run (series 3/3). April 24, 2019 | Premier Cricket League March 29, 2019 | Dept. of Tourism Development Ajman’s Paint Run Ajman Page 10 of 20 Training & Development: Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman continuously providing trainings for the staff through the in-house Training Manager. Turn-over Report/Analysis: Based on the 2016 & 2017 record, the turnover was further reduced to 0.25%. Year 2017 had only 1.11% turnover compare to 2016 with 1.36%. We believe that the core value of the business is to give appreciation and care to staff. Providing their happiness like organizing sports activities, monthly staff gatherings and empowerment keeps them motivated and driven. Employees from Termination/ New Year Jan.-Dec. 2018 Transferred % Turnover Resignation Joiners 2016 3,165 43 64 1.36 2017 3,348 37 51 64 1.11 2018 3,184 49 9 85 1.54 Page 11 of 20 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman is fully committed to environmental sustainability and to minimize negative impacts to the Mother Nature and promotes environmentally friendly culture with our internal and external associates during the hotel operation. The property will remain to be committed in sustaining the environment through efficient waste management system, water and energy conservation practices and spearheading awareness campaigns within the team and in the hospitality industry. Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman implemented policies to protect our environment. I. Environmental Policy This policy is deliberately taken to direct and oversee human activities and thereby prevent harmful effects on the biophysical environment and natural resources, as well as to make sure that changes in the environment do not have harmful effects on humans. The Environmental Policy is published in the hotel’s website under “Green Initiatives”. Page 12 of 20 II. Biodiversity, Ecosystem and Landscape Policy Inclusion under Environmental Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman: v Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman ensures endangered species, products thereof or item stemming from unsustainable practices are not consumed, sold, traded or displayed. v The property ensures that no captive wildlife on property grounds. v The property prohibits use of alien species in garden, landscapes, and other area of operation. III. Procurement Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman’s procurement department includes identification, selection and purchase of products (i.e. goods and services) with significantly less adverse to environmental and social impacts. Guidelines for Procurement: v Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman always encourage dealing with vendor who adapts sustainability as their core business policies. v Biodegradable Material must be used for items like Laundry Suite cover roll, Shirt cover Bags, Trash bin liners, Garbage bags, Take-away bags, etc. v All Promotional Printing Material of the property must be printed on Wood Free, FSC and Recycle paper Material only and also encourage dealing with those printing press that strongly believe and encourage sustainability as their company policies. v Chemical used at Ramada Hotel & Suites Ajman should be eco-friendly, v Vendor for Fruits and Vegetable Vendor must use take back Containers and reuse it on every next delivery. v Amenities used for Guest Room must be certified & approved eco-friendly products by local Municipality or International Third body. v Procurement department must ensure that vendors to use fuel Efficient Vehicle for deliver at Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman and switch off the vehicle while delivering the requested products. v Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman must encourage having at least 25% purchases from local manufacturer/vendors. IV. Waste Management Plan The Waste Management Plan is to mainly identify the waste streams, determine its method of handling and its final disposition, whether it can be composted, sold to a recycler or taken to a landfill. Every effort will be made to limit, segregate, sort, collect and properly dispose of waste generated within the property. Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman has established this Plan to assure that waste is segregated based on type and to achieve proper waste management scheme. Page 13 of 20 Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman bolsters up green enterprises by continuously implementing the following actions to sustain our environment. · The hotel committees are assigned to be responsible in their designated areas in order facilitate in planning activities, help create awareness and support community to preserve our environment. v Waste Management Committee The Waste Management Committee is responsible for the proper waste controlling, segregating, monitoring and transmitting properly the waste produced by the hotel. v Green Committee The Green Committee provides Environmental Activities every month. The said committee will facilitate activities that will create awareness not only for the employees but for the rest of the community. · Calendar of CSR Activities 2018-2019 is available to monthly plan of CSR activities. · Supports Emirates Environmental Group’s “Can Collection Campaign” since May 2016. Received the latest certificate of appreciation from Emirates Environmental Group on June 10, 2019 for the valuable support of the hotel towards their environment campaign. · Continuously spreading the cause on sustainable waste management by speaking in different forums and conference and welcoming representatives from other hotels, establishments, schools across the UAE who wish to learn about Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman’s best green practices. · Continuously using the Hotel Optimizer. Hotel Optimizer is a cost-effective tool to set proper targets and have a clear idea of the hotel’s resource management performance in terms energy, water and waste and even carbon emissions. Measurement of Outcomes Overall CSR Activities conducted & participated from July 2018 till June 2019: July 25, 2018 |. In collaboration with Ajman October 15, 2018 | Ramada Ajman hold Tourism’s Zayed Day of Humanitarian Initiative, fundraising drive for breast cancer awareness to Ramada Ajman provided training for people of benefit medical education & research to support Determination Brest Friends through Al Jalila Foundation. Page 14 of 20 November 03, 2018 | Humanitarian support for Wyndham Garden Ajman’s Housekeeping January 17, 2019 | Harvesting organic crops at Attendant for his 12-year old daughter who is Urban Farm. diagnosed with Heart Severe Supravalvular. The Ramada Ajman team was able to collect Aed 18,124.00 April 22, 2019 | Participating Earth Day 2019 March 30, 2019 | Earth Hour 2019 through Beach Clean-up Drive April 22, 2019 | Participating Earth Day 2019 through giving away a Reusable Bags for their May 28, 2019 | Ramada Hotel & Suites by staff to use in daily market instead using plastic Wyndham Ajman hosted Iftar for SENSES, a bags residential and day care centre at Dubai Page 15 of 20 . May 13-14, 2019 | Distributes packed Iftar meals to about 800 underprivileged Ajman residents. The distribution was held in Ajman Museum during the Holy Month of Ramadan. The distribution is with collaboration with Ajman Tourism Outstanding Achievements: November 28, 2018 | Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman named on its 4th year as the Hotel of the Year for Green Initiatives 2018. October 06, 2019 | Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman received its HACCP recertification. May 28, 2019 | Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman secured its 2nd “Best Of”2018 award from Wyndham Hotels & Resorts due to its hotel quality, guest feedback, and Wyndham Rewards compliance. Page 16 of 20 Waste Management: There is drastic drop of overall waste at Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman in 2018 wherein it only generates 166,277 kg of waste (used oil is not included as it measure in ltr) or 27% decrease compare to year 2017. The team is trying to do their best in minimizing the waste. Description Waste in Kg (Jan-Dec Average Waste per 2018) Month Food Waste 135,688 11,307 Paper/Newspaper/Magazine 8,814 735 Cardboard 12,680 1,057 Plastic 3,305 275 Glass 880 73 Aluminium Cans 331 28 Metal Cans 3,881 323 Used Oil (Ltr) 2,535 211 Ceramic 698 58 Overall Waste in Percentage wise (Jan-Dec 2018): Page 17 of 20 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment & Policy Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman provides guidance on the standards of behavior to which all must adhere and most of these reflect the common sense and good business practices that we all work to in any event and to help identify when something is prohibited so that bribery and corruption is avoided. Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman has a zero-tolerance policy for bribery & corruption. All forms of bribery and corruption are prohibited. We will not tolerate any act of bribery or corruption. At Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman, all are obeying the Bribery & Corruption Policy set. Any breach of this policy or local law may result in disciplinary action being taken and ultimately will result on dismissal. Inclusion under Bribery & Corruption Policy set-forth by Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman: · The business prohibits all form of bribery whether they take place directly or through third parties. · The business also prohibits its employees from soliciting, arranging or accepting bribes intended for the employee’s benefit or that of the employee’s family, friends, associates or acquaintances. · The business, its employees or agents should not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties, organization or individuals engaged in politics, as a way of obtaining advantage in business transaction. Page 18 of 20 · The business ensures that charitable contributions and sponsorships are not used as a subterfuge for bribery. · The business prohibit the offer or receipts of gifts, hospitality or expenses whenever they could affect or be perceived to affect the outcome of business transactions and are not reasonable and bona fide. · The business publicly discloses all its political and charitable contributions. · The business makes known its anti-bribery policies to contractors and suppliers. · The business avoids dealing with contractors and suppliers known or reasonably suspected to be paying bribes. It undertake due diligence, as appropriate, in evaluating prospective contractors and suppliers to ensure that they have effective anti-bribery program. For our business partners, we continuously conduct a Preliminary Supplier’s Assessment & Evaluation Form beforehand partnering to them where states about the supplier's facility to have procedures in-placed to ensure their workplace is free of physical abuse, physical contact with the intent to injure or intimidate, and disciplinary measures that cause physical discomfort. Implementation Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman ensure that internal procedures support the hotel’s anticorruption commitment, we continually ensure practicing the below measures: · Ramada Hotel & Suites by Wyndham Ajman has its continuous excellent audit system. Internal Audit system sets procedure to periodically carried-out checks in some departments that mostly handle cash and contracts. · As part of the internal communication structure, employees can raise their concern over issues such fraud and conflict of interest, bribery & corruption, kickbacks, unethical business conduct, etc. Human Resources Department is well-versed in each of the human resources disciplines and conducts fair judgment in any misconduct transpire and with unfair treatment issues. · We developed Employee Handbook that tackles not only hotel’s information but also include Code of Conduct brief including Bribery & Corruption, whereas, “Bribery & Corruption” in any forms is strictly prohibited in the organization. It is not allowed to accept gifts, hospitality or expenses whenever, they would affect the outcome of business transaction. · We provided a track record of the “Lost & Found”. Lost & found programme maintained by the Housekeeping Department in a safe box that holds the forgotten items for a certain period of time depending on its value. Valuable items hold for one year & non-valuable items hold for six months. · Proper hand-over of shift especially cash count is followed as procedure most especially to those department handling cash. Measurement of Outcomes No deals with incidents of corruption. No case of violations of the policy was reported. Page 19 of 20 Communication on Progress | July 2018 – June 2019 P.O. Box 31631, Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Street, Ajman, United Arab Emirates Tel: 00971 6 703 1111 Fax: 00971 6 740 3000 info@ramadaajman.com www.ramadaajman.com Page 20 of 20
