2019 Sustainability Report. Winning together. Coles acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of Country throughout Australia and pays its respects to elders past and present. We recognise their rich cultures and continuing connection to land and waters. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples are advised that this document may contain names and Welcome to our images of people who are deceased. All references to Indigenous people in this document are intended to include Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait first Sustainability Report. Islander people. Contents In FY19, we set our Sustainability Strategy to focus on sustainable communities, products and environmental practices. In doing this, our Board, Executive Leadership Team and all team members will work to achieve our 1 Welcome from our Chairman, and Managing Director 49 Sustainable environmental practices ambition to be Australia’s most sustainable supermarket. and CEO 50 Climate change With the assistance of our customers and team members, we provided more than $115m in community support in 2 About Coles 52 Greenhouse gas and energy efficiency FY19. We worked with food rescue organisations to help sustainably feed Australians and marked a special milestone 4 Sustainability at Coles 55 Waste and recycling with the equivalent of 114 million meals donated to food charity organisations. 6 FY19 sustainability achievements 58 Water We aim to provide team members with a safe, diverse and inclusive workplace. Our focus on safety, health and 8 How we create value 62 Corporate governance and data security wellbeing resulted in a 20.3% reduction in our total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR), and we raised the 11 Sustainable communities 64 Stakeholder engagement and sustainability profile of mental health. We are committed to the advancement of Indigenous peoples; and, with more than 4,100 12 Celebrating our team members commitments Indigenous team members, we are Australia’s largest private-sector employer of Indigenous Australians. 18 Health, safety and wellbeing for our customers 68 Our data We continued to build our credentials around sustainable Own Brand products, particularly human rights in our and our team 72 Assurance statement supply chain, with 97% of Own Brand direct suppliers registered on the global ethical supply chain management 21 Supporting Australian farmers and suppliers 73 About this Sustainability Report platform Sedex and monitored under the Coles Ethical Sourcing Program. For Own Brand, we reduced sugar and 28 Supporting our community and charity partners salt, removed artificial colours and flavours, and enhanced our animal welfare and responsibly sourced seafood 35 Sustainable products programs. 36 Responsible sourcing Plastic packaging was an important challenge during the year. While packaging plays a key role in maintaining 40 Human rights in the supply chain food safety, supporting product longevity and reducing food waste, we are continually looking for opportunities to 42 Supporting health and nutrition further reduce packaging and help drive more recyclable packaging in our supply chain. In FY19, we removed 1.7bn 44 Providing quality, safe products lightweight, single-use plastic bags. 46 Supporting responsible service of alcohol We are committed to climate change mitigation and managing its impacts on our business and operations. We and tobacco have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 36% four years earlier than targeted. Solar is now installed on 30 47 Sustainable packaging supermarkets and in August 2019 we announced a 10-year agreement to purchase renewable energy from three solar plants. As part of our commitment to sustainable environmental practices, all Coles supermarkets and distribution centres are now connected to programs diverting food waste from landfill. During the year, Coles joined the United Nations Global Compact, committing to its ten principles. This is an important platform for driving corporate leadership and collective action. Forward-looking statements We are making progress on our journey to drive generational sustainability, supported by our dedicated team members, loyal customers and committed suppliers. Looking ahead, our focus will be on: This report contains forward-looking statements in relation to to be correct. The forward-looking statements involve known Coles Group Limited (‘Coles’ or ‘the Company’) and its related and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions and other • increasing the number of Indigenous team members to 5,500 including 500 in trade bodies corporate (together, ‘the Group’), including statements important factors, many of which are beyond the reasonable and leadership positions by 2023; regarding The Group’s intent, belief, goals, objectives, initiatives, control of The Group that could cause the actual results, • achieving a year-on-year reduction in TRIFR; commitments or current expectations with respect to The performances or achievements of The Group to be materially • achieving 40% women in leadership positions by 2023; Group’s business and operations, market conditions, results different from future results, performances or achievements • continuing to enhance our Ethical Sourcing Program to protect human rights; of operations and financial conditions, and risk management expressed or implied by the statements. • maintaining our leading animal welfare and responsibly sourced seafood programs; practices. Forward-looking statements can generally be • ensuring all Own Brand packaging can be recycled kerbside or in store by the end of 2020; Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forwardidentified by the use of words such as ‘forecast’, ‘estimate’, looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report • diverting 90% of waste from landfill by 2022 and further reducing food waste; and ‘plan’, ‘will’, ‘anticipate’, ‘expect’, ‘may’, ‘believe’, ‘should’, speak only as at the date of issue. Except as required by • developing and implementing new greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. ‘intend’, ‘outlook’ and ‘guidance’ and other similar expressions. applicable laws or regulations, The Group does not undertake By doing this, we will help realise our vision to become the most trusted retailer in Australia and grow long-term shareholder These forward-looking statements are based on The Group’s any obligation to publicly update or revise any of the value while delivering on our purpose to sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives. good-faith assumptions as to the financial, market, regulatory forward-looking statements or to advise of any change in and other relevant environments that will exist and affect assumptions on which any such statement is based. The Group’s business and operations in the future. The Group James Graham, Chairman, Steven Cain, Managing Director and CEO, does not give any assurance that the assumptions will prove Coles Group Limited. Coles Group Limited. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 2 3 Our vision About Coles. Become the most trusted retailer in Australia and grow long-term shareholder value From our origins in 1914 as a variety store in Collingwood, Victoria, Coles has grown to become a leading Australian retailer and a household name. Part of the fabric of Australian society for more than Our purpose 100 years, Coles today processes more than 20 million Sustainably feed customer transactions every week. all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives Customers trust Coles to provide everyday services and products Smarter selling through efficiency and pace of change will enable at competitive prices. We have a network of 2,445 stores us to invest in the areas that matter to our customers. The retail nationwide and an online platform. This network is made up of world is rapidly changing. To keep pace, we will be creating agile 821 supermarkets, 714 convenience outlets and 910 liquor stores. ways of working to deliver change faster and more efficiently. We will be technology-led across our stores and supply chain to provide Smarter selling Win together Headquartered in Victoria, our retail presence across Australia through efficiency with our team safe, high-quality products at the best price to our customers. includes Coles Supermarkets, Coles Express, Coles Online, Coles and pace of change members, suppliers Financial Services and Coles Liquor (Liquorland, Liquorland We will Win together with our team members, suppliers and and communities Express, Liquorland Warehouse, First Choice Liquor, First Choice communities to help make a positive difference for all Australians. Liquor Market and Vintage Cellars). We also hold a 50% stake We will continue to build a great place to work, where we are Better with Wesfarmers in flybuys, one of Australia’s most popular Together through diversity and inclusion and have health, safety loyalty programs. More information about each of our businesses and wellbeing in our DNA. To drive generational sustainability, Inspire customers can be found in the Coles 2019 Annual Report. we will focus on building sustainable communities, delivering through best value sustainable products and using sustainable environmental food and drink practices. By winning with our suppliers and communities, we Our vision, purpose and strategy solutions to make believe we can make a difference for many generations to come. lives easier Vision: Become the most trusted retailer in Australia and grow Our vision, purpose and strategy are fundamentally underpinned long-term shareholder value. by our LEaD behaviours. Purpose: Sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives. Coles Own Brand Our LEaD behaviours We have prioritised three strategic pillars to deliver our vision and Coles Own Brand is the portfolio of food, drink and non-food purpose: Inspire customers, Smarter selling and Win together. product brands owned by Coles. It includes Own Brand grocery, We will Inspire customers by offering the best-value food and fresh produce and meat products sold in our supermarkets and Look ahead Energise Deliver drink solutions to make lives easier. This means being customerconvenience outlets, and Own Brand liquor sold in our liquor everyone with pride obsessed, where we know our customers better than anyone stores. Our Own Brand provides Coles with a point of difference else. We will take the stress out of ‘what’s for dinner tonight’ from our competitors. As a result, we go to great lengths to ensure by tailoring our offer with trusted value, inspiring Own Brand they are compelling, high-quality, great value and loved by our products, healthy options and anytime, anywhere shopping. customers. They are also sourced ethically and responsibly with a focus on protecting human rights and animal welfare. We refer to Coles Own Brand products as Own Brand in this report. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 4 5 Sustainability at Coles. The Coles vision, purpose and strategy underpin our approach to sustainability. Our purpose: To sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives. Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable Natalie and Paul Bell, from Mountain Blue Farms in Lismore, New South Wales, are using funds from the Coles Nurture Fund communities products environmental to introduce new production methods to grow their business and provide Coles with healthy, nutritious blueberries. practices Coles is supporting Australian Coles is committed to Coles is reducing Understanding our key sustainability issues Sustainability governance farmers and suppliers and sourcing quality, healthy environmental impacts contributing to the communities products in an ethical and across our business. During FY19, we conducted an assessment to better understand The Coles Sustainability Steering Committee oversees the in which we live and work. responsible way. our environmental, social and economic issues and opportunities. development and implementation of the Sustainability Strategy. The Committee is made up of team members with direct We identified issues and opportunities based on their importance • Diversity and inclusion • Responsible sourcing • Climate change responsibility for different aspects of sustainability. The Chief • Team member pay and • Human rights in the • Greenhouse gas to our stakeholders, including our customers, team members, working conditions supply chain and energy Property and Export Officer, who reports to the CEO, chairs the suppliers, investors and the communities in which we live and • Team member health, • Supporting health • Water Sustainability Steering Committee. safety and wellbeing and nutrition • Waste and recycling work, as well as our potential to impact these issues. • Supporting Australian • Product quality and safety The Board has oversight of sustainability risks and opportunities farmers and suppliers • Sustainable packaging The issues and opportunities identified have been grouped • Community partnerships through the Audit and Risk Committee whose responsibilities under three focus areas as detailed on the previous page. The include evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of Coles’ issues should not be viewed individually, as in most cases they identification and management of environmental and social are interconnected, and action and progress in one area can lead sustainability risks and its disclosure of any material exposure to to improvements in another. those risks (financial and non-financial). credentials give customers assurance that when they shop with The issues and opportunities underpin our Sustainability The Coles 2019 Sustainability Report has been reviewed and Our approach to sustainability Coles they are making sustainable choices. Strategy and also form the framework for this report. endorsed by the Board. Through our research, we know our customers want to shop The strategy (endorsed by the Coles Board in May 2019) is with a company that actively invests in and gives back to the Information on our overall approach to corporate governance aligned with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the community. They have said they want to shop with a supermarket can be found in our 2019 Corporate Governance Statement and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). More that does the right thing by farmers and suppliers. They want to on page 62 of this report. information about how we are responding to the UNGC and the purchase responsibly and ethically sourced products without UNSDGs can be found on pages 66 and 67 of this report. compromising on food safety, quality or nutrition. They also expect us to be environmentally responsible; and, for our Our sustainability approach is also guided by our social, ethical and supermarkets, this includes reducing food and packaging waste. environmental policies, which stipulate our minimum mandatory requirements, accountabilities and actions to drive performance. Our Sustainability Strategy is focused on sustainable Our policies are based on relevant industry standards communities, sustainable products and sustainable and principles. environmental practices. We have work streams under each of these pillars aimed at addressing the needs of our customers and other stakeholders. Our Sustainability Strategy and Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 6 7 Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable FY19 communities products environmental Sustainability practices achievements. $115m 550+ Removed community investment third-party ethical audits 1.7bn 26% from FY18 conducted at supplier sites lightweight, single-use plastic shopping bags Equivalent of 200,000+ Greenhouse gas emissions 114m quality checks (Scope 1 and 2) meals to people in need since 2003 for allergens, imports, and authenticity 6% from FY18 $34m Awarded MSC Oceania Sustainable Seafood 74% waste to Redkite since 2013 diverted from landfill Supermarket of the Year 4,100+ third year running Opened Coles Local Indigenous team members Coles’ first ‘no food waste’ 15% from FY18 supermarket 110 tonnes of salt Total recordable 150 tonnes REDcycle injury frequency rate 27.4 soft plastics recycling in all of sugar 20.3% from FY18 removed from Coles supermarkets Own Brand products Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 8 9 Farming and Packaging and How we Nurture Fund production processing create value. Through our commitment Our targets and commitment to Australian First sourcing to work with our suppliers on and long-term partnerships, sustainable Own Brand packaging Five Freedoms for will make it easier for our customers we are supporting Australian Innovation R&D animal welfare to recycle, including through our farmers, growers and suppliers Freedom: soft plastics recycling program with who provide us with healthy, from hunger and thirst; REDcycle, which is available in all quality products, sourced in a from discomfort; responsible and ethical way with supermarkets. We help customers from pain, injury or disease; We are driven by our purpose to… a focus on protecting human make sustainable choices by to express normal behaviour; rights and animal welfare. Our promoting country of origin labelling from fear and distress. sustainably feed all Australians to help them support includes the $50m Coles Nurture Fund. and health star ratings. lead healthier, happier lives …which means we need to consider our social and environmental impacts in all that we do. Our vision is centred on earning the trust of Australians and creating long-term shareholder value. For Coles, trust is primarily about Transport and Retail and store being reliable and responsible. It is also recognising that we have a distribution network significant responsibility as a food provider. We support local economic growth Working with our logistics partners, we Customers tell us that they want to shop with a company that does through our investment in new stores are reducing our environmental footprint the right thing by farmers and suppliers. Customers are seeking to and infrastructure, while continuing to through more efficient fleet movements. purchase products that have been sourced responsibly and ethically, reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We Our quality inspection program completes Coles Online without compromising on food safety, quality or nutrition. are driving innovation to provide online more than 200,000 fresh food checks grocery and convenience shopping annually to make sure we are providing Sustainability at Coles is broader than environmental management. experiences to make life easier for customers with quality, safe products. It is about the way we treat people, the way we govern ourselves and our customers. We are committed to manage the impact of our business on society. We understand that providing safe, responsibly sourced, focusing on all these areas is not only the right thing to do, Convenience nutritious products at competitive prices. it creates value for all our stakeholders. Coles economic value creation Suppliers Team members Shareholders Governments Community Team members Customers and community $32.1bn $4.5bn $473.5m $3.7bn $115m With more than 113,000 team members, Through our community partnerships, we in supplier and payments and benefits total dividend payment cash taxes paid in community support including the largest number of are supporting Australians and reducing our services spend to team members Indigenous team members in Australia’s environmental impact. Our work with SecondBite private sector, our workforce reflects provides Australians in need with healthy, the diversity of our customers and the nutritious food that might otherwise have gone community. We strive for a safe and to waste. Disaster relief and business continuity inclusive workforce for all. plans support customers and communities in times of extreme weather events. Sustainable communities. We contribute to the communities where we live and work. We understand that, together with our team members, charity partners, suppliers and producers we can create positive change and sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives. Coles employs more than 113,000 team members, and we have a responsibility to provide a safe, diverse and inclusive workplace where team members are proud to work. With more than 4,100 Indigenous team members, Coles is the largest private-sector employer of Indigenous Australians. Our suppliers and producers are vital to our success. In addition to $32.1bn in supplier and services spend in FY19, we also support them through long-term contracts, our Australian First Sourcing Policy and the $50m Coles Nurture Fund. In FY19, with the help of our customers and team members, we provided more than $115m in community support. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals: In FY19, Coles contributed more than $115m in direct and indirect community support through national and state programs. Deniliquin Little Athletics Centre in New South Wales was one of 217 Little Athletics centres to receive a Coles grant for new sports equipment. United Nations Global Compact, Principles 3 and 6 Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 12 13 Sustainable Communities Celebrating our team members. With a workforce of more than 113,000 team members, Coles is one of Australia’s largest private-sector employers. Our team members are responsible for creating the great experience our millions of customers have everyday, and we are proud of the inclusive and supportive environment we have at Coles where everyone is respected and valued. Sophie, State General Manager, South Australia (second from left) with team members from Coles St Clair, South Australia during Quiet Hour. In FY19, Coles expanded the rollout of Quiet Hour to 261 supermarkets. members. Where we are unable to redeploy team members, As one of Australia’s largest employers of graduates, Coles’ Our LEaD behaviours (Look ahead, Energise everyone Our team members our redundancy and outplacement programs support team two-year graduate program provides participants with a mix and Deliver with pride) define how we work and behave with We strive to create workplaces that reflect the diversity of the members with the transition. of technical, operational and leadership skills while working each other. LEaD is embedded in our recruitment, onboarding, communities we serve, in an environment where each person alongside key leaders across the business. Throughout the development, performance and talent processes. We continue to We pay in accordance with government-approved employee feels valued and inspired to be their best. We are proud to be program, graduates are given assigned roles with real challenges develop the capability of our leaders to build a high-performance agreements based on underlying legal minimum wage and other the first employer of thousands of Australians each year, and and responsibilities. Our 2019 graduate intake brings the total culture where every team member is supported to be their best. employment terms. In no area of Coles’ operation does minimum equally proud of our 7,296 team members who have worked number of graduates currently in the program to over 350, across wage vary by gender. with us for more than 20 years, including our longest serving operations and our Store Support Centre. team member – Leo McCarthy – who celebrated his 55 year Coles’ approach to industrial relations is focused on direct Better Together engagement with team members, establishing and maintaining Recruitment At Coles, we are Better Together when team members can come anniversary with Coles in August 2019. strong working relationships with unions and being proactive in Coles actively promotes inclusion across all diversity to work and be offered equal opportunities, perform at their best, delivering flexible ways of working. groups including Indigenous, accessibility, gender, age, social be happy, healthy, and safe, and go home feeling accepted for background and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and 113,000+ Coles remunerates competitively across all roles to attract and who they are. intersex (LGBTI). Our advertising, shortlisting and testing retain team members. In addition, we have extensive benefits, We are committed to building a safe and supportive working practises ensure minority groups are not disadvantaged, and including vehicle leasing and a broad range of discounts on environment for all team members, regardless of age, disability, our interview and selection processes are capability-based. team members products and services exclusive to Coles’ team members. In race, gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnicity or background. The talent acquisition team includes dedicated inclusion FY19, Coles introduced an employee share plan which was well Through this, we also ensure we are representing the customers specialists who ensure those candidates requiring additional supported by team members. we serve. assistance are supported. Workplace relations Team member development Our Better Together program, launched in September 2017, The terms and conditions of employment of 89.8% of Coles’ team encompasses five key pillars – Accessibility, Gender members are set through enterprise bargaining agreements. As a large complex organisation, we provide our team members with numerous career development and job-specific training Our LEaD behaviours. balance, Pride, Flexibility and Indigenous each supported We recognise the right of team members to negotiate either opportunities that cover a range of areas, including but not by executive sponsors and steering committees, ensuring individually or collectively, with or without the involvement of limited to trade skills, customer service, digital capability, representation at all levels. Each of these pillars is detailed on third parties. professional development, leadership and safety. the following pages. As we change our ways of working to meet our customers’ The Coles Retail Leaders Program is our pathway for Better Together also supports customers with initiatives such as Look ahead Energise Deliver evolving needs, we are proud of our track record of minimising developing leadership capability and talent within our everyone with pride low sensory Quiet Hour, pictured above. the impact of change on our team members. We do this supermarkets. Since FY17, more than 2,700 participants have through actively managing recruitment, seeking redeployment completed the program to become department managers, store opportunities and investing in retraining impacted team managers and regional managers. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 11 1 OBTAIN OBTAIN AND AND OBTAINAAATRUE ANDWHAT WHATMATTERS WHAT MATTERS TRUE TRUEUNDERSTANDING MATTERSMOST 1 1 UNDERSTANDING UNDERSTANDING MOSTTO MOST OBTAIN OBTAINAATRUE TO ANDAND TOOUR OUR OUR WHATWHAT TEAMTEAM TEAM MATTERS MATTERS TRUEOF MEMBERS MEMBERS MEMBERS OF OF MOST MOSTBYBY BY OUR UNDERSTANDING OURDIVERSITY OUR UNDERSTANDING TO TO OUR OURTEAM CONDUCTING CONDUCTING CONDUCTING DIVERSITYOF DIVERSITY TEAMMEMBERS REGULAR REGULAR MEMBERS REGULAR PROFILE OF PROFILE PROFILE BY OUR OURDIVERSITY COMPANYWIDE BY CONDUCTING COMPANYWIDE COMPANYWIDE CONDUCTING AT ATCOLES, AT DIVERSITY COLES, COLES, REGULARCOMPANYWIDE REGULAR SURVEYS SURVEYS SURVEYS PROFILEAT PROFILE COMPANYWIDESURVEYS ATCOLES, COLES, SURVEYS Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 2023 2023 2023 ONONONINCLUSION INCLUSION INCLUSIONAND AND DIVERSITY. ANDDIVERSITY. DIVERSITY.ON ONINCLUSION INCLUSIONAND ANDDIVERSITY. DIVERSITY. 14 15 22 2 COMMITMENTTO COMMITMENT COMMITMENT 2 2 TOTO REVIEW REVIEW COMMITMENT COMMITMENT REVIEW THETHE THE SCOPE SCOPE SCOPE IMPORTANT IMPORTANT IMPORTANT OF OF OF BETTER BETTER BETTER TO TOREVIEW TO TO TO TOGETHER TOGETHER TOGETHER REVIEW OUR OUR THESCOPE THE OUR SCOPEOF TEAM TEAM IMPORTANT TEAMMEMBERS AREIMPORTANT OF BETTER BETTER YEAR YEAR YEAR ON MEMBERS MEMBERS ONON YEAR YEAR TO YEAR TOOUR TOGETHER TOGETHER TOTO TO OUR ENSURE ENSURE ENSURE AND AND AND TEAM TEAM THAT THAT THAT CUSTOMERS. CUSTOMERS. WE YEAR WE YEAR WEON CUSTOMERS. ONYEAR MEMBERSAND MEMBERS YEARTO TOENSUREENSURETHAT ANDCUSTOMERS. THATWEWE CUSTOMERS. Better Better Bettertogether together together Better Better together together ARE ARE ARE FOCUSING FOCUSING FOCUSING ONONONTHE THE THE AREAS AREAS AREAS THAT ARE THAT THAT ARE AREFOCUSING ARE FOCUSING ARE ON ONTHE AREAS THEAREAS THAT THAT ARE Charter Charter Chartercommitments commitments commitments Charter Chartercommitments commitments 33 3 ALL ALL ALLOUR LEADERSHIP OURLEADERS LEADERSHIPTRAINING. LEADERSHIP OUR LEADERSEMBODY LEADERS 3 3 EMBODY EMBODY TRAINING. TRAINING. AND AND ALL AND OUR PROMOTE OUR ALLPROMOTE LEADERSHIP PROMOTE LEADERS LEADERSHIPTRAINING. LEADERS INCLUSION INCLUSION INCLUSION EMBODYAND EMBODY TRAINING. ANDPROMOTE AND ANDANDDIVERSITY PROMOTE INCLUSION INCLUSION DIVERSITY DIVERSITY THROUGH THROUGHAND ANDINCLUSIVE THROUGH INCLUSIVE DIVERSITY INCLUSIVE DIVERSITYTHROUGH THROUGHINCLUSIVE INCLUSIVE Better Together Coles again participated in the Australian Workplace Equality Index in 2018, receiving a 36-point (18%) uplift in our results compared with last year and gaining a bronze award, demonstrating the success of our LGBTI inclusion initiatives. 111>90% 11 >90% 111 ofacross 1 1 11 1Be 11flexible 11 1support 1 1 BeBe 11 1Aboriginal >90% >90%across Supermarkets,>90% 3% 3%11 3% 3%3% ofofof our our our team team team members members members ourteam ofour Be teammembers Be Be recognised membersrecognised recognised asasas ananan All All Be roles Allroles rolestototo recognised recognisedsupport support support asas an an AllAll roles rolestoto support Aboriginal Aboriginal and and and Torres Torres Torres Aboriginal Aboriginal and and Torres Torres BeBeBe recognised recognised recognised as as as ananan active active active recognised recognised as asan an active active across across Supermarkets, Supermarkets, acrossSupermarkets, Employer Employer Employer Supermarkets, ofofof Choice Choice Choice for for for flexible flexible flexible Employer Employer ofof working. working. Choice Choice working. forfor flexible working. working. and and influential andinfluential influentialleader leaderin leader inin and andinfluential Strait Strait Strait influential Islander Islander Islander leader leader team team team inin Strait Strait Islander Islander team team Flexibility Coles Coles Coles Express Express Express andand and Liquor Liquor Liquor tototo have have have completed completed completed Coles Coles Express and and Express Liquor Liquor toto havehave GenderEquality Gender Gender completed completed Equality Equality GenderEquality Gender Equality LGBTI LGBTI LGBTI workplace workplace workplace inclusion, LGBTI inclusion, inclusion, LGBTIworkplace members members members workplace represent represent tototo represent inclusion, inclusion, members members toto represent represent trade trade trade skilled skilled skilledand and and trade tradeskilledskilledand and 2023 Coles is committed to supporting and empowering all team by by by achieving achieving achieving and and and byby achieving achieving andand all all ofofof all allall ofof Disability Disability DisabilityConfidence Confidence Confidence Training, Training, Training, Disability DisabilityConfidence ConfidenceTraining, Training, maintaining maintaining maintaining citation. citation. citation. maintaining maintaining citation. citation. bybyby achieving achieving achieving and and and maintaining maintaining maintaining status byby status status achieving achieving and and maintaining maintaining leadership leadership leadershippositions status status positionsand positions and and leadership leadershippositions positionsand and ininin thethe the Australian Australian Australian Workplace Workplace Workplace Equality Equality Equality ininthe theAustralian Australian Workplace WorkplaceEquality Equality 5%5%5% 5%5% ensuring ensuring ensuring that thatwe thatwe weare are are offering offering offering thethe the best best best ensuringthat ensuring thatwe weareareoffering offeringthe thebest best quality quality quality service service service andand and support support support tototo our our ourteam team team quality qualityservice serviceand supporttotoour andsupport ourteam team 22 2 Provide Provide Provide anywhere, anywhere, anywhere, anytime anytime anytime work work work 22 Provide Provide anywhere, anywhere, anytime Index. Index. Index. anytime work work Index. Index. our ofofof our our total total total workforce workforce workforce our ofof ourtotal total workforce workforce members to balance their work and life commitments Better members members members and and and customers. customers. customers. membersand members customers. andcustomers. bybyby ensuring ensuring ensuring wewewe have havehave the the theright right right ensuringwe bybyensuring wehavehavethe right theright demonstrating demonstrating demonstrating our ourour demonstrating demonstratingour our ITITITinfrastructure infrastructure infrastructure ITITinfrastructure infrastructureand through a flexible working culture. We recognise that flexible 40% 40%40% 40%40% and andand and commitment commitment commitment tototobuild build build great great great careers careers careers commitmenttotobuild commitment buildgreat greatcareers careers 222 Make Make Make year yearyear onononyear year year 22 Make Make year year onon year year workplaces workplaces workplaces tototo createaaa create create workplacestotocreate workplaces createaa Buildaaastrong Build Build strong strong Coles. Coles. atatat Buildaastrong Build Coles. strong Coles. Coles. atat 22 2 22 working improves team members’ wellbeing, job satisfaction, progress progress progress tototo achieving achieving achieving progress progress toto achieving achieving truly truly truly flexible flexible flexible working working working truly trulyflexible flexibleworking working ally Together ally ally network network network atatat ally allynetwork networkatat 222 22 representation representation representation ofofof women women women ininleadership inleadership leadership representation representation ofof women women inin leadership leadership Quiet Quiet Quiethour offered offered offered eligible eligible eligible hour hour all all ininin stores stores stores all positions positions positions and andand Quiet Quiet atatat anan hour hour an organisational organisational offeredininallall offered atatatleast least least eligible eligible organisational stores stores level positions level level positions and and least least atat an atat an culture culture V28 DRAFT 160919 culture ... organisational organisational level level culture culture . . Coles Coles Coles state state state based based by based byby establishing establishing establishing pride pride pride 22 2 Colesbybyestablishing Coles Continue Continue Continue state state based based toto establishing tosupport pride pride support support 22Continue Continuetotosupport support engagement and performance, which ultimately creates a better experience for our customers. 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% nationally. nationally. nationally. nationally. nationally. representation representation representation any ofofof any any representation representation ofof anyany networks networks networks and andand immersing immersing immersing Aboriginal Aboriginal Aboriginal networks networks andand and and and Torres immersing immersing Torres Torres Aboriginal Aboriginaland Torres andTorres Charter gender gender gender functional functional functional atatat ananan level. level. overall overall level. overall gender genderatatan functional functional anoverall level. level. overall ourselves ourselves ourselves communities communities communities ininin local local local and and and LGBTI LGBTI LGBTI events events events by ourselves ourselvesininlocal Strait Strait Strait byby Islander Islander communities communities increasing increasing Islander increasing and the localLGBTI and the the number LGBTI suppliers suppliers suppliers events events number number ofofof Strait byby increasing Islandersuppliers StraitIslander increasing thethenumber suppliers number ofof In FY18, Flexibility was launched as a standalone pillar of Better commitments 33 3Offer Offer Offer aarange arange range ofofof leading leading leading 33OfferOffer aa range range ofofleading leading atatat astate state aastate level. level. level. atat aa state state opportunities opportunities opportunities level. level. available available available tototo opportunities opportunities available available toto 333 Strive Strive Strive for for for best best best 33 Strivefor Strive forbestbest policies policies policies that support that that support support allall all policies policies that that support supportallall participate participate participate ininin ourour our supply supply supply chain. chain. chain. participate participate our inin oursupply supply chain. chain. Together to help shift perceptions and to recognise that team practice practice practice disability disability disability towards towards towards inclusion inclusion inclusion 333 practice practice Achieve Achieve Achieve by disability disability by by having having having towards pay inclusion the the the towards pay payparity inclusion right right right parity parity policies, policies, policies, practices practices 33 practices byby Achievepay Achieve having having the the pay teamteam team right right parity parity members members members policies, policies, workand work work balance tototo practices practices and andlife balance balance life life team team work 33 work 3and members members and totobalance Increase Increase Increase balance life life our our our team team team members’ members’ members’ 33 Increase Increaseour our team team members’ members’ members and the business benefit from flexible working. their their their their their confidence confidence confidence authentic confidence confidencetotobebetheir Develop Develop Develop mutually mutually mutually Develop Develop mutually mutually 3 33 and 3 3 our our our ininin stores, stores, stores, sites sites sites and andand in our our in stores, stores, sites sites and tototo be be be their their their authentic authentic their authentic authentic andand and governance governance governance ininand in place place place tototo reach reach reach and andgovernance governanceininplace placetotoreach reach commitments commitments commitments ... commitments commitments . selves selves selves . atatat work work work by by byoffering offering offering both both both selves selves atat work work byby offering offering both both beneficial beneficial beneficial and and beneficialand beneficial and workplaces workplaces workplaces byby by scoring scoring scoring balance balance balance workplaces workplaces byand by scoring scoring and and offer offer offerthe the the same samesame balance balanceand andoffer offerthethesamesame sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable sustainable ininin thethe the toptop top 25th 25th 25th percentile percentile percentile inininthe thethe thetop ininthe top25th 25th percentile percentileininto opportunities opportunities opportunities thethe to all team allall to team team membersopportunities opportunitiestotoallallteam members members team members members mandatory mandatory mandatoryand andoptional and optional optional mandatory mandatoryand andoptional optional In FY19, we launched a simplified Flexible Working Guide and Australian Australian Australian Network Network Network ononon Disability’s Disability’s Disability’s Access Access Access Australian Australian Network Network on toto to onDisability’s Disability’s build build build great great great Access Access careers careers careers atatat Coles. Coles. Coles. toto build build great great careers careers atat Coles. Coles. $$$ $$ training training training tototo all all all team team team members members members and and trainingtotoallallteam and training team members members relationships relationships relationships and and with with with relationshipswith relationships with and and and Inclusion index. Inclusion Inclusion index. index. and index. Inclusionindex. andInclusion allies allies allies onononLGBTI LGBTI LGBTIinclusioninclusionin inclusion in allieson in allies onLGBTI LGBTIinclusion Indigenous Indigenous inclusioninin community Indigenous organisations. organisations. organisations. community community Indigenous Indigenous organisations. organisations. community community open-door briefing sessions, facilitating easier and more effective the the workplace. workplace. theworkplace. thetheworkplace. workplace. conversations about flexible working. We also reviewed and updated our technology infrastructure to enable team members to work remotely. Accessibility Our commitment to disability confidence training is underway, Pride In our most recent engagement survey, 76% of team members with rollout planned in FY20. responded that their line manager supports them if they choose Coles continuously strives to improve the accessibility of Our Pride pillar aims to create a supportive environment in to make use of flexible work arrangements, indicating the our stores, sites and workplaces for our team members and Coles also actively encourages and supports the employment which members of the LGBTI community feel they can be their success of current initiatives. customers with disability. of people with disabilities and has two inclusion recruitment authentic selves. specialists, whose focus includes supporting the employment We also offer paid parental leave for permanent full-time In June 2018, we launched our second Accessibility Action Coles partners with Pride in Diversity, Australia’s first and only and successful onboarding of people with disabilities. and part-time team members. In FY19, 1,177 team members made Plan (2018 to 2020) detailing the specific steps needed to national not-for-profit employer support program for all aspects use of parental leave, of which 1,161 (98.6%) were women and improve the accessibility of Coles’ stores, sites, workplaces and of LGBTI workplace inclusion. This partnership is helping us to Gender balance 16 (1.4%) were men. During the year, 949 team members (934 digital assets. The plan was developed with support from the drive positive change across our focus areas. One of our key commitments within Gender balance is to reach women and 15 men) returned to work following parental leave. Australian Network on Disability (AND), with whom we have a 40% women in leadership positions at an organisational level During FY19, with the support of Pride in Diversity, Coles trained gold membership. Our Accessibility Action Plan focuses on three Indigenous engagement by 2023. Each year the Board sets and reviews measurable 80 LGBTI allies, dedicated to providing peer-to-peer support, key areas: community and engagement, building a great place objectives with a view to progressing towards a balanced furthering our commitment to creating a safe and inclusive Coles is committed to the advancement of Aboriginal and Torres to work, and products and services. representation of women at a Board, executive and senior working environment. Team members in our People and Culture Strait Islander peoples, providing employment opportunities and Coles has implemented many accessibility initiatives to support management level and in other identified leadership roles. function have also completed LGBTI Awareness Training to supporting Indigenous suppliers. More information can be found our Better Together Action Plan and Charter commitments, enable them to better support team members who identify as on pages 16 and 17 of this report. Our FY19 Gender balance highlights included improvements including establishing a team dedicated to digital accessibility, part of our LGBTI community. to the representation of women at Executive Leadership Team modifying our store blueprint to ensure it is accessible, providing level, with female representation on the executive team at We have also increased opportunities for team members to disability confidence training to our People and Culture business 38%, compared with 18% in FY18. The number of females in our visibly display they are an LGBTI ally. In our 2019 engagement partners and talent acquisition team, and recognising the general manager population has also increased compared with survey almost 30,000 team members chose to identify as an International Day of People with Disability. last year to 40%. With our total number of women in leadership LGBTI ally. In addition, we now offer Quiet Hour in 261 Coles supermarkets roles at over 33%, we are making progress towards achieving On 17 May 2019, Coles recognised the International Day Against after an initial trial with Autism Spectrum Australia in 2017. our Gender balance target of 40% by 2023. We are also very Homophobia and Transphobia (IDAHOT) across our businesses, Quiet Hour provides a low-sensory shopping experience by proud that at our most senior level the Coles Board comprises as well as holding a dedicated information session at our Store making changes in store, such as reducing noise, lighting and 38% women. Support Centre. The purpose was to increase the visibility of distractions, to help make a difference to customers who find it Coles reports to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency in support for LGBTI team members by asking senior leaders to challenging to shop in a heightened sensory environment. There accordance with the requirements of the Workplace Gender talk about why it is important and providing all team members has been an overwhelmingly positive response from customers Equality Act 2012. with the ability to wear a rainbow badge or sticker. and team members. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 16 PROUD MOMENT. Indigenous engagement Indigenous employment Coles’ Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Plan, first launched 3.6% Working with Indigenous suppliers: One of the many Indigenous businesses we support in 2011, outlines our commitment to engage with Indigenous More than 4,100 Indigenous team is Nunga Produce – an Aboriginal-owned and operated members representing 3.6% of peoples, communities and organisations. The plan focuses Coles’ workforce in FY19. fresh produce supplier located in the Yorke Peninsula on three key areas – employment, supplier diversity and in South Australia. community engagement. Operated by Ron (pictured) and Elizabeth Newchurch, 5,500 As Australia’s largest private-sector employer of Indigenous in partnership with non-Aboriginal couple Juliette Australians, we believe we have a responsibility to provide and Nigel Tripodi, Nunga Produce supplies spring Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples with greater onions to Coles supermarkets in and around Adelaide. opportunities in sustainable employment, as well as in supplier Commitment to increase Supplying 3,000 bunches of spring onions to Coles each Indigenous team members and community relationships. to 5,500 by 2023. week, as well as 5,000 other vegetables and herbs to other retailers, Ron Newchurch said the partnership Indigenous team members bring unique skills and knowledge to with Coles has given Nunga Produce stability. It has also Coles – they expand our talent pool and provide greater diversity allowed them to focus on growing their business, as well in thinking and experiences. as mentoring and supporting other Aboriginal growers. In 2011, with just 65 Indigenous team members, we set an Australian Indigenous Business Alliance Group (AIBAG), MEEDAC ambitious target to increase that number to 3,000 Indigenous Aboriginal Corporation and Wunan Foundation. team members by 2020, bringing Indigenous representation at Retention for Indigenous team members is higher than the Coles to approximately 3%, in line with the overall Indigenous Coles average, demonstrating that Coles has a safe, welcoming population in Australia at the time. and inclusive environment where Indigenous team members Coles not only achieved that milestone two years early, we can build great careers. are also now Australia’s largest private-sector employer of Indigenous Australians with more than 4,100 Indigenous Indigenous supplier and community engagement team members, representing 3.6% of our workforce. Our new We have a commitment to increase Indigenous supplier commitment is to increase that number to 5,500 Indigenous representation in our supply chain and grow the number of team members by 2023. mutually beneficial relationships with Indigenous organisations. Coles is also committed to the career development of our We support Indigenous businesses through the procurement of Indigenous team members and helping them gain trade skills products and services. In FY19, we worked with 50 Indigenous and leadership opportunities. In FY19, there were more than 200 suppliers across categories such as fresh produce, facilities Indigenous team members in trade and leadership positions, management, recycling, medical services and IT. This is a 28% a 27% increase compared with FY18. We have committed to increase compared with FY18 and is the ninth consecutive year increasing that number to 500 Indigenous team members by of Indigenous supplier growth. 2023 by investing in training and dedicated mentoring. One of our Indigenous suppliers, Zancott Knight, was appointed We adopt a partnership approach to improving Indigenous in May 2019 to manage Coles’ portfolio of vacant properties employment outcomes, working with Indigenous employment in rural Australia. Zancott Knight provides construction, specialists, including Aboriginal Employment Strategy, the project management and facilities management services, while dedicating 10% of all profits to support local Indigenous organisations and communities. As part of our commitment to better reflect the communities we serve and celebrate local Aboriginal culture in our stores, we unveiled Indigenous artwork across all our supermarkets in the Northern Territory during the year. Coles commissioned a number of local Aboriginal artists to complete the designs, including leading local Indigenous artist Janet Golder Kngwarreye (pictured left) whose artwork is displayed at our Alice Springs supermarket. ‘My Country’ depicts Janet Golder Kngwarreye’s relationship to country and her traditional homelands. Janet said the piece conveys knowledge of the land that was essential to the survival of Indigenous people in Central Australia. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 18 19 Sustainable Communities Health, safety and wellbeing for our customers and our team. The safety of our team members, customers, contractors and third parties is paramount to Coles. We employ an extensive workforce and understand the potential safety risks this brings. We are committed to providing a safe working environment and creating a culture that values health, safety and wellbeing. Team member Miguel from Coles Laverton Distribution Centre, Victoria operates an electric pallet jack, which was rolled out as part of a range of health and safety initiatives. Safety leadership and culture We have invested significantly to make our back-of-house safer Promoting health, safety and wellbeing 38% Leadership and culture are critical to embedding the importance in supermarkets. Following a risk review of potential falls from With an extensive workforce that supports more than 20 million of safety throughout our business. General managers and the heights, we installed additional boom gates and barriers to our customer transactions per week, we acknowledge that team Executive Leadership Team complete training to understand docks and scissor-lift elevation platforms. members, contractors, customers and third parties may be the practicalities of health and safety legislation and their In our supermarkets, we continued a program to upgrade bulkhead exposed to a variety of risks. TRIFR over past four years responsibilities within the framework for legal compliance. infrastructure. Electrical switchboards were replaced or upgraded Coles seeks to manage these risks through our Health, Safety Our leadership teams are focused on personal accountability, in Coles Express outlets and some supermarkets. In Coles Liquor, and Wellbeing Policy, which is implemented through SafetyCARE, proactive hazard and incident management, risk mitigation and we upgraded traffic management line marking. Team member safety performance the documented safety management system that provides creating a positive health and wellbeing culture. We track and monitor safety performance using total recordable Following a review of threatening situations and site risk a framework for Coles to look after the health, safety and injury frequency rate (TRIFR), which records medically treated, Across Coles, Health and Safety committees, comprising profiling, Coles supermarkets trialled duress watches with a rollout wellbeing of our team members, customers, contractors, lost time and restricted duties injuries per million hours worked leadership representatives and team members, meet regularly to scheduled in FY20. Duress watches notify authorities in the event suppliers and visitors. It is designed to manage risks and by team members. Our TRIFR includes all injury types, including discuss and review health and safety matters. of an emergency or threatening situation. Coles Express will be hazards that come with operating a variety of sites and facilities, musculoskeletal injuries. In FY19, our TRIFR decreased by 20.3% trialling these watches in FY20. including stores, distribution centres, Store Support Centres and A wide range of training programs, including induction training the supply chain network. from 34.4 in FY18 to 27.4 as a result of continued critical risk and task specific safe work practice training, is provided to over Training programs in supermarkets delivered targeted conflict reduction, building leadership capability to drive a safety culture 81,000 team members annually to ensure they have the required management sessions, and team members completed refresher Total recordable injury frequency rate and a focus on supporting mental health. knowledge, skills and competencies to perform their work safely. training in safely managing threatening situations. Coles We aim to achieve a year-on-year reduction in TRIFR. Over the Express team members also completed training in security and Leaders are provided with regular safety performance reporting robbery safety. 50 past four years, our TRIFR has decreased by 38%. 44.1 to help inform management actions required to lead continual The reduction in injuries and focus on supporting injured team improvements. These reports are also reviewed by the Coles Coles Liquor rolled out the Three Bees program, raising awareness 38.8 40 of how to de-escalate confronting situations through the process 34.4 members to make a full recovery resulted in strong workers Board, by the Audit and Risk Committee and at a range of senior compensation performance. leadership forums across the business. of Breathing, Backing off and asking for Back up. TRIFR 30 27.4 We also worked with third-party logistics partners to implement Critical risk reduction a fatigue management system in driver cabins and commenced 20 Safety and Wellbeing Plan During FY19, we introduced a range of manual-handling risk a program to improve connection and coupling between prime Our rolling five-year Safety and Wellbeing Plan focuses on reduction initiatives. These included stock management solutions movers and their trailers to prevent them becoming detached. 10 to reduce congestion and improve efficiency in store stockrooms, Safety leadership and culture, Critical risk reduction and Mind your health. These are supported by clear processes to automated wrapping devices in distribution centres, further rollout Coles Online has introduced new safety features in our delivery 0 of electric pallet jacks and new mechanised equipment, including vans, including telematics and cameras, and commenced trials FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 ensure safety is integrated into key decisions and by internal and external audit programs that promote continuous improvement. motorised bin movers, bin-lifting devices and motorised trolleys. into manual-handling risk reduction solutions for rollout in FY20. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 20 21 Sustainable Communities Supporting Australian farmers and suppliers. We are committed to building strong and collaborative relationships with Australian farmers, producers and suppliers. We recognise their hard work and commitment enables us to provide high-quality products for our customers. Coles Chief Legal Officer David Brewster (right) and Heart Foundation’s General Manager of Heart Health Bill Stavreski with one of the defibrillators rolled out to Coles supermarkets across Australia. Mind Your Health This partnership is expected to result in an additional 1.8 million Coles’ Mind Your Health Program is committed to supporting All Coles supermarkets with defibrillators Australian First Sourcing Policy cans of Australian fruit produced for Own Brand annually. a positive, healthy team member experience and provides a During FY19, Coles partnered with the Heart Foundation to Coles has an Australian First Sourcing Policy to source Partnering with SPC, one of Australia’s oldest providers of range of resources to support all team members. encourage Australians to look after their hearts. We rolled Australian-grown fresh produce as a priority. In FY19, 96% of Own preserved fruit, Coles has introduced a new range of preserved out automated external defibrillators (AEDs) to all Coles Brand fresh produce and 100% of fresh lamb, pork, chicken, beef, In FY19, we partnered with The Resilience Project, an organisation fruit in cans – including 100% Australian-grown peaches, pears supermarkets nationally, to provide rapid aid to customers or milk and eggs were sourced from Australian suppliers. 100% of that provides mental health strategies to build resilience and and apricots. team members during a sudden cardiac arrest situation. Own Brand frozen vegetables are Australian grown. wellbeing. Presentations were provided for state leadership The partnership is part of our Australian First Sourcing Policy, teams, the Executive Leadership Team and Store Support Centre We are supporting the Heart Foundation which is highlighting the We are committed to building strong and collaborative helping to support Australian farmers and Australian jobs. team members. This program will also be provided to more than importance of maintaining a healthy heart and having a health relationships with Australian farmers, producers and growers. 3,000 site leaders in FY20. heart check with a doctor, through in-store messaging, social We comply with the newly updated country of origin labelling media channels and messaging to millions of flybuys members. Mental health first aid training was carried out across our requirements which came into affect in July 2018, making it 96% distribution centre network and for selected Coles liquor and The safety of customers and team members is a top priority easier for customers to identify a product’s source. supermarket leadership teams, with further rollout scheduled at Coles, with a minimum of five team members at every Coles also supports Australian producers and growers through in FY20. The training provides leaders with skills to respond supermarket trained and accredited in first aid so they can help long-term partnerships, which allow our suppliers to grow and appropriately in a mental health crisis. in medical emergencies, including performing CPR. have the confidence to invest in their business. All our first aid team members are also trained to use the AED. Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides free and In FY19, we commenced a 10-year agreement with Laurent Own Brand fresh produce sourced from We have chosen an easy-to-use device that includes audio Australian suppliers. confidential counselling support for team members and their to supply artisan-style stone-baked sourdough bread across and visual instructions. families. It also assists managers to provide advice and support Australia. We also have 10-year agreements with pork producer to their team members. During FY19, four new specialised The AEDs are located near the customer service desk and are TOP Pork, tomato producer Sundrop Farms, and with milk support lines were introduced – an Aboriginal and Torres Strait available for neighbouring retailers and small businesses to use supplier Norco and an eight-year agreement with Manbulloo 100% Islander helpline, LGBTI helpline, Domestic Violence helpline in the event of an emergency. Mangoes. Coles also has a long-term contract with Simplot to and Eldercare helpline, in addition to Manager Assist, Conflict supply Australian-grown vegetables. Assist, Family Assist and Nutrition and Health Assist. A new EAP Managers’ Guide was also launched providing leaders with more Coles and SPC partnership information, including how to promote the program. Coles has rolled out defibrillators to In April 2019, we further demonstrated our support of Australian 100% of our supermarkets fruit growers and food manufacturing by signing a new supply Own Brand fresh lamb, pork, chicken, beef, milk and eggs sourced from Australian suppliers. deal with Goulburn Valley fruit-preserving company SPC. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 22 Coles Nurture Fund The Crowe family, located near Coolac In April 2015, Coles launched the $50m Nurture Fund to help in New South Wales, have established an automated facility with support from the small to medium-sized businesses to innovate and grow. Coles Nurture Fund allowing them to Since then, the Coles Nurture Fund has provided more than produce fodder indoors to supplement $19m in support to more than 50 Australian food and grocery grass for their cattle. producers to help fund the development of new market-leading products, technologies and processes. Together we aim to drive differentiation, extend seasons, improve productivity and reduce imports. In FY19, Coles committed $5m from the Nurture Fund for drought relief, which enabled 16 food producers across Australia to undertake projects to reduce the impact of water scarcity. A cross-section of food producers, including fruit and vegetable growers as well as cattle, sheep and pork farmers, will use the funding to embark on plans to help protect their businesses against drought in the long term. The projects range from building dams, storage sheds and silos to innovative plans to grow fodder indoors and reduce water use through new technology. Recipients include: • The Damianopoulos family from Masalki in Victoria’s Goulburn Valley, who will be one of the first pear growers in Australia to install new humidity control technology which will reduce their water use by up to 80% in their cool rooms. • The Edson family from Tepko in South Australia, who are leading the way in the pig industry by installing a solar system to fully power their piggery. They will also purchase three silos to store grain to be better equipped for drought conditions. • The Wagner family from Moura in Queensland, who are growing 1,500 hectares of the drought-resilient tree legume, leucaena, so it can be fed to cattle to provide highly nutritious fodder when rainfall is scarce. • The Crust family from Mount Sylvia in Queensland, who lined a dam to increase their water capacity by 20% and installed a state-of-the-art irrigation system for water and power efficiency. • The Winks family from Woolerina Grazing, Maidenwell, Queensland, who constructed a shade structure over their existing feedlot to protect cattle from hot and dry conditions. • The Lester family from Manypeaks in Western Australia, who are establishing two gully dams, installing two solar pumps and a hay shed and purchasing a pivot irrigator, so they are better placed to produce grass-fed beef all year round. More information about our support for drought-affected farmers can be found on pages 24, 58, 59 and 60 of this report. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 24 25 Supporting Australian dairy farmers The investment will fund research into more sustainable farming To support local dairy farmers, in July 2019 we began sourcing practices; adoption of new technology; more efficient use of Own Brand fresh milk directly from farmers in Victoria pasture, feed and water; and support for business development and in southern and central New South Wales. This change and talent retention. Dairy farmers will have a direct say in how delivers fair and competitive prices to farmers, provides greater funds from the Coles Sustainable Dairy Development Group certainty of income and allows farmers to more confidently are deployed. plan for their future. Celebrating our farmers and suppliers Strong relationships with our farmers and suppliers are a critical part of our business success. 100% of Own Brand fresh In August 2018, we held our fourth annual Coles’ Supplier milk is sourced from Australian farmers. Awards, which recognise our suppliers and the contribution they make to our customers and our business. For the seventh consecutive year, Coles sponsored The Weekly Times Coles Farmer of the Year Awards, which Coles has previously relied on dairy processors to purchase recognise outstanding farmers across Australia. We held milk from farmers for Own Brand fresh milk, under contracts a special awards ceremony in February 2019, with winners that allowed the processor rather than Coles to set the from five different categories – horticulture, sheep, beef, farmgate price. dairy and innovation. Under the new sourcing model, Coles will offer the competitive In June 2019, Coles sponsored HORT Connections, the biggest farmgate price directly to farmers and will pay dairy processor horticulture conference in Australia attended by more than Saputo to process and bottle under a toll processing agreement. 3,400 delegates. We are also investing an additional $1.9m to improve the sustainability of Australia’s dairy industry through a newly In FY19, Barry and Annette Turner experienced the devastating impact of drought on their farm near Broken Hill, New South Wales. In her role as Country established Coles Sustainable Dairy Development Group. Women’s Association Board Member, Annette also helped to distribute $7.3m in funds raised by Coles and our customers for drought-affected farmers. Supporting Australian farmers In addition to the Coles Nurture Fund and our Australian First Sourcing Policy, in FY19 we supported Australian farmers and growers through fundraising, partnerships and sponsorships. $7.3m to drought-affected farming communities $16m support to drought-affected farmers To support drought-affected farmers across Australia, Coles ran + fundraising appeals at all supermarkets as part of the Country Women’s Association (CWA) Drought Appeal in FY19. By matching the donations from our generous customers, Coles $3.9m raised over $7.3m for drought-affected farming communities. The raised from the 30-cent increase in the price of 3-litre Own Brand fresh milk to funds were distributed by the CWA to more than 3,200 droughtsupport dairy farmers affected farming families to help cover household expenses. In FY19, Coles also launched the Dairy Drought Relief Fund + to support dairy farmers affected by drought. Between 21 September and 31 December, $3.9m was raised from the 30-cent increase in the price of three-litre Own Brand fresh milk. These funds were equally distributed to 639 eligible dairy $5m Coles Nurture Fund farmer applicants. These fundraising efforts are in addition to $5m from the Coles = Nurture Fund which is helping farmers build long-term resilience $16.2m to drought. The $3.9m from the Coles Dairy Drought Fund, $7.3m from the CWA Drought Appeal and $5m from the Coles Nurture Fund brought the total amount committed by Coles and our customers for drought relief to over $16m in FY19. In drought relief Lamb producer Tom Bull and family from Holbrook, New South Wales were awarded The Weekly Times Coles Farmer of the Year. FY19 was Coles’ seventh year sponsoring the award. PROUD MOMENT. Cone Bay Ocean Barrumundi: In December 2018, we signed a three-year agreement with Cone Bay Ocean Barramundi, the only supplier of ocean-farmed barramundi in Australia. Cone Bay’s barramundi is farmed in the pristine ocean waters of the Kimberley off Western Australia’s north coast rather than in land-based ponds where barramundi is more commonly sourced. As the only ocean barramundi farm in Australia, Cone Bay Ocean Barramundi created its own speciesspecific farming techniques. Cone Bay Ocean Barramundi started supplying its fish to Coles in October 2018, and supply has strengthened as a result of increased customer demand for responsibly sourced, local seafood. We now sell an average of one tonne of Cone Bay Ocean Barramundi daily. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 28 Sustainable Communities Supporting our community and charity partners. We are proud of our 105-year contribution to Australia and are committed to serving the communities in which we live and work. Our contribution goes beyond being one of Australia’s largest private-sector employers. We are passionate about supporting communities through partnerships, sponsorships and fundraising. Since the partnership began, Coles has raised more than $34m, More than which has enabled support for children, young people and $115m families affected by cancer on more than 164,000 occasions. Our support helps to provide counselling services, financial assistance, information resources, education and career support, FY19 total community support scholarships and grants. In November and December 2018, Coles ran a Christmas fundraising appeal for Redkite by selling $2 donation cards and Helping communities thrive a range of merchandise. In total, Coles supermarkets and Coles Express sites raised $1.5m. In FY19, Coles’ total community support was more than $115m, which included direct community support of more than $101m Coles also raises funds for Redkite through bread sales, donating with an additional $14m contributed by customers, team five cents from the sale of every loaf of specially marked PROUD MOMENT. members and suppliers. This represents a 23% increase in direct Own Brand bread. In FY19, we raised $2.9m for Redkite through community support compared with FY18 and a 51% increase in this initiative. contributions from customers, team members and suppliers. Bella and her family are Other fundraising activities took the total raised for Redkite to among thousands of Coles’ community contribution is independently assessed by the $4.8m in FY19. children, young people London Benchmarking Group. and families who have SecondBite received support from We support a range of initiatives aimed at improving the health For the past eight years, we have partnered with food rescue Coles and Redkite over and wellbeing of Australians including children’s cancer charity organisation SecondBite to collect edible, unsold food from our the past six years. Redkite and food rescue organisation SecondBite. supermarkets and some distribution centres. Since 2013, Coles, our Redkite Thanks to our partnership, more than 780 Coles supermarkets team members and Coles has partnered with national children’s cancer charity across Australia now donate surplus fresh food to support around customers have raised 1,300 community food programs to provide meals to Australians more than $34m for Redkite since 2013, providing financial assistance to children and facing hardship. Redkite to help children, young people with cancer and their families. young people and their In June this year, we reached a milestone in our partnership with families cope with the SecondBite, with the equivalent of 84.8 million meals donated to emotional and financial people in need since 2011. stress of cancer. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 30 We also raise funds for SecondBite through the sale of $2 Coles’ Australian pork farmers also donated to the FightMND donation cards and a range of reusable shopping bags. foundation. In total more than $500,000 was raised to fund vital research into a cure for this disease. Each year we run a Winter Appeal to raise funds for SecondBite by selling $2 donation cards in our supermarkets and liquor We also partner with a variety of sporting organisations to help stores. Our FY19 Winter Appeal raised more than $1.7m, equating promote healthy, active lifestyles and improve community health to more than 8.5 million meals. Coles Liquor also runs an annual and wellbeing. Christmas appeal that raised more than $500,000 in FY19. Our key partnership with Little Athletics Australia and Athletics Across all fundraising activities, we raised over $2.8m for Australia supports grassroots athletics across the country. SecondBite in FY19, taking our total financial contribution to As part of our three-year partnership with Little Athletics, we $7.9m since 2011. donate boxes of bananas to more than 440 Little Athletic In FY19, Coles announced it would provide SecondBite with centres for their weekly training sessions. Since October 2017, we $500,000 support from the Coles Nurture Fund to purchase have donated more than 2.5 million bananas in addition to direct four new eight-pallet refrigerated trucks to replace its financial support. smaller capacity vans. The trucks will enable SecondBite to In September 2018, Coles also established a new community collect and redistribute larger quantities of surplus food in fund to provide grants of up to $5,000 for sports equipment shorter timeframes. to Little Athletics centres, with funds raised from sales of More about our partnership with SecondBite, as well as selected community bags. Since September, we have provided Foodbank, can be found on page 56 of this report. approximately $800,000 in grants to 217 Little Athletics centres nationally. Supporting healthy and active communities In August 2018, we established a three-year partnership with In addition to our national partners Redkite and SecondBite, we the Collingwood Football Club’s Community Foundation to help support a range of state and local initiatives. This includes raising fight homelessness and support people facing disadvantage funds for health-focused organisations such as the Sydney in Melbourne. As part of the partnership, we work with the Children’s Hospital, Telethon in Western Australia, Ovarian foundation to double the number of meals and accommodation Cancer in Queensland and Hummingbird House in Queensland. for homeless people in Melbourne. Through this partnership, In May and June 2019, Coles supported the Motor Neurone Coles also supports junior sports and women’s sport; education Disease (MND) campaign for the second year, raising funds for programs promoting equal opportunity; health and wellness and FightMND through the sale of fresh pork at our supermarkets. leadership; initiatives for people with disabilities; and Indigenous During the six-week appeal, 10 cents from the sale of every and multicultural programs. pack of Own Brand fresh pork was donated to FightMND. In December 2018, Coles announced a two-year sponsorship with Rowing Australia to provide groceries for rowers at their National Training Centres in Canberra and Sydney. Coles community bags Coles sells a range of reusable shopping bags designed by Australian school children. These community bags raise funds for Clean Up Australia, Little Athletics, SecondBite and Guide Dogs Australia, with 10% of sales directed to these causes. Since June 2018, Coles has raised more than $2.4m through the sale of community bags, which provided: • more than two million meals for Australians in need through SecondBite; PROUD MOMENT. • $800,000 in grants for new sports equipment for 217 Little Athletics centres; • disaster relief packs for households in flood-affected Artist Ella Burke, aged 18, Townsville, 100,000 pairs of gloves for school children and from Moruya High School, 6,000 first aid kits for community and youth groups through New South Wales with a Guide Dog puppy and Clean Up Australia; and the community bag she • support to raise a litter of 12 puppies to become Guide Dogs designed for Coles. through Guide Dogs Australia. Through the sale of Coles Since our partnership with Guide Dogs Australia began in 1982, we community bags we were have raised more than $10m through a mix of fundraising activities, able to help raise a litter Coles Northland, Victoria team member Manni with Jesse from SecondBite collecting including coin collection dogs at the front of our supermarkets, of 12 puppies to become fresh produce for distribution to community groups. Since our partnership began in the sale of community bags and customer donations of 2011, Coles has donated the equivalent of 84.8 million meals to SecondBite, helping Guide Dogs through Guide people in need. flybuys points. Dogs Australia. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 32 33 Coles’ team members volunteer at national food rescue organisation Foodbank. RAAF and Coles transported essential supplies to flood-affected areas in Far North Queensland including Townsville (pictured). To raise funds for men’s health charity Movember, 170 Coles team More than 100,000 hectares of land was burnt in the Gippsland Team member volunteering and engagement members from 31 teams across our businesses and stores took Disaster relief fire in the Bunyip State Park, claiming many homes. Team We encourage our team members to engage with causes that part in the Movember campaign in 2018. In total, team members In early 2019, severe bushfires in Tasmania and Gippsland, members from three of our local stores closest to the fires matter to their local communities and to support our charitable raised more than $65,000, which was matched by Coles, bringing Victoria, and extreme floods in Far North Queensland affected dedicated time on the ground to distribute Own Brand water, hot community partners through fundraising, volunteering and our total contribution to more than $130,000. several of our stores and sites. Our teams worked tirelessly with roast chickens, bread, burgers and toothbrushes to more than in-kind support and by raising funds for disaster relief. Team local suppliers to deliver food and groceries to impacted areas. 1,000 fire fighters. members can also donate to Redkite through a team member In addition to our efforts on the ground, Coles helped raise giving program. more than $320,000 through a national appeal for the Red 400+ In FY19, 128 team members volunteered at SecondBite to Cross Disaster Relief and Recovery Fund. During the appeal, our help sort donated food and prepare deliveries. Fifty-one team In Far North Queensland, our supply chain, customers donated more than $160,000, which Coles matched members also volunteered with Foodbank to pick and pack Supermarket Operations, Coles Express and dollar-for-dollar. orders for its charity partners. Coles Liquor team members banded together Over recent years, our supply chain teams have used air freight, Through our partnership with the Collingwood Football to organise special road trains and airfreight to sea barges, trucks and road trains to deliver the essentials to our Club’s Community Foundation, over 90 Coles team members boxes packed to go to mothers in need transport food and groceries to our supermarkets. customers during extreme weather conditions. volunteered at the Magpie Nest Café to serve meals to those Coles is represented on the Trusted Information Sharing in need. The Magpie Nest Café, run in partnership with the Network for Critical Infrastructure Resilience, and one of our Salvation Army Project 614 Team, serves more than 3,000 free team members chairs the Network’s Food and Grocery Sector $130,000+ meals each week to people in need in Melbourne. Our teams worked with the RAAF to arrange an airlift of Coles Resilience Group (FGSRG). The network shares information During FY19, our Coles Online team in Victoria supported food and other essentials from the Amberley Air Force Base on issues relevant to maintaining critical infrastructure and SecondBite and Melbourne-based charity St Kilda Mums. As part in Brisbane to Townsville, where members of our First Choice the continuity of essential services in the face of hazards of a Mother’s Day campaign, Coles Online partnered with St Kilda Liquor team were also volunteering with the State Emergency and disasters. Mums to help support mothers experiencing hardship. Coles Service donating bottled water. total contribution to Movember Online customers were given the option of adding a donation After floodwaters cut off primary road access to Mt Isa, two of with their regular order, with funds helping to deliver a gift box our drivers drove nearly 3,000 kilometres to transport deliveries filled with personal care products. Coles Online team members to our Mt Isa store. North of Mt Isa, Coles donated 40 pallets of picked and packed over 400 boxes to go to mothers in need, with food to the community of Kynuna, which had been completely the team writing their own personal messages on the boxes as a cut off by the floods and without supplies for several days. way of showing their support. We are working with suppliers, such as Matt Hood from Rugby Farms, Queensland, to reduce food waste and increase crop yields by redirecting products that typically would not be sold in stores to other value-added products, such as broccoli rice. Sustainable products. We want to make life easier for our customers by offering quality, safe and trusted products – sourced in an ethical, transparent and responsible way – to help them make healthy and sustainable choices. As our customers’ needs are changing, we are developing new ranges and products to respond to their needs. We have launched an affordable health food range and are providing more meat-free protein alternatives. Our Own Brand food and drink standard range is now free of artificial colours and artificial flavours. Our commitments to quality and safety and to ethical and responsible sourcing are backed by our supplier requirements and rigorous inspection program. All Own Brand suppliers must comply with our ethical sourcing requirements and, where relevant, meet animal welfare and product certification specification. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals: United Nations Global Compact, Principles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 36 37 Each year, farmers on our Farm Program complete a selfassessment, which is used to monitor product programs and Certified products and ingredients identify challenges and opportunities. We audit a minimum of Coles is committed to using independent and internationally 10% of Coles Farm Program supplier sites each year to validate recognised certification programs for global commodities the self-assessment information. sourced from regions with higher labour and environmental risks. These programs support ethical practices and environmental protection in these supply chains. Sustainable Products Responsibly sourced seafood We are proud that all Own Brand seafood is responsibly Palm oil Responsible sourced and has been since 2015. We understand that wellmanaged and responsible fishing is essential to maintaining Coles’ Palm Oil Policy outlines our commitment to use sustainable palm oil and palm derivatives. We are a member of sourcing. healthy fish populations and habitats and to ensuring the the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil and have embraced future sustainability of marine ecosystems. its sustainable palm oil production principles and criteria which reduce the negative impacts of palm oil production All Own Brand seafood such as deforestation, endangering wildlife and displacing responsibly sourced local communities. (since 2015) We know our customers want to buy products that have been All Own Brand food and drink products now contain or support the production of sustainable palm oil. responsibly sourced. Our extensive responsible sourcing program – focused on safeguarding animal welfare and minimising environmental We are also introducing sustainable palm oil and palm impacts – aims to provide them with assurance that the products they derivatives in Own Brand homecare, health, beauty and baby products. While these changes are being made, palm buy have met recognised quality standards and certifications. oil in Own Brand non-food products is offset through In FY19, Coles was awarded the Marine Stewardship Council’s PalmTrace certificates, which support sustainable palm oil Oceania Sustainable Seafood Supermarket of the Year for the third market demand. year in a row, recognising that we have the widest eco-labelled All our Own Brand shell eggs are cage-free; and, in FY19, fresh seafood range of any Australian supermarket with all Own Tea, coffee, cocoa and sugar Animal welfare we became completely cage-free across proprietary and Own Brand seafood products labelled according to the methodology We use independent certification programs, such as Fairtrade We care about how the food we sell is produced and sourced Brand shell eggs in Western Australia. By the end of 2023, Coles by which they are certified. and Rainforest Alliance/UTZ, when sourcing tea, coffee and and are committed to working towards a sustainable future aims to be cage-free for all shell eggs and eggs as ingredients Our Responsibly Sourced Seafood Program recognises a range of cocoa to provide confidence that these commodities have been that supports local farmers and food producers, while looking in Own Brand. certifications and assessments that monitor marine health and sourced ethically and sustainably and to help grow the market after the welfare of animals. We are the only major Australian supermarket to offer 100% the environment. for independently certified products. Customers can search for We are proud to be the first major Australian supermarket RSPCA Approved Own Brand fresh turkeys for Christmas. Rainforest Alliance/UTZ and Fairtrade products on the Coles to deliver: As part of our program, we independently assessed hundreds During the year we also implemented a Responsible Use of Supermarket website (www.coles.com.au). of wild and farmed seafood products to ensure they meet our All Own Brand All Own Brand All Own Brand Antibiotics Policy covering all Own Brand livestock and rolled out robust responsible sourcing requirements. All Own Brand tea, coffee, solid block chocolate, Easter eggs and fresh beef with no shell eggs cage-free fresh pork sow stallour antibiotic-free, free-range RSPCA Approved Own Brand fresh cocoa powder is certified. added hormones (since 2013) free and produced We continue to review our program yearly as fish stocks can (since 2011) without artificial growth chicken range. promotants (since 2014) fluctuate and the environment in which fisheries operate is We have committed to continually increase our use of certified In FY19, Coles was assessed by the Business Benchmark on Farm complex and ever-changing. coffee, tea and cocoa as ingredients in our Own Brand products. Animal Welfare (BBFAW), the leading global measure of farm Coles supports the Bonsucro program for the sustainable animal welfare standards, with our score increasing by one tier Full traceability of tuna supply chain production of sugar cane. Our Own Brand sugar products are compared with FY18. In the summary report of Coles’ results, We understand the importance of traceability in the seafood sourced in Australia from Bonsucro certified suppliers. the BBFAW noted the ‘significant improvement’ in our overall supply chain. All Own Brand skipjack and yellowfin canned tuna All Own Brand fresh All Own Brand fresh All Own Brand fresh turkey RSPCA Approved chicken (since 2014) and free-range pork RSPCA score, reflecting our improved transparency and communication can be traced back to the approved fishing boat that caught the Timber and paper (since 2014) all Own Brand fresh freeApproved (since 2015) on our commitments and governance of farm animal welfare tuna and the boat that transported it to the cannery. range chicken (since 2018) Coles’ Sustainable Timber and Paper Products Policy sets out RSPCA Approved management. The fishing boats also have independent observers on board to our expectations regarding the use and supply of timber and Coles Farm Program monitor compliance with conservation measures specified by timber pulp-based paper for Own Brand products. Customer the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission, and the receipts at all Coles supermarkets, Coles Express and Coles Established in 2014, the Coles Farm Program captures positive fish stock are independently assessed as part of our Responsibly Liquor outlets are certified to the Forest Stewardship Council activities our growers and farmers are undertaking to support Sourced Seafood Program. (FSC) Standard. the environment and animal welfare. The program provides Our Animal Welfare Policy, which is based around the Five a platform to manage product-specific initiatives and supports Another key aspect is that Own Brand skipjack and yellowfin We have committed to working towards using only timber Freedoms, sets out our expectations regarding the treatment of best-practice farming methods. The focus of the program is to tuna are caught without the use of fish aggregating devices, or paper sourced from sustainable forestry operations animals and aquaculture species in our Own Brand supply chains. work with suppliers to support continuous improvement. which are rafts that attract many species of fish. By not using independently certified by the Programme for the Endorsement these devices, there is less by-catch of non-targeted species. of Forest Certification (PEFC), FSC or recycled fibre by 2020. All The policy details our commitment to source animal and We have active programs for eggs and grass-fed beef and are Own Brand tissue products are made from 100% certified fibre. aquaculture products from farming operations that have a high rolling out a grain-fed program. We plan to continue expanding standard of animal welfare and, where appropriate, hold animal the Farm Program to other species and products. welfare certification. It also specifies that no animal testing is used in Own Brand products. PROUD MOMENT. We are proud that Coles was the first major Australian supermarket to deliver: • All Own Brand fresh beef with no added hormones (since 2011); • All Own Brand shell eggs cage-free (since 2013); • All Own Brand fresh pork sow stall-free and produced without artificial growth promotants (since 2014); • All Own Brand fresh chicken and turkey RSPCA Approved (since 2014); • All Own Brand fresh free-range pork RSPCA Approved (since 2015); • All Own Brand seafood responsibly sourced (since 2015); and • All Own Brand fresh free-range chicken RSPCA Approved (since 2018). Pacific Reef Fisheries (main picture) supplies Coles with Aquaculture Stewardship Council certified prawns, Clematis Pastoral (top right) supplies no added hormone and grass-fed GRAZE beef and South Australian farmers (bottom right) supply Own Brand sow stall-free pork, produced without artificial growth promotants. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 40 41 Governance In FY19, we established the Human Rights Steering Committee to provide oversight of human rights at Coles. It is chaired by our Chief Legal Officer and meets monthly. Reports are provided to the Coles Executive Leadership Team and the Coles Board. Audits and remediation Sustainable Products Suppliers are required to complete the Sedex risk assessment every year for every site supplying to Coles: with sites being Human rights in classified as high, medium or low risk. Low risk sites are the supply chain. approved to supply Coles for two years, while high and medium risk suppliers must provide independent ethical audits for compliance with our Ethical Sourcing Policy and Ethical Sourcing Supplier Requirements. We require audits to be conducted during peak season times for each industry, such as harvest season for fresh produce, when workers are on site. We acknowledge that protecting human rights in the supply chain Non-conformances are assessed as critical, major and Australian Garlic Producers Pty Ltd CEO Nick Diamantopoulos is one of the 97% of Own Brand products, fresh produce and meat suppliers who are now registered on Sedex. is a global issue, and we understand the important role we have in minor based on their potential to harm workers. Where nonconformance with our Ethical Sourcing Policy is identified While Coles is proud of the efforts we have made in relation safeguarding human rights within our complex supply chains. We are through the independent audits, the supplier is required to to human rights we also recognise that global best practice a responsible retailer and continually aim to ensure we are sourcing standards are constantly developing. In this regard, we actively remediate the issue within an appropriate period depending and operating ethically in all areas, with specific emphasis on on the nature and severity of the non-conformance. New seek feedback and opportunities for enhancement. compliance with Modern Slavery legislation and the Fair Work Act. supplier sites are required to close out major and critical nonCapacity building This includes working with our suppliers to ensure they are also conformances prior to being approved to supply to Coles. During FY19, we provided more than 350 hours of training to help acting responsibly and in compliance with the law. If any critical non-conformances (including illegal, forced, suppliers understand their ethical sourcing obligations, Including bonded or child labour and inhumane, harsh treatment and two rural workshops and an ethical sourcing webinar. business integrity) and major non-conformances (including working hours, wages and benefits and safe working conditions) The Coles Agronomy Group, established in 2017, involves Transparency and risk approximately 20 Australian growers working with Coles to Ethical sourcing are found, suppliers must remedy them through corrective action Coles assesses the human rights risks of all sites that directly plans verified by an independent auditor. If a supplier does not address industry challenges in the fresh produce industry, Coles uses a multi-tiered approach to managing human rights supply Own Brand products, meat and fresh produce. In 2016, including human rights and sustainable farming practices. address a critical non-conformance, we will suspend supply and risk in our supply chain. The following are all part of the process we were the first Australian supermarket to adopt the Supplier reserve the right to terminate their trading agreement. We also provide online tools and guidance to help suppliers of supplying products to Coles: Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), a global ethical supply chain High and medium risk sites supplying Own Brand products, manage human rights risks, including safety instructions and • Ethical Sourcing Policy and Ethical Sourcing Supplier management platform. fresh produce and meat in FY19 were subject to more than 550** training checklists, worker accommodation supplier guidelines Requirements; To monitor compliance with the Coles Ethical Sourcing Policy, we and packing shed hazard checklists. third-party audits in line with Coles Ethical Sourcing Supplier • site risk assessments; require all direct supplier sites to register on Sedex and complete Requirements. Due to the broad nature of these audits and We will continue this focus on capacity building to continually • independent ethical audits; a comprehensive risk assessment. The resulting site risk rating complexity of the supply chain, non-conformances are commonly increase supplier understanding of their obligations and support drives site audit requirements and approval to supply Coles. raised. Where required, Coles works collaboratively with suppliers • Coles’ team member supplier visits; them in best practice. In FY19, 97% of all our direct suppliers and 93% of their sites to address these issues. More than 1,600** non-conformances • supplier capacity building and education; Our buying and sourcing teams are trained on our ethical (factories, processing plants, pack houses and direct supplier relating to the audits above have been closed out, the majority • trade union representation and co-operation; sourcing and human rights commitments. During FY19, almost farms providing Own Brand products, fresh produce and meat) of which related to health and safety matters. In accordance with • non-conformance remediation; and 100 training hours were delivered to team members. were registered on Sedex*. This has resulted in increased the Coles Ethical Sourcing Supplier Requirements, outstanding • labour hire licensing and certification in Australian visibility of our supplier employment practices and enables us to non-conformances, including those identified late in the Labour hire in the supply chain supply chains. proactively monitor compliance with the Coles Ethical Sourcing reporting period, will be closed out prior to the supplier site being While third-party labour hire organisations provide an important The Coles Ethical Sourcing Policy and Ethical Sourcing Supplier Policy, identify ethical sourcing risks, drive the resolution of re-approved for supply. service to suppliers, they can introduce risk into supply chains. Requirements apply to all suppliers providing Own Brand identified non-conformances and target areas of supplier During FY19, two potential critical non-conformances at supplier capacity development. During FY19, some state governments introduced regulations products, fresh produce and meat sold in Coles supermarkets. sites in the United Kingdom, relating to a lack of updated relating to labour hire providers. We require all our suppliers As part of the program, direct supplier sites complete Our supply chain is multi-tiered and complex. We have focused documentation to verify the legal right to work for some to comply with their legal requirements. To help suppliers and comprehensive risk assessments for impacts on worker welfare, on supplier sites that substantially contribute to the final form employees, were identified through third-party audits. During the recruitment and staffing industry to reduce human rights health and safety, the environment and business ethics. In FY20, of the product. For example, in fresh produce we have adopted subsequent follow up with the two sites, the suppliers were able to and workplace compliance risks from third-party labour hire, we plan to roll the program out to providers of services and the Harmonised Australian Retailer Produce Scheme (HARPS) provide the necessary documentation for the workers in question, we supported the development of the StaffSure labour hire goods not for resale, Coles Express and Coles Liquor. definition of tiering and extend our program to both tier one and satisfying Coles that these were not critical non-conformances certification program, an independent industry-led certification The policy recognises the important role of trade unions and tier two suppliers. against the Coles Ethical Sourcing Policy. program that assesses labour hire providers. freedom of association. Coles supports the right of workers to ** Audit and non-conformance data has been extracted from Sedex including Sedex Members In FY19, we rolled out third-party labour provider guidance for join trade unions of their choosing and our suppliers are required Ethical Trade Audit Methodology (SMETA) audits, and other Sedex compatible audit formats. This number does not include additional ethical audits accepted by Coles. Our Ethical all our suppliers, which provides practical advice for managing to adopt an open attitude towards the activities of trade unions. * Due to the dynamic nature of our supply chain, we do not expect 100% registration at any one Sourcing Supplier Requirements approve medium risk sites for 24 months so these numbers time due to suppliers entering and leaving our supply chain. also include third-party audits and non-conformances closed out in FY18. labour hire to enable continuous improvement. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 42 43 Sustainable Products Supporting health and nutrition. Coles is dedicated to providing customers with quality, healthy and best-value food choices across our Own Brand product range. Coles customer Alex and her son Austin select products from Coles’ latest Wellness Road range at Coles’ supermarket at Burwood, Victoria. Working with the Australian Dietary Guidelines for Healthy Promoting healthy choices With increasing focus on plant-based diets, we also launched our Committed to health and nutrition Eating, we will reduce salt across key barbecue meat, bakery, own Nature’s Kitchen vegan range in FY19. These ready-to-go As part of our partnership with Little Athletics Australia, Coles We continue working to improve the nutritional value of Own ready-meal, condiment, snack and meal base ranges to help our donated 600,000 bananas in FY19. Since the partnership began meals include a vegan lasagne, vegan spaghetti bolognese and Brand products by implementing a range of policies that cover customers reduce salt in their diets. in 2017, more than 2.5 million bananas have been donated to vegan tikka masala. salt and sugar reduction, the use of artificial colours and flavours, more than 440 local Little Athletics centres and 84 state and We will also remove manufactured trans fats from Own Brand by We are also supporting supplier innovation in protein and nutrition and health labelling. regional events. substituting them with healthier unsaturated fats. Over the next diversification. Through the Coles Nurture Fund, we provided Our internal Nutrition Working Group includes qualified two years, we plan to label trans fats in the nutrition information We are also making fruit and vegetables more affordable with the $200,000 in support to Australian Eatwell located in Donald, nutritionists, Own Brand product developers and technologists. panel of Own Brand food and drink products. launch of the I’m Perfect range, which offers fresh produce that Victoria, to purchase equipment to develop chickpea tofu. The focus of the working group is to identify, scope and looks a little less perfect and helps to reduce food waste. Health Stars We also provided $500,000 in support to Three Farmers, based implement ways of delivering healthier choices across Own During FY19, we also promoted the Coles Fresh Rainbow in Narrogin, Western Australia, to help build mainland Australia’s Brand food and drink. Coles supports the Health Star Rating, a Federal Government Challenge, endorsed by the Healthy Kids Association, designed first large-scale quinoa processing plant. The processing plant front-of-pack labelling program aimed at assisting customers We participate in the Healthy Food Partnership, a Federal to encourage children and their parents to eat more fresh fruit enables Three Farmers to supply Coles with more than 800,000 to make healthier choices when buying packaged foods. Government initiative that includes food industry bodies and and vegetables and track their fruit and vegetable intake. packets of white quinoa each year. public health groups. Coles is on the partnership’s executive Health Star Ratings are currently displayed on more than 1,900 Own Brand products. Alternative proteins Wellness Road and I’m Free From committee, overseeing the solutions put forward by its working groups. In recent years, we have seen demand significantly grow for During FY19, Coles launched our Own Brand Wellness Road No artificial flavours, no artificial colours vegan and vegetarian products. Reflecting this trend, we have range of health foods, aimed at making healthier options more Sugar, salt and trans fats Over the past few years we have removed artificial colours and accessible and affordable for customers. Wellness Road consists a growing range of plant-based and alternative protein products A focus on sugar and salt reduction continues to improve the flavours from Own Brand food and drink. We are proud that in of innovative products, including organic black rice noodles with in store. nutritional profile of products across Own Brand. Product reviews FY19, Own Brand’s food and drink standard range products* were chia, organic cacao powder, white chia seeds and Australian free from artificial colours and flavours. These products include tofu, lentil burgers, falafel balls, kale almond flour. and reformulations are underway to ensure we offer customers burgers, and pulse and nut spreads. We also stock dairy-free food and drink products of the highest quality, value and taste This has involved removing more than 30 artificial colours products such as flavoured almond milk, plain and flavoured All Wellness Road products are free from artificial colours and while reducing risk nutrients. and flavours and replacing them with natural alternatives. For coconut milk and coconut yoghurt. These include both Own flavours, made with reduced levels of sugar and salt, and free example, Own Brand Sour Rainbows now contain natural colour from trans fats from partially hydrogenated oils. We have already reviewed our Own Brand drinks range to remove Brand and proprietary brand products. alternatives from apple, pumpkin, tomato, radish, safflower, some products with the highest amount of sugar. We have also spirulina, carrot and hibiscus and Own Brand lime flavoured There has also been a trend to meat-free products. During FY19, We are also making it easier for customers who have allergies, seen more drink products in our stores with lower or no sugar jelly crystals now obtain their colours from curcumin and we launched the Beyond Burger, made from pea-protein, and the launching a new range of I’m Free From products. The products in proprietary brand ranges. In FY19, we removed 110 tonnes of anthocyanins and use natural flavouring. Australian-made The Alternative Meat Co. burger, which is 100% clearly state on the front of packaging whether they are free from salt and 150 tonnes of sugar from Own Brand products, from a * Some 2019 Christmas celebratory food and drink products may contain artificial gold and plant-based. common allergens such as wheat, dairy, eggs and nuts. FY18 baseline. silver colours. Coles will continue to work on identifying alternatives to artificial colours for these products. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 44 45 Pesticides Own Brand awards Coles supports voluntary industry environmental standards such Coles Own Brand is the portfolio of product brands owned by as Fresh Care and Enviroveg, which recognise environmentally Coles. Our Own Brand provides Coles with a point of difference sustainable on-farm practices. These standards include from our competitors. As a result, we go to great lengths to ensure guidance on methods and practices designed to help minimise they are compelling, great value and loved by our customers. pesticide use. Sustainable Products In FY19, Own Brand products were recognised with more than All chemicals used on food crops in Australia are approved by the 100 awards and recognitions. This included winning 11 categories Providing quality, Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority. The at the 2019 Product of the Year awards, the world’s largest maximum residue level (MRL) for each residue is contained in consumer-voted award for product innovation. safe products. the Australia New Zealand Food Standards Code, administered by Food Standards Australia New Zealand (FSANZ). In May 2019, Own Brand Fairtrade instant coffee was awarded best-tasting instant coffee by Choice. FSANZ conducts risk assessments on chemicals and Our Coles Liquor Own Brand products were recognised with 189 deliberately sets conservative MRLs so there is no possibility medals and awards in FY19. of customers exceeding acceptable daily intakes. These wins are testament to the hard work of our Own We are committed to providing our customers with safe, high-quality Growers supplying Coles regularly test their produce through Brand teams and our suppliers in developing customer-led industry programs to ensure they do not exceed these legal Own Brand products. Our commitment is supported by our rigorous product innovation and delivering high-quality products that limits. The use of pesticides are included in Coles’ fresh product supplier requirements and our auditing and inspection program. Australians love. audit program. In addition, all Own Brand suppliers, both food and non-food, must comply with our ethical sourcing requirements and, where relevant, meet animal welfare and product certification standards. Food safety Product recalls Our comprehensive Food Safety Program spans growing, Coles takes customer safety seriously and makes every effort manufacturing, warehousing, distribution and in-store handling to manage the quality and safety of products sold in our stores. for fresh, chilled, frozen and grocery products. If Coles or any of our suppliers becomes aware of a defect, we implement measures to withdraw and/or recall the product and The program is based on world’s best practice and underpinned take corrective action to prevent recurrence. by adherence to food safety laws and requirements. Under the program, suppliers must provide detailed product During FY19, we had five Own Brand product recalls due to specifications through an online database that supports product foreign matter, undeclared allergens, chemical contamination, traceability and includes strict adherence to quality compliance potential food poisoning bacteria and potential electric shock. standards, such as declarable allergens, certifications and In response we issued public communications and worked with nutritional information. regulators and suppliers to mitigate any issues. Suppliers also need to undertake an annual technical audit of the factory or facility where the food is produced and safety Supplier and industry engagement and quality testing by an approved third party. In FY19, through the Coles Quality Academy, we provided Own Brand non-food products must comply with approximately 8,800 hours of training for suppliers and team similar requirements. members on recalls and withdrawals, labelling and date coding, Regular assessments of fresh food are conducted at our national and food safety. distribution centres and supermarkets and are backed up by In addition to engaging with suppliers, we take an active role in rigorous analytical testing covering allergens, imported food, various standards committees and working groups to drive food residue, organic products and microbiology. safety and social and environmental sustainability. More than 200,000 checks were completed under this rigorous We are members of and participate in The Global Food Safety program during the year. Product authenticity is included in Initiative Australasia, the Australian Food and Grocery Council the testing, allowing us to detect and rectify food fraud where a Technical Leads Forum, the Allergen Collaboration and the Food product may have been misrepresented. Incident Forum. In FY19, we established a Product and Food Safety Steering Team members Elaiza and Riaan test the quality of fresh produce at the Coles Distribution Centre in Laverton, Victoria. Committee sponsored by our Chief Legal Officer to provide oversight of all aspects of our Food Safety Program. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 46 47 Sustainable Products Sustainable Products Supporting responsible Sustainable service of alcohol packaging. and tobacco. Code, which requires that advertisements, communications We understand that packaging, including plastic packaging, Responsible service of alcohol and product labelling include messages promoting responsible plays an important role in transporting products, supporting Coles Liquor is committed to serving the community lawfully, alcohol consumption. product longevity, maintaining food safety and reducing food safely and responsibly. We operate over 900 retail liquor outlets waste. At the same time, Coles is also committed to reducing We actively participate in 151 Liquor Accords nationally and work under our liquor brands with stores in every Australian state and our impact on the environment. collaboratively with the police and regulators to help address territory except Tasmania. alcohol-related harm in the community. In June 2018, we committed to: In March, we entered into an incorporated joint venture with We also continue to partner with DrinkWise, an industry-led, not• all Own Brand packaging being recyclable by 2020; Australian Venue Co. (AVC), for the ongoing operation of the for-profit organisation promoting a healthier and safer drinking • more recycled content being included in Own Spirit Hotels business and the liquor stores in Queensland, culture in Australia. Brand packaging; South Australia and Western Australia attached to Spirit Hotel’s venues. Under the joint venture, AVC manages the day-to-day This year we became a member of Retail Drinks Australia. Retail • reducing excess packaging across stores and the operations of Spirit Hotels and will receive the economic benefits Drinks Australia is an industry association that represents supply chain; of this business. Coles manages the day-to-day operations of Australia’s packaged liquor outlets nationally. We are working • soft plastic recycling options being available in all Coles the 243 retail liquor stores in Queensland and the 10 retail liquor with Retail Drinks Australia to develop a voluntary Code of supermarkets; and stores in Western Australia and South Australia and will receive Conduct to govern the online supply and delivery of alcohol. • rolling out the Australasian Recycling Label (ARL) to the economic benefits of the retail liquor business. Our focus is Training and capability building promote recycling. on our core business of retail. Ben, Fresh Meat Manager at Coles Victoria Park, Western Australia, with recyclable We continue to reinforce key RSA obligations through various Plantic™ meat and poultry packaging made from a combination of recyclable and Compliance renewable material. training and communication updates. These include: Coles Liquor takes its liquor retailing obligations seriously and • a dedicated Licensing and Compliance Focus Week to 73% of Own Brand product packaging is has training, policies and signage in place to ensure compliance now recyclable through kerbside services or Evaluation Portal (PREP) Tool to determine the recyclability reinforce RSA obligations; with all applicable laws. of different packaging components, helping us to drive more • a new format Licensing and Compliance Booklet issued to all through REDcycle soft plastics recycling in recyclable packaging. In FY19, we strengthened our ID25 ‘Check It Don’t Guess It’ stores nationally; Coles supermarkets. approach by improving our mystery shop program. Store We offer soft plastic recycling in all Coles supermarkets • additional signage and communications materials in school managers now have more timely information about mystery shop nationally in conjunction with REDcycle. Customers can recycle leavers’ locations; visits and access to an online portal to monitor team results. plastic bags, as well as other soft plastic packaging that cannot • targeted ID25 ‘Check It Don’t Guess It’ training materials; and New licensee training was introduced in New South Wales in We have made significant progress across all these be recycled through most household kerbside recycling services. • online modules on Responsible Liquor Retailing and Store commitments. In FY19, we began rolling out new fresh produce More information on soft plastic recycling and our REDcycle September 2018, requiring all store managers (as licensees) Manager Responsibilities to reinforce RSA requirements. bags in supermarkets that are made with 30% recycled content. program is available on page 57 of this report. to complete an online training course on their appointment or transfer or when their Responsible Service of Alcohol (RSA) Our Own Brand spring water bottles are made from 100% Coles is a signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant, Competency Card is due for renewal. Urban Global is the recycled content and our Better Bags are made from 80% Responsible service of tobacco which sets sustainable packaging guidelines for government Registered Training Provider for this training. recycled content. Coles is a responsible tobacco retailer and has policies and industry; and we are an active member of the Australian We have also worked with Service NSW and Liquor and Gaming and supporting procedures in place to comply with the law. We are actively working with our fresh produce suppliers to Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO). Coles’ team members NSW to participate in Digital Driver’s Licence trials in the Eastern We are committed to ensuring that all authorised team members reduce the number of packaging layers, introduce lighter-weight are also represented on APCO’s Collective Action Group (which Beaches, Dubbo and Albury areas. understand their legal obligations when selling tobacco or packaging materials, ensure all packaging is recyclable and in is addressing the Federal Government’s 2025 packaging targets), smoking products. All Coles’ authorised team members must some cases remove packaging. the PREP Tool Technical Advisory Group and the Australasian We engage with the respective state governments on proposed Recycling Label (ARL) Marketing Advisory Group. be 18 years of age or older and are required to ask for proof of We have rolled out the ARL, which guides customers on how liquor reforms in Western Australia, Northern Territory and South age from any customer that looks under 25 years of age. All and where to recycle different packaging components, on 1,176 Coles’ Sustainable Packaging Policy, Sustainable Packaging Australia to ensure practical liquor reforms are implemented. authorised team members must complete online training before (more than 20%) Own Brand products. This number Guidelines, and Recycling Labelling Requirements were Public commitments and community partnerships their first shift selling tobacco products, as well as regular will continue to grow as we release new products or update developed using principles from the Australian Packaging Coles Liquor also supports voluntary commitments. For mandatory refresher assessments. artwork on existing products. We use the Packaging Recyclability Covenant Sustainable Packaging Guidelines and PREP Design. example, we are a signatory to the Alcohol Beverage Advertising SecondBite CEO, Jim Mullan, and Coles CEO, Steven Cain, with new SecondBite trucks funded by the Coles Nurture Fund. Sustainable environmental practices. As one of Australia’s largest companies, we know we have a responsibility to minimise our environmental footprint. We also know that protecting the environment is important to our customers, and we want to provide them with assurance that we are minimising our environmental impacts through sustainable environmental practices. Our focus on reducing food waste has meant that we have been able to provide more than 114 million healthy and nutritious meals to people in need through our partnerships with SecondBite and Foodbank. In addition to reducing waste, we are also building greener stores with improved energy efficiency and a focus on lowering greenhouse gas emissions. We are facing the impacts of climate change and need to adapt to respond to extreme weather events so that we can continue to supply our customers around the country. We also need to maintain security of food supply as our climate changes so that we can sustainably feed all Australians. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals: United Nations Global Compact, Principles 7, 8 and 9 Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 50 51 We acknowledge that climate change is a complex and multidimensional risk to the business and to our supply chains and includes risks related to: • potential disruption to our operations due to extreme weather events and changing weather patterns; • changing customer behaviours as demand moves to food and Sustainable environmental practices products with lower carbon footprints; • changes to government policy, law and regulation (including Climate pricing carbon), which could result in increased operational costs and potential for litigation; and change. • failure to meet expectations of stakeholders. Ruth and Tom Wagner from Moura, Queensland, are using funds from the Coles Nurture Fund to grow the drought-resistant tree legume leucaena. We recognise that the impacts of climate change are varied and long-ranging over different time horizons. The risks identified the ‘hailstorm heroes’ apple range, providing suppliers with the could prevent us from meeting our strategic objectives and opportunity to sell the hail-damaged fruit. An excessively hot could result in reputational damage and adverse operational, summer in FY19 impacted the growth of citrus and apples. We Climate change presents an evolving set of risks and compliance and financial impacts. amended our specifications to allow the smaller fruit to be sold in our stores. opportunities for Coles, ranging from potential disruption to The risks identified are consistent with the assessment of the our operations due to extreme weather events to changes to TCFDs, which groups risks into two major categories: risks related To minimise the impact of climate change on supply of products government policy, law and regulation. to the transition to a lower-carbon economy (policy and legal, over the longer term, we are supporting suppliers to implement technology, market and reputation) and physical risks (acute new technology and growing methods and supporting industry and chronic). with climate change resilience strategies. Lack of action could result in loss of market share, increased costs and price volatility. We understand that in managing these risks there are associated opportunities, such as improved energy efficiency, reduced water Through the Coles Nurture Fund, we are supporting suppliers use and better recycling. with climate adaptation programs particularly to mitigate the impact of drought. More information can be found on pages 22 to As we develop our overarching Climate Change Strategy, we will 24 and 58 to 60 of this report. continue to look for ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Risk management More information is provided on pages 52 to 54 of this report. We are committed to sustainable beef production and participate Climate change response Our Risk Management Policy and Risk Management Framework in the Australian Beef Sustainability Framework, an initiative of We apply an internal carbon price to inform decisions on We understand that stakeholders expect us to be managing detail our approach to identifying, assessing and managing the Red Meat Advisory Council managed by Meat and Livestock selected large capital projects and plan to continue this approach. and mitigating climate change risks in line with local and global risk, including climate-related risks. Our approach to risk Australia. The framework has identified six priority areas to drive commitments and recommendations. management can be found in the risk section of the Coles 2019 Our Energy Strategy includes our approach to energy purchasing continuous improvement across the value chain. We consider Annual Report and in the corporate governance section of our and maintaining security of energy supply. In August 2019, we the framework the most appropriate way to address climate and We support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals website. announced a 10-year agreement to purchase power from three environmental issues facing the beef industry (such as emissions and the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related solar plants in New South Wales and we continue to roll out reduction and deforestation) from a national and industry-wide Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The information in this section During late FY19, an external consultant completed a gap analysis rooftop solar on our supermarkets. During FY19, Coles’ supply perspective. responds to the four thematic areas against which the TCFD and benchmarked our environmental performance, identifying chain entered into an electricity demand response program run recommendations are structured. Going forward, we will work areas where we are doing well and areas for improvement. This Future plans to manage supply security risk include analysis of by the Australian Energy Market Operator to assist it to reduce towards more comprehensive disclosures. will be used to inform the Climate Change Strategy. Coles’ supply chain resilience across a number of food categories energy load during times of high demand. being conducted in a collaborative project with CSIRO. The Governance While we have tactical plans to manage climate-related risks and We understand that climate change and extreme weather events results will be used to contain possible future disruptions to opportunities, as detailed in the following section, the steering The Coles Board has oversight of material risks, including climate can also impact supply security and our ability to provide goods supply. committee is preparing a more comprehensive Climate Change change, through the Audit and Risk Committee. Members of to our customers. This could include severe or total disruption Strategy, which will be informed by further risk analysis and Metrics and targets this committee are listed in our 2019 Annual Report, and further to the production and transportation of goods due to extreme scenario planning and will include new greenhouse emission information is available in the Corporate Governance Statement weather events, as well as production risks associated with We had set a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% reduction targets. An external consultant will assist us with on our website at www.colesgroup.com.au. climate change. from a 2009 baseline by 2020. Through a focus on reducing all this work. In recognition of the importance of this issue, we have emissions, particularly emissions associated with refrigeration, We seek to manage these risks through business continuity established a Climate Change Steering Committee, chaired by We expect to provide more detailed information on our we were able to meet that target four years early in 2016. This processes for sourcing and delivering goods to stores in the our Chief Property and Export Officer, who reports to the CEO. Climate Change Strategy in next year’s Annual and included refrigeration upgrades and replacement and investment event of extreme weather events, such as floods, storms The role of this committee is to develop, implement and monitor Sustainability Reports. in leak-detection technology. and bushfires. For example, following floods in Far North performance against our Climate Change Strategy. Strategy Queensland in early 2019, special road trains and airfreight were Details on our energy and greenhouse emissions reduction The committee includes representatives from across Coles, organised to transport food and groceries to our supermarkets. activities can be found on pages 52 to 54 of this report. Our In FY19, following Coles’ demerger from Wesfarmers and as part including senior members of the finance, risk and compliance, More information is provided on page 33 of this report. emissions data, including Scope 3 emissions, can be found on of the development of the corporate risk profile, climate change and operations functions, and will prepare quarterly updates for page 71 of this report. was identified as a material business risk. The risk profile was We also work with suppliers impacted by extreme weather the Audit and Risk Committee. presented to and endorsed by the Audit and Risk Committee in events. In early 2018 and early 2019, apple suppliers in South New greenhouse emissions reduction targets are being May 2019 and approved by the Board in June 2019. Australia were hit by severe hailstorms. As a result, we introduced developed as part of our Climate Change Strategy. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 52 53 Greenhouse gas emissions: We have already trialled LED at five standalone Coles Liquor stores and, in FY20, will convert a further 391 standalone stores. 2,000,000 Coles’ supply chain extended its LED program in FY19 to incorporate the replacement of outdoor canopy lighting at distribution centres in Somerton, Victoria, and Eastern Creek, 1,500,000 New South Wales. The intent is to roll this out to all sites. Sustainable environmental practices Tonnes CO2-e We also continue to improve the operating efficiency of store 1,000,000 refrigeration and air-conditioning systems. By the end of FY19, Greenhouse gas 500,000 we had retrofitted variable speed drives to refrigeration systems at 390 supermarkets. and energy efficiency. Since 2014, Coles has used an electricity monitoring and 0 management system to monitor electricity consumption in FY09 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 supermarkets and to investigate and address anomalies. It Scope 1 typically identifies more than 3,000 anomalies every year. Scope 2 During FY19, Coles’ supply chain entered into an electricity Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a key component of our demand response program run by the Australian Energy Market of which also uses a water loop system with natural refrigerant, climate change response. Since 2009, our greenhouse gas emissions Operator to assist with load reduction on the electricity network and one system with transcritical refrigeration only. Our CO2 have reduced by 36%; and we met our 2020 emissions reduction target during times of high demand. plant design is delivering a minimum of 10% energy saving four years early in 2016. compared with older plant designs. Coles Liquor is also trialling Coles’ electricity consumption decreased by 3.4% in FY19 CO2 refrigeration. compared with FY18. During the year we added 27 retailer outlets Coles continues to make significant investments in energy efficiency; and our floor area increased by 2%. We also removed Spirit and, since 2012, our energy consumption per square metre Supply chain Hotels from our electricity and greenhouse data but continued has reduced by 17%. Our supply chain strategy aims to reduce emissions associated to account for the electricity used at the attached liquor outlets. with transport and logistics, with several key strategic initiatives To reduce energy consumption from refrigeration, night blinds underway to support a sustainable reduction in transportare installed on open refrigeration cases in Coles supermarkets. related emissions. These are facilitated by our expanded In FY20, Coles will begin trialling closed doors in some strategic partnership agreements with key third-party partners supermarkets that had previously used open cases. This will Greenhouse gas emissions and include progressively rolling out a new larger-capacity fleet help us to more clearly understand the energy use benefits, Our main sources of direct (Scope 1) emissions include emissions Our continued decline in emissions over the to reduce the number of truck movements. We are focusing operational efficiency and customer response to this initiative. from refrigerant gases, natural gas, transport fuel, stationary LPG past 10 years, while still growing our store network, on reducing the number of instances when trucks travel with In the Coles Local format, closed refrigeration cases are now and diesel for onsite back-up generators, while indirect (Scope 2) small or no loads by integrating supplier inbound and store has been driven by a focus on implementing installed as standard. emissions are those associated with electricity use. outbound loads to increase fleet utilisation on journeys back to energy-efficiency initiatives and reducing distribution centres. Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) emissions from refrigerant gases. that occur in Coles’ value chain. The most reliable and robust data We are also converting chilled trailer units from diesel to electricfor Scope 3 emissions, which are ascribable to Coles, are business powered refrigeration when on the dock at distribution centres. air travel; transmission related emissions from electricity, gas Refrigerants and fuel; and waste disposal from stores and sites. These are the We have a Refrigeration Strategy which is focused on reducing Energy efficiency Scope 3 emissions we historically reported under Wesfarmers. refrigerant loss and adopting refrigerants with lower global Coles recognises that investing in energy efficiency initiatives Purchased electricity represents more than 80% of our combined warming potential (GWP). helps us to minimise our environmental impacts while Scope 1 and 2 emissions, followed by refrigerant gases. As many older refrigerant gases have very high GWP, we are also reducing costs. More than 86% of Coles total energy Since 2009, our greenhouse gas emissions have reduced by transitioning to lower GWP refrigerants to reduce emissions in consumption comes from electricity. Most of the energy used in 36%; and we met our 2020 emissions reduction target in 2016. supermarkets. We are continuing to implement a refrigeration our supermarkets is for refrigeration, which is critical to keeping In FY19, our Scope 1 emissions were 282,936 tonnes, Scope 2 pipe replacement program and continuing to invest in leakfood safe and extending its usable life to prevent waste. emissions 1,333,825 tonnes and Scope 3 emissions 302,935 detection technology. We also monitor leaks through a dedicated tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e). In FY19, Scope 1 and data centre, meaning they are recorded and fixed as a priority. 2 emissions decreased by 6% compared with FY18. Over the past two years we have invested more We are also investing in transcritical CO2 refrigeration which has extremely low greenhouse impact. than $42m in energy-efficiency projects. Scope 1 emissions increased in FY17 when we were deemed to have operational control of transport emissions from the logistics In 2015, we launched our first supermarket, in Coburg North, fleet. In FY19, operational control reverted to the logistics Victoria, with an integrated transcritical CO2 system for store In the first half of FY20, we will complete the rollout of LED provider in certain instances. heating, store cooling and refrigeration. In 2019, we rolled lighting to all supermarkets, a program that began in 2012. We report our greenhouse gas emissions under the National out a further four transcritical CO2 refrigeration systems into This means that all lighting, except emergency lighting, Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) scheme, for supermarkets. This consisted of three integrated systems, one will be LED, helping us to achieve significant energy savings businesses where we have operational control as defined by across our supermarkets. In FY19, we completed LED rollouts in Fresh Produce Manager David from Coles Victoria Gardens, Richmond, Victoria the NGER Act. 119 supermarkets. lowering night blinds used on refrigeration units to reduce energy consumption. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 54 55 Sustainable environmental practices Waste and recycling. We are committed to reducing our environmental impact, including continuous investment in projects and partnerships to minimise waste and promote recycling. With food at the core of our business, food waste and packaging are key sustainability issues for us. Coles team members Andrew, Alex, George and Andrew (left to right) inspect solar panels on the roof of Coles’ supermarket at Drysdale, Victoria. By the end of FY19, Coles had 30 supermarkets connected to solar power. Combining refrigeration and air-conditioning systems into one Renewable energy central plant results in reduced capital and energy costs. We are Minimising waste and promoting recycling 114m At the end of FY19, 30 supermarkets had solar power; and we also using chilled water from refrigeration plants for store airOur largest sources of waste in supermarkets are cardboard and have plans to install solar power in a further 38 supermarkets conditioning, eliminating the need for separate air-conditioning organic waste. We currently divert 74% of waste from landfill, an in FY20. Importantly in FY18, we included solar on the blueprint plants. Similarly, we use waste heat from refrigeration racks for increase from 73% in FY18. when designing new stores. Solar will now be installed at all new store heating and to heat water. These combinations result in In June 2018, we publicly committed to: stores where viable roof space exists. energy saving and a reduction in refrigerant use. • divert 90% of all waste from landfill by 2022; In August 2019, in the first deal of its kind to be made by a major Older style refrigerant gases have high GWP and contribute to meals to people in need since 2003 Australian retailer, Coles announced a 10-year agreement to greenhouse gas emissions. As a result we have successfully • halve all food waste in our supermarkets by 2020; purchase more than 70% of the electricity (the equivalent of 10% trialled CO2 transcritical refrigeration plants in five of our • connect all Coles supermarkets with a food rescue of Coles’ national electricity use) generated by three solar power new stores, delivering a minimum energy saving of 10% organisation by the end of 2018; plants. The plants will be built and operated by global renewable when compared with previous refrigeration designs. We have power generation company Metka EGN outside the New South subsequently amended our Refrigeration Design Brief in • provide 100 million meals to Australians in need by 2020; Wales regional centres of Wagga Wagga, Corowa and Junee. southern Australian states while we trial the technology in warmer northern Australian climates. Our CO2 transcritical REDcycle • work with suppliers to reduce food waste; and Construction is targeted to begin in September 2019 and the soft plastic recycling • provide soft plastic recycling options in all our supermarkets. refrigeration design has a lower indirect and direct emission plants are expected to begin operation in July 2020. The plants profile. will supply more than 220 gigawatt hours of electricity into the Waste disposed and recycled: national electricity grid. During construction of our stores, we use recycled materials in all supermarkets 300,000 where possible, including using recycled material in wheel stops (rather than concrete) and recycled plastic rubbing rails in stock 250,000 Building greener stores 95% rooms for providing protection to cool rooms. We continue to add green initiatives to our new store 200,000 Waste in tonnes blueprint and as part of our refurbishment of stores. These are of supermarkets and 100% 150,000 incorporated wherever possible. In addition, to including solar systems on all new stores where 100,000 of distribution centres possible, our focus on energy savings extends to using outside connected to food 50,000 air for ventilation in stores, installing energy-efficient hoods over rescue partners bakery and chicken ovens and fitting LED lighting throughout 0 stores, including LED lights within refrigerated cases and fixtures. FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Disposed Recycled Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 56 57 Coles’ first ‘no food waste’ supermarket Coles Local in Surrey Hills, Victoria is our first ‘no food waste’ 100% store. While unsold edible food is donated to SecondBite, the small format supermarket also features an ORCA food digestor. The ORCA uses water and microbes to partly digest inedible food waste, which is then sent to a local waste water treatment plant. In-store cardboard and plastic supermarkets providing soft plastic recycling Cardboard remains Coles’ biggest waste stream, accounting for 51% of all waste generated. Most of this is collected for recycling by our waste contractor. Soft plastic recycling in all Coles supermarkets In FY19, newly designed metal fixtures replaced cardboard ends of some aisles in more than 700 Coles supermarkets, resulting in Plastic packaging plays an important role in transporting a reduction of 4,563 tonnes of cardboard. products, extending product life, maintaining food safety and reducing food waste. However, we understand the difficulties in We continue to replace more corrugated cardboard, waxed disposing of plastic; and, in conjunction with REDcycle, we now cardboard and expanded polystyrene boxes with reusable plastic offer soft plastic recycling in all Coles supermarkets. crates across our supply chain. At the end of FY19, working with over 400 suppliers, we had six million reusable plastic crates in Coles was the first major Australian supermarket to roll out the circulation being used for fruit, vegetables, poultry, red meat and program to all supermarkets. Customers can recycle plastic bags, prepackaged salads. In addition to removing cardboard, waxed as well as other soft plastic packaging that cannot be recycled cardboard and expanded polystyrene from the supply chain, through most household kerbside recycling services. Coles these crates help to reduce product damage, which cuts down Online customers can give their soft plastics to their customer on food waste. service agent, who returns it for recycling through REDcycle. Most plastic from our supermarket operations consists of clear The REDcycle program continues to be popular, with the Coles Southland team member Xavier processes food waste with an ORCA food digestor. The food waste is digested by the ORCA then sent to the volume of soft plastics collected growing 32% in FY19. Since the local waste water treatment facility. pallet wrap and mixed plastic, such as plastic wrapping, fruit trays, strapping and other store and distribution packaging. Prior REDcycle program began in 2011, Coles has diverted more than to China’s restrictions on accepting waste from other countries, 715 million pieces (2.86 million kilograms) of flexible plastic from Food waste this plastic was collected and recycled, some overseas and landfill across Australia. Coles has a multi-faceted approach to managing food waste some domestically, by our waste contractor. Since China’s policy Much of the plastic collected goes to Replas, who converts it into across our operations, including in stores and distribution By the end of FY19, we had donated the equivalent change, approximately half of our back-of-house plastic is being a range of uses, including playground equipment, materials for centres, and within our supply chain more broadly. of 84.8 million meals to SecondBite since 2011 recycled, with the remainder going to general waste. We are walkways in parks, bollards and the customer seats used in Coles and the equivalent of 29.9 million meals to working with our waste contractor to remedy this situation. supermarkets. REDcycle has also partnered with Downer EDI to An area where we made significant progress in FY19 was in reducing food waste. We met our 2020 target to provide 100 Foodbank since 2003. In July 2018, Coles stopped providing lightweight, single-use provide soft plastic for road base. million meals to Australians in need one year ahead of plan and plastic shopping bags across all our stores, resulting in the connected every Coles supermarket and distribution centre with removal of 1.7 billion plastic bags from Coles supermarkets. Many supermarkets also provide food waste directly to farmers a food waste solution. This means that rather than sending food In supermarkets, a range of reusable bags was introduced, for animal feed. In FY19, Coles donated 13.8 million kilograms to to landfill, it is going to people in need, helping farmers feed their including an entry-level bag made from 80% recycled content, as farmers, an increase of 11% compared with FY18. animals, being recycled into compost or converted into energy. well as community bags, designed by Australian school children, In Western Australia and New South Wales, waste from some that support community organisations. More information can be Our priority is to donate unsold edible food to food rescue stores goes to anaerobic digestion plants where it is converted found on pages 30 and 31 of this report. organisations. At the end of FY19, 95% of Coles supermarkets into clean energy and certified compost. and 100% of our distribution centres were connected to either In addition to providing soft plastic recycling in all Coles SecondBite or Foodbank, diverting unsold edible food from Organic bins were installed in more supermarkets during the supermarkets, during FY19 we also supported the implementation landfill and supporting local communities. year; and we also trialled new technology, including in-store of a container deposit scheme (CDS) in Queensland where digestors, for food not able to be diverted elsewhere. we partner with Envirobank. Since the scheme launched on 1 In FY19, through our supermarkets and distribution centres, we November 2018, more than nine million containers have been donated the equivalent of almost 25 million meals to people in We also work with suppliers to help reduce food waste and returned to Coles in Queensland. In New South Wales, more need. We provided 11.4 million kilograms, the equivalent of 22.9 increase overall crop yields by redirecting produce that than 160 million containers have been returned to Coles. South million meals, of unsold edible food to SecondBite and 1.1 million typically would not be sold in stores to other value-added Australia, Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory kilograms, the equivalent of two million meals to Foodbank.* products such as Own Brand zucchini noodles, sweet potato each have a CDS; and Western Australia has announced it will noodles, sweet potato chips, broccoli and cauliflower rice, A key factor in meeting our food waste target early was our launch one in June 2020. as well as the Own Brand range of banana-based products. partnership with SecondBite. By increasing the number of We will look for ways to better align our customer facing supermarkets connected to the program and increasing the promotional activity with our Sustainability Strategy. number of pickups from store, we increased food donations to SecondBite by 25% compared with FY18. * SecondBite uses the conversion of total kilograms donated multiplied by two to determine REDcycle CEO Liz Kasell with Hugo and Lulu Harvey recycle soft plastics at the Coles equivalent meals. Foodbank uses the conversion of total kilograms donated divided by supermarket at Southland. Coles was the first major Australian supermarket retailer to 0.555 to determine equivalent meals. roll out soft plastic recycling at all supermarkets. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 58 59 Shepparton suppliers reducing water use Currently Masalki manually controls the humidity in cold store Brothers Con and Philip Damianopoulos, pear and apple rooms by covering crates with plastic lids and flooding the suppliers, from Masalki in Shepparton, Victoria, are using floor with water. The new technology is expected to lead to an 80% $400,000 support from the Coles Nurture Fund to install new reduction in the amount of water used during cooling and humidity control technology. storing, as well as the removal of nearly two tonnes of plastic from landfill each year. The brothers say the new cool room technology will preserve their apples and pears at the highest quality, while removing Pear size and quality can also be impacted by dehydration, Sustainable environmental practices the need for high volumes of plastic and water during the leading to a shorter shelf life and reduced appearance and taste. storing process. The innovative technology will enhance apple and pear size Water. and taste and lead to greater availability throughout the year. We understand the importance of protecting this vital resource and look to reduce water use wherever possible. In addition to our own operations, we are also supporting suppliers to reduce water consumption. Water intensity: Water management During FY19, several projects were initiated to reduce water 1,000 936 920 908 875 use at our meat processing facility, Retail Ready Operations Australia (RROA), located at Erskine Park, New South Wales. 800 Water use intensity We introduced a closed loop water recirculation system for the compressor units, resulting in improved water recovery. 600 (megalitres/m2) RROA harvests rainwater through the roof drainage network, 400 collecting the water in two tanks located onsite. This water is used to irrigate vegetation and gardens. During FY19, the 200 replacement of non-native trees with native species resulted in 60% less water used for irrigation. This water has been diverted 0 to other non-critical service applications. FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Coles also installed smart water meters at 139 supermarkets in Supply chain FY19, taking the total number of supermarkets with smart water meters to 251. These meters have helped save water, mainly Water is also used in our supply chain. Many of our fresh produce through leak detection. suppliers have been impacted by water-related events, including long-term drought, as well as flooding following significant In FY19, the network of 55 car wash facilities at Coles Express storm events. were upgraded to improve customer experience and maintain our 5 Star Water Rating certification. Eighteen sites have been In FY19, Coles pledged $5m from the Coles Nurture Fund to certified by the Australian Car Wash Association, with the drought-affected farmers to embark on projects to help protect remainder of the network to be formally certified in FY20. On their businesses against drought in the long term. We raised a average, each wash uses 58% recycled water. Coles Express fresh further $11m for drought-affected farming communities through water usage in FY19 was 3% lower compared with FY18. the Coles Dairy Drought Relief Fund and through fundraising to support the Country Women’s Association’s Drought Appeal. Further details of Coles’ contribution and support for droughtaffected farmers can be found on pages 22 to 24. Apple and pear growers Con and Philip Damianopoulos, from Masalki at Shepparton are using $400,000 support from the Coles Nurture Fund to introduce new humidity control technology in their cool rooms. The humidity technology will reduce waste and water usage by up to 80%. PROUD MOMENT. Toowoomba food producers combating drought: Fruit and vegetable growers Julia and Brian Crust (Brian pictured with their sons Matthew and Clinton), hope to increase their water storage by 20% by using $183,000 support from the Coles Nurture Fund to line a dam on their property at Mt Sylvia near Toowoomba in Queensland. They also installed a new pumping station to reduce their use of water and power. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 62 63 available. The framework is supported by assurance to ensure accordance with Coles’ Political Donations Policy. Our Political controls are in operation and operating effectively. Donations Policy outlines the approach to paid attendance at certain events hosted by a political entity. Corporate During FY19, there were no incidents of significant non-compliance with local laws and regulations that resulted in governance and a significant fine or non-monetary sanction. Information security and customer privacy data security. Ethical business conduct Coles is committed to a high level of integrity and ethical Ensuring the security of our information and information systems is a priority for Coles. We are continuously improving our security controls to adapt to new and evolving online threats. standards in all its business practices. Team members must conduct themselves in a manner consistent with Coles’ standards We also believe that encouraging security awareness among our and in compliance with all relevant legislation that applies to team members contributes significantly to the overall security Coles and our operations. Our Code of Conduct outlines how of Coles’ systems and information. All team members and third Ethical and responsible behaviour; compliance with all laws, Coles expects all our Directors, team members and contractors parties that act on Coles’ behalf must comply with Coles’ Code of to behave in the workplace and when conducting business. It Conduct and Confidentiality Policy, which includes information rules and regulations; and ensuring the security of includes legal compliance and guidelines on appropriate ethical security requirements regarding protection of information. our information systems are key priorities at Coles. standards, including responsibilities to the community and the environment. Customer privacy We aim to be transparent and respectful regarding the use of Concerns about potential, suspected or actual misconduct personal information of customers, team members and partners. within Coles or any breach of our Code of Conduct can be We understand the need to protect this information appropriately. raised through Stopline (1300 304 550), an independent and confidential reporting line. Coles’ Whistleblower Policy details Comprehensive and robust privacy management is important our commitment to ensuring that anyone who makes a report because it builds trust between Coles and our stakeholders, based on reasonable grounds is treated fairly and does not suffer facilitates good working relationships and ensures compliance any disadvantage. with our obligations under privacy laws. Risk management Corporate governance Anti-bribery and corruption The Coles Privacy Policy applies to all Coles’ companies and Coles is committed to the effective and robust management divisions and provides detailed information about the collection, Coles Board and management of risk. The Coles Audit and Risk Committee, supported by Our Code of Conduct, Anti-bribery Policy and associated use, sharing and protection of Coles’ customer information. our independent internal audit function, assists the Board in policies set out the responsibilities, standards and requirements The Coles Board is responsible for Coles’ overall corporate fulfilling its responsibilities in overseeing compliance with legal Coles expects of team members, including requirements to act The policy is implemented through our Privacy Framework, governance and is committed to protecting and optimising and regulatory requirements and operations; overseeing the ethically in the best interests of Coles, act honestly and fairly, which includes privacy policies, training, compliance resources performance and building sustainable value. Members of the effectiveness of the enterprise risk framework, including the comply with all laws and company policies and report where and privacy impact assessments. Board have extensive commercial, capital markets, board setting of risk parameters; and overseeing systems of internal they suspect a breach. Our Anti-bribery Policy also prohibits and governance experience combined with broad global and The framework is supported by a robust governance structure, control and the Risk Management Framework. bribery and related improper conduct and provides information executive capabilities in international retailing, technology and which includes the Coles Privacy Council, consisting of senior and guidance on how to recognise and deal with instances communications, data and analytics, supply chain management The Coles Risk Policy and Risk Management Framework managers from within the Group. We have appointed a Privacy of bribery and corruption. A breach of any of these policies by and relationships in the fast-moving consumer goods sector. require management to identify, assess, manage, escalate Officer and have a dedicated privacy team. We also make use of Coles’ team members may be regarded as serious misconduct, and report risks in an effective and efficient manner. They also external resources who provide advice on a range of issues, including Coles has three Board committees that allow for more detailed leading to disciplinary action, which may include termination ensure that our risk management system is consistently and domestic and global privacy trends. consideration of specific issues – the Audit and Risk Committee, of employment. the People and Culture Committee and the Nomination comprehensively applied across all our operations. Information security Coles has appointed an Anti-bribery Officer, and training on Committee. More detail on how we manage risk is provided in the Coles 2019 anti-bribery requirements is undertaken by team members to Like most businesses, Coles is increasingly reliant on information The day-to-day management of Coles is the responsibility Annual Report. systems to enable efficient operations. We have developed the extent applicable to their roles and is supported by policies, of the CEO, supported by the direct reports to the CEO. A key procedures and controls. a robust approach to managing information security, in an Compliance responsibility of the CEO is supporting a culture that promotes environment where the use of disruptive technologies is The diversity of Coles’ operations necessitates compliance with Policy development ethical and socially responsible behaviour. The CEO also has increasing and new security threats are emerging. extensive legislative requirements at all levels of government. oversight of the risk management framework and systems, We have a Public Affairs team that liaises with all levels of These include corporations law, competition and consumer law Coles has implemented a broad range of controls, based including internal compliance and control mechanisms. government on policy development and provides advice to including the Grocery Code of Conduct and country of origin on understanding the risks to our systems and information. Management, through the Executive Leadership Team, reports Coles’ businesses on government initiatives and policy with the requirements, product and food safety, environment, council byThese controls leverage international and local standards regularly to the Coles Board. potential to impact our operating model. laws, privacy, workplace safety and bio-security. and advice from industry experts to ensure we focus our Information on our corporate governance (including our key Political donations attention on information security controls that are key to Coles has a strong Compliance Framework, which sets out policies), our Board and Board committees can be found in the mitigating material risks. the standards, requirements and accountability for managing Coles’ Anti-bribery Policy stipulates that all Directors and 2019 Annual Report and the Corporate Governance Statement. compliance obligations across the Group. Policies and procedures team members are prohibited from making donations in cash We are also committed to the ongoing delivery of our cyber are supported by hard system controls where appropriate and or in kind to a political entity on behalf of Coles, other than in security program to continually improve our people, process, and technology controls. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 64 65 Stakeholder engagement and sustainability commitments. As one of Australia’s largest retailers, Coles is committed to meaningful engagement with our diverse group of internal and external stakeholders, through a variety of formal and informal settings. We also support a range of external sustainability commitments and frameworks. Coles’ Queensland State General Manager Jerry with Hummingbird House General Manager Dr Fiona Hawthorne (top left), Will Edwards (main picture) from Archie Rose Distilling Co. who received Nurture Fund support and Dylan from First Choice Liquor Market, Tooronga, Victoria (bottom left). Community Suppliers and manufacturers Stakeholder engagement We strive to build trusted relationships with the communities in Sound relationships with our suppliers underpin our 87.7% Proactively engaging with stakeholders helps us identify, which we operate through our partnerships with community and commitment to responsible sourcing and supplier accountability. prioritise, address and communicate our sustainability impacts not-for-profit organisations. Our engagement starts with onboarding and continues through and opportunities. The frequency and nature of our engagements ongoing meetings, site visits, audits and training. Key engagement channels include local giving and fundraising, are designed to enable regular communication on key issues. food donations and partnerships and sponsorships that benefit Our online supplier portal contains information about our Through our membership of the United Nations Global customer satisfaction for Supermarkets communities. mandatory compliance standards. Compact, we are involved in multi-stakeholder initiatives Coles partners with organisations such as SecondBite and Coles also hosts an annual supplier conference, and we that address global challenges such as human rights and Redkite that benefit communities across Australia. Beyond our recognise our top-performing suppliers at an annual Supplier climate change. partnerships, we provide support in the form of fundraising, Awards ceremony. Team members Customers donation boxes and team member volunteering. Media We engage with our team members to share information We value feedback from our customers and offer them a variety Shareholders and analysts Coles engages with the media directly, as well as through media and listen to feedback. The channels we use to reach Coles’ of channels to engage with Coles. These include in-store service In June 2019, we held our first Investor Day since becoming an releases and webcasts, on a range of issues about our business. team members include daily store and distribution centre counters, online Tell Coles surveys, social media, and direct calls ASX-listed entity. Our first annual general meeting will be held in communications, team meetings in stores and distribution and emails to the Coles Customer Care Centre. Unions November 2019. centres, daily emails to Store Support Centres, internal social The backbone of our customer satisfaction tracking is Tell Coles, The terms and conditions of employment of more than media, regular executive email communications, information Other key engagement channels include quarterly sales a post-shop survey completed by over two million customers 89.8% of Coles’ team members are set through enterprise sessions at Store Support Centres and a six-monthly team calls, half-year and full-year investor briefings, webcasts and annually. Through this survey, we monitor customers’ satisfaction bargaining agreements. We liaise on a regular basis with the member engagement survey (mysay). ASX releases. with service, product availability, quality and price. This data unions that represent our team members. In May 2019, more than 80% (89,401) of team members is accessed by our cross-functional teams to ensure a highWe also respond to various investor questionnaires and We support freedom of association and collective bargaining. responded to mysay. Our overall engagement score was 61%, quality experience for customers. At the end of FY19, customer benchmarking assessments on environmental, social and More information can be found on page 40 of this report an improvement of three percentage points in team member satisfaction for Supermarkets was 87.7%. governance topics. These include the Dow Jones Sustainability engagement compared with FY18. Index, the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark, the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare, Know the Chain and the We are also a key attractor of talent, with more than 600,000 Farm Animal Investment Risk and Return Benchmark. applications to work at Coles each year. There are also many people with a keen interest in what is happening at Coles. This includes more than 100,000 followers on LinkedIn, an increase of more than 23% in the last year. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 66 67 United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact principles In FY19, Coles joined the UNGC, the world’s largest corporate Human rights principles sustainability initiative. The UNGC’s ten principles are Businesses should support and respect the protection derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights. the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 2 on Environment and Development, and the United Nations in human rights abuses. Convention Against Corruption. Labour principles This Sustainability Report serves as our Communication on Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Progress on how we are implementing the UNGC’s principles and 3 and the effective recognition of the right to collective supporting its broader development objectives in the areas of bargaining. human rights, labour, anti-corruption and the environment. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms 4 of forced and compulsory labour. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of 5 The SDGs are the United Nation’s plan for a better future child labour. for people and our planet. The SDGs consist of 17 goals for Businesses should uphold the elimination of global development. 6 discrimination in respect of employment and Coles’ purpose to sustainably feed all Australians to help them occupation. lead healthier, happier lives is aligned with and supports the Environment principles achievement of the SDGs as detailed below. Businesses should support a precautionary approach 7 to environmental challenges. Our Sustainability Strategy will play a key role in realising these goals through our focus areas of sustainable communities, Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote 8 sustainable products and sustainable environmental practices. greater environmental responsibility. Some SDGs align with several elements of our Sustainability Businesses should encourage the development and 9 Team members Puneet, Neha and Daniel (left to right) from Coles Express Surrey Hills, Victoria. Strategy such as SDG 17 which is supported by sustainable diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. communities and sustainable products. Anti-corruption principles Businesses should work against corruption in all its Government Standards and certification bodies 10 forms, including extortion and bribery. Coles’ Public Affairs team engages with commonwealth, state Coles is represented on the Global Food Safety Initiative Australia Sustainable Development Goals and local governments on a regular basis regarding issues and New Zealand. that affect Coles, our customers and our suppliers. Coles also Sustainable communities Sustainable products Sustainable environmental practices We use independent certification programs such as Fairtrade contributes to the development of public policy through a SDG Coles’ contribution SDG Coles’ contribution SDG Coles’ contribution and Rainforest Alliance/UTZ to source Own Brand cocoa, variety of channels such as participating in government inquiries, coffee and tea; the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil We are directly aligned Our health and We advance the working groups, industry associations and forums. with this goal through safety initiatives, the objective of this for products containing sustainable palm oil; and Supplier our commitment thousands of new jobs goal through our We are represented on a range of government committees, Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), which helps to identify human to alleviate hunger we create each year, investments in including the Healthy Food Partnership and the Fair Work rights risks in our supply chain. in communities by and our commitment energy efficiency and donating unsold to protect human reducing greenhouse Ombudsman Horticulture Reference Group. Coles is also edible food. rights in our operations gas emissions. The represented on the Trusted Information Sharing Network for Non-government organisations and research bodies and supply chain implementation of To advance positive outcomes for people and our planet, we contribute to the a Climate Change Critical Infrastructure Resilience, and one of our team members objectives of decent Strategy will further chairs the Food and Grocery Sector Resilience Group. engage with non-government organisations and research bodies In addition to the work and economic our response to on diverse topics such as human rights, animal welfare, climate healthy and nutritious growth. climate change. Industry Associations change, and health and nutrition. products we provide, we promote health Our ethical sourcing All Own Brand seafood We work with peak national bodies representing farmers, and wellbeing to our requirements and our is responsibly sourced manufacturers and suppliers across Australia on a range of team members, our sustainable packaging to help ensure the customers and the issues. For example, we participate in the Australian Beef Sustainability commitments community. commitments play future sustainability of an important role marine ecosystems. Sustainability Framework, an initiative of the Red Meat Advisory We support the United Nations Sustainable Development in the sustainable Goals (UNSDGs) and the recommendations of the Taskforce on Coles’ commitment to manufacturing, Council and managed by Meat and Livestock Australia. an inclusive workplace production and Climate Related Financial Disclosures. We are also a member of and gender equality consumption of We are members of industry associations such as the Business products. the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). starts at the top, with Council of Australia and Retail Drinks Australia, which provide a diverse Board of us with the opportunity to participate in forums and contribute We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Directors and a goal We have partnerships Our sustainable of achieving 40% throughout our supply sourcing commitments to public policy debate. We are also members of the Australian (GRI) the most widely used standard for sustainability reporting. representation of chains to deliver and product Packaging Covenant, and we are represented on several of Our GRI Index, which also contains our response to the UNGC, women in leadership sustainable outcomes. certifications support positions at an environmental its committees. can be found on our website www.colesgroup.com.au. organisational level biodiversity. by 2023. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 68 69 Our data. Team members1 Team members by state 1,023 113,000+ 51%-49% team members female male 40% women 22,585 team members in Executive Leadership Team and general manager roles 12,929 Team members category and diversity2 Gender (and %) Age Group 6,959 Total Female % Male % Under % 30-39 % 40-49 % 50 and % 30 Over Non-executive Directors3 7 3 42.9% 4 57.1% 0% 0% 2 28.6% 5 71.4% 32,990 Executive Team and 70 28 40.0% 42 60.0% 0% 11 15.7% 43 61.4% 16 22.9% General Managers3 1,625 All Salaried Employees4 11,598 4,896 42.2% 6,701 57.8% 2,557 22.0% 4,166 35.9% 3,034 26.2% 1,841 15.9% (Managers/Professional) 33,152 All Employees4 113,409 58,001 51.1% 55,408 48.9% 54,866 48.4% 22,544 19.9% 17,072 15.1% 18,928 16.7% Team member hires and turnover by gender, age and region Indigenous team members5 Hires Turnover 2,145 4,100+ Gender Total 32,942 30,226 26.7% Female 15,065 13,625 23.5% Team members employment type, gender and region (FY19 Avg.) Male 17,877 16,601 30.0% Indigenous Region Age Under 30 23,983 19,409 35.4% team members Total Female Male ACT NSW NT QLD SA TAS VIC WA 30-39 4,232 5,175 23.0% Permanent 72,573 38,026 34,547 1,027 20,440 610 14,990 4,487 1,353 21,065 8,601 40-49 2,264 2,846 16.7% Full-time 25,230 10,575 14,655 337 6,812 273 5,233 1,534 401 7,690 2,950 50 and 2,463 2,796 14.8% 3.6% over Part-time 47,343 27,451 19,893 690 13,628 337 9,756 2,953 952 13,375 5,651 Region ACT 616 649 39.9% Fixed term 1,108 602 506 4 208 5 170 29 39 569 84 NSW 9,424 9,285 28.1% Casual 39,728 19,373 20,355 593 12,343 408 7,426 2,443 753 11,519 4,244 of total workforce NT 434 438 42.8% Total 113,409 58,001 55,408 1,625 32,990 1,023 22,585 6,959 2,145 33,152 12,929 QLD 6,398 5,663 25.1% SA 1,761 1,341 19.3% 5,000 Health and safety1 Indigenous team members TAS 560 507 23.6% 4,102 VIC 9,961 8,546 25.8% 4,000 3,581 Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)2 38% WA 3,788 3,797 29.4% 2,872 3,000 50 44.1 Team member turnover by employment type 2,318 38.8 2,000 40 Turnover % Turnover 34.4 3 TRIFR over past four years Female Male Female Male Overall % TRIFR 30 27.4 Perm 1,000 4,690 5,847 12.3% 16.9% 14.5% Full Time 940 1,839 8.9% 12.5% 11.0% 20 Workers’ compensation claims 0 Part Time 3,750 4,008 13.7% 20.1% 16.4% FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: Fixed 99 90 16.4% 17.8% 17.1% 10 1 Excludes Retail Ready Operations Australia (RROA), flybuys, Chef Fresh and Spirit Hotels 5,059 4,502 4,133 3,490 Term 2 These positions are defined through job evaluation methodology Casual 8,836 10,664 45.6% 52.4% 49.1% 3 As at 30 June 2019 1 Includes flybuys, RROA and Chef Fresh. 4 Average for FY19 0 2 TRIFR is the number of all injury types per million hours worked. Overall 13,625 16,601 23.5% 30.0% 26.7% 5 Includes Spirit Hotels FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 3 Restated due to maturation of data. Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 70 71 Environment Our data. Scope 1 & 21 and Scope 32 Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2-e) FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: Greenhouse gas emissions intensity – Scope 1 and 2 (tonnes CO2-e/m2)3 FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: Scope 1 233,599 312,650 298,429 282,936 0.06 0.08 0.08 0.07 Scope 2 1,478,237 1,463,378 1,422,681 1,333,825 0.41 0.39 0.38 0.35 Community Scope 3 328,687 348,507 322,749 302,935 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.08 Community contributions ($ million)direct1 and indirect2 120 115.9 Community contributions ($ million) Greenhouse gas emissions: $115m 92.1 90 2,000,000 68.5 60 54.5 1,500,000 30 community investment 6% 36% Tonnes CO2-e 26% from FY18 1,000,000 reduction in Scope 1 and 2 reduction in greenhouse emissions emissions compared with FY18 since 2009 – four years ahead of 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 our 2020 targets 500,000 Direct Indirect 0 FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: FY09 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Scope 1 46.7 7.8 59.6 9.0 82.7 9.4 101.7 14.2 Scope 2 1 Direct contributions include cash, product at cost, management fees and in-kind contributions at cost. This approach is consistent with the methodology outlined in the London Benchmarking Group Guidance on community contributions. Energy (PJ)4 Energy intensity (MJ/m2)3 2 Indirect contributions are those made by others where a Coles business facilitated and supported the contribution, such as customer donations to an appeal at point of sale. This approach is consistent with the methodology outlined in the London Benchmarking Group Guidance on community contributions. FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: 6.94 7.78 7.76 6.73 1,909 2,096 2,057 1,751 Electricity (kWh)4 Electricity intensity (kWh/m2)3 FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: 1,756,974,510 1,745,583,044 1,717,586,575 1,659,765,655 483.4 470.1 455.4 432.1 Equivalent $4.8m $800,000 $5m Water use (ML)5 Water use intensity (ML/m2)3 22.9m meals to SecondBite in FY19, in contributions in FY19 in sports equipment grants from Nurture Fund for drought FY2016: 3,404 FY2017: 3,415 FY2018: 3,425 FY2019: 3,363 FY2016: 936 FY2017: 920 FY2018: 908 FY2019: 875 equivalent of 84.8m meals to and $34m since 2013 in FY19 and 2.5m bananas relief, total $16m support to SecondBite since 2011 donated since 2017 drought-affected farmers in FY19 Waste (tonnes)6 – disposed7 and recycled8 FY2016: FY2017: FY2018: FY2019: Disposed Recycled Disposed Recycled Disposed Recycled Disposed Recycled Suppliers 91,315 235,288 92,596 240,982 85,278 233,719 91,604 256,946 96% Waste disposed and recycled: $32.1bn in supplier and services spend 50 Indigenous suppliers Own Brand fresh produce sourced from 300,000 250,000 Australian suppliers 200,000 Waste in tonnes 150,000 550+ 100% 1 Scope 1 and 2 data includes emissions for businesses where we have operational control 7,000+ 100,000 under the NGER Act (excludes Spirit Hotels for full year) 2 Scope 3 data includes the indirect component of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions such as transmitting the electricity we use, emissions from waste disposal and air travel 50,000 3 Ratio includes consumption within the organisation only, divided by gross lettable area 4 Excludes Spirit Hotels for full year suppliers including approximately third-party ethical audits Own Brand fresh lamb, pork, chicken, 5 Includes RROA 770 Own Brand suppliers conducted at supplier sites beef, milk and eggs sourced from 0 6 Includes Spirit Hotels for full year Australian suppliers. FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 7 Waste to landfill 8 Material diverted from landfill, eg. reused, recycled, repurposed, composted or Disposed Recycled converted to energy Coles Group Limited 2019 Sustainability Report 72 Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the About this Sustainability Report Management and Directors of Coles Group Limited This Sustainability Report presents the Sustainability Strategy and sustainability performance of Coles Group Limited for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 (FY19). The report focuses on what matters most to our stakeholders and our business. Further Our Conclusion: information on sustainability at Coles is available online at Ernst & Young (‘EY’, ‘we’) was engaged by Coles Group Limited (‘Coles’) to undertake limited assurance as defined by Australian Audit www.colesgroup.com.au. Standards, hereafter referred to as a ‘review’, over selected disclosures included in Coles’ 2019 Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) for the year ended 30 June 2019. Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that caused us to believe that the selected disclosures presented Prior to FY19, Coles’ performance was reported under Wesfarmers below, have not been prepared and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria detailed below. Limited. Coles demerged from Wesfarmers in November 2018. What our review covered: Summary of review procedures performed In this report, the terms ‘Coles’, ‘the Company’, ‘the Group’, ‘our We reviewed Coles’ selected disclosures, listed below, as disclosed in A review consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons business’, ‘organisation’, ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’ and ‘ourselves’ refer to the Report, for the year ended 30 June 2019. responsible for preparing the selected disclosures and related information, and applying analytical and other review procedures Coles Group Limited and our respective entities as defined in Selected Disclosures Page including: Coles’ 2019 Annual Report. reference: ► conducting a high-level media and peer review to support accuracy and completeness of selected disclosures EY has provided independent limited assurance in respect to Indigenous employment (Aboriginal and ► conducting interviews with key personnel at corporate and selected disclosures in this Sustainability Report. EY’s assurance Torres Strait Islander peoples) 68 selected sites to understand Coles’ process for collecting, (Headcount) statement can be found on page 72 of this report. collating and reporting the selected disclosures during the People reporting period Total workforce (by gender, region, age This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 68-69 ► undertaking site visits to confirm the completeness of boundary and employment type) (Headcount, %) and sources of energy and greenhouse gas emissions Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. The GRI Index Women in leadership positions (%) 14 ► checking that the Criteria has been reasonably applied in for this report is available online at www.colesgroup.com.au. preparing the selected disclosures; Health and Total recordable injury frequency rate ► checking the reasonableness of assumptions; 69 All financial data in this Sustainability Report is in Australian dollars. Safety (TRIFR) ► inquiring of personnel to identify risks of underreporting and quality controls; Anyone seeking to use information in this Sustainability Report Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 71 ► undertaking data analytics to check the reasonableness of the and 3) (tCO2-e) to draw conclusions from the data presented should email data supporting disclosures; ► performing recalculations of performance metrics to confirm investor.relations@colesgroup.com.au for assistance. Environment Energy consumption (PJ) 71 quantities stated were replicable; Water consumption (ML) 71 ► comparing classification of safety incidents against the Coles We welcome feedback on this report. For more information or to Standard Operating Procedures to confirm accuracy and Waste recycled and disposed (Tonnes) 71 consistency across the business; provide comments, please contact us at sustainability@coles.com.au. ► obtaining a sample of supplier audits to confirm existence and Ethical sourcing audit data (Number of accuracy of classification; 41 Supply supplier sites audited and results) ► checking aggregation of selected disclosures and transcription to Chain the Report; and Report boundary Product safety incidents and recalls 44 ► checking the appropriateness of the presentation relating to the This report contains information for all Coles’ wholly owned (Number) selected disclosures. businesses as at the date of this report and, for wholly owned % of Own Brand packaging recyclable We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to through kerbside services or through 47 provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. businesses that were part of the Group during the current or Packaging REDcycle soft plastics recycling comparative period, information up to the date ownership was % recycled content in new fresh Limited Assurance transferred (unless otherwise stated). Information presented 47 Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in produce bags in supermarkets for Coles Supermarkets includes information for Chef Fresh and nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance Retail Ready Operations Australia (RROA). Criteria applied by Coles obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower In preparing the selected disclosures, Coles applied: than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable In addition, this report includes information relating to the retail ► Specific criteria from the Global Reporting Initiative Standards assurance engagement been performed. While we considered the ► Coles’ publicly disclosed criteria as detailed in the Report. liquor business that forms part of Coles’ incorporated joint effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the Key responsibilities nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was venture with Australian Venue Co Pty Limited. EY’s responsibility and independence not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. Our Our responsibility was to express a limited assurance conclusion on procedures did not include testing controls or performing procedures RROA is our meat processing facility located in Erskine Park, New Coles’ selected disclosures included in the Report. We were also relating to checking aggregation or calculation of data within IT South Wales and Chef Fresh is our value added facility providing responsible for maintaining our independence and confirm that we systems. have met the requirements of the APES 110 Code of Ethics for convenient food solutions located in Geelong, Victoria. Professional Accountants including independence and have the Use of our Assurance Statement required competencies and experience to conduct this assurance We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this engagement. assurance statement, or on the selected disclosures to which it relates, to any persons other than the management and the Directors Corporate directory Coles’ responsibility of Coles, or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. Our review included web-based information that was available via Registered office: Coles’ management was responsible for selecting the Criteria, and fairly presenting the selected disclosures in accordance with that web links as of the date of this assurance statement. We provide no 800-838 Toorak Road Criteria. This responsibility included establishing and maintaining assurance over changes to the content of this web-based information Hawthorn East VIC 3123 internal controls, adequate records and making estimates that are after the date of this assurance statement. reasonable in the circumstances Telephone: +61 3 9829 5111 Our approach to conducting the review Website: www.colesgroup.com.au We conducted this review in accordance with the Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (‘ASAE 3000’) and the terms of reference for this Ernst & Young Meg Fricke engagement as agreed with Coles on 18 June 2019. Melbourne, Australia Partner 20 September 2019 Front Cover: Store Support Centre team members Tim, Indigenous Talent Acquisition Specialist and Bonny, Product Technologist, are two of our more than 4,100 Indigenous team members. Coles is the largest privatesector employer of Indigenous Australians. The background design portrays a bush tomato uniquely arranged to represent Coles’ national community, aspiring towards greater confidence, welcoming pathways and respectful self-pride. The circular rings radiate expressing our ambitions, development and success in our life cycle and beyond. The original artwork design was created for Coles by Marcus Lee Design. Coles Group Limited ABN 11 004 089 936 800-838 Toorak Road Hawthorn East VIC 3123
