UN Global Compact Report 2019 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company’s Chief Executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am writing to express Rubicon Global’s continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In 2011, Rubicon committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of our company, and I am proud to report that we have and will continue to do so. Our seventh Communication on Progress describes our efforts to support the ten principles this year and our goals for the coming year. We will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations in these areas and look to the UN for continued guidance and thought leadership. Sincerely, David Rachelson Vice President of Sustainability Rubicon Global Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments, and company goals on human rights. Respect for human rights is core to Rubicon’s organizational culture and values. Our mission to end waste is inspired by a desire to help build an environmental, social, economically healthy, and productive world, in which the needs of current and future generations are met. This commitment to both people and planet is a central driver in Rubicon’s decision to continue to pursue the certification necessary to remain a Certified B Corporation. As a Certified B Corporation, Rubicon Global is required to publicly report on its social and environmental performance using established third-party standards. The B Impact Assessment measures across corporate governance, worker rights, community and civic engagement, and environmental stewardship. In June 2018, Rubicon Global successfully completed its third B Impact Assessment and was recertified as a B Corporation with a final cumulative score of 108.4. Rubicon scored in the top 10 percent in the categories of Environment and Governance to be designated a Best for the World Honoree in these sections of the B Impact Assessment. Rubicon’s B Impact Assessment score has been among the highest of all B Corporations for six years running and has increased in each of the three assessment periods. To view Rubicon’s 2018 B Impact Assessment, please visit: https://bcorporation.net/directory/rubicon-global/ To learn more about Rubicon’s mission as a B Corp, please visit: https://www.rubiconglobal.com/video-stand-b-corp/ Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement human rights policies, address human rights risks, and respond to human rights violations. Rubicon Global’s commitment to human rights and social responsibility is reflected in our organizational Code of Conduct, hiring policies, paid-time-off for volunteer hours, and integration of social key performance indicators into employee job responsibilities. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Rubicon Global uses third-party assessment tools like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify any gaps. In addition, Rubicon has implemented multiple measurement tools at an employee level to ensure that the proper policies are in place, such as a performance review program and a recognition and rewards program. Labour Assessment, Policy, and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights, related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Rubicon Global adheres to the laws set forth by the U.S. Department of Labor and the State of Georgia Department of Labor. Our Human Resources team regularly reviews and updates all HR policies, and assessed risks, and sets goals in this area. Rubicon Global has an employee-led team, the RuBicontributors, who drive additional benefits and opportunities such as crossdepartmental collaboration and volunteer activities focused on sustainability, inclusion, and stewardship. In addition, a high priority for Rubicon is to employ a diverse and well-rounded workforce. We publicly released our diversity statistics in 2017 (link here). Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks, and respond to labour violations. Over the past three years, Rubicon Global has continued to introduce and implement new policies and benefits for our employees. Internally, the Rubiculture book is used to educate staff on newly implemented policies. Some of these benefits and policies include unlimited paidtime-off for all exempt Rubicon Global employees, paid-time-off for volunteer hours for all fulltime employees based on their tenure at Rubicon, paid-time-off for non-exempt employees’ work anniversaries, one week of optional personal development for associates every two years, and sponsored fitness classes to support employee health and wellness. In 2019, Rubicon was certified as a Great Place to Work® by the third-party organization, Great Places to Work. This was the second consecutive year that Rubicon has achieved this prestigious honor. Certification for this honor required a voluntary anonymous employee survey, as well as completion of Great Places to Work’s Culture Brief which detailed Rubicon’s programs and practices. The certification is used as a way for businesses to quantify their culture, benchmark against other successful companies, and grow their businesses. To view Rubicon’s “Great Place to Work” profile, please visit http://reviews.greatplacetowork.com/rubicon-global/ Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Rubicon Global encourages our employees to complete our annual employee survey, providing them an opportunity to give feedback on their job satisfaction. Additionally, we have established formal channels that allow employees to report perceived violations of our Code of Conduct. Environment Assessment, Policy, and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments, and company goals on environmental protection. Rubicon Global has a clear vision for helping both top global brands and small and medium sized businesses to reduce their negative environmental impact and protect our communities. The company’s business model is built on sustainability, technology, efficiency, transparency, and responsibility. Rubicon utilizes innovative solutions in order to help both large and small companies improve the way they do business and turn waste into a resource. Rubicon is continually looking to expand this model through partnerships and additional multinational customers around the globe. Rubicon’s mission is to end waste. Rubicon partners with its customers to create innovative alternatives for their waste streams to minimize costs and work toward the goals of zero waste and a more circular economy as primary objectives. Rubicon Global launched the RUBICONMethod™ (link here) in early 2018. In keeping with our B Corp mission to solve the global issue of waste and create a more circular economy, Rubicon made this six-step system publicly available to help businesses, organizations, and local governments confidently execute on their sustainability goals with long-term economic viability. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks, and respond to environmental incidents. Rubicon Global’s environmental efforts include: • Rubicon Global was honored with the Ecolab Award for Circular Economy Digital Disruptor at the 2017 World Economic Forum in Davos in recognition of “disrupting business as usual by using digital technologies to enable the circular economy.” (link here). • Rubicon Global works with customers to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and reduce each company’s environmental footprint. Our subject matter experts, including those in the Rubicon Circular Solutions and Sustainability teams, use metrics and Big Data analytics to pinpoint opportunities and continuously reduce environmental impacts while seeking out new technology and improved solutions for our customers every day. • Thorough new hire orientation for all Rubicon Global employees that covers both Sustainability and thought leadership. • Rubicon Global believes in sharing best practices with the public. In 2015, Rubicon sponsored a Knowledge@Wharton report entitled “The Sharing Economy: A New Way of Doing Business.” This report featured articles on the impact of the sharing economy on the environment. The report is available to the public and was distributed widely to the business community. Read the report here. • Rubicon Global believes in equipping the next generation with tools to build sustainable businesses. Rubicon joined the board of the Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) program at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania to create an academic partnership focused on market driven approaches to sustainability challenges. Wharton, America’s oldest business school, is known for its cutting-edge approach to sustainability. • Trucost is a global leader in the sustainability assurance space. Trucost delivered the world’s first public Environmental Profit and Loss, maintains over two million natural capital data points, and participates in the development of global protocols, including World Resources Institute/Greenhouse Gas Accounting. Trucost has reviewed and verified Rubicon’s methodology of calculating waste diversion, as well as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from waste disposal and GHG savings from waste diversion. • Rubicon Global is a founding member of the U.S. Zero Waste Business Council which was acquired by the U.S Green Building Council and rebranded as TRUE Zero Waste. Rubicon helps its customers pursue TRUE zero waste certification of facilities as a standalone certification, or as part of the LEED rating system for green buildings. • Rubicon Global is a member of the U.S. Composting Council (USCC) and is committed to advancing innovative and cost-saving solutions that keep valuable materials out of the landfill. USCC’s mission is to “enhance soil and provide economic and environmental benefits” by promoting composting, educating stakeholders about the benefits of composting, and encouraging research into composting best practices. • Rubicon Global joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Circular Economy 100 (CE100) as a 2017 emerging innovator. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Rubicon Global uses third-party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In the area of the environment (which includes environmental products/services, land/office, planet, inputs, outputs, and suppliers/transportation), Rubicon Global achieved a score of 41.4, making this an area of excellence. In addition, Rubicon’s Trucost-verified process measures landfill diversion and greenhouse gas emissions avoidance on behalf of its customers. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy, and Goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments, and company goals on anti-corruption. In 2017, Rubicon updated its broad anti-corruption/anti-bribery policy. This updated policy is designed to provide clear guidance for all Rubicon employees in terms of dealing with government officials, vetting and validating third party service providers before formal engagement, and setting standards that comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other countries. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks, and respond to incidents. Rubicon updated its anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy in 2017. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Measurement will include cooperation amongst the Legal, Finance, Sales, and Business Development teams as Rubicon looks to expand its business in the United States and abroad ensure any government-related and commercial activities comply with the policies and applicable laws. -END-
