F U T U R E I N S I D E B U S I N ES S A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y P E R FO R M A N C E R E P O RT 2 0 1 8 I S HA RED VALUE 12 Our Role 14 CEO Interview 16 Locations & Business Units 17 Results 18 EHS 19 Governance B USINESS VALUE 24 Business Highlights 26 Automotive 28 Aerospace 30 Packaging 32 Defense 33 Transportation 34 Industry S USTA INA BLE VALUE 36 Sustainability Targets 37 UN SDGs 38 Materiality Assessment 40 Sustainability Highlights 42 Recycling Rates 43 Customer Satisfaction 44 Safety Records 45 People 46 Communities 47 Landfill Waste 48 Energy Efficiency 49 Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 50 Sustainable Purchasing 51 Greenhouse Gas Emissions P ER FORMA NCE 53 Financial Statements 57 Sustainability Performance 65 GRI Our role is to create value throughout the life cycle of aluminium. We are committed to improving the overall footprint of aluminium’s life cycle and to creating value for customers, employees, suppliers, and society. 3 MANUFACTURING 2 AND PRODUCT DESIGN Our R&D and production CASTING, ROLLING, AND EXTRUSION teams work with our clients E CYCLE LIF to leverage aluminium’s We work hard inherent advantages, to mitigate the including lightness, potential impact flexibility, durability, of our operations and recyclability 1 EXTRACTING, REFINING, SMELTING With our suppliers, we have developed our own responsible purchasing policy 6 4 RECYCLING OF ALUMINIUM PRODUCT USE We recycle both process and For end users, we end-of-life scrap provide a large range of applications that enhance products 5 and improve lifestyles COLLECTING AND SORTING With our clients, we have rigorous processes in place to collect and sort production scrap to retain its value 2 75% of the aluminium produced since its discovery is still in use today 100% Inside Aluminium is 100% recyclable Aluminium with no deterioration in quality 5% Recycling aluminium requires only about 5% of the energy needed to produce it from bauxite Aluminium is valuable at every stage of its life cycle, from production to end of use. It can be endlessly recycled and keeps its material properties. Using recycled aluminium reduces the need for primary aluminium and therefore minimizes waste, avoids resource depletion, and lowers greenhouse gas emissions across a product’s life cycle. Constellium is an industry leader in the sustainable production and recycling of aluminium products. We embrace sustainability and work with our suppliers and partners to improve the footprint of the aluminium life cycle throughout the value chain. 3 40% A hood produced with Constellium aluminium is 40% lighter than a steel hood Green in -37% Over the life cycle of a car, a hood produced the Hood with Constellium aluminium generates 37% less greenhouse gas emissions than a steel hood* 90% of aluminium contained in a scrapped vehicle is recycled Aluminium is the material of choice to address one of the key challenges of the automotive industry, lightweighting. Our solutions help global automotive manufacturers to produce lighter, safer, and more fuel-efficient vehicles, as well as electric vehicles with greater range. Material lightweighting reduces CO2 emissions over the life cycle of the car, ensuring a more sustainable future for the industry. * Source: Constellium Aluminium for Auto Body Sheet – Life Cycle Assessment – based on a third-party critical review led by Quantis. 4 5% higher compressive and tensile 30% more strength* modulus* Airware® in Space 5-15% 5% total component lower density* weight savings* The result of more than 30 years of R&D, Airware®, Constellium’s aluminium-lithium alloys, first ventured into space in 1998, providing for the launch of approximately 40 space shuttles. Over the past 10 years, Airware® 2050 has joined Airware® 2195 as a preferred plate material for pressurized and non-pressurized structural components of space launchers and crew modules. * Compared with current solutions. 5 7 million We supply 7 million Crash Management Systems a year Lighter Safer Greener 560 5 kg million saved on each aluminium Crash Management metric tons of CO2 saved System compared with in emissions over a vehicle’s a traditional system lifetime* For automakers, enhancing the safety of drivers, passengers, and pedestrians is a top priority. Constellium’s superior design capabilities mean we can offer the most innovative Crash Management Systems (CMS) to our customers. Aluminium is the ideal material for CMS components due to its superior energy absorption and crash behavior. Thanks to our Constellium HSA6™ family of high-strength 6xxx alloys, we can reduce the system’s weight by 15-30% compared with traditional aluminium solutions, and by over 50% compared with steel. * Constellium estimate based on 10 g/km CO2 saved for every 100 kg, and a useful life of 160,000 km per vehicle. Up to 50% Up to 15 times savings in better flatness compared manufacturing time with industry standards AlplanTM Beyond Precision Up to 90% Up to 40% reduction in part rework reduction in materials compared with a mill required vs. mill finish finish plate plate As we focus on offering sustainable growth solutions to our customers, Alplan™ Beyond Precision, the result of a long-standing proprietary process optimized over the last 20 years, is an unrivaled solution for high performance aluminium plates. An integrated solution, Alplan™ allows for increased productivity and reduced production costs. 7 20,000 people/hour 20x A single high-speed rail High-speed rails have line transports up to 20 times the capacity 20,000 people per hour of highways High Speed and On Track 76% 300 km/h fewer carbon dioxide emissions by train, (200 mph) compared with air Some high-speed rail travel for the same services can reach speeds distance of over 300 km per hour Economic development and environmental concerns are leading to a huge global expansion and modernization of rail networks and rolling stock. By using our lightweight solutions, rail vehicle manufacturers can increase passenger capacity and save energy, leading to significant CO2 reductions. Constellium is a market leader in rail solutions, covering the complete range of rolling stock material with our large extrusions product portfolio, for trams and subways, regional trains, and high-speed trains. Constellium’s aluminium-steel co-extruded power rails also help guarantee electricity supply to underground and suburban train systems around the world. Source: US High Speed Rail Association. 8 50+% of our annual supplier spending has been through independent third-party sustainability assessment More Sustainable Supplies 83% 45% of evaluated of our suppliers suppliers’ have improved performances their sustainability meet or surpass performance since 2011 our standards We must ensure that sustainability is practiced at every step of our business, including the supply chain. That’s why Constellium seeks to work exclusively with suppliers who comply with applicable laws and adhere to sustainable practices in governance, the environment, and society. Supplier assessment is not simply a perfunctory exercise for us. We see it as an opportunity to work together for continuous improvement, and believe it helps to build strong, long-term relationships with our suppliers. 9 4.7% improvement in Constellium’s energy efficiency compared with 2015 baseline Energy 10% our 2020 target for energy efficiency improvement Efficient vs. 2015 6 million automotive Crash Management Systems can be produced using 270 GWh of energy saved since 2015 Reducing our carbon footprint and the negative impact of our operations is high on our sustainability agenda. We saw significant improvement in all business units in 2018, and we continue to focus our efforts and resources on all potential energy-saving opportunities to reach our 2020 energy efficiency goal. 10 SHARED VALUE Strong, versatile, and renewable, aluminium is an integral part of our daily lives. At Constellium, we are experts at turning it into value-added products and solutions. From beverage cans to electric vehicles to space shuttles, we are constantly innovating for a lighter, safer, and more sustainable tomorrow. 11 OUR ROLE C R E AT I N G VA L U E THROUGHOUT THE LIFE CYCLE OF ALUMINIUM Aluminium is the world’s third most abundant element and a vital material for the 21st century. Here, we explain the various stages of production and outline our role in the process. EXTRACTING, REFINING AND CASTING, ROLLING SMELTING AND EXTRUSION 1 2 Extracting, refining, Casting, rolling, and extrusion and smelting Other metals are added to molten aluminium to create Aluminium is produced from bauxite customized alloys. These are cleaned of oxides and gases, ore, predominantly from open-cast then cast into molded products, ingots, billets, or slabs. mines. Refineries use the Bayer Billets are transformed into extruded products, for use in process to convert bauxite into pure products such as Crash Management Systems. Slabs are aluminium oxide (alumina), and rolled to produce plates, sheets, or coils, for use in cans, strictly manage residue according to car hoods, airplane wings, and more. industry standards. Pure aluminium is extracted in smelters, using the Hall-Héroult electrolysis process. Aluminium output is 13 times greater now than in 1950, making it the most widely used non-ferrous metal. 6 Recycling Aluminium can be endlessly recycled to deliver new products with RECYCLING the same properties as those made from primary material. We obtain aluminium scrap for recycling from three sources: our processes, our customers’ processes (such as stamping and milling), and at the end of a product’s life. We recycle all three categories, and also work to improve recycling through partnerships with relevant stakeholders. Constellium’s contribution to the value chain 12 Product design and manufacturing Engineers and researchers from our worldclass C-TEC Technology Center, our Plymouth hub, and our Brunel University Technology Center work closely with our customers to develop, produce, and deliver innovative and sustainable aluminium solutions that improve the world around us. We also offer product design capabilities, particularly for automotive Product use component fabrication. We have longstanding relationships with customers in diverse industries, primarily the aerospace, packaging, and automotive sectors. The products and solutions we provide improve strength, durability, PRODUCT DESIGN AND lightness, and fuel consumption in a large MANUFACTURING range of applications. 3 4 PRODUCT USE 5 Collecting and sorting COLLECTING AND SORTING Aluminium recycling within the manufacturing process makes sense economically and environmentally. Efficient collection and sorting systems are critical for the effective recycling of end-of-life scrap. We have established stringent procedures at our facilities and offer similar services to customers, creating value by reducing costs and recycling more products. 13 INTERVIEW Jean-Marc Germain, Chief Executive Officer How did Constellium perform in 2018? I’m proud to say that 2018 was another year of growth and improvement. Once again we saw double-digit Adjusted EBITDA growth, with each of our business units delivering record annual Adjusted EBITDA. In July, we completed the sale of the North Building at Sierre to Novelis, which contributed to our deleveraging. In December, we announced the acquisition of our partner’s 49% stake in Bowling Green, giving us full access to the attractive North American Auto Body Sheet market. As for EHS, we had positive results overall and a significant decrease in our recordable case rate, even beyond our target. Tragically, we experienced one “ We have a strong fatality, at Neuf-Brisach. It was a terrible reminder of why safety must always be our number one priority. and balanced Were your results impacted portfolio to support by trade issues and global tariffs? It was indeed a very eventful year, marked by our attractive uncertainty in the global aluminium supply chain, largely as a result of the U.S. 232 tariffs on aluminium long-term and temporary sanctions on Rusal. As a result of our pass-through model, the impact of these actions on growth plan.” our business has been limited. In addition, most of our production is made for consumption in the same geographic area (i.e. produced in North America for North America, or in Europe for Europe), which also helps mitigate the impact of tariffs. That said, the global trade environment is still unstable, and we will continue to monitor potential developments closely in 2019. FINANCIAL GUIDANCE 2019 TARGETS 2022 TARGETS ADJUSTED FREE CASH ADJUSTED N E T D E B T/ EBITDA GROWTH FLOW EBITDA ADJUSTED EBITDA 8-10% €50+ €700+ million million 2.5x 14 Is the automotive market still S T R AT E G Y a growth driver for you? F ocus on high-value products Yes, and we are confident that increased aluminium G row customer connectivity use is a secular trend for this market, due to the O ptimize asset utilization through material’s lightweighting properties and superior portfolio management energy absorption. The electrification of vehicles has H arvest returns from past investments great potential for us, and we have good exposure in S trict cost control and continuous the growing markets for light trucks, SUVs, and luxury improvement cars. We are well-positioned to take advantage of the I ncrease financial flexibility automotive industry’s shift to aluminium with the ramp-up of our two new 100 kt CALP lines in NeufBrisach and Bowling Green, as well as the expansion of our Automotive Structures business. comply with the ASI standard. Recycling remains Our growth does not rely on the automotive market another key focus, and we continue to promote alone. Aerospace provides a steady stream of end-of-life recycling. opportunities for growth and higher value-added products. Packaging is another strong, stable What are your priorities for 2019? component of our portfolio. As recycling becomes a From a safety standpoint, we always aim for zero priority for our customers and society at large, we accidents. We will continue to focus on our Serious expect aluminium to stand out as a preferred material Injury and Fatality (SIF) program, and on promoting for beverages, since it can be recycled indefinitely. We behavioral changes. have attractive growth opportunities in other niches, Financially, we are committed to becoming free cash too. Overall, I believe we have a strong and balanced flow positive in 2019 and beyond, significantly portfolio to support our long-term growth plan. reducing our debt and achieving our targets. We remain committed to our sustainability goals, How are you doing on the execution minimizing our ecological impact while maximizing of your strategy? the social and environmental benefits of our products. We are pleased with the progress we have made and We empower our employees, providing them with will continue to execute our strategy in 2019. To career development opportunities and practicing ensure that the entire company is aligned with shared values. These engagements are an important stakeholders’ expectations, we have shared our part of our efforts to make Constellium the most strategy, mission, and values with our employees exciting company to work for in the aluminium through a dedicated, company-wide initiative called industry. MOMENTUM. After years of significant investments I am very optimistic about our prospects for the in our business, 2019 is also the year we targeted to future, and am looking forward to delivering another generate positive free cash flow. We are confident strong year in 2019. of reaching this goal, thanks to robust growth, continuous operational improvement, and a strong focus on trade working capital. What are your priorities in terms of sustainability? They are clearly set out in our 2020 sustainability targets (see page 36). Safety remains number one; we are determined to further improve our record and prevent serious injuries. We have made progress on most of our targets and will keep working towards them. As one of the COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS founding members of the Aluminium Stewardship GLOBAL COMPACT Initiative (ASI), we are working to obtain ASI For the seventh consecutive year we support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of certification for our biggest plant in Germany, and human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In this to have our packaging and automotive plant in report we communicate on our progress in the Sustainability Neuf-Brisach, France, certified as well. Meanwhile, Performance section on page 57. we are doing our best to ensure that our suppliers 15 SHARED VALUE A GLOBAL SECTOR LEADER Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products Provides aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications (beverage and food cans, closures, foilstock, cosmetics), specialty products (functional surfaces and industry products), as well as ROLLED RECYCLING automotive solutions, including Auto Body Sheet. In addition, the PRODUCTS business unit recycles end-of-life products, such as used beverage cans. Aerospace and Transportation Provides technologically advanced aluminium alloys with wide applications across the global aerospace, transportation, industry, and defense sectors. The business unit offers a wide range of products including plates, sheets, and extrusions. Aerospace and Transportation ROLLED PLATES EXTRUDED also provides tailored solutions and value-added services to its PRODUCTS PRODUCTS customers, such as pre-machining and customer scrap recycling. Automotive Structures and Industry Provides advanced solutions for the global automotive industry, including Crash Management Systems (CMS), structural components, battery enclosures, and other safety parts and extrusions. This business unit also manufactures a wide range of hard and soft alloy extrusions, EXTRUDED AUTOMOTIVE as well as large proﬁles for road and rail transportation, energy, and PRODUCTS COMPONENTS other industrial applications. 16 U N LO C K I N G VA LU E REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA* EMPLOYEES € 5.7 B N €498M ~13 , 0 0 0 5.2 5.7 4.7 498 448** 398** +9% +11% 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 35% 23% 54% 25% 49% 3% 6% 27% 8% 31% 23% 21% ■ P  ACKAGING AND AUTOMOTIVE ■ P  ACKAGING AND AUTOMOTIVE ■ F RANCE ROLLED PRODUCTS ROLLED PRODUCTS ■ N ORTH AMERICA ■ AEROSPACE AND TRANSPORTATION ■ AEROSPACE AND TRANSPORTATION ■ G ERMANY ■ AUTOMOTIVE STRUCTURES ■ AUTOMOTIVE STRUCTURES ■ E ASTERN EUROPE AND INDUSTRY AND INDUSTRY ■ S WITZERLAND ■ A SIA * Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure.” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income,” see the 20-F. ** In 2018, we changed the presentation of our pension and other benefit expense. Comparative financial information for prior years has been reclassified accordingly to conform to the current year’s presentation. 17 E N V I R O N M E N T, H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y Interview with Jack Clark, Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Excellence and Chief Technical Officer Why such a focus on behavior? While we made significant progress on our safety results, we cannot be proud as we tragically lost one of our colleagues in a workplace incident in NeufBrisach, France, in 2018. This fatality is a strong reminder that behavior is as critical as policies and procedures when it comes to safety, and that our Safety Golden Rules must be respected at all times. We lost one of our most experienced workers, who was trained in EHS requirements. It was and still is a shock for all of us. How were Constellium’s environmental “ Environment, Health and results in 2018? Very encouraging. There were no major incidents in Safety (EHS) is not just 2018, and our reporting improved significantly. Our 2019 priority will be to comply with upcoming a matter of policies and environmental regulations in the European Union. We processes, but also of will also continue to focus on reducing energy consumption and reducing landfill waste to meet our behavior and engagement – 2020 sustainability goals. an overall culture of How are you working to promote better health among your employees? commitment to one another.” Our objective is to prevent work-related diseases and to promote employee health. Many of our sites are offering health programs including flu vaccinations, What were Constellium’s greatest safety fitness classes, eye testing, and other benefits. Most achievements in 2018? of our locations also have an Employee Assistance The launch of our Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) program Program to support our employees and their families was certainly a highlight.Through this program we were able with personal concerns ranging from significant life to reduce the number of serious injuries from 14 in 2017 to 3 events to everyday challenges. in 2018. Its major components include the formation of a plant-wide SIF team,engaging the workforce to identify risks What will be your key priorities in 2019? on the shop floor,and addressing these risks.With a renewed Our focus remains on safety and continuing to reduce emphasis on the importance of leadership and streamlining recordable and serious injuries. We are focusing on the EHS Management system, we were able to set an allpeer-to-peer interaction, and specifically, how to get time low for our recordable rate. We continued our efforts to more employees to correct their co-workers’ unsafe improve safety in our recycling and casting operations units, actions. We will also keep working to ensure that with good progress on our hands-free casting initiative. Our Constellium is an environmentally responsible focus remains on promoting safe behavior for all. neighbor in the communities in which we operate. 18 GOVERNANCE Director independence Human Resources and Remuneration Committee We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors consisting of As of December 31, 2018, the Remuneration Committee an Executive Director and Non-Executive Directors (each held five meetings and consisted of four Directors: a “­D irector”). Under Dutch law, the Board of Directors is • Peter F. Hartman (Chairman) responsible for the policy-making and management of the • Martha Brooks Company. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide • Richard B. Evans guidance to the Executive Director. • Guy Maugis As a foreign private issuer under the Securities and Exchange Nominating/Corporate Governance Commission (SEC) rules, we are not required to have Independent Committee Directors on our Board of Directors (but it is required that our As of December 31, 2018, the Nominating/Corporate Governance Audit Committee consist of Independent Directors). Committee held five meetings and consisted of three Directors: However, our Board of Directors has determined that, under • Richard B. Evans (Chairman) current NYSE listing standards regarding independence • Michiel Brandjes (which we are not currently subject to), and taking into account • John Ormerod any applicable committee standards, as of December 31, 2018, Messrs. Evans, Brandjes, Guillemot, Hartman, Maugis, Policies Ormerod, and Paschke and Ms. Brooks, Ms. Walker, and Ms. Frachet are Independent Directors. Board meetings in 2018 Code of Conduct The Board of Directors held six meetings and reviewed a Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets number of matters, including: committee reports; reports from out the standard of behavior we expect from our employees. the CEO (including environmental, health & safety, markets The Code governs the way Constellium acts in business, and and competition) and from the CFO and the Group’s General how we expect our business partners, customers, and suppliers Counsel; conversion and relocation of the Group’s corporate to behave. It was renewed in 2018, reinforcing the standard of headquarters; review and approval of the 2017 Annual Accounts anti-corruption and Human Rights and Labor Practices. It applies and Form 20-F filing with the SEC; approval of the agenda items to all Constellium employees, subject to applicable local law. for the Annual General Meeting 2018; approval of executive Compliance with the Code is essential to preserving and remuneration and remuneration policy for Non-Executive enhancing the Company’s reputation as a responsible corporate Directors; reports from business units; review of Company citizen and, ultimately, to maximizing shareholder value. For strategy and strategic opportunities; review of 2019 budget; suppliers, we have developed a specific Code of Conduct. finance reports; presentation on investor perception, and Board and Directors’ third-party evaluation results. Whistleblower policy Our whistleblower policy fosters an environment where our employees can act without fear of retaliation and Our committees report wrongdoing or suspected wrongdoing, corruption, or irregularities in finance, accounting, or banking as concerns Constellium to a reporting official. To facilitate this reporting, Audit Committee we have established an external hotline in all the countries in As of December 31, 2018, the Audit Committee held eight which we have operations and in various languages. meetings and consisted of four Independent Directors: • Werner P. Paschke (Chairman) Insider Trading policy • Martha Brooks We have an Insider Trading policy which sets out the restrictions • John Ormerod on trading in Constellium securities and the use of inside • Lori A. Walker information. 19 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management of the Company, the general conduct of the Company’s business, and its corporate governance structure. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-to-day management of the Company. Richard B. Evans Jean-Marc Germain Michiel Brandjes Martha Brooks Chairman Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of our Board Executive Director of the Board Member of our Board of Member of our Board of since December 2012 and of Directors since June 2016 Directors since June 2014 Directors since June 2016 a member of our Board of and Chief Executive Officer Directors since January 2011 since July 2016 Stéphanie Frachet Philippe Guillemot Peter F. Hartman Guy Maugis Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Member of our Board of Member of our Board of Member of our Board of Member of our Board Directors since May 2018 Directors since May 2013 Directors since June 2014 of Directors since January 2011 John Ormerod Werner P. Paschke Lori A. Walker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Member of our Board Member of our Board Member of our Board of Directors since June 2014 of Directors since May 2013 of Directors since June 2014 20 GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Our Executive Committee focuses on strategy, financial management, commercial developments, program execution, organizational evolution, and Group-wide policies. Together, they combine close to 200 years of experience in the aluminium industry. Jean-Marc Germain Peter R. Matt Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Peter Basten Nicolas Brun Jack Clark Ingrid Joerg President, Packaging and Senior Vice President, Public Senior Vice President, President, Aerospace and Automotive Rolled Products Affairs, Communications, Manufacturing Excellence Transportation business unit business unit and Sustainability and Chief Technical Officer Ryan Jurkovic Jeremy Leach Vittorio Rossetti Paul Warton Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Vice President and Chief President, Automotive and Chief Human Resources and Group General Counsel Information Officer Structures and Industry Officer business unit 21 GOVERNANCE S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y COUNCIL Making sustainability an integral part of everything we do Founded in 2012, the Sustainability Council is the driving force helping Constellium to achieve our sustainability targets. “We were very excited The Sustainability Council is a formal body whose to host the Council at members are responsible for guiding Constellium towards our 2020 sustainability goals. The Council Ravenswood. We now better meets four times a year, including once with Constellium’s Executive Committee. In July 2018, it understand the Group’s presented the Executive Committee with a progress report on our 2020 Sustainability Roadmap. sustainability agenda and In 2018, the Sustainability Council spent time at two of our sites, Singen, Germany and Ravenswood, policies. It’s also important U.S. The Council shared information about our sustainability projects and progress with each to see how Ravenswood’s plant’s management team, and also learned about the plants’ own actions on site. initiatives can contribute to achieving our targets.” Embedding sustainability throughout the company Some of our sustainability targets are related to Buddy Stemple, CEO Constellium Rolled Products Ravenswood our man­u fac­t uring operations. That’s why our Manufacturing Council, chaired by our Senior Vice President of Manufacturing Excellence and Chief Technical Officer, and consisting of the presidents of our business units as well as senior managers of Strategy, Finance, and EHS, interacts regularly with the Sustainability Council. Together, they review and discuss specific issues related to our energy efficiency and landfill waste objectives. In 2018, we introduced a face-to-face presentation and sustainability discussion as part of the onboarding program for new hires. During these sessions, we presented the company’s sustainability program and various initiatives, thereby engaging newcomers in helping us achieve our 2020 targets. It has become increasingly important for our sales and purchasing teams to be able to respond to customers’ requests and society’s expectations regarding sustainability, so we conducted customized training sessions in 2018. The sessions familiarized the teams with tools and policies to help them address Sustainability Council meeting at our Ravenswood plant in November 2018 sustainability challenges and requests. 22 BUSINESS VALUE Our business is making the future lighter and brighter. We create value throughout aluminium’s life cycle, thanks to our ~13,000 employees, 25+ manufacturing sites, and state-of-the-art research centers. Our revolutionary products and top-notch services meet the most challenging requirements of our customers and society. 23 BUSINESS VALUE BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Tailor-made Lighter Cans? Tests No Sweat! As Constellium advances Moravia Cans, a Czech technologies (materials, aerosol can producer, shapes, joining methods, etc.) is using our Aeral™ for the battery enclosures aluminium solution of electric vehicles, we have for Unilever’s Dove also developed new testing antiperspirant. equipment and methods where Normally used for standards do not yet exist. One beverage cans, the example is a test for intrusion breakthrough technology on the bottom plate of a battery behind Aeral™ allows enclosure, which is susceptible up to 30% weight savings to undercarriage impacts while maintaining ductility from debris in the road. Thanks and pressure resistance. to these new testing methods, which reduce development time and save on costs, we can design bottom plate systems that help minimize intrusion risks and optimize the dimensions and weight of battery enclosure packages. Hello, Düsseldorf! Constellium exhibited its extensive range of advanced solutions at Aluminium 2018, the world’s largest trade fair dedicated to aluminium and its applications, in October. With a booth built around the concept of “Aluminium in the city,” Constellium highlighted how its innovative and sustainable solutions contribute to modern cities – from building architecture to automobiles, planes, and packaging. SEARCH ENGINES Customers can now search for aluminium plates, coils, and sheets via our new Architectural product search tool. It is an online Aluminium catalogue of products available in different markets, organized by criteria such as Laminium OAB® is Constellium’s solution for best-in-class anodized alloy family or thickness. The Product aluminium architectural applications. Laminium OAB® was developed Finder boosts the visibility of our range by our R&D Center in Voreppe, France, to comply with the highest and provides customers with a quick and standards in terms of appearance, color consistency between batches, easy way to find the information they need. formability, and long-term resistance. Laminium OAB® allows architects www.constellium.com/product-finder to create complex styles and designs with a unique aspect. 24 FACTORIES OF THE FUTURE Constellium launched 10 pilot projects to study how Industry 4.0 can revolutionize our factories, making them safer and more efficient. Digital technology helps us reduce energy consumption, optimize scrap use, and predict Automotive in High Gear when a machine might fail. Collaborative robots can Constellium continued to expand our longstanding partnership with perform physically demanding many of our automotive customers. We’re supplying Crash Management or potentially dangerous tasks, Systems, front rails, and Auto Body Sheet for the new BMW X Series while smart devices warn of Sports Activity Vehicles. For the new Mercedes-Benz Front Wheel Drive risk. Our Digital@Constellium Platform (A-Class, B-Class, CLA, GLA, GLB), we’re providing front Crash pilot program is due to be Management Systems and other structural components. And we are the completed by late 2019. primary supplier of automotive body sheets for closures and inner parts of the new Audi A6. Cruising Speed with Boeing We signed a multi-year contract with our multi-decade partner Boeing to supply its commercial airplane programs with advanced aluminium rolled products, mostly from our plant in Ravenswood, West Virginia. The agreement confirms our position as a world leader in aluminium products and solutions for the aerospace industry. BEST IN CLASS Constellium’s University Technology Center (UTC) at Brunel University, London, is adding new research capabilities. In addition to full scale casting and extrusion, the UTC now prototypes and tests aluminium automotive components such Believing in as Crash Management Systems, Bowling Green body structure components, and battery enclosures for electric We strengthened our position as an aluminium supplier to automotive and hybrid vehicles. This means customers by deciding to acquire UACJ’s 49% stake in our Bowling we can help automakers further Green, Kentucky, auto body sheet joint venture. The decision gives reduce their development phase us greater scale and control over Auto Body Sheet development and time-to-market. in North America, an attractive and growing market. 25 BUSINESS VALUE AUTOMOTIVE A unique partner for automakers We do it all: material science, component prototyping and production, simulation and testing, product development. Constellium is one of the few companies • As part of our Auto Body Sheet offer, able to produce both flat rolled products and Securalex ®, our portfolio of high-tech automotive structures that meet the quality crash absorption alloys, fulfills the and quantity required by car manufacturers. most demanding safety requirements. Innovating for safer roads Securalex® HS can absorb as much energy An accelerating market as the most crash-resistant steel with 30% Automotive is expected to remain an atless weight. Highly formable Securalex® P6 tractive growth market for aluminium in is used for hood inners (for instance on the Europe and North America, due to: new Audi A6) to enhance pedestrian safety. • Secular growth driven by lightweighting • As part of our structural components • Greater adoption of aluminium Auto offer in addition to Crash Management Body Sheet and structural components Engine rail Systems, in 2018 Constellium began in luxury cars, light trucks, and SUVs producing aluminium engine rails for • Higher aluminium intensity per vehicle. the new BMW X5 Sports Activity Vehicle. According to CRU, annual consumption Protecting passengers Part of the vehicle architecture, the rails of Auto Body Sheet between 2018 and and pedestrians help support engines and absorb energy in 2023 will grow 10% in Europe, 11% in Beyond lightweighting, aluminium’s a high-speed collision. They are 5 kg lighter North America, and 27% in China. Strong superior energy absorption properties than the prior model’s steel version and growth is also expected for structural make it an excellent material for safety. manufactured at our White, Georgia plant, components and Crash Management We design rolled products and structural honored as the “Innovator of the Year” at Systems. components to be lighter and safer. the 2018 Georgia Automotive Awards. ELECTRIC VEHICLES DRIVING DEMAND  loomberg NEF 2018 Electric Vehicle Outlook is expecting sales B of electric vehicles (EVs) to increase from a record 1.1 million worldwide in 2017 to 11 million in 2025 and then surge to up to 30 million in 2030, with China leading the transition. A  ccording to Constellium’s in-house studies, electric vehicles can have 3-5 times the aluminium rolled and extruded product weight as compared with an internal combustion engine vehicle.  luminium is the ideal material for battery enclosures since it is A light, crash and intrusion resistant, and manages thermal energy. As a result, the battery enclosure market could become the largest automotive application for aluminium extrusions by 2025. 26 A GLOBAL LEADER IN AUTOMOTIVE 23% of our 2018 revenue came Market trends AUTO BODY SHEET FLAT ROLLED PRODUCTS ALUMINIUM EXTRUSION DEMAND IN Consumption (kt) SELECTED AUTOMOTIVE APPLICATIONS from the automotive market Consumption (kt) CAGR +12.8% Some of 1,000 our clients 2,000 Audi, BMW Group, Daimler, 1,000 500 Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Ford, General Motors, Jaguar Land Rover, 0 Porsche, PSA Group, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2015 2020 e 2025e Toyota, Volkswagen RoW China Battery Enclosures Europe North America CMS, Body Structures, Chassis Source: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd., Source: Constellium analysis based on CRU, Aluminium Rolled Products Market Outlook November 2018. IHS, Ducker and Bloomberg data. 6 Constellium is uniquely positioned to develop aluminium alloys and produce both flat rolled products and automotive extruded 2 structures that meet the demanding quality and volume requirements of global automakers. 1 3 1 Car body closures 4 2 Body-in-White 3 Crash Management Systems 3 4 Battery Enclosures 5 7 5 Chassis and Mechanical Parts 6 Decorative Parts and Equipment 1 7 Heat Exchangers Our automotive plants EXPANDING OUR CAPABILITIES AND OUR FOOTPRINT  owling Green, Kentucky – now a fully owned plant, B with a capacity of 100 kt M  uscle Shoals, Alabama – ramp-up of Auto Body Sheet cold coils N  euf-Brisach, France – ramp-up of a 100 kt CALP line I n 2019, we are opening a plant in Nanjing, China, for the electric vehicle market and in Žilina, Slovakia, for the Eastern European market  new casthouse and extrusion line in Děčin, Czech Republic, A and a second press in Levice, Slovakia  ur plants in Dahenfeld and Gotmadingen, Germany, and Nuits-SaintO Georges, France, have been expanded to supply new automotive platforms 27 BUSINESS VALUE A E R O S PAC E Helping a growing industry fly high Our materials and technologies keep the world’s aircraft and rocket manufacturers soaring. As a major provider of pre-machining United States and Western Europe, and • Tailored performance: The aerospace operations and custom-designed (ii) increasing global passenger air traffic. industry is continually evolving, so we aerospace components, and a producer The aerospace industry publication The work in partnership with industry leaders of many advanced proprietary alloys and Airline Monitor estimates that global to develop customized aluminiumtechnologies, we offer value-added and revenue passenger miles will grow at a lithium alloy solutions that deliver top innovative solutions to our customers. compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of performance while promoting efficient We create value by vertically integrating approximately 5% from 2018 to 2024. design and clean production processes. the aerospace supply chain, from closed Demand for aluminium for the North Constellium’s unique tailor-made loop recycling to pre-machining parts: American and European aerospace technology unlocks the potential of • Simplifying the supply chain and rolled products markets is expected to aluminium to deliver top quality and shortening lead times grow by 2% per year between 2017 and unparalleled performance, lifting our • Preserving metal value through closed 2025. customers’ engineering projects to new loop recycling of aerospace-grade alloys heights. Airware ® is a performance Pipeline to the sky launchpad for the aerospace projects of A market gaining altitude Our aerospace teams are focused on the future. Demand for aerospace plates is primarily developing new products for our long• Brushed Airware ® 2198 fuselage driven by the build rate of aircraft, term, sustainable future as innovation sheets have arrived on the market with a which we believe will be supported leaders in aerospace. Our product and robust, corrosion-resistant surface and for the foreseeable future by (i) the customer leadership strategy requires a an appealing look. Airware sheets offer necessary replacement of aging fleets constant flow of high-value products and a lower-weight, higher-performance by airline operators, particularly in the applications. alternative to other materials. IN ORBIT Space launch systems and travel require materials that push the envelope. About 25 years ago we started developing ultra high-performance aluminium-lithium alloys that were quickly adopted by the NASA Space Shuttle. With their unique combination of strength and light weight, our Airware® 2195 and 2050 alloys allow for dramatically more payload and higher orbits. Both have become preferred plate material for structural components of space launchers and crew modules. They are serving major space programs such as SpaceX’s Falcon Launchers, NASA Orion Crew Modules, Boeing’s Space Launch System, and Blue Origin. 28 A G L O B A L L E A D E R I N A E R O S PA C E 14% of our 2018 revenue came Market trends WORLD’S COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT FLEET GLOBAL AEROSPACE DEMAND (Thousands) Consumption (kt) from the aerospace market 500 CAGR +2% 48.5 Some of CAGR +3.5% our clients 24.4 250 Airbus, Boeing, Bombardier, Dassault Aviation, Embraer, Lockheed Martin, NASA, Pilatus, SpaceX, Blue Origin 2017 2037 2017 2021e 2025e Freighters Medium/Large Widebody Single Aisle Regional Source: Boeing 2018 current market outlook. Source: Constellium internal analysis. 1 12 11 10 1 Upper wing skin panels 7 Wing stringers 2 2 Lower wing skin panels 8 Wing ribs 3 9 3 Fuselage skin panels 9 Center wing box 4 4 Fuselage stiffeners 10 Floor beams 5 5 Landing gear 11 Seat tracks 8 6 Wing spars 12 Fuselage frames 6 7 Our aerospace plants AN INTEGRATED PLATFORM I ssoire, France; Ravenswood, West Virginia, U.S.; and Montreuil Juigné, France form an integrated industrial platform with unique capabilities  ssel, France, is a sole provider of sand casting high U performance aerospace components  alais, Switzerland, manufactures high value-added V aluminium plates  wo casting units produce Airware® at the Issoire plant T and our Technology Center in Voreppe, France 29 BUSINESS VALUE PAC K AG I N G A world-leading integrated supplier for the aluminium market Aluminium is a preferred material for all kinds of packaging. It keeps beverages cold, is flexible and lightweight, can be densely stacked, and is efficient to recycle. Constellium’s high-value products range from screw tops to perfume bottles, and we are a major recycler. We address every facet of the market, A steady market Innovation is part from recycling to aluminium coils and In Europe, the market is expanding of the package sheets: by 2.4% per annum, according to CRU. We have made great progress in using the • Beverage cans Two factors are driving this growth. drawing and ironing process to develop • Food cans First, aluminium is replacing steel as the down gauged aerosols and bottles, • Bottle closures standard for beverage cans – between thanks to our new prototyping capability • Flexible packaging 2002 and 2016, aluminium’s penetration at C-TEC and ongoing collaboration with • Personal care aerosols of the European canstock market customers. • Cosmetics packaging increased from 58% to 85%. Second, with Our Constellium Technology Center in • L uxury packaging for the perfume purchasing power on the rise in Eastern Voreppe, France, regularly works with industry Europe, more people are drinking canned customers on innovation. We provide beverages. products for the cosmetic packaging North America has contrasting trends, industry, from lipstick to perfume caps, resulting in a flat growth rate. There is a where appearance is key. To respond to decline in consumption of carbonated soft customers’ demands for iridescent parts, drinks, due to better health awareness in Constellium recently developed and general. This decrease is counterbalanced patented a new anodizing process. The by growth in Mexico, along with the use of resulting product changes color from blue cans in niche markets such as sparkling to pink to yellow depending on the light, a water, energy drinks, and craft beers. trait that is highly appreciated by OEMs. ALUMINIUM IS BORN TO RECYCLE An increased focus on sustainability is expected to boost demand for aluminium cans as a sustainable alternative to plastics in beverage packaging. infinitely recyclable keeps same properties after recycling aluminium’s value makes recycling costs worthwhile, compared with other materials recycling used beverage cans saves 95% energy compared with using primary metals This is reinforced by an increase in environmental scrutiny and plastics regulations. European ban on single-use plastics by 2021 company announcements on the reduction of plastic packaging and single-use plastics As an aluminium recycling leader, Constellium is well placed to benefit from these trends. 30 A G L O B A L L E A D E R I N PA C K A G I N G 40% of our 2018 revenue came Market trends TOTAL EUROPEAN ROLLED PRODUCTS Consumption Can Stock (Kt) from the packaging market CAGR 1,200 +2.4% The numbers Eastern Europe tell the story 800 Western Europe  luminium is the material of choice A for 90% of the world’s beverage cans 400 It takes as little as 60 days Source: Republished under license for an aluminium can to return from CRU International Ltd., as a new can after recycling 0 Aluminium Products Market Outlook 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 November 2018.  e have the capacity to recycle the W equivalent of 32 billion cans at our TOTAL NORTH AMERICAN ROLLED PRODUCTS facilities in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, Consumption Can Stock (Kt) and Neuf-Brisach, France CAGR O  ur plant in Muscle Shoals, Alabama, 0.2% has the capacity to recycle the 2,000 equivalent of about 1/5 of the beverage cans sold in the U.S. 1,500 Some of Mexico and Canada 1,000 United States our clients 500 A  B InBev, Amcor, Ardagh Group, Source: Republished under license Ball, Can-Pack, Crown, Coca-Cola, from CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled Products Market Moravia Cans 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Outlook November 2018. Our plants WORLD-CLASS CAPABILITIES  uscle Shoals, Alabama – one of our largest sites M with the widest strip mill in the U.S. and a world-class beverage can recycling center N  euf-Brisach, France – with key positions in beverage can stock (body, end, and tab) and food can stock in Europe, along with a world-class recycling center S  ingen, Germany – supplies closure stock to a global customer base. Unique expertise in functional surfaces, particularly appreciated by the luxury cosmetic packaging sector 31 BUSINESS VALUE DEFENSE Partnering for better protection Constellium forms partnerships with global defense companies to develop next-generation solutions. Defense solutions not only need to broadest global offering of specialized people in various terrains and climates, be effective, they need to improve aluminium alloy s . W i th sup er ior whether for militar y operations or survivability of personnel. This means performance, aluminium is a highly disaster relief. We work closely with producing military aircraft and armored effective solution for the battlefield, and leading customers in the field, and vehicles that are faster, lighter, safer, and is the best choice for armored vehicles our offering encompasses a complete more durable. when superior protection and mobility product portfolio for military bridges, To help achieve this goal, defense matter most. with both flat rolled products (sheet and manufacturers place their trust in plate) and extrusions. Constellium as a dependable and Military aircraft innovative technology partner with a With our portfolio of advanced alloys proven track record in R&D collaboration (including Airware®) and our collaborative and state-of-the-art material solutions. approach, Constellium is a strong partner for the world’s military aircraft makers. SOME OF OUR CLIENTS Military land vehicles Our high-performance materials are Our lightweight aluminium alloys offer found in aircraf t such as the F-35  BAE Systems, Boeing, CMI Defence, outstanding impact resistance and Joint Strike Fighter, F-22, F-16, A-10, CNIM, Dassault Aviation, Embraer, advanced stiffness properties. They can Eurofighter Typhoon, and Hawk. FNSS, General Dynamics, KMW, provide standalone armor protection or serve as part of a multi-material Mobile military bridges Lockheed Martin, MBDA, Nexter Systems, Northrop Grumman, solution, giving manufacturers the Militar y bridges need to be easily Sikorsky, WFEL flexibility to optimize levels of protection. transportable and quickly deployed to Constellium’s armor product suite is the enable the movement of vehicles and 32 T R A N S P O R TAT I O N Superior products for road and rail Constellium supports transportation manufacturers beyond a traditional supplier role, producing value-added products and solutions and managing complex supply chains. In the transportation industry, every kilogram saved through lightweighting contributes to our customers’ bottom lines. We have built upon aluminium alloys’ light weight and other intrinsic properties to develop a range of dedicated extrusions, sheets, plates, castings, and semi-finished components for tanker trucks, trailers, trains, tramways, and other modes of transportation. In addition to aluminium semi-finished products of exceptional quality, we provide our customers with a wide variety of readymade solutions, components, and tailored services that reduce manufacturing costs and production throughput time. Commercial trucks and trailers Constellium’s extra-large wide coil offering and produce the aluminium body shell for co-extrusions that supply power to metro from our Ravenswood, West Virginia, plant a new high-speed train, bringing it from rail systems. is unique in North America. Our wide coils concept to delivery in less than two years. are ideal for roofs and side panels, since Aluminium casting has been used Leisure vehicles they make it possible to build trailers with successfully for decades in powertrain Constellium provides a range of products for single sheets of aluminium, providing applications, including engine boxes and camping cars and caravans. Wide painted greater strength and preventing water structural parts such as support beams aluminium coils are the material of choice for leakage into cargo areas. and bogies. Our Ussel, France, plant top-quality leisure vehicles, and our ability to specializes in precision casting – one of the produce very wide painted coils allows for a Rail vehicles fastest, simplest, and most cost-effective product range unequalled in the industry, We have a comprehensive railway-speways of shaping complex aluminium parts. with widths of up to 2,600 mm (102 ) or cific extrusions offer, developed over 40+ more, and thicknesses of up to 2 mm (0.08 ). years and with references worldwide. We Power rails adhere to the latest quality standards in Constellium’s aluminium-steel cothe aluminium and rail industries, includextruded power rails help guarantee ing the International Railway Industry electrical supply to underground and SOME OF OUR CLIENTS Standard (IRIS). suburban train systems around the planet. Our lightweight aluminium solutions give Together with our joint venture partner, Benalu, CAF, Gillig, Hitachi Rail, rail vehicle manufacturers a competitive Pandrol, we design, manufacture, test, Hyundai, Kögel, Krone, Schmitz advantage when producing light and and supply conductor rail systems. Cargobull, Stadler, Wabash energy-efficient railcars. Recently, we Our facility in Singen is the only plant in helped a European customer develop the world to produce aluminium-steel 33 BUSINESS VALUE INDUSTRY Our applications cover a wide range of products, from building facades to industrial robots. With 100 years in the industry field, we combine experience with world-class manufacturing capabilities to offer our customers the right solutions for their individual requirements. standard. Alumold ® products are suitable for everything from large series programs to prototyping of all kinds, such as injection tooling, blow molding, and injection molds. Innovative architecture With Constellium's extensive knowledge of the building and construction sector, we can deliver the most technologically advanced solutions to our customers. Our solutions meet aesthetic requirements and technical challenges for applications such as facades and interiors, mold construction, doors and windows, ceiling Aluminium affords excellent machinabilstandards and require up to 40% less systems, composite applications, highity, weldability, and formability, and has material. Their stability is higher than quality light fittings, solar technologies, ­superior thermal and electrical conducthat of mill finish plates, reducing part and specialty thermal breaks. tivity. Constellium’s aluminium sheets, rework by as much as 90%. They have plates, bars, and extrusions serve a excellent anodizing results, even for A sophisticated surface ­variety of ­industrial applications: typically difficult products. With Alplan™, Inoxal® offers the sophisticated brushed • Premium semi-products for building our customers accelerate the output of aspect of stainless steel without and architecture production lines; some are able to halve its inconvenience. Its durability and • Components for machinery and industheir manufacturing time. corrosion resistance make it ideal for trial robots architectural applications while ensuring • Equipment for processing semiconSerious about low lifetime costs. After anodization, ductors and flat panels series production the homogeneous surface is abrasion• Molds for shaping plastic objects Building upon Constellium’s decades resistant and can be easily cleaned using In addition to our extensive offer of of experience and knowledge of the a suitable product. semi-products, we provide ready-tomolding industry value chain, we have use solutions for industrial applications, developed Alumold ®, an excellent such as design planks for industrial alternative to steel molds. These floors or high-dissipation heat sinks. aluminium mold products reduce overall costs and offer significant productivity Plates that perform gains. Alumold® tools allow for shorter In response to customer demand for cycle times and faster machining, SOME OF OUR CLIENTS high-performance aluminium plates, polishing, and engraving times, and are we launched our new Alplan™ Beyond also easy to modify.  Air Torque, Drager, Festo, Metso, Precision product line. These specially Transitioning to Alumold® is seamless, Siemens, Thyssenkrupp rolled plates feature up to 15 times enabling molders and mold makers better flatness compared with industry to operate differently and set a new 34 S U S TA I N A B L E VALUE We strive to keep our footprint light, like the material our business is based upon. We celebrate the inherent sustainability of aluminium, which not only increases efficiency by reducing weight, but can be recycled without losing its properties. We prioritize the safety and well-being of our employees and communities, and we embrace a circular economy for the health of our planet. 35 S U S TA I N A B L E V A L U E O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y TA R G E T S F O R 2 0 2 0 By keeping a progress report of our performance on commitments, we know where we are most likely to succeed and where we must increase our efforts. PRODUCTS PEOPLE OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLE We will enhance the We will ensure our people We will minimize BUSINESS environmental benefits of are safe, skilled, motivated, the impact We will manage our our products and improve and engaged of our operations business in an ethical customer satisfaction and responsible way BOOST FURTHER IMPROVE REDUCE BUILD A STANDARD BEVERAGE OUR SAFETY PRODUCTION WASTE FOR ALUMINIUM CAN RECYCLING RECORD SENT TO LANDFILL • 80% beverage can recycling • Reduce our Recordable • Reduce production waste • Have at least one rate in Europe Case Rate* every year going to landfill by 10% site Aluminium by 10% (vs. 2015) Stewardship Initiative (ASI) certified • Work with the industry and with our stakeholders • A maximum of four to increase the beverage serious injuries a year IMPROVE ENERGY can recycling rate by 2020** ENSURE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE in the U.S. PURCHASING • Be in the industry’s • 10% energy efficiency top quartile in terms improvement by 2020 • Evaluate the sustainability INCREASE of safety results performance of all key CUSTOMER suppliers SATISFACTION • Conduct a customer ENGAGE OUR • Undertake on-site satisfaction survey PEOPLE sustainability audits every two years for all of suppliers working in business units • Six-point increase in locations and sectors overall employee with greater risk of satisfaction from divergent practices a 2014 baseline • Ensure that all suppliers sign on to our Code * Recordable Case Rate measures STRENGTHEN OUR of Conduct the number of fatalities, serious COMMUNITIES injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments • At least one community per one million hours worked. ** We did have 3 serious injuries, activity per site which is in line with our target, but every year one was a fatality. We cannot consider this as a target achievement. Target achieved Significant progress made; on track to achieve the target More effort required to achieve the target 36 ALIGNING OUR INDUSTRY WITH THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Combining Combining Combiningaluminium European Aluminium has linked its Sustainability Roadmap aluminium aluminium and andandthe to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), giving Constellium a framework to work on our own. theSDGs the SDGs SDGstowards towards towards Combining sustainable sustainable aaasustainable aluminium future future future ging g aluminium aluminium ngaluminium aluminium and the SDGs towards a sustainable future SDGs DGs SDGs DGs towards towards towards towards Connecting the Roadmap to the SDGs As a member of European Aluminium, 888SDGs SDGswith SDGs 8 SDGs with the biggest impact for change withthe with the biggest thebiggestbiggestim ii able nable inable able future futurefuture future 80-plus companies and organizations representing the entire aluminium value chain, Constellium supports the association’s Sustainability Roadmap Towards 2025 and we have aligned our sustainability targets with it. In 2018 our industr y decided to link Our 4 focus areas 888SDGs SDGs 8SDGs SDGs with with with with the thethethe the Roadmap to the SDGs, which we biggest consider a key standard for sustainabilbiggest biggest biggest impact impact impact impact Decarbonisation through energy for for for for change change change change Future of skills and Circularity and new business Collaboration for innovation efficiency and education models ity. European Aluminium turned to CSR clean energy Europe, a business network dedicated to corporate social responsibility, for help in evaluating the Roadmap and identifying goals and actions for 2025 We are taking our commitment to the next level Our Our Our444focus aa focusar focus and beyond. Follow us T h e f in al r e p o r t d e te r min e d t h at www.european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability Decarbonisation Decarbonisation Decarbonisation Future Future Future of ofof @EU_Aluminium #aluminium2025 there are clear connections between through through through energy energy energy skills skills skills and and and ­European ­A luminium’s ­s ustainability efficiency efficiency efficiency andand and education education education goals and a number of SDGs. It found clean clean clean energy energy energy Our Our Our Our 4focus 444focus focusfocus areas areas areas areas that we could maximize our industry’s ­e quality; affordable and clean ener­p ositive ­impact and business opporgy; decent work and economic growth; tunities by focusing on eight SDGs in industry, innovation, and infrastructure; ­particular: quality education; ­gender responsible consumption and produccarbonisation onisation rbonisation onisation ugh rough energy h energy energy energy Future Future Future skills skills skills ofof ofof tion; climate action;Circularity Future and skills and and for the goals. and We We and new Weare new are aretaking Circularity Circularity Circularity and partnerships new business new and business business business and taking takingour and our ourcommitm commitm commitm Collaboration Collaboration Collaboration Collaboration for for innovation forfor innovation innovation innovation models modelsmodels models ency ncy an lean and and fficiency ciency energy and and energy energy energy “By linking our education education education education Areas of Greatest Impact boost our socio-economic contribution Sustainability Roadmap These SDGs intersect with four areas by doing more for our employees and the to the SDGs, European Follow Follow Follow w h e r e o usurusus s e c t o r h a s s ig ni f i c a n t communities where we operate. Aluminium is striving economic, environmental, and social www.european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability www.european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability www.european-aluminium.eu/policy-areas/sustainability are are e are are taking taking taking taking our to make the Roadmapour our as effective as it can be. our commitment commitment commitment commitment @EU_Aluminium @EU_Aluminium @EU_Aluminium energy efficiency and tototo to thethe the the #aluminium2025 #aluminium2025 #aluminium2025 next next nextnext impac t: dec arbonization through A s f o r c o l l a b o r a t i v e i n n o v a t i o n , clean energy, European Aluminium has an Innovathe future of skills and education, tion Hub, a community of companies level level level level Constellium is a valuable circularity and new business models, conducting research for a more susand collaboration for innovation. tainable future. One of its actions is partner in this effort.” finding ways to make products more In practice, we can reduce CO2 emissions sustainable and durable. To drive this, Coline Lavorel, m.eu/policy-areas/sustainability policy-areas/sustainability eu/policy-areas/sustainability /policy-areas/sustainability by enhancing energy efficiency and inthe Hub is part of the EU “Factories of Director Public Affairs and Communications, minium2025 luminium2025European Aluminium nium2025 ium2025 creasing our use of renewables. We can the Future” platform. 37 S U S TA I N A B L E V A L U E RESPONDING TO OUR M AT E R I A L I T Y A S S E S S M E N T Constellium conducted its second Materiality Assessment in 2017-2018. By asking internal and external stakeholders, we developed a series of actions to align our sustainability efforts with their priorities. Human Rights operations, its development phase, size, Communication We strengthened Constellium’s hulocal culture, applicable regulations, and Training man rights and labor practices policies, and/or social situation. We have made progress on both topics. so that they are aligned with the UN We created onsite sustainability training Guiding Principles on Business and In April 2019, we organized a global sessions for Sales, Purchasing, and R&D Human Rights and other internationally ­w orkshop with leadership from diffunctions, and an e-learning module is recognized standards. We established ferent key functions to discuss these under development. We also increased these principles not only for our own risks. It produced a Constellium human the frequency of internal communicaoperations and employees, but for our rights heat map which was presenttions about our achievements. We combusiness partners and suppliers, too. ed to the Executive Committee. Now municate regularly with our customers on The policy appears in our new Code of that we have a global understanding our sustainability targets and meet with Conduct, published in several languages. of the risks, we are working on an acindustry associations and NGOs, particuWe also incorporated the topic of human tion plan to mitigate them. Some of our larly through our engagement with the rights into our Responsible Supply Chain next steps are to provide more extensive Aluminium Stewardship Initiative and Management Policy, implemented via our training on our Code of Conduct and multi-stakeholder awareness programs supply chain due diligence process. to work on increasing gender diversity. such as Every Can Counts. We are also ­developing an e-learning In the fourth quarter of 2018, we launched course, expected to be available in 2019. a human rights due diligence process with Reducing the Impact the help of Shift, a non-profit organization, of Operations to assess existing or potential risks Business Ethics This topic is high on our sustainabilacross our operations. Our Sustainability We reworked our Supplier Code of ity agenda, especially the two most team conduc­ted workshops with the Conduct to take into account our material items: reducing landfill waste management teams of several of our human rights and labor practices and increasing energy efficiency. plants in different business units and policies, as well as new legislation Both are part of our 2020 sustainabilgeographic locations. At this early stage against corruption. As a result, comity targets. We work to ensure that our of the process, we could see that our own pliance and sustainability now go employees fully undestand these operations do not generate major risks of hand in hand. Our anti-corruption concepts and make them part of their human rights violations, but we identified due diligence process now contains daily work routines at all our sites. areas of risk and areas that could be both legal and sustainability require(See pp. 47-48 for more information.) improved, related to the nature of a plant’s ments, especially in our supply chain. Our GHG Target “Shift is pleased to support Constellium as the Reducing our carbon footprint is still a work in progress. We have defined targets company starts identifying potential human rights for certain sites, but a global approach risks across its value chain, and exploring ways to has proven to be more challenging, due mitigate them.” to the evolution of both our production volumes and product mix. We expect to Susannah McLaren, establish an overall target and will comAdvisor, Shift municate it at that time. 38 THE PRIORITIES OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Note: This graph shows only the scores that received a minimum of 8 out of 10 in terms of importance to stakeholders. 18 VERY IMPORTANT 5 13 14 External stakeholders 6 1 15 16 2 17 8 9 10 3 7 PRODUCTS 19 11 IMPORTANT PEOPLE 4 OPERATIONS 20 12 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS IMPORTANT Internal stakeholders VERY IMPORTANT 1. l Recycling 8.  l Reducing use of harmful substances 15.  l Business ethics 2.  l Being innovative 9.  l Reducing GHG emissions 16.  l Complying with public policies 3. lImproving customer satisfaction 10. l Energy efficiency 17.  l Enforcing freedom of association 4.  l Developing products with 11. l Increasing economic performance 18.  l Preventing child labor environmental benefits 12. l Reducing landfill waste 19.  l Responsible purchasing 5.  l Ensuring gender equity* 13. l Preventing forced/compulsory labor 20.  l Transparency and respect of 6. lImproving safety at work 14. l Enforcing the respect of human rights confidentiality 7. l Preventing pollution *We included this topic in the matrix because of its high rating despite the small number of external stakeholders who rated it (10). 39 S U S TA I N A B L E V A L U E SUSTAINABI LITY HIGHLIGHTS Communication Station Our Muscle Shoals factory is a huge site with 1,200+ employees, around one-third of whom lack a business email address. Seeking to bring managers closer to employees, especially those on the shop floor, the Communications team interviewed employees about their needs, then created and manufactured 27 “Communication Stations.” Located in break rooms, these stations display announcements about everything from EHS to financial performance, human resources, and employee events such as the Family Fun Day picnic or Walk for Alzheimer’s. Muscle Shoals operators signing up for events at the Communication Station. Each Station includes a drop box for donations to the Constellium Cares community engagement “It is the first thing we turn program. In 2019 we will add interactive tablets so that employees can register for training, to when we come in the break look for internal job postings, access EHS information, or simply browse our intranet. room. It is vital to how we know what goes on in the plant.” Kenny Greenhill, Casthouse Production Operator, Muscle Shoals Transparency Collaboration Empowerment Airbus approves Safety Trust Respect Airbus created the SQIP (Supply Chain & Quality Improvement Program) challenge in 2015 to track its suppliers’ performances, Momentum product quality, and ability to meet deadlines. Since then, our In 2018, we saw the full roll-out of Ravenswood, MontreuilMOMENTUM, a company-wide program Juigné, and Issoire plants to communicate our mission, strategy, have greatly improved their and values to employees. production, supply chain, and quality performances. As a result of these efforts, Constellium received a 2018 award for “Best Improver” at Airbus’ headquarters in Toulouse. 40 BEFORE AFTER THE ABILITIES OF ALL Left to right: Jiří Palma, Plant Manager, Ondřej Pech, Central Maintenance  EHS Coordinator – representative winner team 2018, Ondřej Lahodný, Environmental Specialist Constellium Ussel reached the legal requirement of 6 percent (Environmentally) Friendly competition of disabled employees in 2018, and went even further by working Our Decín ˇ ˇ plant discovered that a spirit of competition can be a great with Cap Emploi 19 and Agefish boost to sustainability efforts. Since 2008, the plant has hosted an Limousin to adapt jobs to employee contest to spark enthusiasm for environmentally friendly different abilities. In 2019, Ussel measures while encouraging better business practices. is pursuing its commitment to The contest is organized into categories, encouraging workers to open its doors to all workers and prevent environmental incidents or unnecessary pollution, use fewer accommodate diversity within the hazardous chemicals, produce less waste, and reuse and recycle. plant with a program called RQTH (The categories can be modified according to the plant’s needs.) – Reconnaissance de la qualité de Results are published quarterly and the competition lasts one calendar travailleur handicapé (Recognizing year, at the end of which winners receive awards in each category. Best the qualities of disabled workers). of all, the contest has produced serious results – for example, Decín’s ˇˇ employees now recycle more than 90% of the plant’s waste. Closing the gender gap French law now requires all companies with at least 1,000 employees to measure salary differences between women and men through a gender equality index. Our sites at Issoire and Neuf-Brisach both performed well for the 2018 reporting period, with an overall score of 86/100 and 84/100 respectively, both comfortably above the required minimum. Each plant scored particularly well on promotions and salary increases of women. We are now looking at proactively increasing the number of women on the shop floor and in engineering and management positions at both plants, and more generally throughout the group. Carole Peltre, Supply Chain and Quality Improvement Program leader, Issoire  41 PRODUCTS INCREASING R E C Y C L I N G R AT E S Constellium works to improve aluminium beverage can recycling rates in Europe and North America in a variety of ways: by supporting education and promotion, creating partnerships with organizations, conducting studies, gathering data, and influencing legislation. We participate in the European “In 2019, Every Can Aluminium Packaging Group’s efforts to increase aluminium recycling rates, and Counts celebrates its are pleased to see that this collective 10th birthday and reaffirms undertaking is paying off. Throughout the the industry’s voluntary continent (EU 28 + EFTA), there is an upward trend in beverage can recycling commitment to recycle rates, which vary from one country to every beverage can another. In 2015, it reached a record level across Europe.” of 73.6%, just shy of European Aluminium’s voluntary 75% target, and on Ramon Arratia, track to reach the 2020 target of 80%. Public Affairs and Sustainability Director, Ball Beverage Packaging Europe, and Chair, Every Our industry’s efforts take place on two Can Counts fronts. One is legislative: the European Aluminium Packaging Group, supported by the association, lobbies European  “Pixelata,” a wall image created from 2,000 beverage Union legislators to ensure that the law cans for Every Can Counts helps boost aluminium packaging recycling rates, particularly for beverage cans. A recycling roadmap for aluminium encourages beverage can recycling on type in the United States, recycling cans is expected to be published in 2019. the go. Thanks to recycling at festivals rates are lower than in Europe. Together The member states are now working on and events, a women’s cycling team with the Aluminum Association and implementation of the Circular Economy partnership, and social media the Can Manufacturers Institute, and Package. We also reach consumers campaigns, beverage can recycling in collaboration with canmakers and through education and communication. continues to increase. can sheet producers, we are working For example, the Every Can Counts (ECC) While aluminum beverage cans remain to improve data collection and program, now present in 15 countries, the most recycled beverage packaging shape legislation. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Further support European • 80% beverage can recycling rate in Europe • Published in 2018, the average aluminium and U.S. Industry programs can recycling rate in Europe reached to increase aluminium 73.6% in 2015 packaging recycling • Increase beverage can recycling rate in U.S. 42 PRODUCTS ENSURING C U S T O M E R S AT I S FA C T I O N Constellium is constantly looking for ways in which our products and services can better anticipate and respond to our customers’ needs. In 2018, our three business units conducted their latest customer satisfaction surveys. Positive results reflected our efforts and showed we are on the right path. “Your average on-time delivery score over the last three months was 100 points. This is an excellent score, and we know it is well deserved.” Marc Ploeg, Purchaser, Voestalpine Automotive Components Bunschoten B.V.  We supply the Airbus A350 Aerospace and Transportation received types of vehicles. In 2018 we added Mercedes-Benz A-Class with Crash very high marks in 2018, with 88% of prototyping and testing aluminium Management Systems and structural customers saying they are satisfied with automotive components to our services components. For Audi, another longour products and services – notably at the University Technology Center in time customer, we are the primary sustainability, sales, products, and Brunel. We were especially pleased by supplier of automotive body sheets for technical support. Packaging and Constellium’s Net Promoter Score (NPS), closures and inner parts of the new A6. Automotive Rolled Products also saw which asks customers if they would recWe also expanded our Dahenfeld, a rise in satisfaction, especially for ommend a company as a supplier. All of Germany, plant to supply a new premium technical support/claims management our business units performed signifisports car with advanced aluminium and supply chain. cantly above the industry benchmark. structural assemblies. Automotive Structures and Industry We have been flying high ever since continues to serve customers’ needs by Focus on customers the Airbus Supply Chain and Quality reducing time-to-market and developing Constellium is deepening our relationship Improvement Program (SQIP) recognized new lightweighting solutions for all with Daimler by supplying the new Constellium with its “Best Improver” award. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • All business units • Sustain the same conducted customer surveys high level of satisfaction • Conduct a customer and implemented actions and close collaboration satisfaction survey every two years based on the results with customers for all business units 43 PEOPLE FOCUSING OUR EFFORTS ON SAFETY Safety is at the heart of everything we do. We are constantly looking for ways to improve upon EHS, and rolled out our Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) Prevention program, a top priority, in 2018. At the same time, we highlighted the importance of our Golden Rules and employee peer-to-peer interaction. Our 2018 safety record gave us many reasons to be proud. Our 2.28% recordable case rate was an improvement over 2017 and 21% better than our target. Two of our plants, Singen Extrusions and Děčín, reached 1.5 million working hours without a recordable case, while three others reached a one-million-hour milestone. Six plants finished the year without a single recordable injury case. Serious injury cases decreased from 14 in 2017 to three in 2018. Tragically, one was a fatality, at our Neuf-Brisach plant. This terrible incident proved that we must keep working to enhance our  A team leader explains the Golden Rules to his colleagues on our annual EHS FIRST Day SIF program, the observance of Golden Rules, and peer-to-peer interaction (“see something, say something”). in September, training 52 managers such as SIF risks and line-of-fire hazards. in key leadership positions at our The EHS network also learned to make Our 14th annual EHS FIRST Day was held plants in Singen, Van Buren, Issoire, their own videos with a smartphone app. on September 18, and focused on our and Neuf-Brisach. ongoing efforts to prevent serious In addition, we held two EHS networking injuries and fatalities. A new video with Videos and testimonials are a great tool meetings, at Děčín and Muscle Shoals, messages from the CEO and the plant for safety awareness and for changing attended by site management and manager of Neuf-Brisach highlighted behaviors by reaching people at an staff. Both meetings featured site visits the importance of SIF. We launched the emotional level. We have been using and shop floor exercises as well as EHS FIRST leadership training program videos to train operators in subjects shared practice competitions. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • A drop in our recordable case rate to 2.28% • Keep reducing our recordable case rate • Reduce Recordable Case Rate by 10% annually* • Higher maturity of SIF prevention process • No more than 4 serious injuries a year • The number of serious • Better employee • Be in the industry’s top quartile injury cases decreased from peer-to-peer interaction for safety results 14 in 2017 to 3 in 2018 * Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked. 44 PEOPLE ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE We accomplished two major employee engagement goals in 2018. Our Global Employee Survey was a success, showing that our people are increasingly satisfied at work. The year also saw the full roll-out of MOMENTUM, a company-wide program to communicate our mission, strategy, and values to employees. More than 9,000 employees responded to “MOMENTUM is a way our 2018 survey, for a record participation rate of 78%. We noted progress in all for Ravenswood to walk categories and statistically significant the walk. Actions speak improvement overall compared with prior louder than words.” surveys in 2014 and 2016. Hannah Bolyard, We even outperformed our 2020 target HR Business Partner, Ravenswood with a 10-point increase in employee satisfaction, compared with the 2014 baseline. With a nine-point gain for the “Respect is the most “Leadership” related questions, the survey showed that our employees better important value to me. understand how the company plans to Treat others as you move forward and the role they play in our would like to be treated, goals. We took particular pride in the number of employees who would recom­ plain and simple.” mend Constellium as a good place to work, Brianna Montgomery, a score that rose by nine points. All sites Purchasing Analyst, Van Buren  For casthouse employees at Issoire, “collaboration is shared their results with management team work promoting mutual assistance, listening, and employees. They defined local action communication, and solidarity” plans linked to training and development, EHS, leadership, and company culture; more than half of the actions are al­ready America provided training sessions to MOMENTUM’s values, and Issoire created being implemented. Our MOMENTUM salaried and hourly employees. Van Buan in-house contest. The Neuf-Brisach program also gained traction. In the U.S., ren, MI, and White, GA, created safety plant is using MOMENTUM’s video as Ravenswood, WV has trained its helmet stickers with MOMENTUM values briefing material for recruitment leadership team and is now training to raise awareness. In Europe, C-TEC and agencies. At Singen, MOMENTUM is part employees. Automotive Structures North Issoire organized focus groups to discuss of the onboarding process for new hires. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • A 10-point increase in employee satisfaction in the Global • Continue to implement Employee Survey local action plans based • A six-point increase in employee on the survey results satisfaction vs. 2014 • Full roll-out of MOMENTUM 45 PEOPLE STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES Our sites support their local communities in a variety of different ways. Constellium employees around the world proudly volunteer their time and effort to improve the lives of others. In 2018, Ravenswood once again organized the “Paint the Plant Pink” initiative, hosting a 5 km run to support the American Cancer Society. Ravenswood employees volunteered for Habitat for Humanity, permitting underprivileged families to obtain safe, suitable housing, and they helped retirees to maintain their yards. Van Buren participated in a run for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital. The plant also supports Toys for Tots, Gleaners Community Food Bank, and the Ronald McDonald House of Ann Arbor, which houses the families of children receiving medical treatment.  San Luis Potosí plant Open Day In White, Georgia, plant managers played games and conducted team-building exercises with adults with intellectual donated 80 to underprivileged people at home for 21 days and cycling to work to and developmental disabilities at Hickory through another association. build climate awareness. They also ran in Log Vocational School. At Issoire, employees raced for a charity event for the disabled in BeTreff Our employees in Mexico spent a day hospitalized children and to fight breast Lauf. Constellium partnered with with orphaned children, collected cancer. Issoire signed an agreement to American Corporate Partners (ACP) to Christmas toys for children with cancer, accommodate its employees in the help veterans transition to the private and helped with upkeep at the local military reserve, and many employees sector. Volunteers from Ravenswood, orphanage. turned out to support the local Ailes & Muscle Shoals, Van Buren, White, Bowling Constellium Paris ordered Christmas Volcans aeronautic event. Singen and Green, and Baltimore serve as mentors, baskets from a company that employs Gottmadingen employees participated in providing advice on their long-term career mostly handicapped people, and the Stadtradeln event, leaving their cars development. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Most of our sites • Continue to develop • At least one community activity conducted a community community programs per site every year program or event at all sites 46 O P E R AT I O N S MINIMIZING LANDFILL WASTE Although we increased our production in 2018 and produced 3,000 metric tons more waste than in 2017, our landfill waste decreased by 2%. And yet we must reduce it by 20% more to reach our 2020 target. To do so, we are pursuing action plans and finding ways to get everyone involved. In 2018 we maintained a recycling rate “Through better of 80% and an incineration rate of 4%, while sending 16% of waste to landfill. tracking and waste The landfill waste we create is mapping, Muscle technically difficult to recycle and Shoals reduced its 2018 mostly concentrated at large sites that lack proper measures for dealing landfill by over 3 million with municipal waste. To reduce it, pounds. By partnering Ravenswood is considering recycling with a waste contractor baghouse dust, while Muscle Shoals is appointing a specialized contractor and educating our to manage waste and recycling of employees on this refractory bricks, wood, and baghouse culture change, we are dust. Muscle Shoals also hopes to improve municipal waste sorting and to confident of achieving recycle the less reactive types of sludge. our goals.” Many sites have made good progress. Benjamin Yancey, Ravenswood initiated a program Director Environmental Services,  Ussel started evacuating sand that cannot be Muscle Shoals to address most of the flue gas dust recycled, and should remove the last of it in 2019 it produces. Ussel started evacuating sand that cannot be recycled, and should remove the last of it in 2019. sustainable solution for recycling flue people. Some years ago, we started a At Issoire, the salt slag is being recycled gas dust, sludge, and bricks from recycling contest at Děčín, challenging again after a year-long break. furnaces. Another challenge is to reduce workers to separate recyclable However, it will be challenging to the amount of waste sent to landfill at components of mixed municipal waste. achieve the target at Issoire and U.S. sites. We have seen that a As a result, the site’s waste recycling Neuf-Brisach if we are unable to find a competitive spirit can help motivate has risen to over 90%. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • New waste management contract • The quantity of waste sent to landfill at Muscle Shoals • Reduce production waste going decreased by 2% vs. 2017 • Find technical solutions to landfill by 10% vs. 2015 (but was still above 2015 levels) for specific production waste such as sludge, flue-gas dust, and refractory bricks 47 O P E R AT I O N S BOOSTING OUR ENERGY EFFICIENCY We saw excellent performance in 2018 and reached the year’s target for energy efficiency, improving it significantly at all business units and partially offsetting two years of underperformance. We must continue to seize all potential energy-saving opportunities in order to reach our 2020 goal. A general improvement in energy efficiency resulted from the actions undertaken at all our plants, including equipment efficiency, recovery increase, process monitoring, and better use of furnaces. As for individual sites, our efforts produced the best results at Ravenswood, Issoire, Singen, and Valais. Muscle Shoals, whose energy consumption accounts for a significant portion of the Group total, started  Issoire’s state-of-the-art holding and casting furnaces, equipped with electromagnetic stirring for better energy efficiency. to make progress, especially in the second half of 2018. We expect this trend to continue with the site’s recent production routes, LED lighting, “Energy efficiency is not decision to join the U.S. Department improved management of heating and air only investment related. of Energy “50001 Ready” program conditioning, and more. At Ravenswood, for energy management. the end of the ramp-up period for the new Improving everything pusher furnace and better production we do – equipment Aerospace and Transportation efficiency contributed to strong global performance, recovery, was ahead of target at most plants. improvement as well. process control – has Some success stories really stood out, such as superior performance at Issoire Going forward, we expect every plant a significant impact on resulting from several major projects: to put the necessary resources into energy consumption.” state-of-the-art high capacity holding managing energy efficiently, and Philippe Hoffmann, and melting furnaces, electromagnetic to ensure that its energy action plan Vice President Aerospace and Transportation stirring for melting furnaces, optimized is in line with our 2020 target. Rolled Products Europe 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Focus on the less-performing sites • Improved energy efficiency • Identify and share more energy by 4.7% over 2015, the equivalent efficient solutions • 10% energy efficiency of 270 GWh in energy savings improvement vs. 2015 • Continue to look for new opportunities to save energy in all areas of activity 48 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS WORKING TO ACHIEVE A S I C E R T I F I C AT I O N 2018 marked the first full year of certification implementation for the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), a global, non-profit, multi-stakeholder organization for aluminium standards and certification. A founding ASI member, Constellium is working to have our first site certified in 2019. Constellium has been an active Alliance, the global association “The efficient use member of ASI since its beginning, for sustainability standards. of resources is key to helping the organization to achieve its goal of maximizing aluminium’s Constellium was equally busy in 2018. our business, and ASI’s contribution to a sustainable society. We established a project team principles are in line In December 2017, ASI successfully consisting of corporate and local with what we do. We were launched its certification program, members to work on certification which comprises a Performance for our Singen site. We set up a very interested when Standard and a Chain of Custody steering committee to ensure internal Constellium suggested Standard. synergy and coherence so that we join ASI, and Singen we can get a head start on certifying In 2018, ASI issued 10 certifications our Neuf-Brisach plant as well. has been quite helpful to companies representing different with the process.” parts of the aluminium value chain. An independent auditor performed They also accredited seven more a pre-audit of the Singen plant, and Markus Wild, Managing Director, Stockach Aluminium GmbH auditor firms. These independent we used the results to work on closing auditors are responsible for any gaps in certification criteria. We administering ASI certifications, continued to improve implementation and now cover nearly every region of our Human Rights and Labor Practice where there is aluminium activity. Policy, including due diligence at Group level. We are making progress in them to join ASI. Among these, the ASI had other positive new applying our responsible purchasing Stockach Aluminium recycling plant developments in 2018. Eighteen new policy to our supply chain, an important became an ASI member at the end of members joined the organization, for criteria for ASI certification. 2018, and will now aim for certification. a total of 76 members and counting. We also started discussions with By demonstrating commitment to To ensure our position as sellers of ASI several key metal suppliers and hope its Code of Good Practice, ASI became metal, we collaborated with our key to work together for their certification an associate member of the ISEAL suppliers, encouraging and helping in the near future. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • A Performance • Have at least one plant certified Standard pre-audit of for the Performance Standard the Singen site was conducted • Receive certification for • Have at least one site • The first full year of ASI certification the Chain of Custody Standard ASI certified implementation following • Ensure we are well positioned its launch in 2017 to sell ASI certified metal 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS COMMIT TING TO RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING We must ensure that sustainability is practiced at every step of our business, including the supply chain. That’s why Constellium seeks to work exlusively with suppliers who comply with applicable laws and adhere to sustainable practices in governance, the environment, and society. Constellium published its responsible for these actions and the processes “Through the workplace supply chain management policy to follow. And we train our purchasing in 2017, clearly stating our approach teams, giving them the tools and condition assessment and setting out rules for the Group knowledge to bring suppliers on board we learned about and our suppliers. and accompany them throughout sustainability trends the process. Among its requirements, all contracted in the industry, which suppliers are to sign on to our Supplier In 2018, we made substantial progress will help us to keep Code of Conduct, which outlines our in conducting these evaluations improving and working expectations of supplier behavior with our metal and energy suppliers, regarding the environment, society, and expanded our scope to include better with customers.” business ethics, human rights, and key suppliers to our main sites. Sue Fu, labor practices. We updated this We asked 44 suppliers to go through Deputy General Manager, Tianqi Lithium document in 2018 based on the latest the EcoVadis assessment, and carried supply chain laws and internationally out one onsite audit. We also helped recognized standards. Notably, the suppliers take corrective actions sections on human rights and business recommended by the assessment “We worked hard to ethics are now more comprehensive. or audit when necessary. convince our key metal We ask key suppliers to perform a Constellium’s own EcoVadis rating has suppliers to participate self-assessment every three years continuously improved since 2013, in improving our using the EcoVadis platform. As for thanks to our responsible purchasing business’ sustainability. those whose locations or sectors practices. Supplier assessment is not put them at greater risk of divergent simply a perfunctory exercise for us. We are proud of what practices, we perform an onsite We see it as an opportunity to work we achieved.” workplace audit every three years. together for continuous improvement, Thierry Chiarami, We organize webinars to make sure and we believe it helps to build strong, Senior Sourcing Manager, Rolling Slabs our suppliers understand the reasons long-term relationships. and Extrusion Billets, Constellium 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2018 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Updated our Supplier Code of Conduct, asked more suppliers to sign off • Evaluate key supplier sustainability • Continue to implement our responsible performance • Performed 44 new EcoVadis evaluations supply chain management policy, including • Undertake onsite audits of at-risk suppliers asking for sign-offs on our new Supplier Code • Ensure contracted suppliers sign • Conducted one onsite Workplace Condition of Conduct and conducting due diligence our Code of Conduct Assessment and worked with previously audited suppliers on corrective actions 50 ADDRESSING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS At Constellium, we monitor and disclose our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and have been doing so for years. In 2018, our GHG emissions remained globally stable or decreased slightly, even though our production volumes rose and our product mix evolved towards more energy-intensive products. Improved energy efficiency is how plants, we are able to provide prewe work to decrease our scope 1* and machined parts, allowing our customers to NEXT STEPS scope 2* emissions, since most are related generate less scrap. The off-cuts and chips  ontinue to work on energy C to energy use. We saved over 60,000 metric generated by pre-machining are then efficiency, as this is the core tons of CO2-equivalent emissions in 2018 recycled at our plants, thus limiting CO2 of our activity versus 2015, thanks to our energy emissions linked to transportation. efficiency program. It must be noted that all the aforementioned  efine an emissions reduction D We also aim to reduce emissions indirectly life cycle gains come at the price of higher target for Constellium by improving the life cycle performance GHG emissions in our company (scope 1 and of products. First, we work on better 2), while reductions of emissions associated  nsure that Singen, E product design – for example, lighter with our activity occur mostly outside our Gottmadingen, and Dahenfeld parts for automobiles and other trans­ plants. This largely explains why our energy reach their target by 2020 portation to reduce fuel consumption. use and GHG emissions are not decreasing Second, we recycle preand postas fast as our energy efficiency is consumer aluminium scrap, since recycling improving. GHG target frameworks produces much lower emissions than recommend that avoided emissions not be Our Singen, Gottmadingen, primary metal production. counted, and we acknowledge the and Dahenfeld sites have jointly Life cycle analyses demonstrate the potential issue of double counting. committed to a 10% GHG benefits of both approaches. However, we find that disregarding certain emissions intensity reduction Beyond these key actions, we also offer avoided emissions is problematic for from 2015 to 2020. We expect this services to optimize the value chain companies engaged in recycling and other target to be met thanks to our in other areas. For instance, thanks to positive actions that come at the price of energy efficiency improvement our machining facilities at our aero­space higher emissions in their own purview. program at each site. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (kT CO2eq) SCOPE DEFINITIONS*: 1,400 1,215 1,206 1,186 1,194 1,200 SCOPE 1: 1,000 Direct emissions from sources 800 752 759 751 756 we own or control 600 434 456 455 441 400 S  COPE 2: Indirect emissions from 200 production of the energy 0 we purchase (electricity) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1+2 2015 2016 2017 2018 51 PERFORMANCE REPORT Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of cash flows Share information United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress GRI content index 52 PERFORMANCE REPORT 2018 F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated income statement Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Revenue 5,686 5,237 4,743 Cost of sales (5,148) (4,682) (4,208) Gross profit 538 555 535 Selling and administrative expenses (247) (247) (253) Research and development expenses (40) (36) (31) Restructuring costs (1) (4) (5) Other gains / (losses) net 154 70 21 Income from operations 404 338 267 Finance costs net (149) (260) (188) Share of loss of joint-ventures (33) (29) (14) Income before income tax 222 49 65 Income tax expense (32) (80) (69) Net income / (loss) 190 (31) (4) Net income / (loss) attributable to: Equity holders of Constellium 188 (31) (4) Non-controlling interests 2 Net income / (loss) 190 (31) (4) Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of Constellium Year ended Year ended Year ended (in euros per share) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Basic 1.40 (0.28) (0.04) Diluted 1.37 (0.28) (0.04) Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at: https://www.constellium.com/investors/sec-filings 53 Consolidated statement of financial position At December 31, At December 31, (in millions of euros) 2018 2017 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 164 269 Trade receivables and other 587 419 Inventories 660 643 Other financial assets 30 69 1,441 1,400 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1,666 1,517 Goodwill 422 403 Intangible assets 70 68 Investments accounted for under the equity method 1 1 Deferred income tax assets 163 164 Trade receivables and other 64 48 Other financial assets 74 110 2,460 2,311 Total Assets 3,901 3,711 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade payables and other 968 930 Borrowings 57 106 Other financial liabilities 60 23 Income tax payable 8 11 Provisions 46 40 1,139 1,110 Non-current liabilities Trade payables and other 27 54 Borrowings 2,094 2,021 Other financial liabilities 29 43 Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 610 664 Provisions 94 113 Deferred income tax liabilities 22 25 2,876 2,920 Total Liabilities 4,015 4,030 Equity Share capital 3 3 Share premium 420 420 Retained deficit and other reserves (545) (750) Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium (122) (327) Non-controlling interests 8 8 Total Equity (114) (319) Total Equity and Liabilities 3,901 3,711 54 Consolidated statement of cash flows Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Net income / (loss) 190 (31) (4) Adjustments Depreciation and amortization 197 171 155 Finance costs net 149 260 188 Income tax expense 32 80 69 Share of loss of joint-ventures 33 29 14 Unrealized losses / (gains) on derivatives net and from 86 (54) (74) remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities net (Gains) / losses on disposal (186) 3 10 Other – net 14 7 (14) Interest paid (129) (185) (174) Income tax paid (23) (18) (14) Change in trade working capital Inventories (9) (99) (42) Trade receivables (145) (91) 28 Trade payables (27) 124 (18) Margin calls (5) — — Change in provisions and pension obligations (58) (24) (26) Other working capital (53) (12) (10) Net cash flows from operating activities 66 160 88 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (277) (276) (355) Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired — — 21 Proceeds from disposals net of cash 200 2 (5) Equity contribution and loan to joint-ventures (24) (41) (37) Other investing activities 10 23 11 Net cash flows used in investing activities (91) (292) (365) Net proceeds received from issuance of shares — 259 — Proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes — 1,440 375 Repayment of Senior Notes — (1,559) (148) (Repayments) / proceeds from revolving credit facilities and other loans (68) 29 (69) Payment of deferred financing costs and exit fees — (118) (19) Transactions with non-controlling interests — — (2) Other financing activities (14) 10 8 Net cash flows (used in) / from financing activities (82) 61 145 Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (107) (71) (132) Cash and cash equivalents beginning of year 269 347 472 Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale beginning of year — — 4 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2 (7) 3 Cash and cash equivalents end of year 164 269 347 55 SHARE PRICE EVOLUTION IN US$ (FROM APRIL 2018) 15 12 9 6 3 APR 2018 MAY 2018 JUNE 2018 JULY 2018 AUG 2018 SEPT 2018 OCT 2018 NOV 2018 DEC 2018 JAN 2019 FEB 2019 MAR 2019 APR 2019 SHAREHOLDING AVERAGE NUMBER STRUCTURE OF DAILY SHARES (as of December 31, 2018) TRADED IN 2018 1 2 1.1 MILLION 1. Bpifrance 12.1% 2. Free float 87.9% 56 PERFORMANCE REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) GC Active In 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, which is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The principles in the Policy have been integrated into our new Employee Code of Conduct, and we have launched a human rights due diligence process, to assess existing or potential risks across our operations. page Cross reference / additional information CEO COMMITMENT OF UNGC 14-15 Interview HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support In 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, which is aligned with and respect the protection of internationally the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The principles in the Policy have proclaimed human rights; been integrated into our new Employee Code of Conduct, and we have launched a human 22, 36, rights due diligence process, to assess existing or potential risks across our operations. 38-39, 44, 49 Governance-Sustainability Council, Our Sustainability Target for 2020, 50 Principle 2: make sure that they are not Responding to our materiality assessment, Focusing our efforts on safety, Working to complicit in human rights abuses. achieve ASI certification, Committing to responsible purchasing, and our Code of Conduct: https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; In 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, which is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The principles in the Policy have Principle 4: the elimination of all forms been integrated into our new Employee Code of Conduct, and we have launched a human of forced and compulsory labour; 22, 36, rights due diligence process, to assess existing or potential risks across our operations. 38-39, 49, 50 Governance-Sustainability Council, Our Sustainability Target for 2020, Principle 5: the effective abolition Responding to our materiality assessment, Working to achieve ASI certification, of child labour Committing to responsible purchasing, and our Code of Conduct: https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Our EHS Policy: Principle 7: Businesses should support https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/Sustainability/ehspolicy2016-eng_1.pdf a precautionary approach to 22, 36 Our Code of Conduct: environmental challenges; https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote 41, 47, 48, Minimizing landfill waste, and Boosting our energy efficiency greater environmental responsibility; 51 Principle 9: encourage the development and 24-26, Packaging, and Increasing recycling rates diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 30, 42 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against Responding to our materiality assessment, Committing to responsible purchasing, corruption in all its forms, including extortion 38-39, 50 Our Code of Conduct: and bribery. https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct 57 PRODUCTS Pages 42-43 for more information on Products ALUMINIUM BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES 80 75% target for 2015 72.9% 73.6% 71.3% 69.5% 68.3% 70 66.7% 63.1% 64.0% 61.8% 58.0% 60 54.5% 54.5% 52.0% 49.2% 48.4% 56.7% 49.4% 48.0% 48.0% 50 54.1% 54.2% 54.9% 43.0% 50.9% 49.7% 48.5% 48.2% 46.0% 45% 45.3% 40 45.0% 44.3% 45.1% 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Europe* U.S. * This is the most recent data for Europe. Figures for this data-point take a long time to process and 2015 data was made available only by 2018. Since 2000, the beverage can recycling rate has seen tremendous improvement, from 43% (in 2000) to 73.6% (in 2015). RECORDABLE CASE RATE* Pages 18 and 44 for more information about serious injuries 26.0 25 19.0 18.5 18.5 20 17.5 16 15 14 14 15 13.5 11.5 10.7 10 9.2 9 10 8.4 7.8 7.8 8.2 10.5 7.2 6.9 6.2 6.3 8.4 6.7 7.3 5 7.1 4.9 6.3 3.8 3.5 3.2 3.3 2.6 2.7 2.8 3.2 2.3 2.9 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Constellium European Aluminium U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics – Aluminum * Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked. Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that, only extended contractors such as canteen and security staff were included. 58 PEOPLE Pages 44-46 for more information on People GRI 102-8 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS Apprentice Inactive Permanent Fixed-term Temporary (agency, excluding contractors) ALL CONSTELLIUM Number of employees Male 231 21 54 with specific employment type Female 42 8 16 1 Number of employees Male 9,682 645 848 per employment contract Female 1,317 134 Number of employees Full-time 273 27 10,859 743 849 working full/part-time Part-time 0 2 210 36 Total 12,999 Total permanent and fixed terms 11,848 EUROPE Number of employees Male 228 4 with specific employment type Female 41 6 Number of employees Male 7,043 305 786 per employment contract Female 868 62 Number of employees Full-time 269 10 7,701 362 786 working full/part-time Part-time 0 0 210 5 Total 9,343 Total permanent and fixed terms 8,278 ASIA Number of employees Male 0 with specific employment type Female Number of employees Male 10 315 1 per employment contract Female 12 49 Number of employees Full-time 0 22 333 1 working full/part-time Part-time 31 Total 387 Total permanent and fixed terms 386 NORTH AMERICA (UNITED STATES, CANADA & MEXICO) Number of employees Male 3 17 54 with specific employment type Female 1 2 16 1 Number of employees Male 2,629 25 61 per employment contract Female 437 23 Number of employees Full-time 4 19 3,136 48 62 working full/part-time Part-time Total 3,269 Total permanent and fixed terms 3,184 59 GRI 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Apprentices and temporary fixed-term contract employees have been excluded, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation Number of Number of Number of new employees hired in employees who left the employees on Employee category 2018 Company in 2018 December 31, 2018 Turnover rate ALL CONSTELLIUM Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Under 30 years old 116 499 92 319 252 1,569 36.51% 20.33% 30-50 years old 186 664 142 394 849 5,449 16.73% 7.23% Over 50 years old 38 117 58 322 374 3,384 15.51% 9.52% Total 340 1,280 292 1,035 1,475 10,402 19.80% 9.95% EUROPE Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Under 30 years old 51 259 10 104 147 1,061 6.80% 9.80% 30-50 years old 73 297 29 162 551 3,866 5.26% 4.19% Over 50 years old 3 41 21 193 238 2,425 8.82% 7.96% Total 127 597 60 459 936 7,352 6.41% 6.24% NORTH AMERICA Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Under 30 years old 62 165 80 145 95 387 84.21% 37.47% 30-50 years old 99 244 109 182 251 1,385 43.43% 13.14% Over 50 years old 35 75 37 128 132 953 28.03% 13.43% Total 196 484 226 455 478 2,725 47.28% 16.70% ASIA Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Under 30 years old 3 75 2 70 10 121 20.00% 57.85% 30-50 years old 14 123 4 50 47 198 8.51% 25.25% Over 50 years old 0 1 0 1 4 6 0.00% 16.67% Total 17 199 6 121 61 325 9.84% 37.23% GRI 404-1 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE Female Male Managers* Operators* Total employees Average training hours/year/employee 23.1 20.6 22.7 20.5 20.9 * “Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors; “managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles. GRI 405-1 DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES BOARD MEMBERS Female Male Total Age % Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0% 30-50 years old 1 0 1 9% Over 50 years old 2 8 10 91% Total 3 8 11 100% Gender % 27% 73% 100% 60 ALL CONSTELLIUM Age ranges Female Male Total Age % % Female % Male Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0% Executive Committee 30 50 years old 1 2 3 33% Members Over 50 years old 0 6 6 67% Subtotal 1 8 9 11% 89% Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0% 30 50 years old 11 56 67 53% Vice Presidents & Directors Over 50 years old 6 53 59 47% Subtotal 17 109 126 13% 87% Under 30 years old 91 195 286 14% Senior Managers / Senior Experts / 30 50 years old 292 923 1,215 57% Individual Contributors / Over 50 years old 79 534 613 29% Technical Master Experts Subtotal 462 1,652 2,114 22% 78% Under 30 years old 161 1,369 1,530 16% 30 50 years old 546 4,474 5,020 52% Technicians & Operators Over 50 years old 289 2,791 3,080 32% Subtotal 965 8,333 9,298 10% 90% Total 1,476 10,403 11,479 12% 88% GRI 405-2 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN AND MEN GLOBAL CONSTELLIUM Ratio Women to Men Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 93% Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 82% Technicians & Operators 86% EUROPE Ratio Women to Men Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 89% Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 83% Technicians & Operators 87% NORTH AMERICA Ratio Women to Men Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 102% Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 80% Technicians & Operators 79% ASIA Ratio Women to Men Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 150% Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Individual Contributors / Technical Master Experts 84% Technicians & Operators 95% 61 OPERATIONS Pages 47-48 for more information on Operations GRI 302-1 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION IN TERAJOULE (TJ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Direct energy consumption (TJ) Anthracite 500 522 389 408 LPG 15 15 15 14 Non-renewable sources Nat. Gas 13,274 13,198 13,512 13,495 Diesel 120 118 116 115 Heavy fuel 163 154 152 155 Renewable sources 0 0 0 0 Total 14,071 14,008 14,185 14,187 Indirect energy (TJ) Electricity Purchased 5,583 5,777 5,938 5,870 Sold 0 0 0 0 Steam Purchased 0 0 0 0 Sold 112 194 104 120 Total Direct + Indirect energy consumption 19,543 19,591 20,019 19,937 FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY Raw energy consumption per metric another will affect the overall energy per manufacturing performance of our ton is not necessarily the most relevant metric ton, independently of any other operations, regardless of any changes in indicator of energy efficiency, because change. For this reason, we correct our our product mix. we need to take into account the effect energy efficiency indicator to avoid any At the same time, we also rely on life of different product mixes. For instance, bias. We have identified the relative cycle assessments to make sure that the manufacture of automotive sheet energy consumption per metric ton of we manufacture environmentally sound requires significantly more energy during different product lines and use this to products. We are particularly keen to rolling and finishing operations than transpose raw data on energy per metric ensure that products requiring greater beverage can body sheet. Therefore, ton into an energy efficiency index. energy during production deliver greater increasing the share of one product over This index thus reflects the intrinsic energy savings during their lifetime. 62 GRI 303-3 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL IN MILLION CUBIC METERS 30 29.6 29.7 30.5 28.9 20 24.6 22.2 22.5 21.4 10 7.9 7.1 5.7 5.5 0.3 0.4 0.7 0.3 Surface water Groundwater Water from public net Total water 2015 2016 2017 2018 GRI 305-7 AIR EMISSIONS IN METRIC TONS 1,400 1,200 1,000 1,225 1,111 1,134 1,059 1,113 800 900 909 865 617 625 600 557 492 400 284 262 244 255 200 NOx Particulate materials SO2 VOC 2015 2016 2017 2018 GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS See page 51 GRI 306-1 WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION IN METRIC TONS 200,000 197,4 188,9 150,000 145,2 100,000 127,1 126,4 111,2 104,1 96,6 50,000 39,3 40,0 27,7 25,5 10,3 10,7 4,5 4,6 6,3 4,1 2,5 4,1 3,2 2,1 2,7 3,0 COD BOD5 Total Suspended Total Total Dissolved Solids Fluorides Hydrocarbon Aluminium 2015 2016 2017 2018 63 GRI 306-2 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD IN METRIC TONS 200,000 192,455* 195,473 150,000 183,546 152,165 156,753 161,886 139,974 100,000 127,109 24,722* 29,958* 28,402* 50,000 27,876 9,349 6,850 7,942 7,220 3,206* 4,266* 3,404* 3,623 Recycling Incineration Landfill: production Landfill: construction Total metric tons/year 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Compared with previously reported data, the balance between production and construction landfill waste since 2015 was amended following improved monitoring of landfill waste. Additionally, 2017 landfill waste data had to be reassessed to account for missing contributions identified since then. 200,000 192,455 195,473 150,000 183,546 161,886 151,077 100,000 133,773 144,639 120,383 49,773 47,816 41,503 44,239 50,000 Hazardous Non Hazardous Total 2015 2016 2017 2018 Hazardous/non-hazardous definition based on EU regulations. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Pages 49-50 for more information on Responsible Business CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING 99.8% 99.3% 99.8% 100% 97.6% 1,600 Achieved Achieved Achieved Achieved Achieved* 1,200 1,554 1,477 1,301 1,298 1,362 1,362 1,118 1,116 1,144 1,136 800 400 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of people targeted Number of people achieved * In 2018 we had 40 exceptional cases, the reasons including maternity and sick leave, retirement, and long-term disability. 64 PERFORMANCE REPORT 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization Constellium N.V. (Constellium) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services A global sector leader 2-9 Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 12-13 Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, Herkal, HK34, Xtral 728, 16, Diamal R, Diamal S, Alplan, Certal, Fortal, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, Formalex®, 24-34 Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, Longlinefinish®, Securalex®, Constellium HSA6™, Constellium HCA6™, Modalex™, Butlerfinish®, Staybright™, Keikor®, Aeral™, Dokima®, Kool X™, @bright™ and Gripster 102-3 Location of headquarters Schiphol-Rijk, The Netherlands 102-4 Location of operations A global sector leader 16, 27, 29, 31 102-5 Ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical standards and best practices, to be responsive to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of Conduct. We are listed on NYSE under the ticker symbol ’CSTM’. Shareholders as of March 8, 2019 – free float: 87.9%; Bpifrance: 12.1% 102-6 Markets served A global sector leader 16, 27, 29, 31 24-34 102-7 Scale of the organization A global sector leader 16 Unlocking value 17 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability performance 59-61 102-9 Supply chain Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 12-13 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its No significant changes Flap supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our 2020 sustainability targets: overview 36 Constellium Code of Conduct: https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct 102-12 External initiatives We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. 15, 57 CEO Interview 14-15 European Aluminium; Every Can Counts; Aluminium Stewardship Initiative; GRI 37, 42, 49 102-13 Membership in associations Memberships 71 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Interview 14-15 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance-Sustainability Council 22 Our Sustainability Targets for 2020 36 Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms Governance, 19-22 of behavior Engaging our people (MOMENTUM) 45 Working to achieve ASI certification 49 Committing to responsible purchasing 50 UNGC membership 15, 57 We have developed a new Code of Conduct integrating the principles of our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices. 65 Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Governance 19-22 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Governance, 19-22 Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 Memberships 71 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements A vast majority of non-U.S. employees and approximately 50% of U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance 19-22 Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance 22 Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 Ensuring customer satisfaction 43 Working to achieve ASI certification 49 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance 19-22 Our Sustainability Target for 2020 36 Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial All entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures 16, 27, statements controlled by Constellium during reporting year 2018. 29, 31 This includes all sites mentioned on pages 16, 27, 29 and 31. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 In 2017, we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision. See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance Report for more information, available at https://www.constellium. com/sites/default/files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf 102-47 List of material topics Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 102-48 Restatements of information GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method in metric tons. 64 Compared to previously reported data, the balance between production and construction landfill waste since 2015 was amended following improved monitoring of landfill waste. Additionally, 2017 landfill waste data had to be reassessed to account for missing contributions identified since then. 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period About this report Flap 102-51 Date of most recent report Issued in 2018. Available on our website’s sustainability section at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/constellium_business_ and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report Flap 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report Flap 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Standards Core option 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 65-70 102-56 External assurance This report is not externally assured GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 boundary In 2017, we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision. See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance Report for more information, available at https://www.constellium. com/sites/default/files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_ report_2017-200718.pdf 66 Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance 19-22 Our Sustainability Target for 2020 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance 19 Responding to our materiality assessment 38-39 GRI 205 ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related Responding to our materiality assessment 38 to corruption Our Internal Control and Legal Department carried out a fraud and corruption risk assessment in 2018 using an in-house questionnaire administered at key sites as well as cases reported via the Integrity hotline and Internal Control Reporting network. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption Responding to our materiality assessment 38 policies and procedures We communicate and train our Executive Committee and employees on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct (CoC) training. Please refer to “sustainability performance” for our CoC training rate. A special session on anti-corruption with the Executive Committee was conducted in April 2019. Training sessions were conducted with our sales and purchasing departments at the sites in France, China, Japan, Singapore and China. The finance teams in China, Switzerland, France, Germany, and the U.S. were also trained. Our internal audit and site-level SOx champions have been trained as well. We have included anti-corruption principles in our Supplier Code of Conduct for our business partners, and clauses in contracts with our customers. We have also put a due diligence process in place for business partners. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption None recorded during the reporting year. and actions taken GRI 301 MATERIALS 301-2 Recycled input materials used We do not consider the recycled content of aluminium in our products as a relevant metric for measuring the sustainability of performance. GRI 302 ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 62 302-3 Energy intensity Energy efficiency metrics are disclosed on page 48 and in the Energy 48, 62 Efficiency section of the Sustainability Performance section. The principle of metrics is explained in the Energy Performance section. 62 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption a. Total energy savings: 967 TJ since 2015 b. Savings by energy source: fossil fuels 550 TJ; Electricity 417 TJ c. Baseline year is 2015 d. An internal calculation tool is used to assess the energy that would have been used in the corresponding year by applying the 2015 energy/t ratio of each production unit and, where necessary, applying a correction factor to account for changes in the product mix. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products In automotive and aerospace applications, we account for the reduction in and services the energy requirement of our products through the mass savings afforded by our aluminium products compared with reference material, such as steel in automotive or previous generations of aluminium alloys in aerospace. An estimate based on life cycle assessment calculations led to savings of over 26,000 TJ for products delivered in 2018, during their lifetime. We based our assumption on an estimate of mass saved in automotive and aerospace applications, and used data from our Life Cycle Assessment tool, following the ISO 14040-44 standard. We plan to complete this assessment in the future with a more comprehensive coverage of our product range. 67 Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 303 WATER AND EFFLUENTS 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource a. Use of water is mainly concentrated on cooling operations during metal casting (mostly) and rolling activity. Use of water is needed across the value chain (upstream for alumina refining, aluminium casting after smelting, and electricity production, and downstream for finishing operations). b. Use of water is handled within the scope of our ISO 14001 certifications. We also check the status of water risks every year using the online Aqueduct tool. c. We request our key suppliers to be assessed regarding their sustainability performance, including water-related issues. Water is also included in the scope of audits performed of suppliers considered at higher-risk. Our aim is for all our key and higher-risk suppliers to be assessed by 2020. Along with other partners of the aluminium value chain, we committed to the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which created a standard for responsible aluminium that explicitly includes water management. We are working to have our sites certified. d. There is currently no specific water-related goal. We rely on local environmental management to handle water-related topics as a function of local conditions (water availability and quality). We work with local stakeholders and comply with local regulations. 303-2 Management of water Water discharge management is done according to local regulations discharge-related impacts and our own water management policy, and included in the ISO 14001 certification scope of our plants. 303-3 Water withdrawal a. Sustainability performance 63 b. Water withdrawal from areas with water stress was 15.9 megaliters c. All displayed numbers relate to fresh water. No “other water” source used. d. No assumptions used, data collected from sites’ environmental management and consolidated in central database. 303-4 Water discharge Sustainability performance 63 GRI 305 EMISSIONS 305-6 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Addressing greenhouse gas emissions 51 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Addressing greenhouse gas emissions 51 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Addressing greenhouse gas emissions 51 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded during the reporting year 63 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and Sustainability performance 63 other significant air emissions GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Sustainability performance 63 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability performance 63 306-3 Significant spills No significant spills recorded in the reporting year GRI 307 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with and regulations environmental laws and/or regulations: none recorded during the reporting year. GRI 308 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Committing to responsible purchasing 50 environmental criteria GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability performance 60 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Part-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; are not provided to temporary or part-time temporary workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some selected employees benefits related to health insurance are granted depending on seniority. 68 Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 402 LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational The minimum notice period varies according to the country of operation and is changes based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question. GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 Occupational health and safety management Environment, health and safety 18 system Focusing our efforts on safety 44 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Environment, health and safety 18 and incident investigation Focusing our efforts on safety 44 403-3 Occupational health services Environment, health and safety 18 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, 100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and communication on occupational health and safety committees and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and Environment, health and safety 18 safety Focusing our efforts on safety 44 403-6 Promotion of worker health Environment, health and safety 18 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health Environment, health and safety 18 and safety impacts directly linked by business Focusing our efforts on safety 44 relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and Environment, health and safety 18 safety management system Focusing our efforts on safety 44 403-9 Work-related injuries Environment, health and safety 18 Focusing our efforts on safety 44 GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Sustainability performance 60 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Our professional grade employees receive annual performance and career performance and career development reviews development through the global HR platform, SuccessFactors. This has been extended to some supervisory levels in France. All other employees receive an annual performance review but this is done on a site-by-site basis and tracked centrally for all managers. GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainability performance 60-61 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Sustainability performance 61 of women to men GRI 406 NON-DISCRIMINATION 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective No discrimination cases recorded by our integrity hotline during actions taken the reporting period GRI 407 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Our Human Rights & Labor Practices policy includes 38 freedom of association and collective bargaining this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. may be at risk Committing to responsible purchasing 50 GRI 408 CHILD LABOR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Our Human Rights & Labor Practices policy includes 38 incidents of child labor this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. Committing to responsible purchasing 50 GRI 409 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Our Human Rights & Labor Practices policy includes 38 incidents of forced or compulsory labor this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. Committing to responsible purchasing 50 69 Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 412 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human Responding to our materiality assessment 38 rights reviews or impact assessments Committing to responsible purchasing. 50 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Responding to our materiality assessment 38 procedures We published Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices in 2018: https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/external_-_human_rights_ policy_and_labor_practices_final_0.pdf The principles of our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices have been incorporated into our Code of Conduct. Employees are thus trained on human rights during Code of Conduct training. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts Committing to responsible purchasing 50 that include human rights clauses or that Human Rights Principles are explicitly mentioned in our Supplier Code of underwent human rights screening Conduct, available at www.constellium.com GRI 413 LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Strengthening Communities 46 impact assessments, and development programs GRI 414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social Committing to responsible purchasing 50 criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Committing to responsible purchasing 50 actions taken GRI 415 PUBLIC POLICY 415-1 Political contributions None – it is our policy not to make any political contributions. GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the None recorded during the reporting year health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417 MARKETING AND LABELING 417-1 Requirements for product and service • Sourcing of raw material: 100% of our products comply with conflictinformation and labeling minerals regulations and Constellium communicates the corresponding information on our website (https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/ downloads/disclosure-and-certifications). • Content with substances that might produce an environmental or social impact and safe use of the products and services: 100% of our semi-products (cast, rolled or extruded) are covered by corresponding Manufacturer Safety Data Sheets, available on our website (https://www.constellium.com/ sustainability/downloads/material-safety-data-sheets). Constellium also complies with REACH regulation, which covers the majority of our production. • Disposal of products and environmental and social impacts: we 42 communicate, advocate and engage to promote even higher recycling rates for aluminium in all products. See in particular section on products. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product None recorded during the reporting year and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning None recorded during the reporting year marketing communications GRI 418 CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches None recorded during the reporting year of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with in the social and economic area laws and regulations: none recorded during the reporting year. 70 Memberships Participates in projects and Membership Has positions in governance committees Board of Directors, Executive Aluminium Association (AA) Member Yes Committee Member Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of the Standards Committee Yes ARPAL, Spain Member of the Board No Aluminium France Member of the Board Yes Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) No Yes France Industrie No No European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) No Yes Executive Committee Member, Member of the Packaging Group Board and Member European Aluminium Yes of the Automotive & Transportation Group Board France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President Yes Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board Yes Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques No No et Spatiales (GIFAS) La Boîte Boisson (BCME) No No Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) No No Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, No Yes emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board Yes Alupro Member of the Board Yes Metal Packaging Europe (MPE) No Yes Forward-looking statements This report contains statements that relate statements of historical fact are forwardtime in subsequent reports, filed with the to future events and expectations and as looking statements. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities The forward-looking statements contained Constellium disclaims any obligation to Litigation Reform Act of 1995. in this report are subject to a number of update publicly any forward-looking known and unknown risks, uncertainties statements, whether in response to new Forward-looking statements include those and other factors and are not guarantees information, future events or otherwise, statements containing such words as of future performance. except as required by applicable law. ’expects’,’intends’,’plans’,’scheduled’,’should’, ’could’,’will’, or other words of similar These risks and uncertainties include, but meaning. All statements that reflect are not limited to, those set forth under the Constellium’s expectations, assumptions heading ’Risk Factors’ in our Annual Report or projections about the future other than on Form 20-F, and described from time to 71 AB O UT T HIS REPORT Reporting period Financial year 2018 (January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018) Date of publication June 2019 Report scope The data or financials relate to Constellium worldwide falling within the scope of consolidation at December 31, 2018. Report content The content of this report is based on our business data and the results of our dialogue with stakeholders, the Global Reporting Initiative Standards: Core option and other sustainability ratings and rankings. Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards: Core option Assurance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option and maintains code of reporting as advised by GRI. It is not externally assured. Contact communications@constellium.com or sustainability@constellium.com Coordination: Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Council. Design and production: Angie Credits: ©iStockphoto.com/3DSculptor, ©iStockphoto.com/ den-belitsky, ©Hubert Raguet-Constellium, ©iStockphoto. com/nycshooter, ©Constellium/Numix/Le-LoKal, ©iStockphoto.com/Rockfinder, ©shutterstock, ©photoAlquimia, ©Dominique Sarraute, ©AIRBUS 2018 – photo by C.SANTANA, ©Greg Courdier pour Constellium, ©iStock/NiseriN, ©iStock/Mlenny, ©iStock/JohnnyGreig, ©Getty/Emanuel M Schwermer, ©Shutterstock/Ekaterina Kondratova. Print: Printed on paper from sustainably managed forests. www.constellium.com IV
