an ELEVATE company COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by the Communication on Progress (COP) From: Jan 1, 2018 To: Dec 31, 2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive September, 13, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that BSD Consulting, an ELEVATE company, reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. This Communication on Progress (COP) relates to BSD Consulting performance during the 2018 calendar year. In December of 2018, BSD Consulting was acquired by ELEVATE. We expect future COPs for 2019 and beyond will be integrated together with the ELEVATE submission. Sincerely yours, Felipe Arango Managing Partner BSD Consulting, an ELEVATE company 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights We take a holistic approach to human rights, promoting these rights not only in our organization but beyond, through the work we do each day. As a consulting firm, our workers are our most valuable asset. We believe that safe, sanitary and suitable work environments, free from harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats are a given. We believe that people should also have the right to workplaces where they have the right to privacy, the agency and opportunities to develop their skills, are empowered to speak freely and be heard and are treated with respect and kindness. We strive to create a diverse, inclusive workplace – 65% of our employees are women. We offer our staff the opportunities to attend trainings and participate in activities to develop their professional skills. Our employees logged 96 hours of formal trainings in 2018 as well as attending webinars and general topic trainings such as second languages. We conduct periodic anonymous employee surveys to assess employee perceptions on their work and the organization and we strive to foster a workplace where employees can speak plainly and openly about their needs, provide feedback about leadership, values and culture and are treated with respect regardless of their position in the power structure. And lastly, we offer flexible working schedules and feel strongly about respecting our employees’ non-work time, work-life balance is a core value of our organization. an ELEVATE company In addition to going above and beyond in the treatment of our employees, we also aim to advance human rights outside of our organization. We view our work through an impact lens and have identified the following lines of work where we expect to have positive impact and influence: • Merging strategy, systems and sustainability • Bringing stakeholder perspectives to the table • Building new frameworks and supporting the work of agenda-setters • Advancing sustainable livelihoods for marginalized producers and workers • Developing capacities for sustainable development To achieve this impact, we are heavily engaged with the private sector, inter-governmental/development agencies and NGOs in diverse sectors to ensure that human rights are valued and respected, especially in complex and challenging supply chains. We have conducted audits at the factory level in compliance with ILO criteria, impact assessments to assess working conditions for workers in the agriculture sector and developments of standards for immigrant and financial inclusion. Through our capacity building work and our work with standards, we advance knowledge about human rights, among other topics. Labour We adhere strictly to all labour laws and provide benefits to our employees that are at a minimum aligned with local regulations but when possible try to offer social conditions that are better than average (i.e. vacations, health insurance, access to trainings, flexible working hours, work-life balance, maternity/paternity leave even when not mandated by law). All local BSD offices follow local legislation and market customs with regard to extra-remuneration employee benefits. The larger offices are more advanced and have more financial leeway to provide benefits for their employees. There is no global employee benefit plan in place, however local offices are encouraged to go beyond the law in this respect. Our hiring policies are fair and inclusive and our purpose and mission statement clearly state our intention to merge local know-how and perspectives with sustainability issues. A majority of our employees are hired locally. Our salaries are above living wage and fall within normal market range, but are not of outstanding values due to the nature of being a smaller company. BSD tries to compensate by offering a very decent life-work balance and flexible work culture. However, it is indeed working to improve salary levels whenever possible, based on a solid professional development path and remuneration system. We are strong believers of the freedom of association, as well as the right to collective bargaining. Regardless of that, the only employees at BSD covered under a bargaining agreement are working in Brazil, as trade union affiliation is mandatory here. Environment We are committed to conducting business in a manner that recognizes the need to protect the quality of our environment. We are a services-based organization and as such our environmental footprint is limited to the products we purchase for our work which includes office supplies and technology hardware. Our greatest environmental impact is related to travel for business purposes. Nonetheless, we are committed to protecting the quality of our environment using the following principles: • We will work to provide knowledge and solutions to promote sustainable development. Our employees are committed to the need to protect the quality of our environment through their work. • We will continually seek opportunities to improve our environmental footprint through activities including but not limited to energy, water, paper and miles traveled. • We will promote participation and communicate our commitment to responsible environmental management by promoting environmental responsibility among our employees; by providing the necessary training and support to enable them to implement this policy; by informing suppliers of our environmental policy and encouraging them to adopt effective environmental management practices; and by soliciting input from our employees, suppliers, customers and board members in meeting our environmental goals. We have an internal commitment to work in an environmentally friendly manner, and through dialogue, our staff in all offices promote environmental awareness, responsibility and conservation through their activities. Within the organization, management and employees take measures to reduce waste, prevent pollution, conserve water and energy: an ELEVATE company • Using responsible business operating practices such as sourcing of environmentally-responsible products and services for business needs • Minimizing business-travel or using low-carbon methods of transportation where feasible • Encouraging the use of low-carbon transportation for our employees We encourage all our offices to engage in sustainable practices such as: • Purchase of Fairtrade / organic coffee and tea for office use • Purchase of FSC certified paper for office use • Waste reduction (recycling, source reduction such as reducing printing) • Sourcing of electricity from renewable sources where feasible • Biking to work / using public transportation where feasible In addition to being responsible stewards of the environment internally, our mission and purpose is to advance environmental stewardship through our work. We work extensively with the private sector to develop and implement strategies to measure and reduce their environmental impact. We work in supply chains to ensure sustainable production. We help organizations improve transparency and disclosure through reporting and we work to advance the environmental movement through trainings, convenings and thought leadership. Anti-Corruption Our understanding of ethical behavior requires that our talent and directors do the right thing at all times. Ethical behavior is a core principle for our organization, and it makes no sense to try to advance our mission of sustainable development if we ourselves are not an example of ethical behavior. Ethics is manifested throughout our values and brand attributes. Two of our core institutional documents are the BSD Business Principles and the BSD Code of Practice, which embody our commitment to sustainable development. The Code of Practice outlines our values as a set of general guidelines and requirements applicable to all employees and subcontractors in all activities. The Code of Practice is available publicly in all BSD working languages and our clients are made familiar with it. The Code of Practice is also part of our new employee orientation. Our offices regularly discuss ethical issues during staff meetings and incorporate the Code’s items into their daily work. As an assurance provider and auditor, we abide by its own terms to guarantee independency of both its professionals and the company. Besides working on specific assignments, we do not permit ourselves to have any other commercial relationships or interests with a company it is assuring or auditing. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES (For 2018) Employees by Location: Brazil/Sao Paulo 7 Chile/Santiago 6 China/Shenzhen 9 Colombia/Bogota 9 Germany/Berlin 4 Portugal/Lisbon 7 Spain/Barcelona 3 Switzerland/Zurich 12 USA/Miami 1 an ELEVATE company USA/Philadelphia 1 Employees by Gender: Female 38 Male 21 Employees by Role/Position: Female Male Administrative Assistant 1 1 Consultant 17 3 20 Director / Manager 2 2 Group Partner 3 3 Junior Consultant 3 3 Junior Support 3 3 Manager 1 1 2 Senior Consultant 8 6 14 Senior Support 4 1 5 Managing Director 1 5 6 Employees by Age Group: 22-31 16 32-41 24 42-51 12 52-61 5 Staff Trainings: Number of employees attending trainings 7 Training hours 96 Capacity Building: Number of training events held 20 Number of individuals trained 265
