Sustainability Report 2018 Lundin Petroleum is one of the leading independent oil and gas companies in Europe with a strategic focus on Norway. We create sustainable, long-term value across the full spectrum of the oil and gas value chain. Global Reporting Our Global Compact Initiative (GRI) commitment Lundin Petroleum’s 2018 Sustainability We support the 10 United Nations Report is in accordance with the Global Global Compact Principles on human Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard rights, labour standards, environment Guidelines. and anti-corruption. Extractive Industry United Nations Sustainable Transparency Initiative Development Goals We support and promote EITI’s efforts to We promote the Sustainable Development combat corruption. Goals (SDGs) throughout our value chain. This Report constitutes Lundin Petroleum’s disclosure on non-ﬁnancial & diversity information in accordance with the Swedish law implementing the EU Directive 2014 / 95 / EU Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Governance 24 Code of Conduct 25 About this report 5 Whistleblowing 25 Our corporate responsibility approach 6 Anti-corruption 26 Risk management 8 Competition 26 Stakeholder engagement 10 ESG ratings 27 Environment 12 Corporate citizenship 28 Climate change 13 Sustainability data 30 Biodiversity 16 Water 17 GRI index 34 Waste 17 Tell us what you think 38 Social 18 Employment 19 Health & safety 20 Human rights 23 pages page page 13-14 16 17 CLIMATE WATER CHANGE BIODIVERSITY / WASTE page pages page 19 20-21 23 HEALTH HUMAN EMPLOYMENT & SAFETY RIGHTS page page page 25 25 26 CODE OF ANTI-CORRUPTION CONDUCT WHISTLEBLOWING / COMPETITION 2018 highlights OPERATIONAL Operating Contingent Production cost Reserves resources 81 Mboepd 3.66 USD/boe 745 net MMboe 225 net MMboe Operating Free Proposed FINANCIAL cash flow EBITDA cash flow dividend 1848 1916 MUSD MUSD 663 MUSD 500 MUSD Safe Carbon SUSTAINABLE operations Oil spills intensity ESG ratings Zero serious Zerorecordable 4.9 CO2e kg per boe TOP quartile incidents spills for Edvard Grieg Mboepd Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day MMboe Million barrels of oil equivalent USD/boe US Dollar per barrels of oil equivalent MUSD Million US Dollar 2 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Foreword by the CEO I am pleased to present Lundin Petroleum’s fourth annual Our key asset Edvard Grieg continues to perform above Sustainability Report, in which we explain how we expectations and its production plateau has been extended identify, manage and perform in relation to our material to mid-2020. Successful exploration activities have translated environmental, social and governance topics over the calendar into 7 potential new projects, implying continued sustainable year, in line with our commitment to responsible business growth. Our largest development project, Johan Sverdrup, practice. keeps delivering good news, exceeding gross resources at a reduced carbon footprint. All milestones have been reach 2018 was an outstanding year for Lundin Petroleum having below projected costs, on schedule and Johan Sverdrup is on achieved our operational and ﬁnancial objectives in a track for ﬁrst expected oil in November 2019. sustainable and responsible manner. We believe our strategic decision to carry out oil and gas exploration and production We continue to support the UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles activities exclusively in Norway, coupled with our strong on human rights, labour standards, environment and anticorporate culture, are key drivers of our success and gives corruption within our Company and across our value chain, us a competitive edge in our industry. Operating in Norway recognising the importance of maintaining high ethical means having to comply with stringent Health, Safety and standards of performance. Environment (HSE) policies, regulations and proactively address environmental considerations like climate change and To conclude, I would like to highlight that our success is biodiversity conservation. only attainable thanks to the dedication and competence of everyone working for Lundin Petroleum. I am privileged to It is clear to us that responsible conduct and business success work with such a great team and to them all, I express my go hand in hand. Our business model rests on our commitment sincere thanks. Together we can and will continue to make a to carry out our activities in an efﬁcient and responsible difference! manner for the long-term beneﬁt of our shareholders and society. We actively pursue the goal of delivering a low carbon Yours Sincerely, energy and are proud to produce one of the lowest carbon intensity oil, at 4.9 kg carbon dioxide equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent (CO2e per boe) produced from the Edvard Grieg ﬁeld, which is approximately a quarter of world industry average. Our strong production resulted in 81.1 Mboepd at a record low operating cost of USD 3.66 per barrel of oil Alex Schneiter equivalent, exceeding our 2018 guidance. More importantly, President and CEO these results were achieved without any signiﬁcant safety or environmental incidents. In 2018, we revised our Code of Conduct to ensure that the core principles governing our responsible conduct fully reﬂect our operational context and our company culture which fosters openness, diversity and innovation. The Code provides guidance to our employees, contractors and partners on how to carry out activities in a safe, efﬁcient and responsible manner. We also intensiﬁed our efforts to address climate change by engaging with key stakeholders, supporting research and development projects, sharing best practice within the industry and participating in the global dialogue. In line with our commitment to actively support the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) across our business, we joined the campaign initiated by the United Nations, together with Reuters and The Business Debate, showcasing how global businesses and organisations can sustainably work to achieve economic development in a sound social and environmental way. Through this initiative we had the opportunity to illustrate how our company contributes to achieving relevant SDGs. By developing and producing oil and gas in Norway, a leading country in terms of Environment, Social, Governance (ESG), we are able to provide society with affordable energy while we address the climate change challenge by being an industry leader in terms of carbon intensity. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 3 About this report What we seek to achieve with this Sustainability Report The objective of this Report which covers our activities Lundin Petroleum has a process in place to identify, mitigate for the 2018 calendar year, is to provide our stakeholders and monitor any potential impact it may have on people and information on how Lundin Petroleum manages material issues the environment in order to ensure it reduces potential negative resulting from its activities and those considered material by impacts to as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP) and our stakeholders. These are areas which require our active enhances positive impacts. Our business values, principles and engagement and management, as well as our efforts to achieve expectations are clearly articulated in our Code of Conduct and positive outcomes for the Company and society at large. Corporate Responsibility policies. These are communicated to internal and external stakeholders. The Report should give our readers a clear and comprehensive understanding of how we go about our mission by providing Promoting the Sustainable Development Goals qualitative and quantitative data on material issues. We promote the Sustainable Development Goals and showcase throughout this report where we contribute to their fulﬁllment. This year we have decided to present material issues grouped No poverty (1), good health (3), education (4), gender equality under Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) chapter (5), clean energy (7), decent work (8), innovation (9), reduced headings, as these are three central and well-recognised pillars to inequalities (10), responsible consumption (12), climate action assess the ethical impact and sustainability of a company. (13), life below water (14), institutions (16) and partnerships (17) feature among our actions. This Sustainability Report also represents our annual Communication on Progress in implementing the Ten Principles Changes from last year of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting the This year’s report reﬂects data for 2017 and 2018, rather than broader UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It further over a three year period as per prior reports. The reason for this constitutes our disclosure on non-ﬁnancial reporting required change is to reﬂect our current situation since 2017, when we under Swedish law implementing the EU Directive 2014/95/EU. spun off our non-Norwegian assets. As a result, the operational data presented is readily measurable and comparable as focused Reporting boundaries on Norway. As of next year, we will revert to our practice of The Company’s corporate ofﬁce is in Switzerland, while its reporting data for a three year period, as per recommended operational ofﬁces and assets are in Norway. We have a small Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting norms. team of people carrying out corporate functions in Sweden and in the Netherlands. The waste reporting for 2018 is in accordance with the GRI 306 standard. This represents a change from the reporting standard The reporting boundaries are as follows: G4-0G7 previously used. The new reporting standard is more • Environment: Norway operational control (100 percent basis) aligned with current operations, national reporting schemes and key performance indicator (KPI) criteria used for internal • Social: Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands purposes. The report includes aligned data for the reporting • Governance: Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the years 2017 and 2018. Netherlands The water reporting is aligned with GRI 303 and contains minor Other than climate change, which is the most material and changes in the reporting format from previous years, to reﬂect global issue facing our industry, our most material impacts current operating conditions. take place where we conduct our exploration, development and production activities, namely Norway. 4 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 In 2017, we reported emissions from our mobile drilling units on contract as Scope 3 emissions since these installations are 2019 goals not owned or operated by Lundin Petroleum. In 2018, we learnt that other oil companies categorise such emissions as Maintain high Scope 1 emissions and we have decided to do the same for our 2018 data. For Scope 3, estimated emissions from the end user ethical of our products have been included, while this was not done conduct in 2017. As the Russian business is no longer consolidated into Lundin Uphold people’s Petroleum accounts since 30 September 2017, our people data health and does not include Russia for 2018. safety GRI Transition Our 2018 Sustainability Report is our ﬁrst report prepared in accordance with the new GRI Standards. The transition Minimise from GRI G4 Guidelines to GRI Standard Guidelines was done environmental through a mapping exercise using GRI’s online tool, as well as training with a GRI Certiﬁed Training Partner. Our Report impact continues to make reference to the G4 Sector Disclosure ‘GRI Oil and Gas Sector Supplement’ issued in 2012, which remains Focus on relevant to our activities. carbon Third party verification efficiency CO2 External limited assurance is provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). The assurance letter (p.36) concludes that the report has been prepared in all material Promote respects, in accordance with the GRI Standards’ “Core” reporting level. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, as well Sustainable as the criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and corporate Development management, have been met based on the limited assurance procedures PwC has performed. Goals How to use the GRI Content table Partake in We invite our readers to refer to the GRI Content Index (pp. 3435). The Content Index is divided into three columns: Standard industry-wide Disclosure, Description and Reference. The Content Index is collaborative there to help you navigate the Report and guide you through desired content at a quick glance. efforts Our corporate responsibility 7 approach Our sphere of activity Our Corporate Responsibility approach seeks to ensure ethical Lundin Petroleum carries out exploration, production and business conduct through our Corporate Responsibility sale of crude oil and gas in Norway. We rely on third party Framework as well as alignment with international initiatives. contractors for some activities, namely for rigs, drilling This ensures that we provide safe operations through strong personnel and suppliers of equipment. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) management. We engage with stakeholders through constructive dialogue to Setting the scene ensure alignment between external expectations and operating The 2018 World Energy Outlook of the International Energy practices. We contribute to wider social and environmental Agency states that major transformations are underway challenges through our support to the Lundin Foundation. for the global energy sector. While all sectors face evolving landscapes, oil and gas has been the subject of much Corporate Responsibility is an ongoing journey, one which we discussion due to the level of emissions associated with are committed to pursue, integrating new societal expectations our industry, in particular down the value chain, namely into our business model. Since Lundin Petroleum’s inception industrial and private consumer use. While it is difﬁcult in 2001, we have adopted and revised our Code of Conduct and to predict the long term future of our industry, there is Corporate Responsibility policies, guidelines and procedures a recognised and sought after trend towards reducing and reported on an increased number of topics, covering an dependency on fossil fuels, particularly coal. Despite array of material issues which have emerged over the years. renewable energy increasingly becoming the preferred source to cater for energy needs, forecasts predict that oil This is in line with the rising expectations and demands and gas will remain predominant in the global energy regarding environmental and social performance at a global mix for decades to come. Our responsibility, as such, is to level. Institutional investors are factoring Environment, Social, continue to meet the demand for this type of energy. We Governance (ESG) issues into their investment decisions. actively seek to be at the forefront of technology, in the Through their commitment to the United Nations Principles pursuit of adaptations enabling further efﬁciencies and for Responsible Investment and to good ESG practice, an continuously challenge ourselves internally on what it increasing number of institutional investors and lenders means to be a responsible player in the ﬁeld of oil and gas consider good ESG performance as a sine qua non requirement exploration and production. for committing their funds. This involves a review of Lundin Petroleum’s ESG performance and ratings relative to its peers and due diligence for incremental investments. In line with this, we have chosen to present the material issues in this Report under these three central and well-recognised pillars for measuring the sustainability and ethical impact of our company. Our corporate responsibility journey Code of Conduct Human Rights Community Relations Sustainable Investment Health and Primer Policy Program Whistleblowing Safety Policy Statement HSE Management Corporate Donations First Climate Environmental System Policy Change Carbon Disclosure Policy (Green Book) Statement Project 200120022003200420052006200720082009 6 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 “ We welcome the increased interest of stakeholders and particularly institutional investors in the way we conduct our activities. It confirms our belief that sustainability is a key contributor to our success. Christine Batruch Vice President Corporate Responsibility Norway remains a mature country in terms of resource Defining materiality management and petroleum legislation. The Norwegian oil and In 2018, we relied on the materiality assessment conducted gas industry is highly regulated and the country’s ambition in 2017 with the assistance of a third party materiality to stay a global leader in HSE performance provides for strong expert. alignment between operating companies and authorities. In order to understand issues considered material to our Corporate Responsibility / Health, Safety and Company and to our stakeholder we carried out in 2017 a Environment Board Committee thorough review of applicable laws and voluntary initiatives, In May 2018, Lundin Petroleum’s Board of Directors decided issues raised by civil society in traditional and social media, to upgrade its CR/HSE Board Representation to a fullyand topics reported on by our peers in Norway. ﬂedged Board Committee underlining the importance of the Company’s ESG management approach and performance to To ensure the material issues identiﬁed corresponded to our its continued success. The role of the CR/HSE Committee is to sustainable value creation business model, we carried out assist the Board to monitor the performance and key risks that an internal review taking into consideration sustainability the Company faces in relation to Corporate Responsibility, and business issues and our operating context, oil and gas Health, Safety and Environment. The CR/HSE Committee exploration and production offshore Norway. further oversees the processes and systems in relation to Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct, HSEQ Leadership As no signiﬁcant changes have occurred in the location and Charter, HSE policies, and other corporate requirements as may manner in which we carry out our activities from 2017 to be applicable. Additionally, the CR/HSE Committee monitors 2018, we retained the 2017 materiality assessment as the the effectiveness of the organisation to meet stated goals and basis for this year’s Sustainability Report. Our materiality targets in relation to CR/HSE matters. The Committee meets at assessment is nonetheless subject to periodical high level least twice a year with executive management and reports on review and a comprehensive review on a 24 months basis. its meetings to the Board. Given the robust ESG regulatory framework and culture in In 2018, the Committee met twice and reviewed our CR/ Norway, we identiﬁed health, safety and the environment, HSE performance, our risk management, climate change and in particular climate change as the most salient issues. We southern Barents Sea strategy and performance. have therefore focused our efforts, from a management and operational perspective on these issues, while addressing and reporting on other ESG issues identiﬁed by our stakeholders as material to our sector. Stakeholder Human Rights Engagement Policy Competition Policy First GRI EITI Supporting Law Policy Sustainability UN Guiding Company CR E-learning UN Global Compact Report New Code Principles on UN Call to Action Contractor of Conduct Anti-Corruption Business & HSEQ Declaration Policy Human Rights Biodiversity Leadership Diversity Statement Charter Policy 201020112012201320142015201620172018... Initiatives / Corporate Governing Documents Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 7 Risk management In a world of constant change it is imperative to analyse and be aware of the landscape around us to help establish a coherent risk management strategy. A standardised risk management methodology is used to perform quantitative and qualitative risk assessments to prioritise control activities and enable the Company to deal effectively with potential threats and opportunities. Key material sustainability issues are reviewed from an operating context locally but are also considered in a broader context at the corporate level. Emerging trends are identiﬁed from internal and external sources, discussed at corporate management level on a quarterly basis and reviewed with the CR/HSE Board Committee. “ The majority of Lundin Petroleum’s activities are located in Norway, a country with robust regulatory framework covering our key material issues. Erin Link Corporate Risk and Insurance Director 8 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Main sustainability risks identiﬁed in 2018: ENVIRONMENT Climate change Major accident Risk Risk Negative perception of the oil and gas industry, leading Major accidents and/or well control incidents with potential to the risk of reduced access to licences. Failure to adapt environmental impact resulting from ﬁres, blowout, collision etc. to climate legislation. are a signiﬁcant risk within the oil and gas industry. Response Response Lundin Petroleum operates with one of the lowest Lundin Petroleum’s focus is on safe installations by design. Our carbon emissions intensities in the industry and robust maintenance programs and rig intake process adds to in a country with world-leading environmental further control the risk of an incident. The management system, governance. Carbon footprint and energy efﬁciency of requirements, procedures and processes for safe operations help our operations are reviewed on an ongoing basis and ensure regulatory compliance. Investigations and workshops are greenhouse gas emissions are disclosed regularly. regularly carried out with partners to learn from industry-related events to prevent accidents that could impact the environment. SOCIAL Health and Safety Risk Major accident event with several fatalities, signiﬁcant ﬁre, collision or helicopter accident are a signiﬁcant risk to oil and gas companies. Response Lundin Petroleum has a strong HSEQ management system to ensure regulatory compliance and reduce the risk of incidents. Competency and training as well as emergency preparedness exercises are key to safe operations. Lessons learned from investigations are shared both internally and externally. Audits are regularly carried out to measure the effectiveness of our management system. The Company maintains a robust health and safety culture throughout the organisation to ensure safety and security for our people. Stakeholder value creation Cyber security Risk Risk Negative public opinion of oil and gas companies as well as Increased vulnerability of information to cyber inadequate stakeholder engagement and poor communication can threats or malware attacks enhances the risk to adversely impact business opportunities. system security, data theft and employee data privacy. Response Response Lundin Petroleum reviews its activities with consideration towards Lundin Petroleum’s information system uses multiple stakeholders in the decision making process. The Company mechanisms such as ﬁrewalls, policies and engages at various levels to ensure alignment with stakeholder procedures, cyber detection tools and user awareness expectations, company presence and operations. internal training for employees. GOVERNANCE Ethical business conduct Regulatory changes Risk Risk Risk of non-compliance with ethical business practices, fraud, Effects of legislation or regulatory changes cannot be bribery and corruption. Non-compliance lead to investigations and predicted with certainty and may adversely affect the litigation and loss of legal or social licence to operate. Company. Response Response Lundin Petroleum operates according to the highest level of ethical Lundin Petroleum is actively engaged in the hearing standards, ensured through the consistent application of its Code process for proposed new regulations and the of Conduct, policies and procedures. Internal awareness training is potential consequences of new regulations are well conducted to communicate expectations regarding ethical business known before they are effectuated. conduct to staff and reference to the Code of Conduct is integrated into business supplier contracts. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 9 Stakeholder 8 9 engagement What it means to us It is embedded in Norway’s legislation that petroleum Stakeholder engagement is actively managed as a key element resources on the Norwegian Continental Shelf (NCS) belong of our value creation business model. It is important for to the Norwegian State. The Petroleum Act of 1996 and the Lundin Petroleum to openly communicate with people Pollution Control Act of 1981 set robust requirements on and organisations which maybe impacted by, or impact oil and gas companies regarding the manner in which these our activities. As such, close engagement and long lasting resources are managed. It is our duty to ensure that we meet relationships are strongly embedded in the entirety of our them, and our commitment to seek to exceed expectations activities, from exploration and development planning phases where practicable. Our Stakeholder Policy and guidelines through to ﬁeld operations and ultimately decommissioning. outline how to deﬁne stakeholders and the method of Our engagement also seeks to contribute to the better engagement depending on the nature of the impact, interest understanding of the oil and gas industry and the importance and inﬂuence of the stakeholders. and impact of our Corporate Responsibility commitment on our activities. We map our stakeholders at the time we initiate The following list identiﬁes our main stakeholders and activities, or when new issues arise. Stakeholders are prioritised their sustainability priorities in 2018 given our business on the basis of potential impact anticipated from our activities. context, pursued strategy and value chain. We recognise that For example, before drilling the Silfari well during the fall of our stakeholders vary over time based on new projects we 2018, we analysed what may be the impact of our activities undertake, hence the need to carry out this exercise when and who could potentially be affected. We identiﬁed the initiating new projects or going to a new location. aquaculture industry as potentially the most impacted and therefore engaged with the industry to share our plans and Our stakeholders mitigation activities. This dialogue enables stakeholders The following page highlights stakeholders and main topics to bring forth their viewpoints, which in turn makes the addressed. Company’s Board and management aware and better able to address relevant issues, risks and opportunities. Student Competition: Show us your idea We are always on the lookout for the next good idea. Our annual Student Competition in Norway challenges bachelor and master degree students to present their best idea relevant to our industry. A multi-disciplinary jury from Lundin Norway challenges student ideas and contributes to the further development of these ideas. The ﬁnalists are offered mentoring from our experts. Topics addressed by the students in 2018 included efﬁciency, safe drilling, detection of natural seepage from the seabed and future energy supply, helping us think of future areas of priorities. Annual Innovation Day: Godt Tenkt! The annual Innovation Day held at Lundin Norway is an important contribution to stakeholder engagement. The programme committee, consisting of Norwegian researchers and experts within oil and gas, as well as broader energy industries in Norway, assists in setting the agenda. This enables a two way interaction on what we as a company believe are future topics of interest, which solutions should be further developed and implemented in the near and long term. In 2018, the topics addressed were hybrid energy systems, data science and signal processing, optimised production via Solution Seeker, southern Barents Sea data collection and seabed mapping as well as the industrial mapping of communication between humans and machinery. 10 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Our stakeholders Think tanks · Climate · Security Business partners · Operations · HSE Media Employees Labour unions · Operations · Business ethics · Safety & working environment Regional / · Environment · HSE local authorities · Innovation · Business ethics · Ripple effects · Job creation · Impact assessment · Safeguarding people, the environment and assets · Local community development programs Suppliers · Co-existence with other industries · Business ethics · Emergency response Industry · HSE Shareholders associations · Climate change · Operating responsibly · Economic role · Financial performance · Job creation · HSE · Transparency · Innovation · Contributions · Ripple effects to society Authorities Academia · Prudent operator · Job creation · Innovation · Safeguarding people, environment and assets · Digitalization · Revenue · Payments to the · HSE transparency government Students Fisheries · EU ETS · CO2 tax · Job creation · Licence requirements · Technology development · Impact assessments · Innovation · Mitigation The Norwegian Clean Seas Association for Operating Companies Community · Oil recovery preparedness organisations · Contingency plans · Ripple effects · Socio-economic and environmental impacts · Emergency response • Clima atee ch hange • Biodiversity • Water • Waste Environmental Policy Detect potential environmental hazards Minimize current or potential risks Safeguard ecosystems, species and genetic diversity Promote energy efﬁciency Reduce carbon footprint and greenhouse gas emissions Prevent unnecessary waste Manage use of and discharges to water Lundin Petroleum aims to operate in an environmentally sound manner. In order to achieve this, we require a thorough understanding of, and respect for, the natural environment as well as the environmental impacts from our activities. Taking action to appropriately manage, limit and offset these impacts is critical to our continued success. Lundin Petroleum is fully committed to the precautionary principle and to minimise risks to the natural environment through measures encompassing research and development, environmental assessments and monitoring, implementation of new and improved technologies and techniques for the management of our resources and facilities. The manner in which we manage environmental issues are further described below under separate headings covering climate change, biodiversity, water and waste. The implementation of our environmental strategy and targets set in 2017 gave the Company an ambitious, yet transparent, roadmap for monitoring and handling waste, emissions to air and discharges to water. We met all our long-term environmental targets in 2018. 12 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 13 Carbon intensity 1 Our Governance kg CO2e/boe Lundin Petroleum’s Environmental Policy sets out the Board of Directors and management’s commitment to minimise the Company’s impact on the environment, in particular in relation to biodiversity, climate change, water and waste ~20 management. The Board’s CR/HSE Committee, review with ~10 ~0.7 management on a bi-annual basis, actions taken to embed ~5 the commitment. At senior management level there is a shared responsibility to ensure that management and staff Power from are made aware of the Policy, that there are systems and shore 2022 processes in place to integrate environmental considerations in operations and what is expected of each and everyone World Norway Edvard Johan working in the Company. Grieg Sverdrup As a result, environmental considerations, including 1 Sources NOROG/IOGP for world and Norway data (2016 averages). biodiversity management, emission and waste reduction, Edvard Grieg’s data is from 2018. All data is in kg CO2e/boe (incl. methane). climate change expectations and commitments are managed Johan Sverdrup full ﬁeld estimate data is in kg CO2/boe, data updated August 2018. at all levels of the organisation. Lundin Norway’s Environmental Strategy states that protection of the environment is a prioritised and essential Lundin Petroleum supports the principles and commitments element of operational planning and execution to minimise of the Paris Climate Agreement resulting from the meeting the potential impact of our company’s operations. It outlines of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate the Company’s internal goals for emission intensity and Change in 2015. The Agreement represents signatory countries’ reductions, waste handling, energy loss, as well as research commitment to adaptation and mitigation measures to achieve and development (R&D) targets to further develop emission global greenhouse gas emissions reductions to limit the average reduction technologies. Lundin Norway’s Energy Policy, global temperature increase to below 2 degrees, with an aim to further provides a framework for optimised production and limit it to 1.5 degrees. continuous improvement within energy management. In 2016, the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association’s afﬁliated Climate change companies, among which Lundin Norway, developed a Climate change, one of the world’s biggest challenges, is roadmap to 2030 and 2050, outlining the industry’s path to high on the global agenda. Affordable and reliable energy reducing emissions during this relevant timeframe. In 2017 is fundamental to economic development and prosperity the Norwegian government passed the Climate Act, detailing globally, yet the world is confronted with the challenge Norway’s goals for emissions reductions until 2050. The current of creating a sustainable energy use. Lundin Petroleum industry roadmap integrates the expectations of both the acknowledges the challenge of reaching an energy balance Climate Act and the Paris Agreement. and seeks to contribute, through its high energy efﬁciency strategy to the transition towards a low carbon society. Norway’s regulatory regime requires the use of Best Available Our goal is to be an industry leader in exploring for and Techniques and its ﬁscal regime imposes a tax on CO2 emissions. producing oil and gas with a minimal carbon footprint. Norway is also part of the European Union’s Emissions Trading In this context, we believe that one of the most effective Scheme (EU-ETS). Therefore Lundin Petroleum, in addition to measures to obtain signiﬁcant change in production and paying a carbon tax, participates in the EU-ETS trading scheme. consumption patterns is carbon pricing and carbon taxes. Our experience in Norway demonstrates that despite having Thanks to these regulatory initiatives that date back to the to pay the highest carbon tax effective in any oil and gas 1990s, Norway is a leader in carbon efﬁcient oil and gas producing country, we are able to achieve extremely low production, with an emission intensity approximately half of operating costs. the global average. Lundin Petroleum’s carbon intensity is below industry average on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, at an Our operating context overall 6.5 kg CO2e/boe in 2018 and 4.9 for its operated Edvard Lundin Petroleum’s exploration and production activities Grieg ﬁeld. take place offshore Norway. In 2018, all of Lundin Petroleum’s oil and gas production came from ﬁelds located Lundin Petroleum’s climate strategy and performance are in the Central North Sea. reported annually via the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a comprehensive self-reporting environmental data platform. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 13 Environment Our actions The Rolvsnes well test in the North Sea was used as a test In 2018, our Operations teams developed an online case for in-situ measurements of particulate (black carbon) energy monitoring system which displays real-time energy emissions from a well-test. The work performed is the ﬁrst consumption on the Edvard Grieg platform. This system measurement of black carbon from a well test performed interfaces energy measurement sensors and analytical tools globally. It generated valuable emission data from a well test to understand the energy ﬂow and potential for process and resulted in high-quality emission factors to be used in optimisation. It can be used to track energy performance of the future applications and environmental impact assessments. individual process equipment, as well as of the entire platform. By undertaking these measurements, we are contributing to The system monitors energy performance of different process possible further emission reductions, based on reliable data. systems and establishes energy baselines (KPIs). Should the energy performance be below the established KPI corrective The Edvard Grieg ﬁeld was prepared to receive power from actions are taken. shore in conjunction with the development of the Johan Sverdrup ﬁeld. Electriﬁcation of the Edvard Grieg ﬁeld in A ﬂaring strategy for Edvard Grieg was adopted prior to the 2022 will signiﬁcantly reduce the annual emissions from the commencement of production to conform with Norway’s no platform and will result in one of the lowest carbon emitting routine ﬂaring policy. The strategy describes the Company’s ﬁelds in the world. commitment to ﬂaring reduction and stipulates that process operations and the start-up of new wells shall be performed We are currently supporting the establishment of a low in such a way as to minimise ad hoc ﬂaring. Edvard Grieg emissions centre, a joint venture between operating companies, has a system in place for possible re-injection of gas into the contractors, the Norwegian Research Council and Norwegian reservoir, allowing for continued production without ﬂaring. Authorities. Its mission is to promote the development and In general, ﬂaring has never been permitted in Norway, except implementation of low emissions technologies with a 40 for safety reasons and in limited periods due to production percent reduction in emissions for existing ﬁelds and move upsets or testing of wells. Since the beginning of production in towards the 2050 goal of zero emissions for future ﬁelds. late 2015 through 2018, we were able to limit our non-routine ﬂaring to as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP). Environmental performance forms part of the technical evaluation criteria of our rig contracts and term charters Through the course of 2018, Lundin Petroleum also performed for vessels. Over the course of 2018, new environmental extensive mapping of diffuse emissions on the Edvard Grieg performance measures have been put in place requiring platform and the Leiv Eiriksson drilling rig used at the Alta tenderers to document relevant environmental performance ﬁeld in the southern Barents Sea. This mapping identiﬁed of their activities, including usage and discharge of fuel and robust estimates for negligible fugitive emissions. chemicals, waste water and products from past and present operations. Tenderers are also required to describe relevant measures to reduce fuel and energy consumption as well as segregation and sorting systems. Tenderers’ reports cover environmental considerations, monitoring plans, monthly environmental reports and measurement of emissions. All tenderers have provided the information requested. Audits The Norwegian authorities conduct regular audits on UN SDG/REUTERS movie all companies operating on the Norwegian Continental This movie showcases that our industry has a Shelf, including Lundin Norway. In 2018, the Norwegian responsibility – and opportunity – to play a part in Environment Agency (NEA) conducted an audit of the Alta providing energy that is efﬁciently produced. Through Extended Well Test. The Company’s emission monitoring and this movie, Lundin Petroleum demonstrates how it is control, as well as its oil spill preparedness were reviewed. The actively supporting the SDGs across its core business, speciﬁcally SDG 7 on affordable, clean and reliable NEA audit resulted in no ﬁndings or observations, indicating energy and SDG 13 on climate action. the Company is managing environmental operational issues. Other audits performed in 2018 included veriﬁcation of EU-ETS Climate change requires unprecedented action and by authorised veriﬁers. collaboration between various societal actors and while it is important for oil companies to assume their responsibilities, we all have a role to play, including investors and consumers who limit their own emissions and support companies that are dedicated to limiting their carbon footprint. www.reuters.com/brandfeatures/17-goals/lundin-petroleum 14 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Long term environmental targets 1 2018 Greenhouse gas emission reduction measures from 2020 to 2030 performance corresponding to 100,000 tonnes annually to be recorded by 2020 A lifetime operated portfolio carbon intensity below 10 kg CO e/boe2 6.5 kg CO e/boe 2 Oily water discharges 15 ppm 9.2 ppm Lifetime produced water injection regularity 2 95 % 99 % Energy loss 2% 1.3 % Waste sorting 95 % 99.3 % Waste recovery 75 % 86.8 % 1 targets set in 2017 2 water injection regularity target was misstated (>15%, whereas actual is >95%), corrected March 2019 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 15 Environment 14 Biodiversity We have also increased our understanding of seabird Lundin Petroleum recognises that biological diversity is migrations from their Northern Atlantic breeding colonies an essential element of ecological balance. It is therefore to open waters in the Northern Atlantic oceans which feeds fully committed to the conservation of biological diversity, into our environmental risk and impact assessments. Use safeguarding ecosystems, species and genetic diversity. We of lightweight loggers enable tracking of more species and actively acquire information and increase our understanding individuals, than conventional systems. of ecosystems in which we operate, including the potential impacts of our activities on the environment. Environmental Further to stakeholder consultations, we undertook the task mappings, environmental risk analyses and environmental to develop extensive oil spill preparedness plans for the impact assessments are conducted to help us make informed 2018 Silfari well, in the southern Norwegian Sea. The well is decisions regarding the time and place of our operations. located approximately 50 kilometres from the Frøya Froan coastal wildlife reserve. The operation was coordinated in Our operating context close cooperation with local and national authorities, with a The Norwegian Continental Shelf (NCS) is among the most special focus on spill contingency plans. This collaboration extensively mapped, analysed and managed marine areas drove signiﬁcant updates of the municipal and national oil in the world. Norwegian authorities have been studying the spill plans for the wildlife reserve, in the best interest of all area using management plans since 2006. These plans set parties. out the operational conditions for all activities within the area, including oil and gas exploration and production. The We continued to use subsea landers around key wells in International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) the southern Barents Sea. Subsea landers are temporary protected and other sensitive areas are identiﬁed within the structures placed on the seabed, using different sensors plans. These are then weighed against industrial activities, like plankton recorders, dissolved gas sniffers, video, sonar, local interests, international treaties and goals to determine ﬂuorimeters and turbidity sensors for monitoring during the conditions upon which industrial activities can take place drilling operations. The data provides robust information for within the respective regions. Operational conditions may be documenting ecosystem activity, diversity and responses to imposed when awarding licences, such as periods with drilling our operations. restrictions, special monitoring, oil spill response measures, etc. Management plans are subject to public hearings and must be approved by Parliament. All of our activities on the NCS, as such, are subject to public consultation and authority approval. All acreage is internally assessed, evaluating the environmental and societal impacts. We are particularly attentive to areas in proximity to sensitive coastal habitats, ﬁsh spawning and seabird breeding or feeding grounds, signiﬁcant coral reefs, ﬁsheries, etc. Without a thorough understanding of the environment in which we operate, we do not proceed. Lundin Petroleum does not have any activities or acreage within or adjacent to IUCN protected areas. Our actions As a direct result of seabed mapping, three of the last four wells drilled by Lundin Norway in the southern Barents Sea were relocated from the preliminary location to ensure minimal impact from our activities. Similarly, anchor patterns around the Silfari well in the southern Norwegian Sea were relocated due to the presence of individuals soft-coral species. As one of the founding members in the Barents Sea Exploration Collaboration (BaSEC), an initiative which seeks to exchange information, experience and data for prudent operations, Lundin Norway has gained valuable insights regarding the biodiversity in the area and measures which need to be put in place to preserve it. The work has resulted in signiﬁcant mapping of bird and ﬁsh species in the region, a better understanding of season dynamics and the ecological importance of ice edges and polar fronts. Shared operational oil spill plans have also been developed. This work will continue throughout 2019. 16 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 12 Water A major milestone for 2018 was to qualify and approve Water management is a key issue for the oil and gas industry the online oil-in-water analyser as a regulatory accepted particularly in regions of water scarcity. While freshwater monitor for produced water from the Edvard Grieg scarcity is not an issue for our Norwegian offshore operations, installation. This gives us better control over discharges. we measure and monitor water consumption and water discharges to sea for all of our operations as part of our Waste commitment to minimise our impact on the environment. Waste is produced by human activity and poses threats to human and environmental health. Waste disposal is an Our operating context important responsibility for all societal actors including Our company operates exclusively offshore on the Norwegian corporates who must seek ways to reduce overall amounts Continental Shelf (NCS). of waste produced. From a company perspective we monitor our waste disposal practices to meet and exceed best Our actions practice. The main water management issue is operational discharges to sea. Produced water, slop and bilge water are all discharge Our operating context streams that may have adverse effects on the aqueous At Lundin Petroleum, we focus on waste management environment. Of these three, produced water normally poses both from an operational and ofﬁce perspective. Waste the highest environmental risk and therefore receives the most management is intended to reduce potential adverse effects attention. Norwegian regulations state that no stream shall on the environment. have monthly averages above 30 ppm oil in water. At Lundin Petroleum, we have implemented internal targets of monthly Our actions averages of less than 15 ppm oil in water and a target of more A key focus for 2018 has been to implement a waste than 95 percent of produced water to be reinjected into our reduction campaign for all offshore installations, focusing wells. Both of these targets were met in 2018, with a 9.2 ppm oil on reduction in use of non-renewable materials, single in water content and 99 percent of produced water reinjected. use utensils and styrofoam packaging resulting in large amounts of non-reusable waste. The campaign is ongoing The other major discharge stream to sea is drill cuttings and and has been expanded from our ﬁxed platform to include drill ﬂuids from our drilling operations. In 2018, our discharges all our operated assets. Although our waste sorting statistics were reduced compared to 2017, due in part to reduced indicate that our facilities have implemented a high quality drilling activity and in part to our continuous efforts to reduce waste management system, the waste recovery, in terms discharges. Our focus for discharge reduction in 2018 has been of reuse and regeneration of resources, shows room for on chemicals, prioritising substituting the chemicals with the improvement and will be the subject of focus in 2019. most adverse properties to less hazardous substitutes. Environmental performance Zero oil Zero hydrocarbon One non-material spills leaks chemical spill Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 17 • Employment • Health & safety • Human rights 412 year end employees Women Women Women 33% 26% 28% Board of Managers Employees Directors Men Men Men 67% 74% 72% For Lundin Petroleum it is important to nurture and protect our most important asset, people. Under the heading “Social” we include Lundin Petroleum office and offshore employees, as well as contracted personnel and those with whom we engage with throughout our value chain. We want all those working for us, directly or indirectly, to feel they are safe, have equal opportunities, are fairly compensated and respected, while conforming to Lundin Petroleum’ s Environment, Social, Governance (ESG) commitments made in its Code of Conduct and policies. 18 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 5 8 Our governance Diversity and gender parity Lundin Petroleum’s Employee Handbook outlines terms and Lundin Petroleum fosters an inclusive work environment conditions which are complementary to those contained in the free of any form of discrimination, promoting diversity written Statement of Terms and Conditions of Employment. among the workforce and ensuring equal opportunity for While commitments to gender diversity, employee health men and women. We are committed to diversity, valuing and and safety and respect for human rights are embedded recognising its beneﬁts in accessing a broad pool of quality within our Code of Conduct, they are further addressed in employees, encouraging employee retention and building relevant thematic policies and guidelines. The Chief Executive high performance teams. While we have always fostered an Ofﬁcer ensures these governing documents are implemented inclusive working environment, we have chosen to render throughout the organisation, while day to day responsibility our commitment more explicit in 2018 with the introduction sits with the appropriate heads of departments and the Vice of our Diversity Policy. President Corporate Responsibility. Women represent 28 percent of the total workforce. With Lundin Norway has an onshore Working Environment our policy and recruitment practices, we are continuously Committee. In this committee, two elected employees represent working on increasing this percentage by seeking the the workforce, together with two representatives from senior inclusion of at least one female candidate at the ﬁnal management. The Chair of the Committee alternates between interview stages. employee and management representatives on a yearly basis. The Committee holds quarterly meetings. At Edvard Grieg, Our actions elected delegates are represented together with the Edvard Grieg Lundin Petroleum values and supports workforce management. Lundin Norway also has a member within the involvement when developing our management system, Working Environment Committee run by the rig contractors. including policies and procedures. We ensure that plans, activities and expectations are communicated to the entire Employment organisation. Our operating context In 2018, Lundin Petroleum had 412 permanent employees at We ensure that our employees acquire speciﬁc knowledge year end and approximately 50 consultants. Our employees are about Health, Safety, Environment (HSE) practices. On top located either at our onshore ofﬁces or offshore facilities. of on the job training, in 2018 Lundin Norway employees completed 2,454 hours of HSE training and 1,997 hours In 2018, Lundin Petroleum hired 32 new employees. 50 percent of overall training, including Leadership training. The of the new hires were women. Altogether, at year end women Leadership training was completed by 20 participants in represented 28 percent of the total workforce and 26 percent of 2018, and a further 20 employees are expected to complete the managerial positions. The average age of our employee base it early 2019. This training is intended to prepare current is 44 years. We have over 25 nationalities. managers to be able to assume further responsibilities within the Company in the future. Good employee relations and sound employment practices are actively promoted, offering attractive and safe working Regular appraisals of our staff and management are conditions and freedom of association. The Norwegian Oil conducted on an annual basis, at minimum. These appraisals and Gas Association has framework agreement in place with include discussing future career development, training afﬁliated unions, where negotiations take place on a yearly requirements and performance reviews. basis to reach mutually satisfactory employment conditions. Unionised staff are currently represented in Norway by Tekna, Industri Energi, Safe or Lederne and represent approximately 50 percent of the workforce. Collective bargaining agreements cover those employees who have chosen to be union members. i In order to ensure that our employees have the latest governing documents in hand, and in line Our staff retention has remained steady over the past few years, with our environmental efforts to reduce paper with a 3.21 percent turnover rate in 2018. consumption, Lundin Petroleum employees are no longer provided with paper copies of the Code of Over the course of 2018, we had over 30 interns working in Conduct Manual or Employee Handbook, but are different departments in Switzerland and in Norway. We value rather guided to the intranet page, fully updated and rolled out in 2018. these placements and view them as a good opportunity to assist youth in career development by providing real work experience and explore areas of interests, while developing their skills. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 19 Social 3 Health & safety Lundin Norway launched Lundin calling, a pro-active measure The ambition of the Norwegian parliament is for the to support further continuous improvement of the HSEQ Norwegian petroleum industry to be a world leader in terms of culture and results. It comes in addition to the systems and HSE. This is a clear signal to the industry that excellent safety best practices we already have in place and relates to the performance is expected. individual’s awareness, attitude and contribution to our HSEQ objectives. Our operating context Lundin Petroleum’s objective is to provide a safe and healthy It is used in our communication of important HSEQ related working environment for all employees, contractors and other messages. The ﬁrst Lundin calling topic launched in 2018 was personnel working for us who may be subjected to potential our Life Saving Reﬂexes. The Life Saving Reﬂexes shall function risks. The control and management of health and safety issues as the last set of barriers to prevent life threatening accidents. are considered at all stages of operational and commercial activities. We fully recognise the value of the people working In 2018, we contracted a semi-submersible drilling rig for for us and consider their well-being as a major element of our operations on the Utsira High. Prior to commencing the our business success. We ensure that all persons working for drilling operations, we held ﬁve two-day Safety Leadership Lundin Petroleum are familiar with our expectations relating Workshops. The focus of the training was to communicate to our HSE. safety goals, safe methods of work and to allow for discussions on rig-speciﬁc issues and risks. A total of 280 staff and Our actions contractors attended the training. Throughout 2018, we implemented a wide range of initiatives with the intent to highlight, and where possible improve, our Lundin Petroleum recognises the recent assessments carried safety culture. The initiatives rolled out during the year were out by scientiﬁc and regulatory bodies in Europe and their call based on a review of historical incidents within our company to lower exposure limits to benzene. Petroleum, as a product, and the industry. The overall effect of these initiatives can be contains volatile, carcinogenic benzene, which can represent seen in the fact that we have had no incidents with serious a signiﬁcant health hazard during crude oil production and impact or potential on people or the environment. processing. Further to our commitment to protect employees and contractors against hazardous benzene exposures at our facilities we introduced several control measures on the Edvard Grieg facility to limit exposure: • Annual veriﬁcation program to conﬁrm that even minor hydrocarbon leakages from ﬂanges and vents are kept at a minimum • Monitoring for the presence of benzene as part of the Lundin Petroleum’s actions for permit-to-work system when working on hydrocarbon continuous improvement equipment • Regular monitoring of leading and lagging health • Where necessary, conducting personal exposure and safety indicators monitoring to assess health risk and conﬁrm compliance with exposure limits • Risk assessments and mitigation measures • Investigations, monitoring and improvements • Update the respiratory protection regime, shifting from tight-ﬁtting to powered by air-purifying respirators • Implementation of lessons learnt • Increase worker’s awareness about benzene risks and • Safety reﬂexes proper industrial hygiene precautionary measures through • HSE leadership training information campaigns • HSE campaigns • Audits, veriﬁcation and inspections • Board and executive management visit to EG platform and to construction site The Norwegian regulatory bodies also undertake regular audits of companies operating on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. In 2018, 5 audits were performed on Lundin Norway by the Norwegian Environment Agency and the Petroleum Safety Authority. No critical ﬁndings were made relating to the way we plan and execute our activities. 20 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Safety highlights Lost time incident rate 2018 2017 0.50 per million 0.47 per million hours worked hours worked Total recordable incident rate 2018 2017 1.01 per million 3.30 per million hours worked hours worked Safe operations 2018 2018 Zero fatalities Zero process safety incidents Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 21 22 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Social 10 Human rights Our human rights screenings in Norway in 2018 showed no The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human violations, potential or actual. The risk of our operations or Rights (2011) have helped guide global businesses on how to contractors having labour related issues such as child, forced act responsibly, respecting and promoting human rights and or compulsory labour is very low due to the fact we operate in providing an avenue of remedy if and when needed. Norway only and that we have in place policies and procedures such as our Contractor Declaration to address these issues Lundin Petroleum endorsed the United Nations Guiding down the value chain. Principles in 2012, and remains committed to the promotion of human rights in its sphere of inﬂuence. Our Human Our actions Rights Policy and guidelines set out our expectations All our employees including new hires, have completed the regarding human rights and a zero tolerance for any type of Corporate Responsibility e-learning course. The latter covers discrimination, harassment or other rights infringements. our Human Rights Policy and guidelines, and requires passing a compulsory test to complete the course. Our operating context As we operate exclusively offshore Norway, we face low In 2018, we also implemented a cloud based human rights human rights risks such as child and forced labour. In training to ensure our compliance with regards to the addition to abiding by the UN Declaration of Human Rights, General Data Protection Regulation, and strengthen our we are compliant with the Norwegian Equality and Antiability to develop our human capital as well as pursue talent Discrimination Act which promotes equality and prohibits management. discrimination based on ethnicity, gender or religion, ensures equal rights and opportunities for all. In 2018, there were no We had no whistleblowing cases in any of our areas of incidents relating to equality or discrimination. presence. We are compliant with the Norwegian Working Environment Act which addresses human rights issues and includes the International Convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. We provide an avenue for redress based on our Whistleblowing Policy and procedure which empowers anyone working for us to denounce a wrongful practice and advocate for a remedial measure. Sudan In 2010, the Swedish Prosecution Authority began a preliminary investigation into alleged complicity in violations of international humanitarian law in Sudan during 1997– 2003. The Company has cooperated extensively and proactively with the investigation by providing information regarding its operations in Block 5A in Sudan during the relevant time period and strongly believes that it was a force for development in Sudan. Ian H. Lundin and Alex Schneiter have been interviewed by the Swedish Prosecution Authority and have been notiﬁed of the suspicions that are the basis for the investigation. In 2018, the Company was notiﬁed by the Swedish Prosecution Authority that the Company may be liable to a corporate ﬁne of SEK 3 million and forfeiture of economic beneﬁts from the alleged offense in the amount of SEK 3,282 million, based on the proﬁt of the sale of the Block 5A asset in 2003 of SEK 720 million. Any potential corporate ﬁne or forfeiture could only be imposed after the conclusion of a trial, should one occur. In 2018, the Swedish Prosecution Authority began a preliminary investigation into alleged interference in a judicial matter as a result of allegations of witness harassment. The Company and its representatives are not aware of any details of the alleged actions, despite several requests for details thereof, and reject any knowledge of, or involvement in, any wrongdoing. Ian H. Lundin and Alex Schneiter have been interviewed by the Swedish Prosecution Authority and have been notiﬁed of the suspicions that are the basis for the investigation. Neither investigation entails that charges have been, or will be, brought against any individuals or the Company. Lundin Petroleum remains convinced that there are absolutely no grounds for any allegations of wrongdoing by the Company or any Company representatives in respect of any of these allegations. More information regarding the past operations in Sudan during 1997–2003 can be found on www.lundinhistoryinsudan.com. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 23 • Code of Conduct • Whistleblow wing • Anti-corruption • Comp petition Good governance is there to ensure ethical behaviour across the entire company. It requires having in place relevant policies and processes which set out conditions under which our company carries out its activities and continuous monitoring of their implementation by the members of the governing body. It includes the mechanisms required to balance the powers of the organisation, and their primary duty of enhancing the prosperity and sustainability of the organisation. Governance addresses a number of issues, via both organisational structure and policies, and should be transparent. Governance plays a core role in ESG, as it directly pertains to all Environment, Social, and Governance branches, governing how to best address risks and opportunities. 24 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 “ Our corporate governance structure ensures safe, responsible and efficient operations and is fundamental to our past and future operational success. Ian H. Lundin Chairman of the Board Our governance All key decisions, including approval of yearly budgets, work Since its creation in 2001, Lundin Petroleum has been guided programmes and where operations shall be conducted, are by general principles of corporate governance. These general decided at joint committee meetings between the joint venture principles, integrated in its Code of Conduct, and aligning with parties. The joint venture partners have on-going audit rights the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, form an integral to ensure that the necessary checks and balances are in place part of Lundin Petroleum’s business model. to monitor compliance with the Joint Operating Agreement and legal requirements. Lundin Petroleum’s principles of corporate governance seek to: • Protect shareholder rights Our actions Code of Conduct • Provide a safe and rewarding working environment to all Lundin Petroleum’s Board adopted a new Code of Conduct in employees 2018, revised to reﬂect its current operating context. The Code • Ensure compliance with applicable laws and best industry of Conduct sets out a set of principles directed at giving overall practice guidance to employees, contractors and partners on how they are expected to conduct activities in a safe, healthy and • Ensure activities are carried out competently and environmentally responsible manner. sustainably • Sustain the well-being of local communities in areas of These principles are for the beneﬁt of all stakeholders, operation including shareholders, employees, business partners, and owners of the resources. Lundin Petroleum strives to Lundin Petroleum adheres to principles of corporate continuously improve its performance and to act in accordance governance found in both internal and external rules. In doing with good oilﬁeld practice and high standards of corporate so, Lundin Petroleum decreases the risks associated to unclear citizenship. The Code of Conduct is therefore an integral allocation of responsibilities. It also enables the Company to part of the Company’s employee contracts and contracting manage its responsibilities clearly as well as to avoid conﬂicts procedure; any violations will be subject to inquiry and of interest between its shareholders, management and the appropriate remedial measures. Achieving excellence in Board. Abiding to corporate governance principles builds trust all parts of our business is a key driving force. Our Code of in Lundin Petroleum, which results in increased shareholder Conduct sets out how to apply the same professional and value. By ensuring the business is conducted in a responsible responsible approach to people, the environment and society, manner, the corporate governance structure ultimately paves as we do to our exploration and production of oil and gas. the way to increased efﬁciency. Whistleblowing Our operating context Lundin Petroleum aims to ensure high standards of integrity Lundin Petroleum’s business is to explore for, develop and and to uphold ethical behaviour in the workplace. Revised in produce oil and gas in a responsible way. The Company aims 2018, our Whistleblowing Policy and procedure aim to ensure to create value for its shareholders through exploration and that legitimate concerns regarding serious misconduct in the organic growth, while operating in a responsible way for workplace are raised without reprisals or victimisation. We the beneﬁt of all its stakeholders. To achieve this, Lundin encourage people working for us to voice possible concerns Petroleum applies a governance structure that favours regarding unethical or illegal conduct. Our whistle-blowers straightforward decision making processes. It also provides the are protected against retaliation and identities will be kept necessary checks and balances for the control of the activities, anonymous should this be desired. Concerns can be raised at both operationally and ﬁnancially. The standard within the oil any time, to line managers or supervisors or can be submitted and gas industry is to operate through joint ventures, which via e-mail. All complaints reported to Lundin Petroleum are emphasises the need for a clear division of responsibilities notiﬁed to the Board Audit Committee. Follow-up actions not only within Lundin Petroleum but also between Lundin depend upon the nature of the concern. Petroleum and partners. In each joint venture, one of the parties is designated as the operator in charge of the day-to-day In 2018, there were no cases raised through the whistleblowing operations, in accordance with a Joint Operating Agreement. procedure. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 25 Governance 16 Anti-corruption Competition Lundin Petroleum prohibits all forms of corruption. To ensure In 2018, we adopted a new Competition Law Policy to that everyone working for or on behalf of Lundin Petroleum demonstrate our commitment to ensure that all business understands his/her responsibilities, we provide information practices are in full compliance with legal requirements and training throughout our operations. While there have and best practice in the area where we do business. The been no cases of corruption nor signiﬁcant ﬁnes or nonNorwegian Competition Law prohibits agreements, practices monetary sanctions for non-compliance in 2018, we encourage and conduct which have a damaging effect on competition, any alleged cases to be reported. All alleged cases of corruption such as collusion between competitors or abuse of market are to be investigated, and appropriate actions taken. Our power. Breach of the Competition Law can lead to criminal anti-corruption efforts have been enhanced by including these and corporate liability and can severely damage the together with other ESG issues labour, human rights and HSE Company’s reputation and standing. By setting out employee policies and performance in our contractor evaluations. Antiresponsibilities and requirements in our Competition Law corruption clauses are included in our Contractor Declaration, Policy we seek to ensure that integrity is maintained in all outlining ethical expectations. In the event of non-compliance, business dealings. contracts may be terminated or remedial actions may be sought, depending on the severity of the non-compliance. To illustrate our commitment to combat corruption, we participate in the following initiatives promoting anticorruption: • The United Nations Global Compact • The United Nations Global Compact Nordic Network • The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 26 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 ESG ratings Environment, Social, Governance (ESG) ratings look at how ESG assessments corporations integrate ESG issues into their business model Investor related ESG assessments are carried out by the and their performance in relation thereto. Lundin Petroleum, investment community through internal resources and/or with like other major players in the oil and gas sector, is evaluated the assistance of rating agencies which help them determine and rated on its ESG management and performance. This is the level of risks and opportunities linked to its decision to part of a recent evolution whereby institutional investors are invest in a company. We therefore welcome rating agencies’ becoming increasingly aware of the importance of ESG to assessments of Lundin Petroleum and disclose our existing business success. As a result, they now integrate sustainability ESG scores to contribute to the shaping of investor-relevant assessments of companies in which they invest as part of decision-making processes. While investors’ rating of Lundin their due diligence. Many banks and investment institutions Petroleum is not communicated publicly, some rating agencies have also become signatories to the Principles for Responsible communicate their scoring. Investment committing to integrate ESG considerations into their investment decisions. They assess and measure a Over the years, Lundin Petroleum has observed the following company’s ESG performance over time, as well as compare its themes of interest by ESG rating agencies: performance relative to that of its peers. • Climate change Lundin Petroleum welcomes this heightened interest in • Staff management sustainability, as it conﬁrms the Company’s belief that good • Promotion of innovation governance and business success are linked. • Supply chain management Lundin Petroleum has been reporting publicly about its ESG approach and performance since 2001. Initially it explained Lundin Petroleum actively engages with leading ESG agencies. its Corporate Responsibility approach in its Annual Reports We are pleased that the Company is ranked in the top quartile and later to international initiatives such as the United among the agencies which have rated Lundin Petroleum over Nations’ Global Compact, the Carbon Disclosure Project and the course of 2018, as shown below. rating agencies. Since 2015, following corporate best practice, Lundin Petroleum has been publishing a Sustainability Report providing both qualitative and quantitative ESG data, based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our 2018 ESG ratings A– Top 10 ESG Europe Prime Status Outperformer AA Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 27 Corporate 1 4 16 citizenship Societal Contributions Operational context Lundin Petroleum, as a responsible corporate citizen, seeks to Through our partnership with the Lundin Foundation, have a positive impact on society, particularly in communities Lundin Petroleum supports innovative solutions to address where it has a presence. It thereby supports individuals and key social and sustainability issues in Scandinavia. Projects institutions which share the same values as the Company, such that promote the integration of refugees and migrants as innovation, entrepreneurship and team spirit. into the workforce are carried out in Norway and Sweden. Training, coaching and mentoring are further provided to Lundin Petroleum supports the Good to Great Tennis Academy young entrepreneurs with sustainable business ideas in in Sweden, which offers talented young players with the Northern Norway. opportunity to train and excel in national and international tennis competitions. Thanks to our contribution in 2018, 15 Our actions scholarships were awarded to elite juniors, both girls and boys. In 2018, our social integration efforts focused on three An after-school program was launched for 20 juniors, allowing organisations: Charge, Arctic Accelerator and Care of them to combine school and tennis training. Business. Each project consists in an extensive incubation process, allowing entrepreneurs to gain the necessary Lundin Norway supports the Norwegian College of Elite Sport, training on how to best develop entrepreneurial and business which enables youth to participate in international sports skills. The incubation process also facilitates networking competition while pursuing their schooling and has been a opportunities, to help deliver a business with commercial long standing partner of the Astrup Fearnley museum in Oslo. potential. The museum exhibits leading artists from around the world and has found an innovative way of rendering contemporary Charge (Oslo, Norway) supports the integration of ﬁrstart more accessible by having young experts present to respond generation immigrants by means of building a future through to any questions related to a work or art or its author. Finally, business creation. In 2018, Charge assisted 9 entrepreneurs, Lundin Norway has an extensive R&D programme, supporting of whom 3 women, across 5 teams. All 5 teams registered over a hundred projects which look at new technology running businesses, 3 are are currently generating revenues and equipment to increase the effectiveness of oil and gas and 5 jobs were created through enterprises incubated in the operations. Charge program. Partnership with the Lundin Foundation The Lundin Foundation was established in 2005 and is a Charge was shortlisted as best Incubator in Norway globally recognised leader in promoting good governance and by the Nordic Start-up Awards. leading projects supporting social and environmental issues. The Foundation supports companies within the Lundin Group to address relevant stakeholder issues. Foundation projects Arctic Accelerator (Tromsø, Norway) seeks to boost and currently take place in Africa, Europe and South America intensify the innovation process in promising start-ups and focus on the following pillars: education and training, with business ideas meeting the challenges and market local procurement, economic diversiﬁcation, social and opportunities in Northern Norway towards a sustainable environmental innovation. future. It speciﬁcally aims to increase the recruitment of young entrepreneurs, aged 30 and below. It accepted 22 In 2018, the Foundation received a UN Sustainable entrepreneurs over the year, with 13 women, across 11 teams. Development Goals’ award in conjunction with its work with 6 teams have registered running businesses generating sales Lundin Gold. and creating 9 new job posts in 2018. Since 2016, the Lundin Foundation organises an annual Care of Business (Stockholm/Lund, Sweden) supports a faster Corporate Social Responsibility Summit for the Lundin integration process for refugees and non-EU migrants. The Group of Companies to promote good Environment, Social, project further strives to contribute to a more equal access to Governance (ESG) performance and share best practice among funding and venture capital for start-ups, in a market which the companies. In 2018 the Summit was held in Chile and today lacks in diversity. The project participants included focused on how to track and report on ESG performance, 30 entrepreneurs, of whom 6 were women, across 23 teams. looking at risks and opportunities and industry relevant key 7 teams have registered their business and are generating performance indicators. The Summit, which consisted of a revenues. number of workshops and company presentations, included a visit of Lundin Mining’s Candelaria facilities and various community and impact investments projects around the mine. 28 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 In August, the Lundin Foundation held a ‘Scandinavian Incubator Workshop’ for Scandinavian program recipients to Kidnovation, a start-up from Care of Business, was share lessons learnt and discuss key challenges to stimulate shortlisted as best Social Impact Start-up in Sweden them to explore and develop actions that can contribute by the Nordic Start-up Awards. to improved impact at the program level. In addition to Kidnovation also won the King Carl XVI Gustav program recipients, the workshop was attended by national prize, as a tribute to visibility of entrepreneurs with agencies and institutions, as well as incubator program a foreign background to increase the interest in implementing partners to participate in reviewing Charge, entrepreneurship. Arctic Accelerator and Care of Business. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 29 Sustainability data Indicator Unit 2018 2017 Environment 1 Unplanned releases to sea or land Oil spills Number 0 0 Volume m3 0 0 Chemical spills Number 1 2 Volume 2 m3 31 16.38 Hydrocarbon leaks Number 0 0 Mass kg 0 0 Emissions to air NOX t 1,199 1,137 SOX t 25.8 25.8 nmVOC t 195.7 121.0 Flared and vented emissions Edvard Grieg (gas) Sm3 10,473,113 13,456,445 Cold vented hydrocarbons Edvard Grieg (gas) Sm3 52,618 45,770 Flaring during well tests Gas Sm3 13,584,350 112,354 Oil Sm3 8,308 1,132 Fresh water use Freshwater withdrawal 3 m3 4,155 4,417 Withdrawal from areas with high water stress m3 0 0 Efﬂuents Produced water discharged to sea m3 1,164 5,668 4 Total water discharges m3 11,933 16,335 Regular discharges of oil to water t 0.12 0.27 Drill cuttings t 7,938 13,859 Waste Hazardous waste generated t 8,036 16,612 Hazardous waste recovered t 596 426 Non-hazardous waste generated t 585 603 Non-hazardous waste recovered t 507 500 Energy consumption Total energy consumption 5 TJ 4,778 3,805 Energy consumption from renewable sources TJ 6.8 7.1 30 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Indicator Unit 2018 2017 Environment (continued) GHG emissions Direct CO2 emissions t 391,423 328,432 Direct CH4 emissions t 187 104 Emission intensity kg CO2e/boe 6.5 5.7 Scope 1 GHG emissions 6 t CO2e 396,028 330,214 Scope 2 GHG emissions 7 t CO2e 31.0 31.7 Scope 3 GHG emissions 8 9 Product use MT CO2 16.9 15.8 Travel and logistic supply MT CO2 0.045 0.048 Social 10 Health and Safety Fatalities Employees 0 0 Contractors 0 0 Total 0 0 Lost time incidents Employees 0 1 Contractors 1 0 Total 1 1 Restricted work incidents Employees 0 0 Contractors 0 0 Total 0 0 Medical treatment incidents Employees 0 1 Contractors 1 5 Total 1 6 Lost time incident rate 11 Employees (per million hours worked) 0 1.30 Contractors (per million hours worked) 0.83 0 Total (per million hours worked) 0.50 0.47 Total recordable incident rate 11 Employees (per million hours worked) 0 2.61 Contractors (per million hours worked) 1.67 3.69 Total (per million hours worked) 1.01 3.30 Exposure hours Employees (hours) 785,916 767,609 Contractors (hours) 1,200,314 1,355,856 Total (hours) 1,986,230 2,123,465 Near misses with high potential 0 1 Contractor screening using HSE & CR criteria 12 New contractors (%) 100 100 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 31 Sustainability data Indicator 2018 2017 Social (continued) People Employees Total 13 412 411 Employee turnover (%) 3.21 1.18 New hire rate (%) 7.90 6.35 Gender diversity Number of men 298 298 Number of women 114 113 Women in workforce (%) 28 25 Women in management (%) 26 27 Women in the Board of Directors (%) 33 38 Employees by age groups (%) < 30 years 5 5 30–50 years 56 60 > 50 years 39 35 Board of Directors by age groups (%) > 50 years 100 100 Incidents of discrimination 0 0 Governance 14 Society Disputes associated with operations 0 0 Actual impacts on local communities 0 0 Corporate donations (USD) Sustainable investments 33,063 103,129 Contribution to the Lundin Foundation 1,693,500 1,159,900 Total 1,726,536 1,263,029 Contributions to initiatives (USD) United Nations Global Compact 15,065 10,000 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 40,000 40,000 CDP 9,444 2,795 Total 64,509 52,795 Anti-corruption Communication of Anti-corruption Policy Board of Directors (%) 100 100 Employees (%) 100 100 Training on anti-corruption 15 Board of Directors (%) 100 100 Employees (%) 100 100 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption Number of incidents 0 0 Impact on employees 0 0 Impact on contractor relations 0 0 Legal cases 0 0 Report to the EITI Norway Norway 32 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Indicator 2018 2017 Governance (continued) Compliance Signiﬁcant ﬁnes Number 0 0 Value (USD) 0 0 Environmental ﬁnes Number 0 0 Value (USD) 0 0 Non-monetary sanctions Number 0 0 Environmental non-monetary sanctions Number 0 0 Production Total Payments to governments (TUSD) 16 Taxes Royalties Fees entitlement 2018 Norway 29,237 n/a 33,585 n/a 62,823 1 The Environment data boundary represents Norway operational control (100 percent basis), with the exception of energy consumption and GHG emissions which are at Corporate level. 2 The discharge occured at well location 16/1-28S in PL 338C (North Sea). The spill was discharged in the water column approximately 20m above the sea bed. The spill consisted of aqueous brine (water and salt), and minor amounts of environmentally friendly additives. The spill, being water soluble and non-toxic, is not expected to have any impact upon the environment. 3 The total fresh water withdrawal is the sum of all potable and drilling water loaded onto supply vessels for offshore use, and reported water consumption at ofﬁce premises. 4 Total water discharges is the sum of produced water and treated drainage water from Edvard Grieg platform and drilling rigs. Only water treated for oily water content is reported. 5 Sum of all energy sources consumed during operations, including, fuel/ﬂare gas, diesel, and electricity, from offshore installations, drilling rigs and ofﬁce premises. 1% of our energy consumption is from renewable sources, and 99% is from non-renewable sources. 6 Scope 1 accounts for all direct emissions to air from operated assets, covering all emissions from Edvard Grieg and drilling rigs. 7 Scope 2 accounts for energy indirect emissions from the Lundin Petroleum ofﬁces. 8 Scope 3 accounts for other indirect emissions including travel and emissions due to logistics (supply vessels and helicopters), as well as indirect emission due to product sales. 9 Mill tons of carbon dioxide. 10 The Social data boundary includes Norway, Switzerland, Sweden and the Netherlands. As the majority of the organisation is located in Norway, the information is disclosed at Corporate level rather than per region. 11 Employee and contractor frequency data is obtained by inserting the number of injuries as the numerator and the hours worked as the denominator. 12 We report on main contractors which are determined based on the scope of work, contract duration, contract value and/or relevant risk factors. 13 The Sustainability Report accounts for permanent and ﬁxed term employees by end of year paid directly by the Company, whereas the Annual Report accounts for average numbers for the year. 14 The Governance data boundary includes Norway, Switzerland, Sweden and the Netherlands. 15 Since the introduction of the e-learning course, everyone working in the Company has completed the training, including new hires and Board members. 16 The report on payments to governments with details of payments is available on www.lundin-petroleum.com. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 33 GRI index Lundin Petroleum’s 2018 GRI index, in accordance with the GRI Standard Guidelines “core” level, provides references to the indicators the Company reports on. Standard Disclosure Description Reference GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2016) 1. Organisational proﬁle 102-1 Name of the organisation SR front/back cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services SR 3 102-3 Location of headquarters SR back cover 102-4 Location of operations SR 4-5 102-5 Ownership and legal form SR back cover 102-6 Markets served SR 6 102-7 Scale of the organisation AR 40, 55 and 83 102-8 Information on employees and other workers SR 18-19 and 33 102-9 Supply chain SR 6 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organisation and its supply chain SR 7 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach SR 12 102-12 External initiatives SR inside cover 102-13 Membership of associations SR inside cover and 19 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities SR 5, 9, 10 and 11 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour SR 3 and 6 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics SR 25 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure SR 25 102-19 Delegating authority SR 6-7 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics SR 6-7 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics SR 10-11 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees AR 28-29 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR 28 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 26 102-25 Conﬂicts of interest AR 28-29 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy AR 27 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body AR 27 and 32 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance AR 32 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts SR 6-7 and 10 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes SR 8 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social impacts SR 6-7 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting SR 6-7 102-33 Communicating critical concerns SR 6-7 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 30 and 35-37 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration AR 25 and 35-36 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements SR 19 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 10 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 10 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 11 6. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements AR 94 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic Boundaries SR 4-5 102-47 List of material topics SR content page and 7 102-48 Restatement of information pending with PWC 102-49 Changes in reporting SR 4-5 102-50 Reporting period SR 4 102-51 Date of most recent report SR 38 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 3-4 102-54 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR 38 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR front cover 102-55 GRI content index SR 34-35 102-56 External assurance SR 5 and 36 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary SR 1 and 4 103-2 The management approach and its components SR 6-7, 13, 19 and 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR 6-7 AR: Annual Report SR: Sustainability Report 34 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Standard Disclosure Description Reference GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016) 205-2 Communications and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 26 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR 26 GRI 302: ENERGY (2016) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 31 GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS (2018) 303-3 Water withdrawal SR 31 303-4 Water discharge SR 17 GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY (2016) 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas SR 16 304-3 Habitats protected or restored SR 16 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations SR 16 GRI 305: EMISSIONS (2016) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR 31 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR 31 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions SR 31 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR 31 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (Nox), sulfur oxides (Sox), and other signiﬁcant air emissions SR 31 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (2016) 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination SR 17 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills SR 31 GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (2016) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 32 GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (2016) 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR 30 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT (2016) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR 19 and 30 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (2018) 1. Management approach disclosures 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system SR 20 403-3 Occupational health services SR 20 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety SR 20 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety SR 19 403-6 Promotion of worker health SR 20 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships SR 20 2. Topic-speciﬁc disclosures 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and managament system SR 20 403-9 Work-related injuries SR 30 GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION (2016) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs SR 19-20 and 23 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews SR 19 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (2016) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR 18-19 and 33 GRI 406: NON DISCRIMINATION (2016) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 23 GRI 408: CHILD LABOUR (2016) 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labour SR 23 GRI 411: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (2016) 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples SR 23 GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (2016) 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights rewiews or impact assessments SR 23 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR 23 GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES (2016) 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs SR 10 413-2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities SR 33 GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (2016) 414-1 New suppliers that were screened used social criteria SR 30 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (2016) 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area SR 32 G4: OIL AND GAS SECTOR DISCLOSURE (2012) G4-OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production AR 59-60 and 106 G4-OG6 Volume of ﬂared and vented hydrocarbons SR 32 G4-OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water SR 17 G4-OG7 Drilling waste SR 17 G4-OG10 Signiﬁcant disputes with local communities and indegenous peoples SR 33 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 35 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To Lundin Petroleum AB (publ), corporate identity number 556610-8055 Introduction We have been engaged by Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Lundin Petroleum’s Sustainability Report for the year 2018, which also constitutes the company’s statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Responsibilities of the Board and Management The Board of Directors and the Group Management are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on the inside front cover. The criteria consist of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, as well as the Annual Accounts Act, and the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed. This responsibility includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a sustainability report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the Auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed, and to make a statement on the statutory Sustainability Report. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by IAASB and our examination of the statutory sustainability report in accordance with RevR 12 Auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Such an engagement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all signiﬁcant matters that might be identiﬁed in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. The audit ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 International Standard on Quality Control and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We conﬁrm that we are independent in relation to Lundin Petroleum according to generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, and have fulﬁlled our professional ethics responsibility according to these requirements. Our procedures are based on the criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and the Group Management as described above. We consider these criteria as suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. Conclusions Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria deﬁned by the Board of Directors and Group Management. A statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. Stockholm, March 4, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Johan Rippe Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability Expert Member of FAR 36 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Forward-looking statements Certain statements made and information contained herein constitute “forward-looking information” (within the meaning of applicable securities legislation). Such statements and information (together, “forward-looking statements”) relate to future events, including the Company’s future performance, business prospects or opportunities. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to estimates of reserves and/or resources, future production levels, future capital expenditures and their allocation to exploration and development activities, future drilling and other exploration and development activities. Ultimate recovery of reserves or resources are based on forecasts of future results, estimates of amounts not yet determinable and assumptions of management. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. Statements concerning proven and probable reserves and resource estimates may also be deemed to constitute forward-looking statements and reﬂect conclusions that are based on certain assumptions that the reserves and resources can be economically exploited. Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, using words or phrases such as “seek”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “continue”, “estimate”, “expect”, “may”, “will”, “project”, “predict”, “potential”, “targeting”, “intend”, “could”, “might”, “should”, “believe” and similar expressions) are not statements of historical fact and may be “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that these expectations and assumptions will prove to be correct and such forward-looking statements should not be relied upon. These statements speak only as on the date of the information and the Company does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable laws. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties relating to, among other things, operational risks (including exploration and development risks), productions costs, availability of drilling equipment, reliance on key personnel, reserve estimates, health, safety and environmental issues, legal risks and regulatory changes, competition, geopolitical risk, and ﬁnancial risks. These risks and uncertainties are described in more detail under the heading “Risks and Risk Management” and elsewhere in the Company’s annual report. Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forwardlooking statements are expressly qualiﬁed by this cautionary statement. Lundin Petroleum References to “Lundin Petroleum” or “the Company” pertain to the corporate group in which Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) (company registration number 556610–8055) is the Parent Company or to Lundin Petroleum AB (publ), depending on the context. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 37 i Stay up to date with Lundin Petroleum’s Tell us what you think news and events by visiting our website We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you www.lundin-petroleum.com might have about this report and our performance. Follow us on social media Please send your feedback to info@lundin.ch Previous sustainability reports are available at www.lundin-petroleum.com Your feedback is valued 38 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2018 Printed by Exakta Print Malmö and Landsten Reklam, Sweden 2019. Exakta Print is FSC® and ISO 14001 certified and is committed to all round excellence in its environmental performance. The paper used for this report contains material sourced from responsibly managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC® and is manufactured by Exakta Print to ISO 14001 international standards. Corporate Head Office Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) Hovslagargatan 5 SE-111 48 Stockholm, Sweden T +46-8-440 54 50 F +46-8-440 54 59 E info@lundin.ch W lundin-petroleum.com
