United Nations Global Compact Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi Communication on Progress INDEX Introduction Profile & History Our Strategy Our Priorities How We Run Our Business Business Principles Activities & Practices I. BBSF Corporate Social Responsibility Health Education Local Community II. BBSF HR Practice Investing in our People Conclusion Introduction: Profile & History Named after its founding members, Lebanese Banque Bemo S.A.L. and Banque Saudi Fransi, BBSF is the trading name for Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi, a Syrian private joint stock company operating in accordance with world-class standards. Established in 2004 as Syria’s first private bank in almost 40 years, BBSF, in less than 7 years, has grown in size and stature to become a front-line financial institution, a key player in financing corporate and commercial, industrial, and contracting activities, hence largely contributing to the development of these sectors and the overall economy of Syria. BBSF’s retail banking division strives to offer customers a growing suite of products and a broad spectrum of services including loans, deposits, payments & cash management services. BBSF Strategy: BBSF continues to maintain its pioneering role in the Syrian banking sector, through providing all kinds of services and banking solutions for both retail and corporate needs as well as integrated services for multinational and financial institutions. BBSF’s competitive advantage may be attributed as well to the wide coverage of strategically distributed branches across all Syrian governorates creating a strong Branch network as well as our worldwide correspondent banking network and our high standards of quality. How We Run Our Business: BBSF fully commits to core business values that govern the bank’s relationship with the community, clients, shareholders and employees allowing for a sustainable business model.  Integrity: To uphold integrity and the highest codes of ethics in all activities.  Conservatism: A conservative policy that guarantees a sustainable work flow cycle and mitigates against possible risks.  Confidentiality: To uphold the confidentiality of information at all times.  Excellence and Professionalism: Actions and endeavors to be governed by the highest standards of professionalism and excellence and continuously seeking to improve all aspects of BBSF management.  Social Responsibility: BBSF as a member of the Syrian society continuously seeks to make a meaningful difference through identifying opportunities to improve the lives, wellbeing and economic situation of different components of the society through CSR Activities and Practices: BBSF Corporate Social Responsibility Because we consider ourselves a member of the Syrian society, we’re always striving to make a strong, effective contribution to this community by improving the economy, in addition to living and welfare standards. Health BBSF Support two medical operations “Install Prostheses”: with full corporation with ‘Ahl Al Cham’ Association, Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi had supported the installation of prostheses for many important cases which helped them to go back to their normal life. BBSF Contributes to the Healthcare Exhibition BBSF effectively contributed in the 1 International Healthcare Exhibition held in Damascus Dama Rose. Bringing together both the scientific and commercial aspects of the medical field, this leading fair serves as a focal meeting event for major local and foreign medical and pharmaceutical companies, recording tangible success in terms of generated business for exhibitors and specialized visitors at the same time. BBSF Support internal donation for BASMA Within its various corporate social responsibility activities, BBSF organized an internal donation campaign among employees to support “BASMA”, the active association that helps children with cancer at the emotional, psychological, and social levels. This idea was warmly welcomed and encouraged by the staff and BBSF proved to be not only a bank that cares about society, but also a team working hand in hand to help those in need. BBSF Support Breath Cancer Awareness Campaign: In October 2018, BBSF had launched awareness campaign through the social media and supported Tajaliat exhibition by purchasing paints that helps the associations who looks after women with cancer at the emotional, psychological, and social levels. BBSF Support “Dar Al Karameh” association with medical equipment: In the special occasion of the Blessed Month and to remain faithful to its cherished long-time tradition, Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi had donated to “Dar Al Karameh” association with a medical equipment, which cares with a wide range of those who need to alleviate their suffering. BBSF Support “Together We Run for Basma” BBSF had supported the Marathon which organized by Basma association to support children with Cancer. Education Sponsoring the World Robot Olympic Under the slogan “mnikbar fikom, the bank sponsored the National Robot Olympic competition organized by the Syrian Computer Society, which the Syrian team won in Costa Rica. Support the program “Teach them a career”: With full corporation with JCI, Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi had supported a sustainable development project to teach the deaf a professional career to be part of the community. Howe ever, BBSF awarded with third place for supporting different programs that focused on sustainable development. BBSF supported “Lahn AL Hayat associations” with computers: Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi had supported Lahn Al Hayat associations with 12 computers to help the orphan’s kids with their education. BBSF Launched Dr. Ansari Scholarship BBSF showed his commitment in corporate social responsibility towards the community by launching again the Dr. Ansari Scholarship to students who wants to complete their educational level. Support training program for women In the field of education, the Bank has supported several training projects, including the Cut and make project under the supervision of the Association of the Mariam in in Aleppo, where the project aims to achieve self-sufficiency for war-affected families and to develop their professional abilities by training them on specific work, A career that provides income for them and their families. Local Community: Ramadan Iftar with Lahn Al Hayat Kids: Based on the slogan “together we draw laughter”, BBSF organizes many Iftars in different Syrian regions to put a smile on needy people’s faces during the Holy Month of Ramadan. Sponsoring Tartous Carnivals in Christmas: BBSF sponsored Tartous Carnival in Christmas under the slogan “Syria Deserve Happiness – We are with you”, and looked for all the necessary preparations for Christmas. BBSF Support internal donation for Al Nada Association Within its various corporate social responsibility activities, BBSF organized an internal donation campaign among employees to support “A Nada Association”, with clothes. This idea was warmly welcomed and encouraged by the staff and BBSF proved to be not only a bank that cares about society, but also a team working hand in hand to help those in need. BBSF HR Practice Investing in Our People Training and Development Programs Staff members are the core element of BBSF and its greatest asset. Consequently, and in view of the high significance of our people, the Human Resources department in BBSF always focuses on developing the employees’ knowledge and performance by carrying out continuous training sessions in all the bank branches on different fields related to the bank’s work including general activities, management skills, credit and risk management, time management, supervisory skills, sales skills, and project finance that emphasizes the way to handle the financing of a project and the required follow-up. Above all, the success of our work, maintained by training, largely depends on the quality of individuals we seek to attract and retain. BBSF talents: Bemo Saudi Fransi Bank had launched BBSF Talents to support and develop the creative spirit of its employees. The competition aims to highlight the individual and collective talents of the Bank's employees Conclusion: Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi has shown constant commitment to abide by the ten principles of Global Compact and worked hard to apply them carefully, with full attention to every single detail. The Bank will therefore be a highly effective member of the Global Compact Committee and will lead by example all other institutions in the Syrian Market. Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi Mnkbar Fikm .
