During the past year, we have taken steps to strengthen our commitment to operating sustainably, which we deﬁne broadly as conducting our business ethically, committing to create marketing messages that promote sustainable consumption patterns, minimizing our environmental impact, and fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging. Our sustainable operations are aligned with the long-term health of the communities where our employees live and work. In this, our fourth year of reporting on our sustainability initiatives utilizing the new GRI Standards framework, we have continued to strengthen our commitment. This year, we expanded the measurement of our emissions and other environmental impacts using GHG Protocol Corporate Standards to include all buildings globally over 50,000 square feet as of the end of 2017. The boundary was expanded from last year’s which included all of North America over 50,000 square feet, and select buildings in the UK and France. This expanded boundary as of the end of 2017 now includes 48% of our worldwide headcount (up from 37%) and 53% of our worldwide square footage (up from 45%). IPG continues to make strides in our areas of environmental focus – energy usage, recycling, travel and green building practices, as outlined in our recently updated sustainability policy – with a 38% reduction in square foot per employee from 2004 to 2016 and a 66% reduction in power consumption in our central IT operations since 2008. And, in terms of our greenhouse gas emissions, we've set a Scope 2 relative intensity target for 10% reduction by 2030 in metric tons CO2e per employee from a baseline of 2015. We once again renewed our support of the United Nations Global Compact and committed to uphold the Compact’s 10 principles in the areas of environmental sustainability, fair labor practices, human rights and anti-corruption. This year, IPG has continued its support of United Nations Sustainable Development Goal #6, access to water and sanitation for all. Some of our agencies’ work in this important area includes client partnerships that bring clean water to areas where it is sorely lacking, as well as corporate initiatives like our donation this year to fund a rehabilitated hand pump for a well in Ethiopia that will help bring clean water to hundreds there. IPG and Huge were recognized 1 by the United Nations for our work with Common Ground, the initiative that brings together the large holding companies in our sector in support of the Sustainable Development Goals. Huge helped create a youtube campaign aimed at garnering Gen Z’s support of the SDGs. We have involved our employees in these eﬀorts too, and IPG agencies continue to engage on issues of concern in their local communities and globally. Recent projects have included work with the #metoo movement, bringing awareness to PTSD suﬀerers, and encouraging blood marrow donations. Doing what’s right for our communities is an important part of our DNA and of our history. It’s also critical to our continued success. The single most important factor in our company's success is talent. And our talent is drawn from people of varying ages, backgrounds, cultures, faiths, genders, physical abilities, races, gender identity, and sexual orientations – to name but a few of the qualities that make each of us unique. IPG has committed substantial resources and expertise to increasing diversity in our ranks and to forging a sustainable culture of inclusion at our company. In 2017, IPG’s diversity and inclusion group executed nearly 100 programs reaching thousands of people. At IPG, we encourage, protect and celebrate our diversity. For us to compete eﬀectively, our workforce has to reﬂect the world's changing demographics and more important, its changing marketplace. We are committed to working to deepen and broaden our commitment to sustainability during the year ahead. You can read more about IPG’s commitment to communities where our employees live and work on our sustainability website, STRONGER. 2
