ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CONTENTS YEAR IN REVIEW OUR STRATEGY 32 Introduction 4 2020 Plan 34 Chairman & Founder’s Report 6 CEO Report 8 OUR PERFORMANCE 36 Our Year in a Snapshot 10 Financial 38 Brand and Know-How 42 OUR BUSINESS 12 Intrepid Group In the News 50 Our Journey 14 Customer 52 Trends in Our Market 18 People 54 and Destinations Environment 58 How we Create Value 20 Social and Relationships 62 Business Overview 22 Intrepid Travel and 24 OUR GOVERNANCE 70 Adventure Tours Australia Our Board 72 Peregrine Adventures 26 Corporate Governance 74 Urban Adventures 27 Risk Management 76 Peak DMC 28 Our Material Risks 78 The Intrepid Foundation 29 Policies and Guidelines 80 Our Commitment to 30 Sustainable Development OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION 88 MATERIALITY IN THIS REPORT This report focuses on the matters that are deemed the most valuable and relevant for the stakeholders of Intrepid Group. The following outlines the material items that are included within this report: n Our external environment n Customer satisfaction n Our relationship with the communities in which we n Responsible business practices n Employee engagement operate n Financial performance n Employee wellbeing n Corporate governance 2 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 3 INTRODUCTION WELCOME TO INTREPID GROUP’S FINANCIAL TERMS 2018 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Total Transactional Value (TTV) This integrated annual report initiative, the UN Global Compact is n Employees THE REPORT FOCUSES ON The Intrepid Group Board Gross price of an Intrepid Group both a practical framework for action SIX CAPITAL INPUTS OF: acknowledges its responsibility to tour, and other non-tour products Customers outlines our journey so far, and a platform for demonstrating n ensure the integrity of this report, n Supply chain partners sold before any discounts or our performance in 2018, and corporate commitment and leadership. Financial which we believe is prepared in commission expense n Travel agent partners reference to the IIRC IR Framework. the outlook for our multiAs a signatory, we are required to n Shareholders Environment An independent audit of the Group’s Group Gross Revenue brand global business in 2019 produce a Communication on Progress n Regulators and government bodies Report each year; to show the progress annual financial statements was TTV plus income from and beyond. performed by PwC and a summary of associates and external we’ve made in each of the sustainability It sets out our relationship with Social & Relationship areas we’ve committed to tackling these financial statements is included operators In 2018, we have included The Intrepid stakeholders, what we do in our as a business. Our 2018 integrated within this integrated annual report. Foundation, a stand alone not-forbusiness, the outcomes of these activities People Annual Report combines our ninth The rest of this report has not been Departed Revenue profit which Intrepid Group supports, and our role within the community. Communication on Progress Report subjected to independent audit or in this report. Importantly, it builds on our Customer Revenue reported at date with our financial results. review. Information reported has been of departure accountability and transparency as a derived from the Group’s own internal OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING By merging our sustainability reporting business; sharing the strategies that records and from information available Intrepid Group has been a signatory Brand and Know-How Booked Revenue with our financial results, this report worked, and those that didn’t. in the public domain. to the United Nations (UN) Global demonstrates how we create both This report draws on the International Revenue reported at date Compact since 2008. As the world’s For each, we illustrate our performance Intrepid Group is an independentlyshort-term and long-term value for all of booking largest corporate sustainability Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) in 2018, how the capital contributes to owned Australian company and all our stakeholders, including: International <IR> Framework. our 2020 strategy, and the outlook for figures are reported in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. Compound Annual Growth 2019, and into the future. Rate (CAGR) Measure of growth over multiple time periods 4 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 5 CLICK HERE TO ADD TEXT INTRODUCTION CHAIRMAN AND FOUNDER’S REPORT It’s been 30 years since we started While growth is nice, it also creates a As we celebrate our achievements Intrepid Travel, with an idea for bit of a dilemma for people who love and look to the future, I’d like to a style of travel that was a real travel. Overtourism has become a real acknowledge the people that got us alternative to the cookie-cutter concern for the tourism industry – and here. There’s a saying that if you want ways of mass tourism. We were much younger then, but Manch climate change is the single biggest to go fast, go alone. If you want to go and I believed that travel could issue facing our world today. far, go together. Intrepid wouldn’t have benefit travellers – and the people become the business that we are today This is the second year that we’re and places that they visited. without the hard work and support providing transparency to all our The world has changed enormously of our travellers, the people we visit, stakeholders by publishing an since 1989. The tourism industry has but most of all our people – thanks to integrated annual report. This report grown exponentially, and consumers all Intrepid staff and leaders past and has been approved by Intrepid Group’s have been on a flight to authentic present. You are changing the way Board. Based on feedback from last travel that reflects their values and an people see the world. year’s report, we have been even more ever-increasing desire for experiences. transparent about the things that went That appetite for our style of travel wrong in 2018. This level of visibility has helped us to become the world’s not only helps us to improve our largest adventure travel company. compliance with the IR framework – it Darrell Wade In 2018 we’ve delivered another record makes us more accountable, and that Chairman and Co-founder year of growth, building towards our makes us a better business. 2020 strategy. But celebrating 30 years has really put the future in focus. In 2018 we’ve delivered another record year of growth, building towards our 2020 strategy. But celebrating 30 years has really put the future in focus. 6 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 7 INTRODUCTION CEO REPORT In almost every way, 2018 has That’s why I believe our most The Intrepid Foundation. You’ll been our best year ever. noteworthy achievement in 2018 find more detail on the activities was to become a certified B of the Foundation in this year’s It was our third consecutive year of Corp. B Corps meet the highest report with our focus to improve record growth in revenue, profit, and global standards of social and livelihoods through sustainable travel the number of customers travelling environmental performance, experiences. It’s this shared value with our brands. accountability and transparency. approach which is creating a legacy This level of growth puts us in a After an extremely rigorous for our founders and demonstrating healthy financial position enabling assessment, I am proud to say that how travel truly can be a force further investment into our macro we are now the largest certified B for good. strategy of Growing with Purpose. Corp in the travel industry, globally. I’d like to congratulate Darrell and In 2018 we continued to expand and It’s our commitment to transparency Manch for 30 years of building a innovate our product range, ending through the UN Global Compact and business with a purpose beyond the year on a high with the launch our annual report that is helping profit. Our commitment to their of our polar charters. This launch make us better. That’s why this vision of changing the way people was not only a milestone in the report also includes our low points, see the world through sustainable growth of our small ship adventures the things that we didn’t quite experience-rich travel is as strong product, but also marked the return get right. It shows that while our now as it has ever been. of the Peregrine Adventures flag annual performance in 2018 was to Antarctica as a seven continent Please take the time to read over very strong, we’re not moving fast tour operator. our 2018 Annual Report and enough on aspects of our strategic Communication on Progress. The year was punctuated by a series implementation, particularly when it of celebrations. We were thrilled comes to our FIT product range and to win a huge haul of awards that expansion into the China market. We recognised our people, our product, will place more focus on this as part our philanthropy, and our sustainable of our emerging 2025 strategy. tourism practices. But we don’t want As we grow with purpose, we James Thornton to just be the best travel company continue to set big goals for our Chief Executive Officer in the world. We want to be the best business and our not-for-profit, travel company for the world. There are a lot of things to be proud of in this report, but it’s the work we’ve done to become a certified B Corp that I believe is the most noteworthy. 8 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 9 INTRODUCTION CLICK HERE TO ADD TEXT OUR YEAR IN A SNAPSHOT 54% $1.15M+ 31% 82% $402M THE WORLD’S LARGEST GROWTH IN URBAN DISBURSED BY INCREASE IN GLOBAL EMPLOYEE GROUP GROSS REVENUE CERTIFIED TRAVEL ADVENTURES THE INTREPID PEAK DMC SALES ENGAGEMENT SCORE B CORP CUSTOMERS FOUNDATION 7 73 15.7% 26% 431,000 BEST FOR CONTINENT OPERATOR INTREPID TRAVEL 2YR CAGR FOR GROWTH IN CUSTOMERS TRAVELLED EMPLOYMENT WITH THE LAUNCH TRIP NET INTREPID TRAVEL BOOKED REVENUE WITH INTREPID GROUP WON BY INTREPID GROUP OF OUR NEW POLAR PROMOTER SCORE FOR PEREGRINE IN 2018 COLOMBO AT WORLD CHARTERS ADVENTURES RESPONSIBLE TOURISM AWARDS 2018 10 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 11 OUR BUSINESS As the world’s largest adventure travel company, our mission is to Change the Way People See the World by delivering sustainable experience-rich travel products. This means we’re not only committed to giving our customers a travel experience they’ll love, but also using the power of travel to benefit the places and people we visit. OUR CLICKBUSINESS HERE TO ADD TEXT OUR JOURNEY Our founders didn’t start operating their own trips – Darrell GROWING WITH PURPOSE TRAVEL AS A FORCE FOR GOOD from a kitchen table in Melbourne and OUR COMMITMENT TO out with a plan to create the Manch as our first leader in Thailand. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Society’s most challenging problems that can achieve a win-win situation world’s largest adventure The idea that we could be something cannot be solved by governments and for everyone involved. This shared RESPONSIBLE TRAVEL – not-for-profits alone. We can have a value approach to communitytravel company. bigger than just a travel company OUR PRODUCT positive impact not only through the based tourism gives our business a helped to fuel the growth of our way we travel, or by providing funding, competitive advantage. The year was 1989. Darrell Wade The Intrepid style of travel has always business. From just 46 travellers but also by using our whole business and Geoff (Manch) Manchester had been to travel the local way: using in our first year, we quickly added As a certified B Corp, we’re now as a force for good. just returned from travelling with a local accommodation and transport, destinations and sales regions, also part of a global community of group of friends through Africa in a eating in local restaurants, travelling soon launching our own destination Over the years, we’ve advocated for a companies which are redefining converted garbage truck. Along the with local leaders. That means more management companies and our range of issues such as climate action, success in business to build a more way they had an idea for a style of authentic experiences and ensuring day tour brand. As consumers’ animal welfare, child protection and inclusive and sustainable economy for small group travel that would show that a larger share of the money appetite for our style of small group, gender equality. For example, we were the long-term. people the world as it truly is. generated through tourism stays immersive travel has grown, so has the first global tour operator to end But for every step forward, we realise where it belongs: in local pockets. our product offering. elephant rides in 2014. It was a risky From the beginning, they believed that there’s still much more we can do. decision at the time, but doing the travel could benefit both travellers and And with this growth, we’ve recognised And just like any good journey, ours is THE INTREPID FOUNDATION – right thing not only helped to grow our the communities they visit along the that we have a responsibility beyond still going. Although we’re a bit larger OUR NOT-FOR-PROFIT business, it has changed the industry. way. In fact, their first business plan just our product. That’s why we these days, we’re still run by travellers, had Intrepid Travel donating money Our travellers wanted to give back became a signatory of the world’s Instead of straight philanthropy, for travellers, and we still get a kick out to local projects before we were even to the communities we visit too, largest corporate sustainability we’re focusing on empowering of responsible travel and very (very) making any money. so in 2002 we set up The Intrepid initiative, the UN Global Compact, communities by creating partnerships big adventures. Foundation, matching travellers’ in 2008, and a carbon neutral travel They didn’t really understand how donations dollar-for-dollar and company two years later. the travel industry worked, so right covering all administration costs. from the start they were selling and 14 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 15 OUR BUSINESS INTREPID GROUP TIMELINE Celebrating 30 years of adventure.... 2017 50% stake in Chimu 1989 2002 2008 2010 2011 2014 Adventures is acquired 2019 Intrepid Travel is born after The Intrepid Intrepid becomes Intrepid Travel PEAK Adventure Elephant riding Intrepid Travel an epic Africa overland Foundation is a UN Global becomes carbon Travel is formed, a on all trips is Adventure celebrates adventure, and runs its formed Compact signatory neutral strategic venture ended Cruising is 30 years first trip in Thailand with TUI Group launched 1989 2019 1998 2005 2009 2012 2015 2018 Intrepid Travel is Establishment Urban Intrepid Group is Founders Geckos the first global of our first Adventures formed, including take 100% Adventures is tour operator to Destination is launched Peregrine ownership of transitioned to introduce a Management Adventures, Intrepid Group Intrepid Travel Responsible Travel Company (DMC) Geckos as 18 to 29s department Adventures and product Adventure Tours Australia Intrepid Group becomes a certified B Corp 16 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 17 OUR BUSINESS TRENDS IN OUR MARKET AND DESTINATIONS Our ability to create shared the eighth consecutive year, tourism KEY FACTORS IN MARKET: n Experiences over product: KEY FACTORS IN DESTINATION: value for all our stakeholders is outpaced growth in the wider global Consumers are demanding more directly influenced by our ability economy (3.9% for travel and tourism n Overtourism: A growing authentic, immersive and local Resilience is becoming increasingly important for tourism businesses, in a world awareness of the negative impacts increasingly faced with, and divided by, regional and global crises. Diversifying to respond to the economic, versus 3.2% for global GDP). experiences. Bookings on Airbnb’s of mainstream tourism has had a our business has enabled us to continue to grow, as well as support our staff and regulatory, political and social Experience platform grew by With this growth comes a greater positive impact on our business, communities in destination to rebuild and recover. environments that we operate in. 2,500% in 2017. Our business awareness of the negative impacts of as our model leaves the smallest We’re continuing to position our model means we are well-placed to mainstream tourism and a growing footprint and is a better way to n Turkey: Ongoing political n Mexico: We saw a decline in business to react to, and benefit continue to take advantage of this consumer expectation of travel travel to major tourist destinations. instability and terrorist attacks bookings for several months after from, the challenges and longtrend. companies to integrate sustainable We are creating innovative during 2015/2016, as well as US the earthquake in December 2017. term trends that are impacting the practice into their operations. product solutions that benefit all n Rise of online travel agencies visa issues in 2017, saw a decline travel industry. n Indonesia: Terrorist attacks in stakeholders. (OTAs) and impact on tours in travel to a destination that was May 2018 attracted global media The global travel and tourism sector MACRO CHALLENGES & activities: Experiential travel previously one of our most popular. attention. A volcanic eruption in grew at 3.9% to contribute a record n Foreign exchange rates has become a leading product Moving forward, there are a number The global nature of the Intrepid n Myanmar: Bookings to Myanmar July 2018 closed airports in Bali, $8.8 trillion and 319 million jobs to offering for OTAs. This trend has of key macro challenges for the Group business exposes its fell significantly when the Rohingya with additional minor eruptions the world economy in 2018, according helped fuel the growth of our travel industry, including: addressing volatility in foreign exchange rates. crisis hit the news in late 2017. This in January, July and December. to the World Travel & Tourism Urban Adventures brand, which the impact of climate change on The Group maintains a robust has had a substantial impact on Lombok was impacted by a tsunami Council’s (WTTC) annual research provides a scalable platform of destinations and the travel industry’s foreign exchange hedging strategy our number of departures in 2018. and an earthquake. Despite into the economic impact and social unique local experiences. responsibility to ensure that to reduce this impact on the this, our bookings to Indonesia importance of the sector. For n Cuba: One of our hottest responsible business practices maintain business and price fluctuations n Political uncertainty: continued to grow in 2018. destinations in 2016, we’ve seen destinations for generations to come. to customers. In 2018, uncertainty around a decline in bookings, particularly Brexit continued, impacting since the US government issued consumer confidence. travel warnings. 18 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 19 OUR BUSINESS HOW WE CREATE VALUE INPUTS OUR BUSINESS OUTPUT OUTCOMES THE INTREPID GROUP WAY CREATING SUSTAINABLE As a global multi-brand business, with a dedicated operations network EXPERIENCE-RICH TRAVEL on the ground, Intrepid Group is able to take ownership of the entire Financial Environment customer journey from beginning to end delivering a highly tailored Financial Environment and personalised experience for our travellers. We maintain a We commit to being Long-term sustainable Destinations we travel healthy balance sheet carbon neutral and to Local growth of our business to are preserved for to enable growth the sensitive design interactions across multiple regions the generations to and expansion of of trips to minimise Unique and destinations come (see pg 58) the business our footprint on the experiences (see pg 38) environment Diverse Customers Partners product range Positive impact to customer, INSPIRATION • Content creation • 3x sales regions community & Regular BRAND environment departures Social & relationships People • 24/7 customer Social & relationships People support We commit to We invest in our Strong, resilient A diverse team of giving back to the people, culture and communities empowered and communities we training so that our that benefit from our motivated people • Trip design 1,200 itineraries travel to by employing team are safe, happy Local travellers (see pg 62) committed to providing • Safety & governance locally, buying locally and able to deliver TOUR leaders and investing in against business goals CREATION OPERATOR • Responsible travel customers with the best travel experience • Community engagement community projects ever (see pg 54) • PEAK DMC network EXPERIENCE DESTINATION MANAGEMENT of hotels, transport, COMPANY leaders, safety, logistics • 21 DMCs globally Customer Brand & know-how Customer Brand & know-how We invest in innovative We invest in our brands Happy customers who Increased value of our products and and operations to become ambassadors brands across multiple leader training to ensure that we deliver for our brands and our regions (see pg 42) deliver exceptional the right product to business (see pg 52) experiences to our the right market at the customers right time Communities Local suppliers Happy customers Planet OUR VISION OUR PURPOSE OUR VALUES GROWTH RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION PASSION FUN INTEGRITY Stakeholders in Think global, act local Thriving on new ideas We are inspired by the It’s ingrained into who Doing the right thing our own success and embracing change work we do and the we are and what we do trips we o er 20 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 21 CLICKBUSINESS OUR HERE TO ADD TEXT BUSINESS OVERVIEW Intrepid Group includes four tour operator brands offering more than 2,700 diverse itineraries in 120-plus countries across every continent. Each brand has its own identity and caters to different segments of the tourism market; from the widest range of small group adventures with Intrepid Travel to small ship adventures with Peregrine Adventures. Each brand is supported by a global operating network of 21 destination management companies, which operate each of our itineraries using their local expertise. Destination Small group Day tours Management adventures Companies In addition to our travel brands, we also operate our not-for-profit, The Intrepid Foundation (see pg 29) and Adventure.com, our global online travel publication. Additionally, Intrepid Group also has joint venture partnerships with Chimu Adventures, Outback Tour Services and Kimberley Wild Expeditions. These companies along with Adventure.com have been excluded from this report on the basis of materiality. 22 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 23 OUR BUSINESS AUSTRALIA INBOUND Adventure Tours Australia (ATA) has been leading travellers throughout Australia for 26 years, and we’ve been recognised for our outstanding down-to-earth leaders, exclusive accommodation offerings, sustainable travel practices, and close working partnerships with First Nations communities. Our Australia itineraries are sold through both ATA and Intrepid Travel. 26 15 INTREPID TRAVEL YEARS OF OPERATION AVERAGE GROUP SIZE As our flagship brand, Intrepid cater to socially conscious Gen Z and Travel’s small group adventures are for travellers of every age, millennial customers looking for a more sustainable alternative in a crowded $285 65% budget and appetite for adventure. With three distinct travel styles to youth adventure travel market. Intrepid Travel was launched in 30 AVERAGE TRIP COST PER DAY FEMALE CUSTOMERS choose from – Basix, Original and 1989 and will celebrate 30 years of YEARS OF Comfort – and more than 1,000 operations in 2019. OPERATION 80+ itineraries across 120-plus countries, $189 Intrepid Travel has the broadest product offering of Intrepid Group’s brands. PRIVATE GROUP ITINERARIES No matter which trip customers might TRAVEL AVERAGE TRIP choose, they all enjoy the hallmarks of what makes our sustainable, Travellers are increasingly COST PER DAY experience-rich products so special: a seeking a more customised small group style of travel that allows style of travel, with itineraries them to eat, sleep and get around like the locals do, an expert local leader designed to suit their needs, interests and travel companions. While Intrepid 10 who can show them the highlights, Group customers can choose AVERAGE as well as the hidden gems and most from more than 2,700 ‘off GROUP SIZE unique experiences, with an emphasis on low-impact responsible travel. the shelf’ itineraries, our Private Groups team can also In addition to our core destination itineraries, Intrepid Travel features 12 product themes designed to cater to arrange special departures and tailored itineraries under 1,000+ each of our four tour operator our customers’ interests and travel ITINERARIES IN brands. Launching a more preferences. These are Cycling, Food, 120+ COUNTRIES comprehensive tailor-made Polar, Sailing, Adventure Cruising, offering forms part of our 145 Family, Active, Walking and Trekking, strategic plan. Festivals, Wildlife and Short Breaks. In 2018, Intrepid Travel introduced a DAYS AVERAGE new product theme after absorbing BOOKING LEAD TIME the Geckos Adventures brand: 18 to 29s. This product line was created to 24 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 25 OUR BUSINESS PEREGRINE ADVENTURES URBAN ADVENTURES Peregrine Adventures delivers and Adventure Cruising itineraries. We Urban Adventures was created meet-ups and regular communication premium trips with a focus on also offer Limited Edition tours created to offer a new style of day tours, across a network of like-minded tour immersive local experiences. with niche interests in mind, such as enabling travellers to escape the guides and entrepreneurs. Our global We offer sustainable itineraries a historical-themed trip retracing the tourist traps and connect with reach ensures that local UAPs have 41 9 with award-winning local leaders, fall of the Berlin Wall, or a Firedance the cities they visit, and those the same opportunities in terms of hand-picked accommodation Festival in Papua New Guinea. who live there. distribution and support, and therefore and small private vehicles. It’s a access to major international markets, ADVENTURE CRUISING YEARS OF By taking our travellers into local YEARS OF premium experience, but never as larger tourism businesses. OPERATION neighbourhoods with a local guide, OPERATION an artificial one. A cornerstone of the Peregrine we’re giving them the opportunity to This global partnership structure is The Peregrine Adventures traveller Adventures brand is our small ship $353 1,200+ directly engage with the community in unique within the day tours sector. is more discerning than the Intrepid cruising product: Adventure Cruising. a way few other city tours can. It means that local people benefit Travel audience. They’re often extremely Created as a disruptor to the cruising from employment and leadership well-travelled, with a management-level industry, and a sustainable alternative Today, Urban Adventures is the AVERAGE TRIP opportunities, and helps to keep ITINERARIES IN career behind them, and are retired or to the mega-cruises already in fastest-growing brand at Intrepid COST PER DAY tourism income in local communities. 67+ COUNTRIES thinking about retiring. They’re looking market, Adventure Cruising allows Group, and has grown into a global An added benefit for consumers is for a slower, more considered pace of our travellers to uncover the culture, network of 150-plus destinations on six knowing that UAP businesses must 9 $84 travel with the opportunity to savour cuisines and coastlines of popular continents, offering more than 1,200 operate in accordance with Intrepid the moment longer. destinations without swamping the experiences. It’s expected that Urban Group’s responsible tourism policies. locals. We launched our Europe range Adventures will carry 1 million annual While Peregrine Adventures travellers AVERAGE customers by 2021. AVERAGE TRIP in 2017, and our new South-East Asia may be more mature (the average GROUP SIZE COST cruising itineraries in 2018. age of our travellers is 61) they’re still THE URBAN ADVENTURES MODEL Urban Adventures 240+ 12 adventurous at heart, and are familiar Global Team POLAR EXPEDITIONS Urban Adventures operates on a with life on the road. They’re prepared to venture off-the-beaten-track when Our operational partnerships with franchise business model, with a Recruit Quark Expeditions and shareholdings network of local Urban Adventures all the details are taken care of, and ITINERARIES IN AVERAGE GROUP with Chimu Adventures means we Partners (UAPs). UAPs have the with a few luxury elements included to 80+ COUNTRIES Urban Adventures SIZE soften the edges. can offer our Peregrine Adventures freedom to design and deliver their Partners (Franchisees) customers a once-in-a-lifetime own tours, with the guidance and 205 1,464 Peregrine Adventures offers a variety of credibility of an established global Employ experience to Antarctica and the product themes to cater to travellers’ brand behind them. Arctic, making Intrepid Group a seven interests, including our Food Collection, Local guides continent adventure travel company. They are provided with the technology, Wildlife, Walking and Trekking, Polar DAYS AVERAGE LOCAL GUIDES BOOKING LEAD TIME marketing and sales support to help Connect promote and sell their tours. We also provide business training and development opportunities through More tourism dollars an annual global conference, regional stay in local communities 26 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 27 OUR BUSINESS Zagreb Croatia Reykjavik Iceland Budapest Hungary Sochi Russia Treviso Italy Valencia Spain Beijing Istanbul China Marrakech Kathmandu Turkey New Delhi Morocco Nepal Cairo India Hanoi Kyoto Egypt Vietnam Japan Ho Chi Minh City Mexico City San José Vietnam Yangon Mexico Costa Rica Kochi Myanmar Kota Kinabalu India Malaysia Bangkok Galapagos Quito Colombo Thailand Nairobi Ecuador Ecuador Sri Lanka Kenya Cusco Siem Reap Peru Arusha Cambodia Tanzania Lima Sanur Peru Puno Bali, Indonesia Peru Arequipa Rio de Janeiro Peru Brazil Johannesburg THE INTREPID FOUNDATION Kruger NP South Africa South Africa Buenos Aires WHERE WE OPERATE Argentina DMC operations Operations via preferred partners The Intrepid Foundation is The Foundation is funded in the Intrepid Group’s not-for-profit. following ways: As an instrumental part of the n Donations made at Group’s ‘purpose beyond profit’ www.theintrepidfoundation.org ambitions, the Foundation provides Donations made by customers PEAK DMC n a transparent and trusted way when booking a trip with an OUR MODEL for all Intrepid Group brands and their travellers to support the Intrepid Group brand IS SIMPLE destinations and communities they n All traveller donations are matched The Intrepid Foundation PEAK DMC is the destination With a core purpose to create, visit. dollar-for-dollar by Intrepid Group: supports local and international management company (DMC) of innovate and deliver sustainable Established in 2002, The Intrepid • Up to $600,000 per year partner organisations tackling Intrepid Group. We’ve grown from experience-rich travel, PEAK DMC is the • Up to $10,000 per 450+ Foundation has raised more than important issues all over the just one DMC in Vietnam in 2005 to trusted operating partner to many of $7.5 million dollars and supported over individual donor world – from environmental 21 DMCs around the world by 2018. the world’s leading travel brands. 125 non-government organisations n Fundraisers organised by conservation and wildlife With operational capability across 90GLOBAL STAFF in 38 countries; including Action Aid protection, to education, health OUR DMC NETWORK IS OUR customers, travellers and staff plus countries in Asia, Africa, Europe Australia, KOTO Know One, Teach One, care and human rights. COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE n Fundraising from Intrepid Group and Latin America, PEAK DMC runs and Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation. brand campaigns 50+ more than 80% of Intrepid Travel’s 1. Quality of trip delivery Our mission is to improve the and Peregrine Adventures’ trips, as n Workplace giving from Intrepid Itineraries operated by our DMCs well as itineraries for a wide range of on average receive a higher Overall livelihoods of vulnerable individuals Group staff in Australia You Donate other companies. BRAND PARTNERS and communities around the world by WE RECEIVE MONEY Experience (OE) score from our n 100% of the Foundation’s IN 2018 supporting local initiatives that deliver VIA DONATIONS AND customers than those operated by administrative costs are FUNDRAISERS Our DMCs’ 450-plus global staff real impact. third party DMCs. covered by Intrepid Group provide invaluable local destination 2. Safety and incident response 21 knowledge to assist in designing itineraries. They also handle all the We have rigid risk mitigation We double necessary logistical arrangements; and emergency procedures INTREPID GROUP such as accommodation, transport and in place globally. MATCHES YOUR DMCS DONATIONS DOLLARother tour inclusions. Most importantly, 3. Global network FOR-DOLLAR our DMCs collectively recruit, train and Global network of 21 DMCs. 1,000+ manage more than 1,000 tour leaders and local guides globally. 4. Pricing We give Being on the ground in-destination 100% OF DONATIONS, All DMCs are overseen internally allows us to negotiate better pricing, AND ALL ADMIN TOUR LEADERS by the cross-functional DMC Global and the volume of both our internal COSTS ARE COVERED AND LOCAL GUIDES Team, who develop and implement and external business helps us to get policy and systems, monitor more competitive rates for our clients and customers. You empower 90+ compliance, consistency and quality of delivery across countries, and support YOUR GIFT EMPOWERS growth of the network overall. LOCAL COMMUNITIES AROUND THE WORLD COUNTRIES 28 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 29 OUR BUSINESS INTREPID GROUP’S FOCUS ON THE UNITED NATION’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 05. GENDER 8. DECENT WORK & 10. REDUCED EQUALITY ECONOMIC GROWTH INEQUALITIES Achieve gender equality and Promote sustained, inclusive and Tourism can be a powerful empower all women and girls. sustainable economic growth, tool in reducing inequality if it Tourism can empower women, employment and decent work for all. engages local populations and key particularly through the provision of Tourism currently accounts for one in stakeholders in its development. jobs and income-generation from every 11 jobs worldwide. With decent Tourism can contribute to urban small and larger-scale tourism and work opportunities in the tourism renewal and rural development, and hospitality-related enterprises. sector, society – particularly youth and reduce regional imbalances by giving women – can benefit from increased communities the opportunity to skills and professional development. prosper in their place of origin. 11. SUSTAINABLE CITIES 14. LIFE BELOW 13. CLIMATE ACTION & COMMUNITIES WATER OUR COMMITMENT TO Make cities and human Take urgent action to combat Conserve and sustainably use the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. climate change and its impacts. Tourism contributes to, and is oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. Tourism can advance urban affected by, climate change. By Coastal and maritime tourism rely Created by the United Nations At Intrepid Group, we are committed n Our product: Delivering impact infrastructure and accessibility, reducing its carbon footprint, tourism on healthy marine ecosystems. By to taking responsibility for our impact through responsible travel promote the regeneration of areas can benefit from low carbon growth helping to conserve and preserve in 2015, the Sustainable in these areas and contributing to, in decay, and preserve cultural and and help tackle one of the world’s marine ecosystems, tourism can n Our operations: Improving our Development Goals (SDGs) rather than diminishing, their health performance across our supply chain natural heritage – all assets the most pressing issues. contribute to the sustainable use and value. We realise that while this industry is dependent on. of marine resources. comprise 17 goals and 169 n The Intrepid Foundation: Partnering can present significant challenges for with local organisations to improve actionable targets to end the tourism sector; when it comes the livelihoods of vulnerable poverty, fight inequality and to sustainable consumption and individuals and communities 17. PARTNERSHIPS production, the management of 15. LIFE ON LAND injustice and tackle climate through the creation of sustainable natural resources and waste impact, it FOR THE GOALS travel experiences change by 2030. can also make us a more efficient and cost-effective business long-term. Protect, restore and promote Strengthen the means of The selected SDGs provide a blueprint For sustainability to remain embedded sustainable use of terrestrial implementation and revitalise the Intrepid Group is a member of In 2018, we revised and reduced the for how we can achieve a better and in our operations, we take a holistic ecosystems and halt biodiversity loss. global partnership for sustainable the UN Global Compact, and previous nine SDGs which we believed more sustainable future by combatting view of our business and its various Tourism can play a major role development. has been working to implement that we could contribute to most as a a range of global challenges. We believe points of impact across our value that by making a strong commitment in conserving and preserving Due to its cross-sectorial nature, the commitments within its Ten travel company. chain. This means looking beyond to these goals across all parts of our biodiversity, while also generating tourism can strengthen private and Principles since 2008. In 2017, we our balance sheet to the areas We have now identified eight of the business, Intrepid Group can be a real revenue as an alternative livelihood public partnerships and engage became a signatory of the UN’s intrinsically linked to our business: SDGs which align best to our key focus force of good in the world. for local communities. multiple stakeholders. Women’s Empowerment Principles. the environment, society, economy, areas moving forward, falling into the governance and ethics. following three areas of our value chain: 30 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 31 CLICK HERE TO ADD TEXT OUR STRATEGY Our 2020 strategic plan was developed in 2016, after Intrepid Group returned to independent ownership. It aims to deliver on our vision to Change the Way People See the World. OUR STRATEGY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2020 PLAN: CHANGING THE RIGHT PRODUCT TO THE RIGHT MARKET WAY PEOPLE SEE THE WORLD DIGITAL MINDSET ER-FOCU Our 2020 strategic plan company, while fulfilling the long-term quality of our product and customer ST OM SE vision for our business. service provided to clients, and CU D revolves around our mantra expand our distribution base into SUSTAINABLE Intrepid Group will meet the demands EXPERIENCE of growth with purpose, of a broad customer base and attract Flexible Independent Travel. RICH TRAVEL E IN PL ES and was established after new people to our style of travel by With a digital mindset at the heart V TIN O G IN O U R P E delivering outstanding sustainable of our organisation, and a continual we returned to Independent LEVERAGE DMC experience-rich travel products aim to be better, we are committed ownership. through a multi-brand, multito remaining a global leader in distribution, multi-region platform. responsible travel. BE BETTER The initial 2016 objective was to create a sustainable and profitable Through our DMC network, we are FIT uniquely positioned to control the CORE PRINCIPLES FOCUS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RIGHT PRODUCT TO BE BETTER DIGITAL MINDSET FLEXIBLE INDEPENDENT LEVERAGE DMC THE RIGHT MARKET TRAVEL (FIT) GOAL GOAL To become a global leader in To deliver the right product, in the To design and deliver initiatives To change the mindset of our To develop business capabilities To design and deliver initiatives sustainable travel. To be achieved right market, at the right time, to that reduce costs and increase employees to prioritise digital which offer an FIT product range in a that reduce costs and increase through partnerships (in both public the right customer. To be achieved productivity. This will speed up solutions which enhance efficiencies, timely, efficient and competitive way, productivity. This will include speeding and private sectors), creating shared through powerful brands with a decision-making and encourage create a more agile business using a multi-sales approach. up decision-making and encouraging value initiatives and becoming a clear purpose and place; along with innovation by using an Agile environment, and enable us to better innovation by using an Agile certified B Corporation. increasing the value of our brands methodology to be a smarter, more understand our customers. methodology. and having brand owners within our adaptable, sustainable business that organisational structures. will be a better place to work. HOW WE DEFINED SUCCESS IN 2018 HOW WE DEFINED SUCCESS IN 2018 • Empowering our staff with the tools • Sales growth • Sales growth and training they need to succeed • Repeat customer rates • Profitability growth • Achieving B Corp certification • Sales growth • Maintain free cashflow • Sales growth • Customer referral rates • Passenger feedback scores • Creating shared value partnerships • Lower cost of acquisition • Improve profit margin percentage • Productivity improvements • Increasing Net Promotor Scores (NPS) • Improved marketing ROI • Lower cost of acquisition and E-NPS Scores CURRENT STATUS CURRENT STATUS On track to achieve this, with Agile At risk, with the launch of our tailorOn track to achieve this, with strong B Corp certifcation achieved in 2018, On track to achieve this, with strong On track to achieve this, with a strong methodolgy implemented across made theme postponed due to a delay sales growth across all DMC sales along with increases in both NPS and sales growth across all regions. cashflow position and increased profit the business, creation of the Leader with the internal software needed networks, multiple new DMCs E-NPS scores across our businesses. 2018 saw a 0.3% increase in cost of margins since 2016. Portal, and improvements made to enable scaling of FIT product operating since 2016, and high acquisitions to drive sales growth. with the current agent portal to be through our DMC network. However, passenger feedback scores. completed in 2019. FIT bookings through Private Groups are growing at a higher rate than our scheduled small group adventures. 2019 OBJECTIVES 2019 OBJECTIVES • Create an Impact Model and • Growth in Adventure Cruising • Revenue to grow faster than costs measurement tool • Urban Adventures’ integration • Establish Intrepid Group’s • DMC Reservations and Cost • Growth in polar charters • 15% growth in booked revenue into Salesforce tailor-made operational plan Management system • Development plans to be put in place to be fully implemented for all office-based employees • Improvements to Salesforce across Intrepid Group • DMC sales growth of 53% • Establishment of one new communitybased tourism project per region LINK TO CAPITALS LINK TO CAPITALS 34 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 35 CLICK HERE TO ADD TEXT OUR PERFORMANCE In 2018, we carried more customers than ever before, our financial and brand position was as strong as ever, our people were more engaged, and we continue to have a positive impact on the environment and the communities in which we operate. OUR PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL Following on from a very EBITDA in 2018 to be more consistent Other financial highlights included: Group gross revenue since independent ownership ($million) 16% TWO YEAR COMPOUND with other reporting entities, and to $500 successful 2017, Intrepid provide a more meaningful reflection n Net cash position up 12.7% on ANNUAL GROWTH RATE 2017 as a result of strong (CAGR) IN REVENUE Group went from strength of our operating performance. operating results to strength in 2018 to deliver All brands and sales regions achieved $400 n Decrease in overheads of 23% as a growth in 2018, with North America our third consecutive year of percentage of departed revenue and the Asia Pacific regions significantly record financial performance. $300 EBITDA improving on their 2017 results. The $16.1M As part of the Group’s digital mindset, Intrepid Travel brand continues to be a we will be looking to overhaul the Intrepid Group continued to focus strong performer, reaching 12% yearcurrent finance ERP system in 2019 $200 on growing top line revenue across $402M on-year growth. to give us even greater insights into $341M 22% GROWTH all brands and sales regions, and YEAR-ON-YEAR 2018 also saw Urban Adventures’ net our business performance, helping $297M delivered beyond expectations. This revenue grow by an exceptional 58%, us to increase efficiencies across the $100 confirms that our macro strategy of and PEAK DMC sales increase by 31% business while delivering on our longgrowing with purpose is working well. year-on-year. term strategy. Overall, we achieved 18% growth in Group gross revenue at $402 million in 2018 (from $341 million). Since Our shareholders saw a return on equity of 11% in 2018 driven by our The Group has also been working hard to improve our governance practices. $0 2016 2017 2018 13% Further information can be found NET CASH POSITION UP ON returning to independent ownership strong financial performance, up 9% within the Governance section of this Gross price of an Intrepid Group tour, and other non-tour products sold before any 2017 AS A RESULT OF STRONG in 2015, our revenue has continued from the previous year. The Group report (see pg 70). discounts or commission expense plus income from associates and external operators OPERATING RESULTS to increase, with the Group recording has seen solid growth in our net asset $297 million in gross revenue in 2016. position and our cash balances. This The financial performance of The will enable us to grow with purpose, Intrepid Foundation, which had a record On top of this, we have grown our with plans well underway as part of our 23% year for donations, can be found further EBITDA to $16.1 million, up 22% from emerging 2025 strategy. on in this report too (see pg 88). 2017. We have decided to report on DECREASE IN OVERHEADS AS A PERCENTAGE OF DEPARTED REVENUE 38 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 39 OUR PERFORMANCE SALES REGION PERFORMANCE DESTINATION PERFORMANCE Intrepid Group operates through three main outbound sales regions, being the Asia Pacific (based in Melbourne, South-East Asia continues to dominate as our largest destination, followed by South America, Southern Asia and Australia); Europe, the Middle-East and Africa (based in London, UK); and North America (based in Toronto, Southern Europe. Our fastest growing region was Western Asia, which turned in 131% growth year-on-year. Canada). Each sales region performed strongly in 2018, with the Asia Pacific and North America both achieving revenue growth in excess of 15%. REVENUE BY REGION 2017 VS 2018 ASIA EUROPE AMERICAS +23% +11% ASIA PACIFIC (APAC) EUROPE, MIDDLE-EAST NORTH AMERICA (NA) +7% AND AFRICA (EMEA) APAC is our most mature region, and in The EMEA region achieved 7% growth NA achieved the highest growth rate 2018 it continued its rise, turning a very in TTV* in a Brexit-battered market. globally, with a 24% increase in TTV*. solid 15% TTV growth*. We anticipate The region is traditionally a strong As a Group, we will continue to build AFRICA that the region will keep capitalising on performer with a two year CAGR our profile and presence in this market +43% its strengths, supported by a 12% two of 16%. We expect to see a move off the back of a very healthy two year year CAGR in 2018. back towards double digit growth as CAGR of 28%. AMERICAS political uncertainty and consumer +7% OCEANIA confidence improves. +34% AMERICAS +7% 15% DEPARTED TTV* 7% DEPARTED TTV* 24% DEPARTED TTV* (CAGR +5%) AFRICA ASIA 12% 2 YEAR CAGR 16% 2 YEAR CAGR 28% 2 YEAR CAGR 2018 was a good +43% +11% year overall for the EUROPE (CAGR +45%) (CAGR +10%) OCEANIA Americas region, with South America growing +23% A continued positive Western Asia excelled +34% by 12%. We continued (CAGR +30%) performance in both with 131% growth off (CAGR -6%) OUTLOOK to see weakness in Europe enjoyed Morocco and Egypt the back of Turkey’s Australasia assisted Cuba and a flat result another very strong resulted in 65% growth recovery, and Jordan’s in the recovery of In 2019, we aim to continue driving our Adventure Cruising range also mark another record-breaking year in in Central America. year as demonstrated year-on-year, and emergence as a hot Oceania with 35% strong revenue growth across all contributing to top line growth. 2019, and remain on track to achieve However, the mid-year by a 30% CAGR. Our a CAGR of 63% for destination. Eastern growth year-on-year. sales regions and brands while our strategic goals. reintroduction of a largest volume area, Northern Africa. Both Asia also turned in This new product offering and strong Southern and Eastern another year of strong continuing to grow EBITDA. We second boat in the Southern Europe, grew core product growth will put Intrepid Galapagos Islands had Africa also marked growth, resulting in a are seeing good organic growth by 22% year-on-year. Group in a favourable position to a very positive impact great results; each with solid CAGR of 17%. year-on-year, with the expansion of Northern Europe is on the region – seeing sitting on our highest a CAGR of 34%. us end the year with CAGR at 69%. *All figures are at like-for-like exchange rates 114% growth. 40 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 41 OUR PERFORMANCE INTREPID TRAVEL BE INTREPID MARKETING CAMPAIGN In 2018 the Intrepid Travel brand launched ‘Be Intrepid;’ a multi-distribution storytelling campaign to communicate our brand values BRAND AND and customer offering. Leveraging the power of the word ‘intrepid’ itself, the emotive campaign KNOW-HOW served as a platform to share our origin story, how we welcome like-minded travellers to experience the world with us, and how we share humanitarian beliefs that shape our In 2018, we leveraged our DMCs’ strong purpose beyond profit. Hinged on local expertise to develop the proposition that ‘The world needs more innovative new experiences which Intrepid People,’ the campaign was articulated meet our customers’ evolving with the proof points: Be Responsible, Be Open, needs. We continued to expand our Be Curious, Be Fearless, and Be Challenged. It product range within the Group, GECKOS BRAND RETIRED, LAUNCH OF INTREPID 18 TO 29S was executed across digital channels globally, while consolidating our multiwith the Asia Pacific region also investing in outbrand portfolio. 2018 marked the retirement of our youth travel brand, Geckos of-home, cinema, and television placements to Adventures, with all trips transitioned to the Intrepid Travel Intrepid Travel and Peregrine reach an audience in excess of 13 million. brand under the newly-created 18 to 29s theme on 1 October. Adventures both posted great results for the year – in terms of customer Originally launched as a competitor to Intrepid Travel’s Basix UNCHARTED: ENTERING NEW TERRITORY growth, record Overall Experience range, Geckos Adventures was geared at travellers aged 18 to In June, we launched our first ‘mystery trip’ under the Intrepid Travel brand. Created (OE) scores from our travellers, and an 29, and had been managed by Intrepid Group since 2013. The as part of the Be Intrepid campaign, our Uncharted Expedition was designed to increasingly diverse and geographically majority of its travellers were from Australia. celebrate the brand’s first exploratory trips 30 years ago. The only details provided to extensive product offering. With youth travel being one of the fastest growing sectors in potential travellers was that they would arrive in Kazakhstan, finish in Mongolia and tourism globally – and socially conscious millennials driving maybe drink mare’s milk. The first departure booked out in 16 hours. We received in the growth in sustainable tourism – the decision was made to excess of 750 applications within 10 days. More than half of those who applied had AUSTRALIA INBOUND offer an 18 to 29s theme under the more globally recognised never travelled with Intrepid Travel before. n We experienced impressive Intrepid Travel brand. Feedback from our young customers growth on our East Coast supported this move, with many telling us that they wanted to Comfort-style tour, at 808% travel with like-minded people their own age. n We removed sunset drinks from our trips to Uluru in anticipation of introducing our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) in 2019 n In 2018, we unveiled a new expedition to East Arnhem Land, an itinerary designed to showcase the Northern 12% 9.5% Territory’s unique Yolngu culture. Ultimately, the 2018 departure GROWING THE MARKET, ONE NICHE A TIME was cancelled due to low booking DEPARTED DEPARTED numbers, but the trip will be REVENUE GROWTH CUSTOMER GROWTH In 2018, Intrepid Travel launched several new product ranges to meet the growing available to customers in 2019 demand from an increasingly diverse customer base. Solo parent trips were added to the Family theme, a Vegan range of trips was added to the Food theme, and a new 19% 9,960 range of Women’s Expeditions were launched to give female travellers an insight into women’s daily lives in Iran, Morocco and Jordan. The Women’s Expeditions were so successful that departures will increase ten-fold in 2019. 27% BOOKINGS 2018 DEPARTED REVENUE GROWTH DEPARTURES FEEDBACK IS AT RECORD HIGHS GROWTH The average OE rating from Intrepid Travel customers in 2018 averaged at 4.72/5 for 4.72/5 the entire year, with six months of the year generating a score of 4.74 or above – a record achievement for the brand, and a testament to the quality of our trip leaders, 949 product managers and destination management teams. OE SCORE FROM DEPARTURES CUSTOMERS 42 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 43 OUR PERFORMANCE PEREGRINE ADVENTURES ‘IT’S ABOUT TIME’ MARKETING CAMPAIGN The ‘It’s About Time’ campaign articulated the position and unique product offerings while echoing the sense of adventure Peregrine 23% To bring to light the heritage and benefits of the brand to consumers. Adventures customers had in their DEPARTED legacy of Peregrine Adventures, which In our world of instant gratification youth. The overarching strategy was REVENUE GROWTH and quick fixes, the luxury of taking versatile enough to cater to a range of celebrated 40 years of operation in your time, and experiencing the brand-building and tactical executions. 2018, the brand launched a strategic 26% world at your own pace is now more The campaign was rolled out across marketing activity centred on the alluring than ever. The campaign cast both traditional and digital media. value of time. a spotlight on the brand’s premium BOOKINGS GROWTH NEW ADVENTURE CRUISING IN ASIA While 2018 marked another good sales year for Peregrine Adventures’ Adventure Cruising product (up 366% year-on-year), the launch of South-East Asia Adventure Cruising saw a significantly lower take-up. This has been attributed to 14% Adventure Cruising being a relatively new product in South-East Asia. Sales are DEPARTED CUSTOMER expected to lift in 2019 as the product becomes more established in the market. GROWTH A NEW SHIP IN THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS In 2018, amidst significant growth in travel to the Galapagos Islands, Peregrine Adventures welcomed a new ship into its fleet: the Grand Queen Beatriz. This 1,027 revamped ship is one of the most impressive vessels of its class currently 2018 DEPARTURES operating in this amazing part of the world. PEREGRINE ADVENTURES ANNOUNCES ITS RETURN TO ANTARCTICA In addition to the existing polar sell-in program, Peregrine Adventures announced the launch of its exclusive Peregrine Adventures-branded polar 4.71/5 voyages in December 2018. Departing from October 2020, the expeditions will OE SCORE FROM CUSTOMERS operate on the newly refurbished Ocean Endeavour; marking the next step in the joint partnership between Intrepid Group and Chimu Adventures, with the two companies now one of the largest sellers of Antarctica globally. 44 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 45 OUR PERFORMANCE URBAN ADVENTURES TRAVELLERS BY REGION AND TOP SELLING CITIES In 2018, Urban Adventures’ An aggressive push over the years to departed customer numbers grow into new destinations led to signing grew by 54% to 266,292 and TTV some partners who, in the end, weren’t increased by 58%. Travel to and the right fit for the brand. Closing these within the USA has been a key cities ensures that Urban Adventures driver of growth for the brand, can consistently deliver the level of with USA tours accounting for quality expected by its customers. 18.4% of total TTV. Washington DC was the top-selling The brand launched a number of cobranded partnerships (see pg 47), and 58% destination in 2018; doubling its in June, moved into customised tour YEAR-ON-YEAR EUROPE SALES INCREASE ASIA customer numbers. New York City planning with a Create Your Own tours 30.4% and Philadelphia were also highrange (and dedicated custom tours NORTH Prague 26.1% AMERICA Venice performing cities, growing by 90% and staff); which has prompted around 200 Philadelphia 47,187 65% respectively. more enquiries on average per month. 22.9% New York City MIDDLE-EAST Following behind the USA, the topUrban Adventures’ most popular ranges Washington DC 0.3% selling countries for Urban Adventures included its Food range, its award2018 Havana were Vietnam (Ho Chi Minh City), winning In Focus range, and its Made DEPARTURES Tokyo Japan (Kyoto), Italy (Venice), Cuba In offering; introduced in 2017 to give CARIBBEAN AFRICA Hanoi Kyoto (Havana) and the Czech Republic travellers a more authentic shopping & CENTRAL 3.3% 54% (Prague). In 2018, the brand launched experience with local artisans. AMERICA its first trip in Scotland (Edinburgh), 9.4% SOUTH Urban Adventures won a number of and added new cities New Orleans AMERICA awards during 2018, including Disruptor (USA), Casablanca (Morocco), Poznan DEPARTED CUSTOMER 9.4% AU/NZ of the Year – Mumbrella Travel (Poland) and Irkutsk (Russia). GROWTH Marketing Awards, Innovation of the 2.3% However, the brand also closed 25 Year – Adventure Travel Awards and the of its destinations in 2018, due to Social Responsibility Award – Australian challenges in meeting its operational requirements at a local level. Travel Awards. 5 NEW CITIES OUTLOOK CO-BRANDED EXPERIENCES Urban Adventures is expected to remain on its upward trajectory in 2019, with projected targets of carrying 400,000 customers and 50% growth in revenue. 72 In 2018 Urban Adventures partnered use a mix of tips taken from the articles Urban Adventures also partnered with NPS SCORE with The New York Times’ travel and Urban Adventures’ own local Google to run a series of exclusive ‘Out of Given the significant growth and potential for the USA region, targeting program, Times Journeys, to offer expertise. There are currently 12 tours in Office’ experiences for their staff, helping domestic American travellers will continue to be a key focus for Urban one-of-a-kind experiences inspired by the Times Journeys product range, with to connect them with other like-minded Adventures’ sales and marketing teams in 2019 and beyond. the newspaper’s popular ‘36 Hours In’ 12 new tours to come in 2019. colleagues outside of the workplace. Urban Adventures will also expand further into a range of key cities across the articles. These co-branded itineraries USA and Europe; such as Milan and Munich. 46 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 47 OUR PERFORMANCE INTRODUCING PEAK DMC INDONESIA In August, PEAK DMC Indonesia opened its doors, marking our 21st DMC globally. Made up of thousands of culturally diverse islands, Indonesia is not only one of Asia’s fastest growing destinations but also one that remains relatively unknown outside of Bali. Committed to developing sustainable, experiencerich travel throughout the region, PEAK DMC Indonesia has developed trips to lesser-visited destinations such as Flores and Sumatra, and has the capability to operate a wide range of experiences, from cycling through to food tours. PEAK DMC 2018 was another big year for for Decent Work and Inclusion at the KEY OPERATIONAL PROJECTS CHALLENGES PEAK DMC, with the opening of African Responsible Travel Awards; DELIVERED IN 2018 INCLUDE: In addition to our successes, we also had several challenges in 2018. its 21st destination management in June, PEAK DMC South America n Leader Portal: A technological company, 31% growth in DMC won DMC of the Year at the LATA 31% solution allowing customers and n The learning curve for our new n The year was also marked by a sales and the introduction of new Achievement Awards; and in July, PEAK tour leaders to both manage DMCs in Iceland, Japan and Costa tragic accident. On 28 September initiatives to improve efficiencies DMC India won the PATA Gold Award their trips and to complete trip Rica was steeper than expected, 2018 an overland touring truck across the business. (Women Empowerment Initiative) DMC SALES administration requirements easily, resulting in below average financial carrying 15 travellers and two for their work recruiting and training GROWTH Over the year, PEAK DMC carried in a secure system environment performance and OE scores from of our staff were involved in female tour leaders. 120,000-plus passengers for Intrepid our customers (4.66/5). a vehicle accident in Lesotho. n Incident Reporting and Travel, Peregrine Adventures and more than 50 external brands. The brand’s increase in DMC sales saw us surpass Management Database: PEAK DMC completed a major n As a growing global travel business, we proactively managed our Sadly, there were three fatalities, including our driver. Co-founder Geoff Manchester and our local 120,000+ technological update to a centrallyresponse to a wide range of PASSENGERS its 20% record year in 2017, and the operations team travelled to the managed system to collect all issues, including earthquakes and OE score from customers for Intrepid hospitals to provide support and incident data in real time, allowing a tsunami in Indonesia, excessive 50+ Group brands remained consistently assistance to travellers, staff, and DMC Global to readily identify pollution affecting air quality in high, at 4.74/5 for Intrepid Travel. their families. trends and mitigate risks Beijing, Delhi and Bangkok; and a In 2018, PEAK DMC also engaged relentless typhoon season in Japan. BRAND PARTNERS n Leader training: PEAK DMC in more marketing and storytelling, completely overhauled its training n As a result of increased global with the launch of a new website, a 40 processes and materials to better awareness, improved reporting and partnership with accessible travel address the changing needs of the training throughout the business, company Wheel the World in Peru business, including the roll-out of we’ve also seen an increase in the (see pg 69) and increased awarenessnew sexual misconduct training, number of sexual harassment TOUR LEADER raising around responsible business and specialised units developed reports by our travellers, leaders TRAINING SESSIONS issues such as gender inequality and for Adventure Cruising, Cycling and and crew, allowing us the decent work. water-based activities. opportunity to better our processes In April, PEAK DMC East Africa won a Silver Medal in the category of Best around receiving and managing sexual harassment cases. 1 NEW DMC 48 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 49 OUR PERFORMANCE INTREPID GROUP IN THE NEWS In 2018, Intrepid Group celebrated a big year of award wins and OUR HEADLINES ongoing media interest in our product innovations, our style of n The New York Times featured our n CEO James Thornton spoke to BBC n The Sunday Times (UK) ran a cover responsible travel, and our commitment to being a business small group adventure brands in World News about the growing story on our Women’s Expeditions with a purpose beyond profit. more than 15 different stories in market for experiential travel, with in Morocco, reaching an audience 2018, including features on How the story reaching an audience of of more than 700,000. The Evening AWARD WINS 7,000+ Travel Tackles Climate Change and In An Era of Empowerment, More Trips For Women up to 74 million worldwide n The Adventure Travel Index, a Standard featured our new Adventure Cruising Range and The Guardian ran a feature on our Solo MEDIA new trends report, was created to n James Thornton was a finalist for n We proudly took out three awards Parent Family trips MENTIONS n Fast Company featured Intrepid challenge perceptions of our style CEO Magazine’s CEO of the Year at the inaugural Australian Travel Group in an article entitled ‘The of travel. Generating more than 250 n CNN, the world’s largest award and winner of its Tourism Awards: Intrepid Group won world’s largest adventure travel stories in Australia and New Zealand, international broadcast network, and Hospitality Executive of the Year award Sustainable Tourism Company of the Year and the Grand Prix award for the best travel company in 20+ company is now a carbon-neutral B Corporation’ The Adventure Travel Index reached an audience of more than 20 million. Highlights included an interview on with a business audience of over 12 million and online readership of over 14 million—featured n Our Namaste Nepal campaign AWARDS n The Today Show (Australia) featured Australia across all categories, while TVNZ’s Breakfast programme, as Intrepid Group three times in 2018. won Best for Communicating SHORTLISTINGS our Solo Parent Family trips, reaching Urban Adventures won the Social well as stories in Escape, Traveller, With a focus on in-destination Responsible Tourism at the World an audience of almost 250,000 Responsibility Award Stuff.co.nz, NZ Herald, SBS Food, coverage, the segments highlighted Responsible Travel Awards 15+ n Intrepid Travel won Escorted Tour n The Age and The Sydney Morning Australian Women’s Weekly, New Intrepid’s stance on lesser-visited n The Intrepid Foundation was Herald ran stories in the business Idea, Triple M, and Better Homes & destinations, including Paraguay Operator of the Year 2018 at the named as a 2018 Honoree in the section on our B Corp certification Gardens Magazine in a segment titled “Paraguay has TTG Awards (UK) World Tourism Awards AWARD WINS entitled ‘Intrepid takes the road secrets and we reveal them to you n Best Tour Operator – International n In 2018, our PR efforts also expanded n Intrepid Group was named among less travelled’ in destination. 2018 at the NTIA Awards (Australia) into Germany, with features in Die Fast Company’s Most Innovative 254 Zeit, GEO Saison, and FAZ Companies 2019 n Abdu Oukioud from Morocco won Bronze at the Wanderlust World Guide Awards STORIES FROM ADVENTURE INDEX 50 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 51 OUR PERFORMANCE “The experiences I had and the friends I’ve made on this trip are priceless. I experienced 10 times more than I ever woud have on my own” Michael, Morocco Uncovered CUSTOMER NET PROMOTOR SCORE (NPS) 2018 was another record responses and a seamless experience The collective data generated from decision to purchase. Rather than finalised to assist in creating a privacy NPS is a key customer metric within across channels and platforms. these sources revealed poor customer hide our one to three star reviews program. We completed a number of the Group, highlighting what we do year with 431,000 customers experiences relating to a number of on our website (a decision made due projects to minimise the collection, well and the areas where we need to travelling with Intrepid Group, WHAT ARE OUR CUSTOMERS areas, including an inability to shortlist to our inability to monitor and check storage and unnecessary use of improve. This has informed our focus TELLING US? trips customers liked, a preference for every review), we opted instead for personal data, and to ensure the better on the ‘Research and Booking’ stage representing a 26% growth of the customer journey. text-based customer service platforms full transparency of all our customer handling of personal data. A Privacy Our customer expectations are on 2017. Leading the charge like Live Chat and Facebook Messenger reviews. Since we did this we’ve seen a Steering Committee and network 73 growing fast and we’re in the same was the Group’s day tour and difficulties travel agents faced with 10% improvement in conversion rate was formed to create privacy support race as our competitors to digitalise all booking our trips independently. for users who visit destination pages across the business. brand Urban Adventures, aspects of the business and improve displaying trip reviews. the customer experience as a key with more than 266,292 driver of growth and loyalty. WHAT DID WE DO ABOUT IT? We converted our social media OUTLOOK (vs 70 in 2017) customers (+54%). Building on our 2017 customer Coupled with business priorities, our platforms into a hybrid marketing and We concluded 2018 with the creation 66 customer feedback helped shape our customer service tool. We rolled out of our new Customer Experience research base, we increased our We saw a healthy 14% growth in our roadmap and project requirements the management of our Facebook department, which will drive the 2019 customer interviews and usability tests new customer base across our multito ensure we were enhancing the Inbox to our Live Chat teams to ensure focus on the booking stage of the by 70%, implemented a new Voice of customer experience. As a result, we faster and better responses for our customer journey. Loyalty will be a day travel brands. However, our repeat Customer tool and launched a new successfully implemented shortlisting customers. We will continue to scale key topic for all brands to ensure our (vs 64 in 2017) customer base declined by 4% in 2018. customer metric, the Customer Effort Despite this, we had 9% overall growth on the Group’s brand websites, leading this as we move into 2019. repeat customer base grows in line Score (CES). The CES is collected across to a 56% jump in conversion from with new customer growth. Customer 73 across Intrepid Travel and Peregrine different journeys on the website to Adventures. Retention is a focus for customers who used this functionality. GENERAL DATA PROTECTION research and feedback will continue identify customer pain points and the Group moving forward, to ensure it REGULATION (GDPR) to become more sophisticated and provide fast feedback when a new We also updated the Travel Agent Portal, underpin our ongoing transformation grows in line with new customers. functionality is released. featuring an express booking function, In response to the GDPR in Europe, to deliver the best customer (vs 72 in 2017) Even with record customer growth and we are continuing to roll out new a data audit was conducted to get a Another source of customer feedback experience ever. and positive trip feedback, travellers features based on agent feedback. clear understanding of the personal comes from the ‘was this page are demanding better and more Our research revealed that reviews data we collect and handle. A Privacy helpful’ form, which is located on personalised services, with faster played a key role in the customer’s Management Framework Policy was every page of the website. 52 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 53 OUR PERFORMANCE PEOPLE We know our people are the BUILDING A WORLD-CLASS TEAM DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION We also continued to offer diversity our already high participation and and inclusion training, with a focus engagement rates globally. 2,133 key to our success. That’s In 2018 we implemented an Applicant In 2017, we set a goal to double our on disabilities, LGBTQI, gender and Tracking System to enhance the female tour leaders by 2020 – not an The key metric is engagement, which why we’re committed to easy feat in some of the countries in unconscious bias. measures our people’s motivation, recruitment experience for both investing in our global staff our managers and applicants. The which we operate. Since then, our retention, recommendation, EMPLOYEES, CONTRACTORS DIGITISING OUR HR SYSTEMS system provides a more efficient female leaders have grown from 156 to commitment and pride in the Group. AND FREELANCERS and leaders; which in turn, way to advertise positions and sort 266 by the end of 2018. We developed our new People Portal Our global score for 2018 was 82% – WORLDWIDE helps ensure we have an applications, and grants more visibility and launched it in January 2019. 15% higher than other businesses in of the process for applicants. In 2018, we updated our Global The People Portal will help us better the tourism and hospitality industry, (1,771 in 2017) empowered, innovative and Recruitment Principles to ensure support, engage and manage our and 10% higher than other B Corpproductive workforce. 40+ We also commenced the ideation at least one male and one female staff and leaders by collating all of our certified business worldwide. of our 2025 Talent Roadmap; a candidate is invited to participate in HR information in one place; while We use this annual survey as a In 2018, our People team concentrated succession planning tool designed to the interview process for each role. To also improving the privacy, integrity roadmap for how we can improve on four key focus areas: recruiting ensure we are increasing and upskilling assist in eliminating any unconscious GLOBAL OFFICES and accessibility of all data relating to year-on-year. For example, our 2017 and retaining world-class talent; our staff in the areas where the gender bias, each interview must also our people. results highlighted the need for more 68+ continuing to embed a culture of business needs it most. be conducted by at least one male and one female or non-binary interviewer. recognition and praise, and as a diversity and inclusion; commencing To strengthen our retention of new ENGAGING WITH OUR PEOPLE result we’ve adapted our culture and our three-year journey to digitise our parents and caregivers, we extended In October 2018, we held our second Staff engagement survey processes to address this feedback. NATIONALITIES human resources systems; and better our flexible work conditions by Women’s Leadership Forum in engaging our people. introducing a minimum of three weeks Melbourne. This time, we invited We partnered with CultureAmp We also grew our office locations to include another in New York, while Paid Parental Leave for either parent (in addition to any existing governmentboth men and women to apply. The forum sees our future leaders come again to conduct our 2018 Your View Survey, which provides us with robust analytics and action planning 82% closing our Petaluma location. provided support). This benefit was together to set the gender equality GLOBAL EMPLOYEE formerly unheard of in some of the agenda for our global business over resources to continue to grow ENGAGEMENT SCORE countries in which we operate. the coming years. 54 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 55 OUR PERFORMANCE PEOPLE ENGAGING WITH OUR PEOPLE (CONT.) A YEAR OF STAFF FUNDRAISING SUCCESS FOR THE INTREPID FOUNDATION Online training OUTLOOK BEST FOR From walking a marathon in Also in 2018, a trekking team from our With more than 40 offices around In 2019, we will officially release our EMPLOYMENT Melbourne to climbing Morocco’s UK and Marrakech offices climbed the the globe, and with staff across over new People Portal worldwide, and will highest peak, Intrepid Group staff summit of Morocco’s Mount Toubkal 120 countries, face-to-face training continue to develop our 2025 Talent In November, Intrepid Group Colombo gave back in a big way in 2018, for a cause. Their efforts were to raise isn’t always possible. Intrepid Group’s Roadmap. We will also continue to work took out the Best for Employment raising more funds than ever before. funds for another partner of The online training portal, Degreed, towards our diversity and inclusion category at the World Responsible Intrepid Foundation, Education for All Tourism Awards; recognising our Staff fundraisers alone contributed helps us to combat this challenge by goals to achieve a 50/50 gender split – an organisation providing access to efforts in ensuring decent and fair more than $300,000 in 2018, with the providing digital training that can be in our Global Leadership Team and education for girls from rural areas of working conditions. help of dollar-for-dollar matching from accessed anywhere in the world. In double our female leaders by 2020. Morocco. Not only did the 12 climbers The Intrepid Group. 2018, our total active users climbed to Our Colombo office – which consists brave it to the top, but they raised We will invest in SAP’s Success Factors 758; completing 13,366 online courses. of a global service centre and local In August, Melbourne staff – including more than $100,000 for the project, as our new HR system to be released in We created more than 72 new courses DMC – became the first and only Chairman and Co-Founder Darrell including dollar-for-dollar matching. 2019. This forms a part of our strategy to meet demand. travel company in the region to Wade – laced up their sneakers for a to digitise HR globally, and will change In Morocco’s High Atlas region, offer its tour leaders an annual trying 42km walk along Merri Creek Volunteering the way we look at our HR processes; illiteracy rates for women are as high performance bonus. While Sri Lankan in Melbourne, Australia. Staff and providing a range of productivity and as 83%. Education For All works to We offer all permanent global staff insurance companies typically only community supporters raised $80,500 user benefits. We will also launch combat this by bringing education 20 hours of paid volunteering hours cover female staff for pregnancy for The Intrepid Foundation partner, the People Central, Recruitment, closer to girls who would otherwise every year. We proactively arrange and childbirth-related expenses Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation. Onboarding and Learning Compliance not have access. opportunities for staff to engage with if they’re married, the company modules, followed by Compensation 100% of the funds went towards the program by outreaching to a also provides medical insurance The funds raised by Intrepid Group and Performance and Goals modules. helping 368 former street children range of local organisations working to unmarried pregnant staff. Both staff are enough to fully support 74 and trafficked children in Vietnam in environmental protection and In January 2019, we launched our changes have spurred slow but steady girls for an entire year, providing them receive an education and skills training. conservation, gender equality, disability Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), a improvements in a reluctant industry. with three nutritious meals a day, cosy Through Blue Dragon’s programs, inclusion, education, health and more. roadmap that aligns our company’s beds, hot showers, access to books these children will also receive health objectives with Australia’s reconciliation and a computer, activities like yoga and In 2018, our global staff used 10% of and psychological care, so they are journey with its First Nations people. A cycling, visits to the city, and travel to their volunteer time available, with able to build a brighter future. dedicated RAP Working Group will be see their families on the weekends. an average of two hours used per established and we will support this staff member. In 2019, our goal is to initiative with innnovative partnerships increase participation in the program with Aboriginal and Torrest Straight significantly, using a minimum of 30% Islander businesses and employment of the global volunteer hours available. opprtunities in our own business. 56 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 57 OUR PERFORMANCE Green energy – Toronto Sustainable sourcing – Morocco Plastic bottles – Turkey Toronto office purchased Our Morocco office is stocked with ecoOur Turkey office is working with our renewable energy. friendly cleaning products and recycled hotel partners to ensure they all provide paper products, and we source gifts for our our customers with the opportunity to business partners from a women-owned refill their water bottles. This has kept company that provides employment for nearly 28,000 single-use plastic bottles female artisans from rural areas. out of landfill. Plastic reduction – Peru Reducing carbon emissions – Environmental conservation – Vietnam China We provide packed lunches on In June, our Hanoi office partnered with Action our trekking routes in Peru. These In China, we have replaced internal for a Green Halong to clean up Halong Bay. are served in certified 100% flights with high speed rail on a 741kg of rubbish was collected, 70% of which biodegradable containers that are number of our itineraries. was foam, fishing line, string/rope, plastic made of sugar cane. bottles and straws. ENVIRONMENT 2020 carbon goals We take our responsibility to large ship cruising. We have also CLIMATE CHANGE OUR CARBON MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK In 2019, we will continue invested in technology that enables PROGRAM to help preserve the world’s us to work effectively with our global 2018 was the fourth warmest year on In 2019, we will form a Sustainability working towards our 2020 record, and the Intergovernmental The world’s largest carbon neutral travel Network to increase employees’ natural and cultural assets colleagues by video conferencing. goals to lighten our global Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) issued company since 2010, we measure our engagement in our carbon emissions very seriously. The reality is A growing number of our hotel a stark warning on the consequences annual GHG inventory in accordance reporting. We will also compile a environmental footprint that this is not only the right suppliers are agreeing to offer filtered of global temperature increases of with the global GHG Protocol, comprehensive report of our 2018 overall, through: water for our travellers to refill their more than 1.5°C. offsetting our emissions by purchasing emissions (including the impact of thing to do, it also helps us to water bottles. This reduces the need international carbon credits. As per flights, waste produced and electricity Climate change is boosting extreme n 5% reduction in carbon sustain the tourism industry. for travellers to buy bottled water. December 2018, we’ve used 310,000 usage) for all of our offices. This data weather events, with severe heatwaves, emissions per full time To encourage this behaviour, we tonnes of carbon emissions. will allow us to benchmark and set wildfires and flooding making the employee in our offices provide our travellers with a branded new targets. Tackling plastic usage However, despite our best intentions, transition to a more sustainable In late 2018, we revised our reporting aluminium water bottle they can fill will continue to be a first priority 5% reduction in energy we realise that very few travellers practice integral to the survival of methodology in line with the National n and start using straight away. We also across the business. One step we are offset their flights; and more often every business. As a result, the Group Carbon Offsetting Standards (NCOS) use per full-time employee carry water drums in our vehicles on already taking in this direction is our than not, this will be their trip’s largest created an Environmental Impact under the Australian Government’s globally appropriate itineraries so customers commitment to ensuring there are no source of emissions. Specialist role within our Responsible Carbon Neutral Initiative. We also can refill their bottles on the road. single-use plastics sold or available on Business team in December 2018, improved the monitoring and We continue to focus on using more our Adventure Cruising ships. Where possible we are working to to ensure we have the expertise to management of our environmental environmentally-friendly modes of minimise the impact of overtourism position the business against the data to make it more efficient and usertransport on our trips. This includes on the environment, both human and effects climate change. friendly for our staff by working with the introduction of innovative new natural, by diverting selected itineraries the energy, carbon and sustainability product ranges such as Adventure to equally inspiring but less visited consultancy Ndevr Environmental. Cruising, which aims to offer a more locales – such as substituting Vietnam’s sustainable small ship alternative Halong Bay for Cat Ba Island. 58 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 59 OUR PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENT 2. REDUCE Intrepid Group is committed to protecting our planet. That’s why we take a sustainable approach to our consumption and As the world’s largest adventure travel company, we are acutely aware of our responsibility production; both during our trips and in our offices. to manage our impact on the environments in which we operate and visit. Our key focus is on reducing our carbon emissions and improving efficiencies around how we use natural Encouraging our Using public transport on Introducing efficiency resources. We follow the Measure – Reduce – Offset carbon management principles to travellers to use refillable our trips to reduce fuel use measures, including energy manage the environmental footprint of our trips and operations around the world. drink bottles. per passenger. efficient light bulbs and digital conferencing. 1. MEASURE Recycling waste in our offices around the world. Minimising the number of flights included in trips. Conserving water use in our offices and on We measure and offset the main sources of emissions on our trips from transport to accommodation and waste. When our trips. it comes to our offices, we measure and offset our emissions from electricity, bottled gas, natural gas, water, flights, vehicles, waste and paper. 3. OFFSET We offset our carbon emissions by purchasing carbon credits associated with a range of renewable energy projects. We have OFFICE EMISSIONS BY SOURCE (tC02e) INTREPID GROUP TOTAL EMISSIONS (tC02e) identified six key international projects that we will purchase carbon credits with from 2018-2020. INCLUDING OFFICES AND TRIPS 0-10 Bottled Gas 40,000 35,000 34,924 Flights Bottled Gas 28,902 Flights 30,000 Waste Waste 25,000 Company Company Vehicles Vehicles Fuel Fuel 20,000 Natural Gas 15,000 Natural Gas Water Usage 10,000 Water Electricity Usage 5,000 Electricity Paper 0 2017 2018 Paper Office Emissions Trip Emissions FIGHTING FIRE WITH FIRE RAINFOREST REHAB WINDS OF CHANGE Arnhem Land, Australia Malaysian Borneo Tamil Nadu, India n Savanna burning projects reduce n Replanting and avoiding n 84 wind turbines installed on GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY TRIP EMISSIONS BY REGION (tC02e) GHG emissions by undertaking deforestation and palm oil areas of land sold to the project 2017-2018(tCO2e/FTE) cool, lower intensity fires in plantations by a collective of farmers Western Asia the early dry season when the Southern Asia vegetation still contains some South-Eastern Asia moisture from the wet season 6 3.9 5.3 Northern America Northern Africa 5 Latin America 4 Europe 3 Eastern Asia 2 Central Asia Australia Pacific 1 Antarctica 0 Africa 2017 2018 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 2018 2017 Footnote: LANDSCAPE LIVELIHOODS LUNGS OF THE PLANET WINDS OF CHANGE Over the course of 2018, Intrepid has reviewed and updated its Greenhouse In 2018, we assessed 42 offices including both newly established and Malawi, East Africa Madre De Dios, Peru Turkey Gas (GHG) accounting framework in line with international and national virtual offices. This is an increase of 13 offices from 2017. best practice. Applying the new processes, our 2017 GHG emissions data We improved our model for assessing flights and updated relevant n Empowers over 220,000 local n Conserves the forest area and n 20 wind power turbines installed reported in the 2017 Integrated Report was overstated by 13,564 tCO2e. emission factors. villages to reduce deforestation prevents illegal logging. in the country The results have been restated applying the new methodology in line with All data has been calculated using a methodology in line with the National and protect 170,000 hectares of the National Carbon Offsetting Standards (NCOS) under the Australian Carbon Offsetting Standards (NCOS) under the Australian Government’s forest by building more sustainable n Supports the long-term wellbeing n 109.9 GWh expected annual Government’s Carbon Neutral Initiative. 2017 data has reduced from 42,466 of rural communities dependent electricity generation for local tCO2e to 28, 902 tCO2e. We have not re-calculated and restated emissions Carbon Neutral Initiative sources of income between 2010 and 2016, as we are confident that the reported footprints on subsistence electricity market. Creation of 60+ were in any case higher than the recalculated results. local jobs in the community 60 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 61 OUR PERFORMANCE SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS No business or sector is economic and social benefits of our to achieving the SDGs through 1-2-3 DOESN’T ADD UP MODERN SLAVERY ACT operations are dispersed fairly. Just partnerships for change. We actively self-contained, and this is one example is how our DMC and The identify opportunities for our business In March 2017 the Board committed to a new initiative called ‘1-2-3’ with the aim In November 2018, Australia slavery globally by issuing a modern particularly true in the Intrepid Foundation has worked with to collaborate with governments, slavery statement every year. the Kilimanjaro Porters Assistance NGOs, and communities to create of realising Intrepid Group’s long-term became the first country travel industry. commitment to being a business with a In 2017, Intrepid Group issued its Project (KPAP) to provide education, shared value and be a genuine force in the world to legally purpose beyond profit. The plan would see first Modern Slavery Statement; support and advocacy to ensure the for good in the places we visit. In Our product depends heavily on public fair and ethical treatment of porters 2018 we saw our partnership with the Group dedicate 1% of global revenue, recognise orphanage outlining the steps we take to infrastructure, the local workforce, and 2% of global staff time to purpose projects, prevent acts of slavery or trafficking (refer to pg 91). WWF and Australia’s Department trafficking as a form of supply chains in the places we go. As and 3% of founders’ equity would go to The from occurring in our business of Foreign Affairs bear fruit with the a truly global travel business, Intrepid We add value to our travel agent Intrepid Foundation by 2020. modern slavery. or supply chain. In early 2016, we creation of the Business Partnerships Group is built on relationships with partners, not only by continually removed visits to orphanages and Platform. This resulted in the creation In December 2018 the Board made the many different stakeholders. providing an exceptional product As a steering-committee member residential care facilities on any of of the community-based tourism decision to simplify the initiative, focusing that they can trust, but also by solely on the commitment of 1% of of Rethink Orphanages Australia, our global trips. Intrepid Group engages with over project in Madi Valley being added taking a leadership role on issues revenue. Tracking staff hours for purpose we’re proud to have represented 5,000 partners and suppliers globally, to Intrepid Travel’s trips in Nepal In 2018, we also facilitated child in our industry. In 2018 Intrepid projects was overly complex and difficult the tourism industry by providing a including travel agents, hotels, (more information on pages 64-65). protection training for key staff Group continued our sponsorship of to measure in practice, with staff noting parliamentary submission in support tour operators and transportation In 2018 we also we initiated two new working in our operations, product, Australia’s Women In Travel Awards, hours that didn’t make a material impact. of a new legislative definition for providers. Intrepid Group is committed community-based tourism (CBT) responsible business and not-foras well as continuing our role on Going forward, we will focus on skills‘modern slavery’. to reducing inequality, and using our projects, in Uganda and Cambodia profit teams. We’re proud to share the steering committee for Rethink based volunteering. Achieving B Corp business to empower local people The Modern Slavery Act aims to that ReThink Orphanages Australia, Orphanages and the Coalition for OUTLOOK certification in 2018 has paved the way for through skills training, job creation stamp out modern slavery both in partnership with Intrepid Group, Ethical Wildlife Tourism. our founders to legally lock our mission in and product innovation designed In 2019, we will dedicate 1% of in Australia, and in Australian won a silver award in the Best in for the long-term. to celebrate their cultural identity. global revenue to purpose initiatives businesses’ supply chains. It means Communicating Responsible Tourism PARTNERSHIPS FOR CHANGE By focusing on including local (see right) and collaborate with This, combined with the evolution of our that around 3,000 businesses with category at the World Responsible communities throughout our supply As a signatory to the UN Global governments and NGOs to initiate six purpose, has meant a shift from straight an annual turnover of $100 million Tourism Awards, in recognition of its chain, we aim to ensure that the Compact, we are committed new CBT projects. philanthropy to focus on UN SDG 8 (Decent or more will need to publicly report commitment to child protection. Work & Economic Growth) via The Intrepid on how they identify, investigate and Foundation, in a broader approach. mitigate any risks of trafficking or 62 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 63 OUR PERFORMANCE SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS PROJECT IN THE MADI VALLEY OF NEPAL Community-based tourism to in and eating their crops; or worse, taking more than 50 travellers to In 2018, further progress included: INCREASED TRAINING “Through their homestay combat human-wildlife conflict endangering the community. the Ayodyapuri Homestay as part of AND WORKSHOPS Intrepid Travel’s Kathmandu to Delhi n Installation of solar power in each of income, local workers can In 2018, Intrepid Group continued The project’s other benefits include: the 11 homestays n Nature guide training for its partnership with WWF and the tour from September 2018. young adults afford a good education for n Leveraging the wildlife and cultural n Construction of a central Australian Department of Foreign So far, the project has generated their children and manage richness of the area to better share community kitchen and dining area, n Two handicraft trainings for Affairs and Trade (DFAT) to grow more than $15,000 in income for the the benefits of tourism beyond complete with a community hall 18 local women household expenses. The community-based ecotourism in Nepal local community. Our feedback from Chitwan, and further beyond Nepal’s and murals that tell the cultural n English language training women feel empowered now.” through the Business Partnerships travellers has been very positive, popular trekking tours history of the area Platform (BPP). with the above tour receiving an n Homestay management and n Income-generation opportunities, average Overall Enjoyment Score of n Organic farming to generate a culinary training Geeta Pun Magar, The project, located at the southern which also help to develop the Ayodhyapuri BZUC Homestay owner 4.71 out of 5. more diverse range of crops for the n Gender and social ‘buffer zone’ of Chitwan National Park, associated skills and capacity for community’ and guest consumption inclusion workshop aims to help establish sustainable those living in Madi Valley Funding from the BPP initiative has wildlife and cultural tourism in the also enabled the creation of a Small n The opening of the CBT project The Ayodhyapuri Homestay will be n Social and economic empowerment Madi Valley. Business fund, designed to provide low with senior leadership from each included in an additional Intrepid of under-represented members of interest loans to support households partner as well as the Australian Travel Nepal itinerary from 2019. One of the key objectives has been the community – such as women impacted by human-wildlife conflict, Ambassador to Nepal, His Intrepid Group, WWF Nepal and the to help address the community’s and youth and to help launch more local Excellency Peter Budd – helping local community are also developing issues with human-wildlife conflict. Since August 2016, we have worked businesses – offering alternative to raise awareness of the project additional tourism activities, such as Increasingly, farmers and local closely with the Shivadwar community livelihoods beyond agriculture. locally and beyond cooking classes and cycling tours. residents in Shivadwar have become frustrated by the wild animals coming to establish the project. This includes 64 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 65 OUR PERFORMANCE Why we became a B Corp TO VALIDATE AND PRESERVE OUR PURPOSE Our certification helps us to officially substantiate our commitment to purpose beyond profit; now, and into the future. TO IMPROVE OUR INDUSTRY Our certification has helped us to charter a new pathway for global travel companies to engage with the sustainability movement, by creating a roadmap for medium and large businesses to follow. TO PROVIDE A TRUST STAMP FOR CONSUMERS ACHIEVING B CORP CERTIFICATION Certification makes it easy for travellers to identify sustainable businesses and to purchase products knowing they’re In June 2018, we became the commitment to responsible travel, and These include: But for all our achievements and contributing to a greater good. largest B Corp in Australasia, and giving back to the places and people progress, we realise we are not the largest B Corp in the tourism we visit. It shows that our dedication n The introduction of three weeks’ perfect; and this certification provides Paving the way TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN additional Paid Parental Leave for GREAT PEOPLE sector globally. to doing good flows right through our all staff – regardless of gender. us with a road map for how we can for our industry business, from our decision-making be better. It’s not only about meeting Our accreditation helps us to Certified B Corporations, or B Corps, While this may seem common and governance all the way through to the highest standards of social As part of our certification, demonstrate the value we place on strive to use their business operations in many countries, it was a staff our direct operations and supply chain, and environmental performance, we introduced the first-ever our staff and leaders, and gives them to benefit their stakeholders and benefit that was unheard of for our charitable contributions and how accountability and transparency today, B Corps in Cambodia, Sri a reason to come to work beyond just create solutions to some of society’s fathers in countries like Morocco. we treat our people. it’s about striving to increase the Lanka and Vietnam. These their salaries most pressing issues. n An increase in the number of paid positive impact we have on our planet, companies performed Certifying Intrepid Group was a In this way, the B Corp movement volunteering hours offered to our our people and the local communities particularly well in the rigorous and exploratory process is redefining what it means to be a global staff, from eight (in 2016) to we visit in future. For example we see areas of governance and 82.7 given our company’s size and successful business, by encouraging 20 hours per year. a huge potential to better engage demonstrating the exceptional industry. In fact, it took three years companies to pursue value for our destination communities and benefits provided to local staff. from the very beginning of the n An increased commitment shareholders and key stakeholders significant suppliers in improving B CORP OVERALL SCORE process to final certification. to gender diversity in senior alike including employees, social and environmental impact. management levels, where we set a communities, the environment, To achieve certification, 23 of goal to have 40% female directors suppliers and customers. Intrepid Group’s companies were on our Board (which we reached OUTLOOK 15.6 GOVERNANCE independently audited. They were While the travel industry has more in 2018) and a 50/50 split in our weighted and graded on how they As an Australian-owned business trying to progress the B Corp movement, than 100 certification schemes, B Corp Global Leadership Team by 2020. meet B Lab’s social and environmental 2019 will see us support B Lab in the mission to change the Corporations Act in certification is the only accreditation standards, where a minimum total n We have strengthened our ethical Australia, to allow socially-conscious businesses to become ‘benefit companies.’ 29.6 GOVERNANCE to offer a framework for companies score of 80/200 points is required. purchasing policy, extending it to A benefit company is a new opt-in corporate structure offering a legal framework to measure the holistic impact of their our virtual offices. to build and invest in businesses that are committed to balancing profit alongside entire business. Importantly, this helps HOW B CORP IS MAKING US BETTER social impact objectives. 23.3 COMMUNITY us to build on our 30-year n The introduction of heightened The certification process has already supplier screening, to assess Similar reforms have already been introduced across the majority of the USA, seen us make a range of significant significant supplier’s social and and in Europe; and are currently being considered in the UK, Canada, Taiwan, 2.1 CUSTOMERS improvements to our global business. environmental impacts and Argentina and Columbia. Overall, the market for socially responsible investments is performance. expected to be worth $1 trillion globally over the next decade. 66 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 67 OUR CLICKPERFORMANCE HERE TO ADD TEXT SUPPORTING INCLUSIVE TRAVEL In 2018, PEAK DMC took America team welcomed Wheel the World’s Alvaro Silberstein and Isabel SOCIAL IMPACT THROUGH on its biggest operational Aguirre (both wheelchair users) and an challenge yet: enabling two PRODUCT INNOVATION additional 12person support crew of their family and friends to Peru. wheelchair-bound travellers After spending time seeing the sights to complete a one-day trek of Cusco and participating in a 10km Urban Adventures tours of, and connection with, the local On a ‘Made In’ tour, travellers can: In 2018, 12 organisations from Europe, of the Inca Trail. accessible cycling experience around people we visit. In fact, we innovate our Shop for jewellery that’s been Asia, Africa and South America joined are specifically designed product around this very principle. n the In Focus program, which means the Sacred Valley, the team boarded made from old coins by refugees The trek, completed in partnership the train at Ollantaytambo, bound to keep money within local living in Delhi. the program is now available in 22 destinations worldwide. with travel company Wheel the for KM104, the starting point of the economies and mitigate LOCAL ARTISAN TOURS: ‘MADE IN’ Purchase artwork made from n World, was undertaken to raise one-day Inca Trail. What followed Some examples of In Focus tours In early 2018, Urban Adventures recycled metal and designed by awareness of the travel possibilities was a superhuman effort to get the impact of tourism include: expanded its ‘Made In’ range from disadvantaged locals in Amsterdam. available to people living with Alvaro and Isabel to Machu Picchu, ‘leakage’, where money 20 to 29 destinations. This series of n Visit Budapest’s first sustainable n Visiting a centre helping Syrian disabilities. Founded by best something that most people thought refugees to resettle in Istanbul. spent by visitors goes to big tours is designed to support local clothing store. friends Alvaro Silberstein (who is a was impossible. artists and craftspeople, and educate n Having a homemade lunch with a quadriplegic) and Camilo Navarro, corporations rather than n Learn about traditional ceramics in ‘Widows Empowerment’ group in News of this achievement has travellers on the importance of a Krakow pottery shop. Wheel the World have a mission to reached far and wide, with media directly to locals. shopping locally. We now offer 25 Casablanca. redefine the recreation sector for n Meet a famous favela artist in including CNN, The Independent, The ‘Made In’ tours around the globe. n Learning about urban issues from people with disabilities. Rio de Janeiro. Daily Mail, CN Traveler and Travel and On average, more than 90% of Urban a formerly homeless guide in By visiting local shops, galleries and It was a purpose that resonated with Leisure covering the expedition. Adventures’ tour costs are spent Edinburgh. studios rather than markets with SOCIAL IMPACT TOURS: IN FOCUS PEAK DMC Regional General Manager with local suppliers, and 76% of n Taking a cooking class with refugees Travellers with disabilities or reduced mass-produced, imported goods, for South America, Gary Cohen, who money spent by our travellers stays In 2015, Urban Adventures launched living in Bangkok. mobility are now able to book their we can ensure that money stays reached out to Wheel the World in in the destination visited, equal to In Focus, a range of day tours run in Discovering street art with a own accessible adventure in Peru within local communities, while also n April to see how they might work approximately $64 per person. partnership with local social enterprises, neighbourhood rejuvenation team with Wheel the World, which will supporting the independent artisans together in Peru. Preparations then non-profits and NGOs. On these tours, in Valparaiso. be operated by PEAK DMC on the But most importantly, Urban who are preserving local culture. ensued to design an accessible weektravellers can learn about grassroots ground, with plans to expand to other Adventures’ tours are aimed at Travellers, in turn, walk away with long itinerary around Cusco that projects that are supporting local destinations in the future. encouraging a deeper understanding mementos that are both ethicallywould include the one-day Inca Trail. communities, and come face-to-face produced and locally authentic. with the people tackling real local issues. In November, after many months of preparation, the PEAK DMC South 68 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 69 CLICK HERE TO ADD TEXT OUR GOVERNANCE Our Board and its sub-committees are dedicated to strong corporate governance and management of internal and external risks faced by the business. OUR GOVERNANCE OUR BOARD INTRODUCING OUR 2019 Intrepid Group is governed by the Intrepid Group Board of NON-EXECUTIVE Directors, who have been appointed by shareholders. BOARD MEMBERS The Board meets every two months and is responsible for governance, as well as setting the strategy and overall direction of the business. The Board also sets the tone and culture of Intrepid Group; living and endorsing its six key values: Integrity, Responsibility, Fun, Innovation, Growth and Passion. The dayto-day management of Intrepid Group is the responsibility of the company’s CEO and the Core Strategy Team. The Board takes its responsibilities very seriously, and all members attended all five Board meetings during the year. No changes were made to the composition of the Board during the December 2018 financial year. However, in 2018 the board invited two external independent members to SARAH MORGAN join. These two female non-executive board members attended their first Member from January 2019 board meeting in January 2019. Their appointment aligns with Intrepid Group’s commitment to diversity at all levels of the organisation – including within Sarah is an experienced nonsenior management – and sees Intrepid Group realise its 2020 goal to have executive director, serving on a 40% of its Board comprised of female directors. number of boards including Hansen Technologies, Adslot, Future Generation Global Investment “As we grow, we need to continue to bring diversity of Company Ltd, and the National Gallery opinion and new expertise to the table” of Victoria Foundation. She has worked on some of Australia and the James Thornton, CEO world’s most significant transactions across a broad range of industries. GEOFF MANCHESTER MEMBER SINCE 1989 Geoff is the co-founder of Intrepid Travel and Director of Intrepid Group. Globally recognised as a responsible travel pioneer, “Manch” has ensured Intrepid Group delivers on its sustainable and responsible travel ethos as the company has grown. Integral to the creation of The Intrepid Foundation, Manch has championed the not-for-profit since its inception in 2002. An ambassador for Conscious Capitalism Australia, Manch also spearheaded the Group’s efforts to become a B Corp. DARRELL WADE MEMBER SINCE 1989 Darrell is the co-founder of Intrepid Travel and Chairman of Intrepid Group. LIZ SAVAGE During the course of his career, Darrell has been recognised as a leader in Member from January 2019 entrepreneurship and as a passionate advocate for sustainable tourism. It Liz is a full-time Company Director, was under his leadership that Intrepid Group became the first carbon neutral experienced in growing businesses travel company in 2010, and he was selected as one of the first group of organically and by acquisition. She Australians to complete Climate Project training with the Hon Mr Al Gore. applies customer-centred leadership to Named as the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year back in 2002, Darrell her portfolio of ASX-listed, private, local continues to drive a culture of innovation within the Group. Darrell is on the government and not-for-profit director Executive Committee of the World Travel and Tourism Council, where he has roles, spanning the competitive been a strong advocate on sustainability issues, particularly climate change. tourism, travel, hospitality, workforce JAMES THORNTON MEMBER SINCE 2015 and sports sectors. Liz is the former Business Development Director of James is the Chief Executive Officer of Intrepid Group. Since joining the Group EasyJet and Chief Commercial Officer in 2005, James has filled a variety of senior roles, including UK & Europe of Virgin Australia. Regional Director, General Manager Global Sales, and Managing Director of Intrepid Group. Focussing on the dual objectives of growing the market for sustainable, experience-rich travel and operating a company that has a purpose beyond profit, James has been instrumental in the growth of the Group. James is a member of the Young President’s Organisation and the Australian Institute of Company Directors. In 2018, James was named the Hospitality and Tourism Executive of the Year in CEO Magazine’s Executive of the Year Awards in Australia. 72 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 73 OUR GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Intrepid Group is committed from the Committee. Chief Operating 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Officer, Michelle Beveridge, joined to maintaining the highest Across the year, a number of the Committee, following Darshika milestones were achieved by the Board standards of governance Jones’ transition from Group Finance and its sub-committees: supported by best practice Director to Regional Director in North America. Darshika therefore stepped n Identification of new non-executive structures, people and down in November. directors to the Board and Audit policies. and Risk Committee. 2018 also saw the introduction of a The Board of Directors are committed new management sub-committee n Creation and implementation of a to building long-term value for all – the Core Strategy Team (CST). The new compliance program, including stakeholders through sound corporate CST is chaired by the CEO, and is global key control spot checks and governance. The Board, and its subcomprised of senior members of the on-site compliance reviews. committees, ensure the open and Global Leadership Team (GLT). The CST meet quarterly and are charged n Tracking progress against our 2020 honest operation of Intrepid Group at with implementing the strategies strategy. every level of the business. The Board has delegated authority to the Audit set by the Board and overseeing the n Commenced planning for our 2025 and Risk Committee to oversee the management of the company. The strategic plan, taking the company following areas: financial management CST is also responsible for relaying the beyond the current 2020 plan. (including the external audit process), culture, tone and initiatives from the compliance and risk management, and Board to the business. 2019 AND BEYOND health and safety. The Audit and Risk The GLT was reformed in 2018 to The Audit and Risk Committee has Committee met five times in 2018, with include representatives from key commissioned a full review of our the Chair of the Committee reporting business segments and divisions as Risk Framework to ensure Intrepid back to the Board after each meeting. well as department heads. The GLT Group stays up-to-date with the A few changes were made to the acted as a wider steering committee, latest global standards. Audit and Risk Committee during charged with providing input and 2018. In June, Regional Director insight into strategic goals and projects. (APAC), Brett Mitchell, stepped down TEAM TOTAL TOTAL MALE FEMALE DIVERSITY MEMBERS MEETINGS HELD Board of Directors 3 5 3 0 0% Audit and Risk Committee 4 5 1 3 75% Core Strategy Team (non-Board) 5 4 3 2 40% Global Leadership Team 13 4 6 7 54% OUR 2018 CORE STRATEGY TEAM (non-Board and CST) Group Commercial Director CEO Chief Growth Officer Tom Beadle James Thornton Michael Edwards Chief Operating Officer PEAK DMC Managing Director Chief Purpose Officer Michelle Beveridge Natalie Kidd Leigh Barnes 74 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 75 OUR GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT As a multi-brand business The Audit and Risk Committee have standards; communicating and SOURCES OF ASSURANCE RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK been appointed by the Board to reporting these to the wider business. operating globally across oversee the effectiveness of internal The Board has delegated responsibility The third line is independent for reviewing the effectiveness of the a number of countries and controls and risk management systems STRATEGIC across the organisation, while our assurance by way of external auditors. Group’s systems of internal control Intrepid Group Board cultures, we are exposed to These auditors provide independent to the Audit and Risk Committee. This CST manages our business risks at an GOVERNANCE and objective assessment of the covers all material controls including a number of business risks operational level. In 2018 the Board effectiveness of risk management, financial, operational and compliance Audit & Risk Committee that may materially impact invited two non-executive directors to operational controls and governance controls and risk management join the Board in 2019, and one of the on our business. An effective processes. They also provide guidance systems. The Committee is supported non-executive directors will join the to management on risk and control by several sources of internal OPERATIONAL risk management system Risk and Audit Committee as Chair. through ad-hoc consulting as required. assurance from within the Group to is therefore essential to In addition to this, Intrepid Group has complete these reviews, in particular: Core Strategy Team GOVERNANCE three lines of defence against risk. ASSURANCE AND INTERNAL safeguarding our success. n Compliance review All levels of our risk management CONTROL ENVIRONMENT framework work together to help ensure Intrepid Group’s primary source of OUR APPROACH TO RISK Intrepid Group’s risk management assurance relies on the compliance that our business risks are mitigated. MANAGEMENT framework is designed to manage program that is in place. This Global Leadership Team FIRST LINE The first line of defence is the rather than eliminate risk and can includes having a quarterly Intrepid Group has implemented the IG Global Department Managers management team themselves, who only provide reasonable and not compliance check of the Group’s OF DEFENCE COSO Enterprise Risk Management Urban Adventures Managers promote a culture of risk awareness, absolute assurance against material key controls and regularly spot – Integrated Framework to manage control focus and ‘doing the right misstatement or loss. checking key controls, tax, licensing, Peak DMC Global its global risk. We use a multi-layered thing’ within the business. They have updates on fraud and other approach to the identification, The key features of Intrepid Group’s nominated risk champions within irregularities. management and mitigation of internal control framework ensures business units to promote and external and operational risks. the accuracy and reliability of financial Functional assurance Group Functions SECOND LINE n implement risk management. reporting including clearly defined lines Risk governance is led by Intrepid Including health and safety and IG Compliance The second line of defence is the of accountability and delegation of OF DEFENCE Group’s Audit and Risk Committee, environmental footprint. Tech Services Intrepid Group functions, which are set authority, and procedures that cover all who actively participate in the ‘topup specifically to identify opportunities aspects of the business. Peak DMC Global down’ identification, assessment and to further mitigate common Groupacceptance of strategic risk. wide risk and set required control THIRD LINE Independent Assurance OF DEFENCE External Auditors (PwC) 76 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 77 OUR GOVERNANCE RISKS & CONSEQUENCES MITIGATING MEASURES OUR MATERIAL RISKS Intrepid Group has identified the most pressing risks to our stakeholders and our ongoing business TALENT MANAGEMENT We have ensured succession and development plans The Group’s success depends on its ability to retain are in place for all identified business-critical roles. success, as well as potential consequences if these risks are not addressed. The plan below outlines what key management and remain competitive within the We run a suite of internal management development we are doing to mitigate these risks. The Audit and Risk Committee and Core Strategy Team have identified market. programs and invest in a mix of internal and external a wider range of other risks which are reviewed and managed regularly. training to ensure our people have the right skills. CONSEQUENCE Increased cost to the business to recruit and We undertake a range of activities to build culture and RISKS AND CONSEQUENCES MITIGATING MEASURES increase engagement. onboard talent into key roles. CAPITALS We progressively grow the employment offering by ON TRIP SAFETY Intrepid Group’s Health and Safety Policy embedded into all parts of increasing salary ranges, incentives and benefits within Provision of travel includes potential the business, both in our offices and at an operational level. the affordability of the business. risks to safety for both customers and Regular assessment of on-ground adherence to our Health and employees. Safety Policy through customer feedback, leaders’ Trip Reports and Trip Safety Audits. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT We closely monitor and action critical KPI’s (passenger CONSEQUENCE Development and implementation of a Global Incident Management Spending on travel and tourism is discretionary numbers, trip fill, average selling price etc.). The risk of injury or trauma to customers, including possible death, Plan which ensures any incident is dealt with in a timely and and price sensitive. The economic outlook remains We closely monitor and action changes in political potentially leading to lawsuits, fines professional manner. Tracking and review of incidents to mitigate uncertain with different source markets at different environment (such as Brexit). and penalties, as well as significant any further damage to passengers or the business. points in the recovery cycle. Consumers are also waiting longer to book their trips in order to assess Active management of, and investment in, resources for reputational damage. Comprehensive insurance in place. their financial situation. our yield management systems to ensure flexibility and CAPITALS All leaders and guides receive regular and comprehensive health resilience in our business model. This will ensure that and safety training. CONSEQUENCE trip fill is maximised and capacity is aligned closely to An inability to react to changes in the market leading forecasts in order to protect margins and profit growth. Maximise the use of in-house DMC network where we have more to the misallocation of resources and an inability to Maintaining a healthy free cash position to absorb any direct control over quality assurance. meet customer demand. temporary shocks. CAPITALS Continuing to ensure we have a diversified customer base MAJOR GLOBAL INCIDENT All trips are run in accordance with the travel advice issued by and that we are targeting growing sectors of the industry. Intrepid Group and its passengers the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs, with reference also Aim to obtain number one position in each market. are exposed to the inherent risk of made to the governmental travel advisories from other key source domestic and/or international incidents markets. Management has ability to adjust cost structure in affecting some of the countries that response to changing market conditions. Our business model is based on having a balanced destination we operate in, including terrorism and mix to minimise concentration risk. natural disasters. We minimise the impact of any potential negative events in CLIMATE CHANGE Where possible, we continue to focus our efforts on CONSEQUENCE our source markets and destinations by ensuring the effective Intrepid Group recognises that climate change is using more environmentally friendly modes of transport The risk of injury or trauma to execution of our incident management plans. a global risk and that we must manage the risks on our trips. customers, including possible death, The business is debt-free and maintains a healthy level of free associated with climate change across our value We continue to reduce the amount of travel associated potentially leading to lawsuits, fines cash, which allows us to absorb temporary shocks to cash reserves chain, now and in the future. with internal meetings. and penalties, as well as significant resulting from regionalised destabilisation. reputational damage CONSEQUENCES We continue to invest in technology that enables Our DMC network has strong relationships with local tourism The impacts of extreme weather events are meetings and other forms of engagement to be CAPITALS bodies and travel and aviation associations, and actively monitors increasingly recognised as a material financial risk to conducted via video conferencing. the political situation in volatile destinations. businesses. Intrepid Group has been a carbon neutral travel company since 2010. In late 2018, the Group revised Physical assets (our operations) and trips are its methodology in line with National Carbon Offsetting vulnerable to weather and climate change (e.g. Standard (NCOS) to seek carbon neutral certification under DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION Implementation of agile project management practices has enabled increased frequency and severity of extreme weather the Australian Government’s Carbon Neutral Initiative. projects and the wider business to react to changing circumstances events such as heatwaves, hurricanes and floods, Inability to, or poor implementation of, and ensures we are working towards up-to-date goals. and stress on water resources). We purchase carbon credits associated with renewable Digital Mindset strategy leading to us energy projects and have identified a portfolio of falling behind in the marketplace. We ensure we have appropriate resources allocated to executing There is increasing regulatory and financial pressure Australian and international projects that we will invest this strategy through our five year planning process and embed to reduce GHG emission intensity of energy supplies, in from 2018 to 2020. CONSEQUENCE changes through training and support. resulting in a growing demand for renewables. We have set 2020 carbon goals to lighten our overall Inefficiencies in systems leading to the Continuing to execute our online driven strategy and support the CAPITALS global environmental footprint and reduce Intrepid increased cost of acquisition and the digital customer journey. Strategy is reviewed as part of the ongoing Group carbon emissions. increased cost of doing business, as goals alignment process. well as missed opportunities to expand, grow and improve. CAPITALS Financial Environment Social & Relationship Customer People Brand & Know-How 78 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 79 OUR GOVERNANCE POLICIES AND GUIDELINES The following policies and guidelines were introduced or updated in the 2018 financial year. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AND TRAVEL n Sexual Misconduct Policy and n Family and Domestic Violence Procedure Leave n Child Protection Guidelines This was released in 2017 and fully All full-time, casual and part-time We actively support best practice implemented in 2018; with all PEAK employees based in Australia are in child protection across Intrepid DMC leaders receiving training. entitled to five days of unpaid Group, and work to ensure The policy defines unacceptable family and domestic violence leave that children and their families on-trip behaviour and clearly each year. This is available to staff are protected from harm. We conveys the consequences of any members experiencing violent, introduced this policy to provide breach of policy. It has since been threatening or abusive behaviour practical guidelines on how we can integrated into the Group’s office by a family member. best protect children’s rights across staff compliance training. our business and our tours. n Global Recruitment Principles n PEAK DMC Purchasing Policy n Marine Guidelines From 2018, at least one male and and Guidelines These guidelines were established one female candidate must be These guide our decision making for to reflect the growth in the Group’s selected in the group of successful selecting suppliers. We updated this marine product. The guidelines candidates invited to participate in in 2018 to incorporate a preference ensure we are operating in an interview (provided they meet for selecting suppliers who are accordance with best practice, and the essential criteria). During the considered under-represented in our company-wide responsible interview process, the successful their local communities – such as business principles. candidate must be interviewed by women and minority groups. This at least one male and one female included an update of our supplier n Responsible Purchasing Policy to eliminate gender bias and checklist and heightened supplier This policy provides our staff with promote diversity and inclusion. screening using a Supplier Code of guiding principles to make better Conduct Audit to assess a suppliers’ purchasing decisions in our global FINANCIAL social and environmental impacts offices. Office purchases include and performance. n Fraud Policy items such as electricity, paper Our Fraud Policy was updated in and cleaning products. In 2018, we EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND 2018 and is intended to facilitate updated this policy to incorporate RECRUITMENT the development of controls our virtual and home offices. n Global Parental Leave that will aid in the prevention, Policy detection, investigation and OPERATIONAL (THROUGH PEAK DMC) subsequent prosecution of fraud The policy introduces three weeks against the Group. n Global Porter Policy paid parental leave at full pay for either parent, in addition to any Updated to include specific local n Business Gift Policy government-provided or locally porter regulations at our PEAK Intrepid Group has a commitment paid parental leave. In locations DMC offices in Nepal, Peru and to high legal, ethical and moral where government or local Kenya. We also introduced our standards. The business gift policy paid parental leave is less than Intrepid Group Kokoda Local Porter is established to provide guidance six weeks, additional leave will Regulation focusing on ensuring to Intrepid Group staff as to what be provided to ensure a global the fair treatment and welfare of is an appropriate business gift and minimum of six weeks paid leave. our porters. what is inappropriate. This was updated in 2018. 80 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 81 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The accompanying summary of financial statements, which comprises a summarised profit and loss statement and summarised balance sheet, have been derived from the audited financial statements of Intrepid Group. 82 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 83 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARISED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS DECLARATION COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2018 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 In the opinion of the Directors of Intrepid Group Limited: (a) There are reasonable grounds to believe that the company will be able to pay its debts as and when they 2018 2017 $(‘000) $(‘000) become due and payable; REVENUE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 303,538 256,829* (b) The summary financial report has been derived from and is consistent with the full financial statements for the financial period ended 31 December 2018; Cost of sales (203,931) (170,598)* Overheads (89,235) (76,658) (c) The full financial statements and notes thereto are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and: Other income 3,439 1,468 (i) comply with Accounting Standards, the Corporations Regulations 2001 and other mandatory Share of net profit of associates and joint ventures 623 90 professional reporting requirements; PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAX 14,434 11,131 (ii) give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of the Company for the 12-month financial period to 31 December 2018. Income tax credit/(expense) (4,617) (4,088) PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER INCOME TAX 9,817 7,043 Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors SUMMARISED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Mr Darrell Wade 2018 2017 $(‘000) $(‘000) Chairman and Director of Intrepid Group Limited Current assets 109,491 86,366 Melbourne, 26 March 2019 Non-current assets 75,497 77,609* TOTAL ASSETS 184,988 163,975 Current liabilities (96,952) (85,290)* Non-current liabilities (2,598) (3,535) TOTAL LIABILITIES (99,550) (88,826) NET ASSETS 85,438 75,149 TOTAL EQUITY** 85,438 75,149 * Prior year restated due to impacts of the new revenue standard. ‘The Intrepid Foundation is a separate reporting entity and is not included in the finanical results of Intrepid Group, refer to page 96 for financial statements. Basis of preparation The summarised consolidated statement of comprehensive income and the summarised consolidated statement of financial position (together, ‘summarised financial information’) have been prepared to assist Intrepid Group Limited with their integrated reporting. The summarised financial information does not and cannot be expected to provide as full an understanding of the financial performance, financial position and financing and investing activities of Intrepid Group Limited and controlled entities as the full financial report. A full description of the accounting policies adopted by Intrepid Group Limited and controlled entities may be found in the full financial report. The summarised financial information is presented in Australian dollars. 84 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 85 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditor’s report on the summarised financial information To the members of Intrepid Group Limited Our opinion In our opinion, the summarised financial information is consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited. What we have audited The summarised financial information is derived from the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited for the year ended 31 December 2018. The summarised financial information comprises: • the summarised consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 • the summarised consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended • The related notes to the summarised financial information • The directors’ declaration Emphasis of matter basis of accounting and restriction on distribution and use We draw attention to the basis of preparation of the summarised financial information, which describes the basis of accounting. The summarised financial information has been prepared to assist Intrepid Group Limited in preparing their integrated annual report. As a result, the summarised financial information may not be suitable for another purpose. Our report is intended solely for Intrepid Group Limited and its members and should not be distributed to or used by parties other than Intrepid Group Limited and its members. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Summarised financial information The summarised financial information does not contain all the disclosures required by Australian Accounting Standards applied in preparation of the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited. Reading the summarised financial information and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited and the auditor’s report thereon. The summarised financial information and this auditor’s report do not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on the audited financial report.] The audited financial report and our report thereon We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on the financial report in our report dated 26 March 2019. Management’s responsibility for the summarised financial information Management is responsible for the preparation of the summarised financial information in accordance with the basis of preparation described on page 84. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion whether the summarised financial information is consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial report based on our procedures, which were conducted in accordance with Auditing Standard ASA 810 Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements. PricewaterhouseCoopers Jason Perry Melbourne Partner 26 March 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 2 Riverside Quay, SOUTHBANK VIC 3006, GPO Box 1331 MELBOURNE VIC 3001 T: +61 3 8603 1000, F: +61 3 8603 1999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 86 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 87 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION The Intrepid Foundation was established to provide a way for travellers to give back to the places they’ve been. Since 2002, we’ve distributed over $7.5 million to more than 125 projects around the world. In 2018, we distributed just over $1.1 million to our partners and created significant impact in areas such as girls’ education, child trafficking and vocational training for vulnerable youth. We also adopted a new strategy focused on improving the livelihoods of communities around the world through travel, and established a new grant program to amplify this strategy. THE INTREPID FOUNDATION A NEW MISSION AND NEW PARTNERS The travel and tourism To achieve this goal, The Intrepid organisations throughout the year and With this new approach to funding, organisations and projects by featuring To double our impact and make Foundation adopted a new strategy, distributed funds at the end of the we’ll have a much greater opportunity them on its travel itineraries. We donations go even further, Intrepid industry creates one in 10 choosing to support organisations and year. In 2018, we established a grantto establish key project milestones with carried more than 431,000 passengers Group matches every dollar donated of the world’s jobs, and is projects that focus on three key areas based funding model. our partners and measure the impact on our trips in 2018, many of whom to the Foundation, up to a total in accordance with SDG 8: vocational being created through our funding. have the opportunity to interact of $600,000 per year and a max growing faster than the Through this new process, and skills training, creating new jobs, with these projects in a meaningful of $10,000 per individual donor. organisations aligned with our strategy We are very excited to have approved global economy. and ensuring tourism-related jobs are way; whether that includes dining at Intrepid Group also covers all of the are invited to apply for a grant. eight new grants in 2018, some of fair and decent. By funding programs KOTO’s training restaurant in Vietnam Foundation’s administrative costs, In this powerful statistic we saw an Applications are then assessed by a which are below. that support young people, women and or buying a pair of earrings at Small ensuring donations go directly to opportunity to improve people’s committee of Intrepid Group staff. minorities, we are helping those who Projects Istanbul. supporting community projects. livelihoods, their working conditions HOW WE’RE IMPROVING need these opportunities the most. Successful organisations receive and their wellbeing through job LIVELIHOODS WITH THE SUPPORT Our travellers get to see the impact of funding for a period of one to three creation. Our mission became to OF OUR TRAVELLERS our partners first-hand, and they can HOW WE FUND OUR PARTNERS years depending on program activities. provide a pathway for individuals to gain In addition to the Foundation’s choose to take their impact further by With our new strategy came a new donating to the Foundation. sustainable economic opportunities in fundraising activities, Intrepid funding model. In previous years, travel-related enterprises. Group is also supporting grassroots the Foundation fundraised for FRIENDS-INTERNATIONAL, CAMBODIA MISSION AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA MANOS UNIDAS, PERU KOTO, VIETNAM THE THIN GREEN LINE FOUNDATION, KILIMANJARO PORTERS ASSISTANCE Grant Amount: Grant Amount: Grant Amount: Grant Amount: KENYA PROJECT, TANZANIA $100,000 over one year $177,540 over two years $28,400 over one year $180,000 over two years Grant Amount: Grant Amount: $50,000 over one year $50,000 over one year Friends-International has launched a The Foundation’s funding will support The Foundation’s funding will support The Foundation will sponsor 36 brand-new Futures Factory in Phnom a training program to empower 30 young adults with disabilities disadvantaged youth from across Once trained, newly employed female The Foundation will support the Penh, which aims to provide 52 at-risk 40 disadvantaged young people to receive job skills training and Vietnam to complete KOTO’s Community Rangers will provide Responsible Travel Program, which youth and caregivers with hospitality predominantly from Aboriginal and employment at a social enterprise café two-year hospitality training and greater protection for wildlife under promotes the ethical treatment of training and employment. Designed as Torres Strait Islander backgrounds, in Cusco. The program aims to increase personal development program. The threat in and around National Parks Kilimanjaro’s porters. By advocating for a social enterprise, the Futures Factory with core life skills, and increase their awareness of the working rights internationally-accredited training and conservancies in Kenya. Travellers porters’ rights, the program will improve project will deliver cocktail-making prospects of employment. Through of people with disabilities through program also supports youth in finding will get a behind-the-scenes look at life the working conditions for 7,000 porters. classes and food experiences that practical experience at Café One, advocacy and raising awareness ongoing employment after finishing as a Ranger on Intrepid Travel’s new In addition, funding will help train 130 generate revenue for the business. a mobile community coffee van in among local and international tourists. their studies. Intrepid Group travellers ‘Kenya: Wildlife Rangers Expedition’ trip. investigative porters to monitor partner Intrepid Group travellers will have the Darwin, trainees will earn a food safety Intrepid Group travellers will gain can visit KOTO’s training restaurants in climbs and provide employment to opportunity to dine at the Futures and barista certificate. insight into the program by visiting the Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh. seven staff from the Kilimanjaro Porters Factory for an authentic culinary café on selected trips to Cusco. Assistance Project to manage the experience, and to see the impact of Responsible Travel Program. the grant firsthand. 90 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 91 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION OUR RESULTS AND GOALS EMPOWERING YOUNG PEOPLE IN CAMBODIA AND LAOS 2018 RESULTS 2019 GOALS In 2018, a partnership book with Intrepid Travel. By 2020, we Another Friends-International cause expect to donate at least $250,000 to that the Foundation supported FUND IMPACT FUND between FriendsFriends-International. is Luang Prabang’s Khaiphaen GOAL: restaurant in Laos. One of the many GOAL: 1.5 million dollars raised through International and In 2018, the Foundation committed training restaurants run by FriendsOne million dollars disbursed Establish ten new partners. The Intrepid Foundation. $100,000 to help 52 at-risk Cambodian to The Intrepid Foundation’s The Intrepid Foundation youths to gain hospitality skills in a International, the venue enables at-risk and marginalised youths to acquire partners. RESULT: Achieved safe and welcoming atmosphere at the ENGAGE saw the creation of a the skills they need to succeed in the Futures Factory. Opening in May 2019, RESULT: $1,156,118 disbursed hospitality industry. GOAL: Establish a baseline 200 individual fundraisers groundbreaking new the program will offer trainees lessons created on The Intrepid on meal and cocktail preparation, while In 2018, the Khaiphaen training for measuring impact of job initiative: Futures Factory. giving travellers the chance to enjoy an program had a significant impact on ENGAGE creation, job readiness, and Foundation website. authentic culinary experience. students’ lives: GOAL: job rights goals. Friends-International transforms the 3.5% of Intrepid Group lives of hundreds of youths working The Foundation also supported n 26 students received IMPACT RESULT: Achieved and living on the streets by providing Friends-International’s Phka Kravan hospitality training travellers donate to The Intrepid n Ten new projects to contribute to vocational training. beauty salon in Siem Reap in Foundation. n Eight students – seven of which our 2020 goal of 1,000 individuals 2018. This training salon provides The organisation is closely linked to are women – were placed in jobs RESULT: 4.1% placed in decent work. vulnerable young women in Cambodia The Intrepid Foundation, and the after training through employment with the skills they need to secure Intrepid Travel brand, thanks to a support n Develop and implement meaningful employment. Trainees GOAL: 2% of all traffic to The donation partnership connected new impact framework and receive vocational training, life skills n Six students received support Intrepid Foundation website to our 18 to 29s product. For every to live independently after methodology. development, and job-readiness results in donations. trip booked by our travellers on an training; while also gaining access employment n Implement survey with 2018 18 to 29s product, Intrepid Travel to a full range of social services, RESULT: 4.1% makes a $10 contribution to Friendsn Ten former students received partners to report our impact. hygiene facilities, medical care, International. This direct donation is regular check-ins from a resident accommodation, childcare and used to incentivise young travellers to social worker nutritious meals. 92 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 93 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE INTRODUCING OUR BOARD MEMBERS The Intrepid Foundation is a company limited by The Foundation is staffed by a core team responsible for its guarantee. It is governed by a Board of Directors day-to-day operations, including monitoring and evaluating consisting of senior staff from Intrepid Group and supported projects, financial reporting, marketing and experienced external Directors. campaigns. The Board is responsible for the overall governance An external, independent professional firm audits all of the and strategic direction of the Foundation and works in Foundation’s accounts annually. partnership with Intrepid Group’s Global Leadership Team to work towards our vision and goals for 2020. JAMES THORNTON GEOFF MANCHESTER DARRELL WADE James is the CEO of the Intrepid Group As one of the original founders of Darrell founded Intrepid Travel with and Chair of The Intrepid Foundation. Intrepid Travel and later The Intrepid Geoff Manchester nearly 30 years ago, As the Intrepid Group commits itself Foundation, Geoff ‘Manch’ Manchester followed by The Intrepid Foundation to be driven not just by growth, but remains committed to our work. in 2002. Over the course of his career, by a deep sense of purpose beyond Recognised as a world pioneer in Darrell has been recognised as a leader profit, James is well placed to support responsible travel, he’s always ensured in business, adventure travel and The Intrepid Foundation as it grows in Intrepid delivers on its sustainability sustainability. A Director of The Intrepid reach and impact. promise. Manch was Chair of The Foundation since 2002, he’s especially Intrepid Foundation until 2017. interested in connecting travellers with our projects in ways that help change the way they see the world. MELANIE GOW HAYLEY ONIONS FIONA MCLEAY Melanie is Group General Manager Hayley joined the Intrepid Group’s Fiona is the CEO of the Victorian Legal Services Board. She’s had senior roles at for Corporate Affairs with St Vincent’s Responsible Business team in 2016 World Vision Australia, including General Health Australia. She also has over 20 and The Intrepid Foundation Board Counsel and Company Secretary, and years-experience in the international in 2017. Hayley has worked in finance is well-equipped to offer independent aid and development sector working since beginning her career at KPMG and impartial advice to The Intrepid in a variety of roles for World Vision in 2006 and moved into the travel Foundation. Fiona trained as a lawyer Australia and internationally. Melanie industry in 2011, working for Flight and has eight years experience in has served as a Board member for Centre in Brisbane and Travelport construction and engineering dispute several not for profit organisations. in Dubai. Hayley works closely with resolution. She specialises in pro Previously, Melanie ran a small The Intrepid Foundation financial bono legal work and corporate social consulting firm focusing on strategy, reporting team. responsibility, with vast experience in leadership and transformation in the leadership and organisational change. ‘for purpose’ sector. 94 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 95 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION THE INTREPID FOUNDATION LIMITED THE TRUSTEE FOR THE INTREPID FOUNDATION The Intrepid Foundation Limited receives funds and makes disbursements to international The Trust is an eligible recipient of deductible gifts, and therefore acts as the entity to make community project programs. donations to Australian partners. SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2018 ($) 2017 ($) 2018 ($) 2017 ($) REVENUE REVENUE Fundraising (donations) 938,850 743,267 Fundraising (donations) 248,188 254,199 Interest income 2,988 263 Funds transferred from The Intrepid Foundation Limited 209,873 415,110 Reimbursement of bank fees 12,973 4,995 Intrepid Group business contributions 90,000 TOTAL REVENUE 954,811 748,525 Interest income 24,097 18,559 Reimbursement of bank fees 113 27 EXPENDITURE TOTAL REVENUE 572,271 687,895 Funds to community project programs (731,965) (328,430) Funds transferred to the Trustee for The Intrepid Foundation (209,873) (415,110) EXPENDITURE Reimbursement of bank fees (12,973) (4,995) Funds to perpetual partners (334,153) (380,031) TOTAL REVENUE ( 954,811) (748,525) Funds to Intrepid Group business partners (90,000) Bank fees (113) (27) EXCESS OF REVENUE OVER EXPENSES TOTAL REVENUE (424,266) (380,058) Other comprehensive income TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD EXCESS OF REVENUE OVER EXPENSES 148,005 307,837 Other comprehensive income TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 148,005 307,837 SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 2018 ($) 2017 ($) AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 CURRENT ASSETS Cash at bank and on hand 815,128 606,997 2018 ($) 2017 ($) Amounts receivable from Intrepid Group entities 156,710 84,143 CURRENT ASSETS TOTAL ASSETS 971,838 691,140 Cash at bank and on hand 1,053,371 784,224 CURRENT LIABILITIES Amounts receivable from Intrepid Group entities 92,674 34,186 Amounts payable to community project programs (656,163) (253,319) Amounts receivable from The Intrepid Foundation Limited 315,575 437,721 Amounts payable to The Trustee for The Intrepid Foundation (315,575) (437,721) Interest receivable 1,066 800 TOTAL LIABILITIES (971,738) (691,040) TOTAL ASSETS 1,462,686 1,256,931 NET ASSETS 100 100 CURRENT LIABILITIES EQUITY Amounts payable to Intrepid Group entities Members equity 100 100 Amounts payable to Australian partner foundations (170,105) (112,355) Retained earnings TOTAL LIABILITIES (170,105) (112,355) TOTAL EQUITY 100 100 NET ASSETS 1,292,581 1,144,576 Basis of preparation EQUITY The summarised statement of comprehensive income and the summarised statement of financial position (together, ‘summarised financial information’) have been Settled Sum 100 100 prepared to assist Intrepid Group Limited with their integrated reporting. The summarised financial information does not and cannot be expected to provide as full Retained earnings 1,292,481 1,144,476 an understanding of the financial performance, financial position and financing and investing activities of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and The Trustee For the Intrepid Foundation as the full financial reports. A full description of the accounting policies adopted by The Intrepid Foundation Limited and The Trustee For the TOTAL EQUITY 1,292,581 1,144,576 Intrepid Foundation may be found in the respective entity’s full financial reports. The summarised financial information is presented in Australian dollars. 96 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 97 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION DIRECTORS’ DECLARATION Independent auditor’s report on the summarised financial information In the opinion of the Directors of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and The Trustee for The Intrepid Foundation: To the Trustee of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and to the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited (a) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due Our opinion and payable; In our opinion, the summarised financial information is consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial reports of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and of the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited. (b) the summary financial report has been derived from and is consistent with the full financial statements for the financial What we have audited period ended 31 December 2018. The summarised financial information is derived from the respective audited financial reports of The Intrepid Foundation Limited (c) the full financial statements and notes are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and: and of the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited for the year ended 31 December 2018. The summarised financial information for each entity comprises: (i) comply with Accounting Standards, and other mandatory professional reporting requirements as detailed above, • the summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 • the summarised statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended and the Corporations Regulations 2001; and, • The related notes to the summarised financial information • The directors’ declaration (ii) give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of the Company for the 12-month financial period to 31 December 2018. Emphasis of matter basis of accounting and restriction on distribution and use We draw attention to the basis of preparation of the summarised financial information, which describes the basis of On behalf of the Board, accounting. The summarised financial information has been prepared to assist Intrepid Group Limited in preparing their integrated annual report. As a result, the summarised financial information may not be suitable for another purpose. Our report is intended solely for the Trustee of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and for the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited and should not be distributed to or used by parties other than the Trustee of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and for the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Summarised financial information The summarised financial information does not contain all the disclosures required by Australian Accounting Standards James Thornton applied in preparation of the audited financial reports of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and of the Trustee for the Intrepid Chairman and Director Foundation Limited. Reading the summarised financial information and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a Melbourne, 26 March 2019 substitute for reading the audited financial reports of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and of the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited and the auditor’s reports thereon. The summarised financial information and this auditor’s report does not reflect the effects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our report on the audited financial report.] The audited financial report and our report thereon We expressed unmodified audit opinions on the financial reports in our reports dated 26 March 2019. Management’s responsibility for the summarised financial information Management is responsible for the preparation of the summarised financial information in accordance with the basis of preparation described on page 96 Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion whether the summarised financial information is consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial reports based on our procedures, which were conducted in accordance with Auditing Standard ASA 810 Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements. PricewaterhouseCoopers Jason Perry Melbourne Partner 26 March 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 2 Riverside Quay, SOUTHBANK VIC 3006, GPO Box 1331 MELBOURNE VIC 3001 T: +61 3 8603 1000, F: +61 3 8603 1999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 98 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 99 100 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2018 Printed on 100% post consumer waste recycled paper Global Head Office Intrepid Group is the global leader in Level 7, 567 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 3000 delivering sustainable experience-rich 1300 854 500 or +61 3 8594 3903 travel. The world’s largest travel B Corp, we’re committed to being a business enquiries@intrepidgroup.travel that benefits people and the planet. www.intrepidgroup.travel
