COP – Communication on Progress 2018 in ELLAKTOR Group of companies ELLAKTOR – Group of companies publishes its environmental, social and business performance through its Integrated Sustainability Reports that are annually issued. The Sustainability Report for the year 2018 will be published soon (July 2019) in the Group website www.ellaktor.com. The integrated Sustainability Report 2018 of ELLAKTOR Group conforms to the criteria and requirements of UN Global Compact – GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. The publication of Sustainability Reports aims at establishing communication with the stakeholders, in order to provide information about subjects relevant to the environment, the society, the employees and the financial market. ELLAKTOR Group’s Sustainability development performance is measured and reported annually, including the actions of adopting and implementing the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact and every commitment against these principles. Therefore, concerning the actions taken for the support – implementation of the UNGC 10 Principles, ELLAKTOR presents a continuous improvement in environmental, labor and social subjects, as well as subjects concerning financial market. More specifically:  The acceptance of human rights and their violation as reported in the UNGC Principles 1, 2 and 3: ELLAKTOR Group has adopted the requirements of human rights declaration, preventing their violation, while equal opportunities are given to all employees. These commitments are stated in the ELLAKTOR’s Sustainability Report 2018.  Discriminations in employment, child and forced labor prohibition, as mentioned in Principles 4, 5 and 6 of the UNGC: in ELLAKTOR Group, child and forced labor, as well as any discrimination in employment are forbidden. These commitments are stated in ELLAKTOR Group’s Sustainability Report 2018.  Initiatives for the encouragement of further environmental responsibility, as it is mentioned in the UNGC Principles 7, 8 and 9: eight big companies of ELLAKTOR (AKTOR, AKTOR CONCESSIONS, AKTOR FM, HELECTOR, MOREAS, ATTIKI ODOS, ATTIKES DIADROMES, TOMI) have implement Environmental Management Systems, certified by ISO 14001:2015, while AKTOR, is verified by EMAS III. The above Management Systems contribute in the protection of the environment at the highest level. These commitments are stated in ELLAKTOR Group’s Sustainability Report 2018.  ELLAKTOR implements and complies with the Code of Conduct that has been approved by the Board of Directors in July 2016. Based on the Code of Conduct, the Group promotes and encourages behaviors based on the best business ethics principles, as well as on the 10 principles of UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor conditions, the environment and the fight against corruption. In the context of strengthening ethical behavior and principles, the Ethical and Regulatory Compliance Program of ELLAKTOR Group and its subsidiaries has been approved and implemented. In the context of ELLAKTOR Group’s concern about the impact of energy consumption on the environment, the subsidiary companies AKTOR, ATTIKI ODOS, ATTIKES DIADROMES, MOREAS, AKTOR FM have proceeded with the implementation of Energy Management Systems, certified by ISO 50001:2011. The target of the above certification is the energy saving, regarding every type of energy, through the appropriate actions. Through energy saving, the reduction of produced air pollutants is achieved along with the contribution of ELLAKTOR broadly to greenhouse effect containment and lower impact on the Environment. Anastasios Kallitsantsis Managing Director ELLAKTOR Athens, June 2019
