www.polimak.com Communication on Progress (COP) – UN Global Compact Reporting Period: August 2018 – August 2019 Polimak is pleased to reconfirm that we support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This reconfirmation follows our original commitment from May 2016 and our annual ongoing commitment to advance the principles since that time. With this Communication on Progress, we express our intent to continue to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and daily operations of our company. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Süleyman SALİHLER General Manager 16.08.2019 www.polimak.com 1. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Actions and Commitments Polimak recognizes our responsibility to help ensure fair business practices in our overall value chain and direct and indirect supply chain. Polimak actively supports human rights by maintaining its promise of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, gender or religion. 2. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Actions and Commitments Polimak is absolute in its adherence to labor laws, particularly those that represent health and safety concerns. Polimak stands firmly against forced labor and strives to offer a safe, supportive environment Polimak does not employ children and would never employ children at any of its locations. Employees at all Polimak locations are trained regarding workplace safety and there are regular checks and audits that guarantee that procedures are respected. Polimak has established Occupational Health and Safety Management System according to International System Standard, OHSAS 18001:2007 Employees are always paid according to local laws with the commitment to offer a real living wage. We have zero-tolerance for discrimination (by gender, age, religion, ethnic origin, or nationality) in respect of employment and occupation. www.polimak.com 3. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Actions and Commitments Polimak has been working with environmental management consultants for long years to reduce our environmental impact. Systematically examined potential energy savings at our offices and production facilities. Energy and water consumption are being monitored on monthly basis. Life cycle stages in which environmental impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement. Started to design and produce sustainable products with longer operational life and less spare part comsumption. Digitalization became a key strategy in our activities to increase business efficiency and decrease paper consumption. 4. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Actions and Commitments As always, the policy of zero tolerance with corruption, extortion and bribery is assumed within Polimak and confidence in the integrity of our workforce is absolute. Polimak continues to work against corruption in all its forms. We do not accept nor tolerate any instance of bribery, corruption or fraud. 5. Conclusion We have been improving our sustainability approach in the company, as well as to further our commitment to the Global Compact by progressing on it’s four themes. We hope to continue contributing significantly to sustainable development by integrating more and more of the values of the Global Compact in our activities.
