UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 ® Great at Control Version 1.0 2019 Contents Statement of Continued Support 3-4 Human Rights Principles 5-6 Labor Rights Principles 7-8 Environmental Protection Principles 9-10 Anti-corruption Principles 11-12 ® Great at Control COP Report 2019 Statement of 3-4 Continued Support February xx, 2019 Mita-Teknik develops, produces and distributes advanced Our collected CSR Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct control automation technology. Mita-Teknik has been part of and Business Ethics, has been approved by the Mita-Teknik the control automation industry since 1969, and in the wind Global Management Team and the Board of Directors. industry since the early 1980s. We are one of the world’s leading suppliers of wind turbine control systems, and has Our CSR Policy is based on the Ten Principles of the United been an important contributor in developing the wind industry Nations Global Compact. to where it is today, as we have supplied more than 50,000 high performance control systems for wind turbines in demanding We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues, and environments around the world. have initiated a process of optimizing these. We will follow up on our progress on a yearly basis. Our global customer base is divided on +47 active markets, which we serve from our global locations. Mita-Teknik’s In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our headquarter is located in Rødkærsbro in Denmark and with actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global development activities in Ukraine, production, sales and Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture support activities in China. and daily operations. I am pleased to confirm that Mita-Teknik reaffirms its support We also commit to share this information with our customers, of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact employees, suppliers and other stakeholders using our primary in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Antichannels of communication. corruption. Sincerely yours, This is our Communication on Progress Klaus Kromann Knudsen in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. CEO, Mita-Teknik We welcome feedback on its contents. ® Great at Control 5-6 Human Rights Performance Evaluation In 2018, we implemented the new EU General Data Protection In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any Regulation (GDPR). The GDPR replaces the Data Protection investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights Principles Directive 95/46/EC and is designed to harmonize data privacy violations. No incidents or violations of the human rights laws across Europe, to protect and empower all EU citizens’ principles have been reported to the Global Management data privacy and to reshape the way organizations across the Team. region approach data privacy. We want to ensure that our suppliers are familiar with our CSR policies. Therefore, we have added an appendix to our existing partnership contracts with our suppliers that includes article 24 ‘Code of Conduct’. Commitment Implementation Action KPI Status * Target Mita-Teknik respects cultural differences and does not do We take several actions to implement our CSR Policy and Code Include article New purchase Strategic 24 ‘Code of contracts must suppliers: business with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination of Conduct in our global divisions. 100% for Conduct’ in include article 100% strategic and at work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or new purchase 24 ‘Code of preferred contracts Conduct’ Preferred sexual orientation. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global suppliers suppliers: divisions in order to ensure compliance. 63,79% Currently, Mita-Teknik employs 155 people from 8 different Other suppliers: 50% for other nationalities, working in 4 global divisions. 34% of our 5,22% suppliers employees are women and 66% are men. No employee should ever be exposed to any physical * Based on purchase in 2018 punishment, threats of violence or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the work place or in work-related situations. Mita-Teknik actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect human rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. ® Great at Control 7-8 Labor Rights Performance Evaluation We continuously collect information from our global divisions In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any in order to ensure complete compliance to international investigations, legal cases or incidents involving labor rights Principles minimum standards in regards to working hours, compensation violations. No incidents or violations of the labor rights and absences. principles have been reported to the Global Management Team. We monitor the overall sickness absence in Mita-Teknik on a monthly basis in order to detect employee health issues, and assess if follow-up actions are required. Action KPI Status Target Monitor the The overall sickness sikness Commitment Implementation absence absence must 1,10% 2% be below 2% Mita-Teknik commits to provide a competitive compensation We take several actions to implement our CSR Policy and Code package, a safe and comfortable working environment, openly of Conduct in our global divisions. communicated career paths and well-established performance In 2018, we developed a new annual performance review tool, and development evaluation tools. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global which will be implemented globally in 2019. divisions in order to ensure compliance. Mita-Teknik respects the rights of workers and operate our In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, business with safe and attractive working conditions. We Mita-Teknik’s Management System is audited annually to Mita-Teknik conducts APV (Workplace Assessment Surveys) respect the employees’ right to organize and enter collective ensure continued compliance with the ISO9001 standard. In every three years, and continually carries out follow-up actions. labor agreements and have zero tolerance for forced labor, 2018, we updated our ISO system and was globally audited In 2018, the APV was conducted and an action plan has been child labor and discrimination. against the ISO9001:2015. made to handle the findings in the survey. Mita-Teknik has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in Further, Mita-Teknik (Ningbo) is audited annually to ensure In order to ensure safe working conditions, we also follow-up place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment compliance with the OHSAS18001 standard. on all accidents and near-miss accidents. in Mita-Teknik. We are continiously working on implementing the APQP4Wind Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its standard. The main goal for Mita-Teknik to implement the Action KPI Status Target suppliers violate the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. APQP4Wind is our continuously focus on improving product Ensure safe Working 0 accidents 0 accidents working accidents quality. conditions Near-miss 1 near-miss 0 near-miss accidents accidents accidents ® Great at Control Environmental 9-10 Protection Principles Commitment At Mita-Teknik, we encourage the development and diffusion We continue to focus on reduced travel activity. Global travel of environmentally friendly technologies. We actively support a policies have been implemented to ensure that we reduce our sustainable environmental progress through the development travel activities as much as possible with respect for running and distribution of intelligent control solutions for the wind our business. industry, which improves the performance of wind turbines, and the overall competitiveness of ‘clean’ wind generated In 2018, our global ITand server setup has been updated, energy. with repalcement of several obsolete systems. This has had a significant influence on our power consumption, which has Mita-Teknik supports a precautionary approach to been reduced with the installation of new, modern and more environmental challenges, and undertakes initiatives to efficient systems. By replacing our ITand server setup, we promote greater environmental responsibility. have also been able to reduce our CO2 emission by 65 ton. As part of the European Union EIQ Energy Intelligence program, Overall, we consider our production process to have a relatively we have applied for subvention for this project. low impact on the environment, however we do recognize that parts of our production and transports have a negative impact on the environment, and we constantly work to minimize Performance Evaluation these effects. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving violations Implementation to the environmental protection principles. No incidents or violations of the environmental protection principles have At Mita-Teknik, we actively support a sustainable and been reported to the Global Management Team. environmentally friendly progress. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global divisions in order to ensure compliance. Our waste management is in compliance with all applicable national laws and regulations, and we educate our employees in this area. In 2018, we started an extended waste seperation at our headquater in Denmark. All employees working in Denmark have been introduced to the new waste seperation system. ® Great at Control Anti-corruption 11-12 Principles Commitment Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable In 2017, we introduced a global whistleblower scheme. During development and free trade, and Mita-Teknik supports the 2018, we did not receive any cases. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Action KPI Status Target Mita-Teknik acknowledges that minor business gifts and Global Cases that call 0 cases 0 cases whistle-blower for legal action moderate entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways programme to build relationships. This practice must however always be conducted in a transparent way, and only to an extent appropriate to our integrity guidelines and business ethics. Performance Evaluation Implementation In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving antiGuidelines for handling issues of corruption, hospitality (gifts corruption violations. No incidents or violations of the and entertainment) and donations are provided to employees anti-corruption principles have been reported to the Global through our Business Ethics document, CSR Policy and Code Management Team. of Conduct. All presents that are sent from customers and suppliers to employees at Mita-Teknik are collected and distributed via lottery. It is not allowed to have presents from customers or suppliers sent to a private address. Presents to employees must be sent to Mita-Teknik. The same applies for prizes and gifts that are won in a competition, in which they participate via their job. This policy is stated in our Employee Handbook. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global divisions in order to ensure compliance. ® Great at Control ® Great at Control We Make Wind Competitive © 2019 Mita-Teknik. All rights reserved. Content may not be reproduced in any form without written permission from Mita-Teknik Denmark Version R1_0, 2019
