Communication on Progress Report Name of the participating company/organization: Pain D’Or S.A. Country: Bulgaria Sector: Food Industry Reported period: 1/2019 – 12/2019 Structure of the Report: Part I. Communication on Progress Report: This part includes the following chapters: 1. Statement of continued support for the Global Compact by the CEO 2. Description of practical actions taken to implement the Global Compact principles and Quantative measurement of performance 3. Sharing the COP with the company’s stakeholders – available links to the company’s Communication on Progress and additional information on the location of the COP report Contact person: Mr. Antoine Iskandar, Chairman Contact information: Pain d'or s.a. Sofia-Bulgaria Tel: (+3592) 9571626 Fax: (+3592) 9571922 e-mail:paindor@paindor.com www.paindor.com Date of submission: 11/12/2019 Pain D’Or is a bakery that produces long shelf life croissants, fresh breads, parbaked frozen breads and pastry. We sell our products in Bulgaria; we export to the Eastern European countries, Western Europe, the Middle East and many other countries all over the world. The company officially joined the Global Compact in November 2002. We all share and support the ten principles in respect to human rights, labour rights, the environmental protection and anti-corruption. Pain D’Or is not fishing for rewards for doing so; the Global compact does not reward companies for doing so. We are doing it, because we believe it’s our duty towards our employees, our community and our country. We do it because: We believe that our employees should feel that they are partners in the business; we believe that it is their right. We do it because: We believe that the people in our community will stop feeling that we exploit them, and all we care about is getting their money. They will know that we really care for them. We do it because: We believe that our country should and will be the perfect place to live in, it will be a good example for all the countries of the world to follow and do the same what we do. Responsible corporate citizenship is a must to make our country, Bulgaria, the ideal place on earth. We have an obligation, each within his limits, to help our government, reduce the grievances of our society, and keep working for the betterment of our society. Pain D’Or S.A. Antoine Iskandar Chairman PAIN D’OR S.A. BULGARIA Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human right abuses Pain D’Or works in compliance to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to the labour policies set by the International labour organization. At Pain D’Or we employ more than 100 people. The majority of them are women. The company’s major priority is to offer safe and healthy working conditions as well as access to basic health and education. We appointed a physician to check our employees monthly. Our physician checks their children too, whenever need be. All decisions are posted on a bulletin board, for them to read, discuss, and understand. We talk to them, and explain the reason why a decision had been taken, and how their rights have been protected. We help them in paying tuition fees, wherever it applies. We encourage them to learn foreign languages, on our account. We send them to seminars. They are thirsty for education, and we are ready to accommodate. This creates great enthusiasm in their performance. Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Pain D’Or recognizes everyone’s right to choose to be or not to be represented collectively. Our human resource department includes collective bargaining agreements as an option. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour We sign with our employees contracts with terms and conditions of service, freedom to leave and penalties that may be associated with a departure other than the regular procedure of advance notice. The minimum salary level in the company is higher than the minimum salary in the country for 2019. Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour The company doesn’t employ forced, bonded or child labour. There is an age bar in the recruitment of workers, minimum 19 years. It is compulsory for our workers to send their school-aged children to school. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Pain D’Or employs on the bases of merit and job requirement and there is no discrimination against gender, religion, age or politics. It is qualification, skills and experience that matter. We give access to employment to women and minorities. In fact, the majority of our workers are women – 80 % of the total workforce. 50% of them are in management position. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We care about our environment. Since the company’s establishment we have worked towards saving and maintaining the environment through introducing and continually improving environmental management systems. To reduce pollution, we practically stopped using diesel fuel in our bakery, and shifted to electricity. We do not use ingredients from GMO’s (Genetically Modified Organisms) in our production. We do not use chemicals. Everything is ecological. Our staff and management participate in different forums, seminars and meetings on environmental challenges. We organize public sports events, such as the street basketball tournaments, where around 150 teams participate, and the winners get expensive prizes. We help our municipality in cleaning and mending roads, as much as our budget allows. We sponsor municipality events and the issuing of Vitosha municipality newspaper. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery It is our conscious and strict policy to refrain from an illegal or immoral act in any business we undertake. Our community also, has its rights on us. Our community work is very important and thus we give all the attention, that should be given, to the people we live with. We distribute breads and croissants, on almost daily basis, to orphanages, to old peoples’ homes, to invalids and any charity society that knocks on our doors. We sponsor Christmas children parties, as well as concerts, festivals and all kind of sport events for children every year. Every year we have made it our responsibility to pave the streets, maintain the lawns and cut the trees in the region. As Mr. Kofi Annan said in one of his speeches Governments today understand that they can't do it all, that a society's goals can only be realized through the cooperation and partnership of a broad range of actors, including the private sector, civil society and other groups.”
