SuStainability RepoRt Exit Print Contents End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities tHe yeaR at a GlanCe ContentS About our business 02 A message from our CEO 04 The way we work 05 FY19 sustainability scorecard 06 FY20 sustainability scorecard targets 07 Engaging our stakeholders 08 Focus on key areas 09 Protecting and developing our people 11 Improving customer outcomes 15 Operating responsibly 17 Minimising our environmental footprint 25 Supporting local communities 33 About this report 36 Zero a$5,878 million a$372 million fatality free total sales revenue underlying NPAT 1 operations sustained over 9,300 22% 13% verifications female employment improvement in customer of key safety controls in senior management roles Net Promoter Score from FY18 adopted tCFD 2 6% a$1.9 million to progressively guide reduction in operational invested in local climate-related disclosures Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse communities equivalent from FY20 gas emissions from FY18 to 0.2% of earnings3 OUR FY19 REPORTING SUITE To meet the evolving needs and requirements of a wide range of stakeholders, including our investors, customers, employees, regulators and the community, we present our FY19 Reporting Suite. 59% over 800 Our FY19 Annual Report principally details our financial information while our FY19 Corporate Governance Statement discloses how waste diverted Business Partners screened for we have complied with the ASX Corporate Governance Council’s from landfill ethics and compliance risk ‘Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations – 3rd edition’. These documents are available on our website. Our FY19 Sustainability Report complements the Annual Report and provides stakeholders with more detailed disclosure on our non-financial performance. This includes performance against our 1. Equivalent to profit after income tax expense before individually significant items attributable to shareholders of Orica Limited. sustainability targets, our approach to material sustainability topics, 2. Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). and how we are managing social and environmental risk while 3. Earnings represents EBITDA (EBIT before individually significant items plus depreciation and amortisation expense). capitalising on new opportunities. SuStainability RepoRt 2019 01 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities about ouR buSineSS our contribution to united nations sustainable development goals We are committed to playing our part in achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The SDGs in their broadest sense guide our approach to the social, economic and environmental challenges we seek to address. Our resources are focused on the goals which are most relevant to our business and where we believe we can make the most impact. In FY20 we will undertake an assessment to determine which SDGs best reflect our industry, business strategy, material sustainability risks and our unique digital and technology capabilities. Orica Global Presence Head Office Major Office Technical/Monitoring Centre MAJOR MANUFACTURING SITES Ammonium Nitrate Ammonium Nitrate Emulsion Initiating Systems/Packaged Explosives Sodium Cyanide THIS IS ORICA Since our early beginnings in 1874, we’ve grown to become the We are committed to leading the industry’s transformation through global leader in mining and civil blasting, with operations spanning digital technologies and automation, realising growth opportunities more than 100 countries. We create, develop and deliver blasting and delivering long-term value for our shareholders. solutions to help miners extract resources more productively while Our more than 12,000 employees and contractors drive our managing their critical risks. performance and ensure our success now and into the future. With more than 145 years of experience and innovation behind We work together as one team and are guided by the values us, we do this safely and responsibly. We’re also focused on finding of Our Charter. new ways to reduce our impact on the environment and ensure we For more information about our business structure and strategy, make a lasting contribution to communities around our operations. please refer to our FY19 Annual Report. Our world-leading products and services range from blasting to geotechnical monitoring, mineral processing and ground support across the mining, quarrying, construction, agriculture, oil and gas markets. 02 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 03 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities a MeSSaGe FRoM ouR Ceo tHe Way We WoRK At Orica, we’re transforming drill and blast through technology to make mining safer and more efficient. We do this by bringing together the best people, high quality products and services, safe, secure and reliable supply, and unmatched technology that creates value for our customers. However, it is our values and behaviours that create the culture we need to drive our long-term success. opeRatinG a SaFe, ReSponSible anD SuStainable buSineSS I am pleased to report a solid performance across our sustainability trial emissions abatement technology at our major ammonium commitments in FY19. nitrate manufacturing sites. Trials will continue into FY20 as we seek to define a viable emissions abatement pathway in which Maintaining our licence to operate is based on the expectation we can confidently invest for the next decade. We also updated that we operate safely and responsibly. As the relationship our Climate Change Policy in response to a review of our actions between business and sustainability continues to evolve, our and commitments. ability to maintain stakeholder trust is increasingly tied to how we manage, improve and disclose our environmental, social We recognise that stakeholders expect clearer corporate and governance performance. disclosure on climate change. Commencing in FY20, our ongoing assessment and disclosure of climate risks and opportunities will That’s why issues including safety, health, environmental progressively be aligned to the recommendations of the Task Force protection, product security, climate risk, diversity and ethical on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). conduct are Board-level topics at Orica. These are our most material sustainability issues and where we have the capability While we continue to make a significant social and economic to make a meaningful impact. contribution to our host communities, we will refresh our approach to community investment in FY20. Our goal is to ensure our ouR ValueS Our approach to sustainability is based on understanding the financial and organisational capabilities are more effectively issues of concern and responding openly and transparently to leveraged to deliver a greater social impact. embed sustainable practices in our products, services and the way we run our business. This is allowing us to create a more As always, our people drive our performance and ensure our resilient company that is aligned to our values, commercial success now and into the future. In our organisational health Safety is our We respect and Together we We act with We are committed strategy and the expectations of our people and stakeholders. survey, we saw a one-point improvement over the last year, priority. Always value all succeed integrity to excellence representing a six-point increase from our results in 2016. As a Ensuring our people return safely to their families every day is The most important thing Our care for each other, Collaboration makes We are open and honest, We take accountability for truly global company, we also know that an inclusive and diverse our top priority and in FY19, our operations were fatality free. is that we all return home, our customers, communities us better, individually and we do what is right. our business and for delivering workforce is a great strength. In FY19, female representation in This result reflects our relentless and targeted approach to safely, every day. and the environment builds and collectively. outstanding results. senior management rose to 22 per cent keeping us on track to trusted relationships. • We are transparent in fatality prevention. Our Serious Injury Case Rate did rise slightly, meet our goal of 25 per cent by 2020. • We care and take • We freely share all our communications. • We bring our best however an increased focus on our major hazards resulted in accountability for • We treat everyone information and ideas effort every day and a decrease in the severity of injuries. Finally, I would like to thank our more than 12,000 employees everyone’s safety and fairly, with dignity and with our colleagues. • We always demonstrate trust our colleagues and contractors for their hard work and commitment to ensuring wellbeing, including we value diversity. ethical conduct and to do the same. While we improved our manufacturing productivity in FY19, the • We are a team. sustainable practices. we operate a safe, responsible and sustainable business. our own. efficiency with which we consumed natural resources such as water • We work with our We take accountability • We understand our tasks • We are trusted remained steady or did not improve to the same degree. As customer • We recognise the risks local communities to and responsibility for our and how we contribute we face in our work and contribute positively. team’s performance. because we do what to Orica’s overall success. demand for our products is continuing to rise, we remain focused we say we will. on reducing our environmental impact and have identified several follow all safety controls. • We find ways to • We partner with our • We look for ways new opportunities to reduce water and waste at our major sites. • We speak up when we minimise our impact customers for a better to deliver higher see hazards or causes on the environment understanding and result. performance and adapt In FY19 we met our emissions intensity target, delivering a of potential harm. in all our actions. swiftly to changing needs. six per cent reduction in operational greenhouse gas emissions. Alberto Calderon This was a result of our continued efforts to implement and Managing Director and CEO 04 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 05 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities Fy19 SuStainability SCoReCaRD Fy20 SuStainability SCoReCaRD taRGetS Sustainability Metric FY19 FY19 Target Sustainability Metric FY20 Topic target performance status Topic target Protecting and developing our people Protecting and developing our people Workplace Fatalities (Number) 0 0 Workplace Fatalities (Number) 0 safety safety Serious Injury Case Rate 0.17 0.21 Serious Injury Case Rate 0.18 All Worker Recordable Case Rate 0.38 0.63 All Worker Recordable Case Rate 0.57 Distribution incidents under Orica control ≤3 1 Distribution events (≥ severity 2)1 (Number) ≤6 (≥ severity 2) (Number) Distribution incidents under contractor control ≤8 6 (≥ severity 2) (Number) Our people Women in Senior Management1 (%) 25 by end of 2020 22 Our people Women in Senior Management2 (%) 25 Retention of Key Talent2 (%) > 90 98 Retention of Key Talent3 (%) > 90% Ethnic and cultural diversity in In line with Orica’s 45 Ethnic and cultural diversity in Senior Management2 (%) In line with Orica’s revenue profile outside Aust/NZ Senior Management1 (%) revenue profile outside Aust/NZ Board gender diversity4 (%) ≥ 30% Operating responsibly Operating responsibly Product security incidents (≥ severity 3) (Number) 0 0 Product security events (≥ severity 3) (Number) 0 Ethical and compliance monitoring Implement Implemented Implement ethics and compliance monitoring Further implementation in 10 countries assurance framework in 10 countries assurance framework in 10 countries Minimising our environmental footprint Minimising our environmental footprint Environmental incidents 0 0 Environmental events (≥ severity 3) (Number) 0 Total waste generated Reduce by 5% Reduced by 2.3% Total waste generated Reduce by 2% against FY19 levels against FY18 levels Potable water consumption intensity at Orica’s 0.71 Freshwater consumption intensity (kl/tonne) 1.50 1.57 material consumption sites (kl/tonne) 5 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 1.95 1.75 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 1.80 (tCO2 -e per tonne AN product sold; Scope 1, 2 and 3) (tCO2 -e per tonne AN product sold; Scope 1, 2 and 3) Supporting local communities Target achieved Not achieved Community events (≥ severity 3) (Number) 0 1. Distribution incidents under Orica and/or our contractors’ control. 2. Senior Management refers to positions banded from A to C, excluding people with legacy banding due to restructures. 3. Key Talent refers to positions banded from A to C, excluding people with legacy banding due to restructures. 1. Senior Management refers to positions banded from A to C, excluding people with legacy banding due to restructures. 4. Consistent with Recommendation 1.5, Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations 4th Edition, February 2019. 2. Key Talent refers to positions banded from A to C, excluding people with legacy banding due to restructures. 5. New metric for FY20, see page 26. 06 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 07 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities enGaGinG ouR StaKeHolDeRS FoCuS on Key aReaS Every day we interact with many different stakeholders including we use a sustainability materiality assessment. By defining the needs We operate a complex and dynamic global business with a Figure 1: our materiality process employees, investors, customers, communities, suppliers, and interests of our stakeholders we continue to evolve our strategy, broad range of stakeholders and an extensive supply chain. governments, regulators and media. ensuring we better meet their expectations and focus our reporting on the issues they care about. The world in which we operate is constantly changing as Our approach centres on understanding the issues of concern industries are disrupted by new innovations and technology. iDentiFiCation and responding openly and transparently to any questions raised Many of our major operations use formal stakeholder planning The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are reframing about our products, services and the way we run our business. and engagement approaches. Stakeholder Plans guide effective how stakeholders address sustainability and interest in our By actively engaging and partnering with our stakeholders we engagement by documenting the status of key stakeholder non-financial performance is growing. • Review relevance of previous materiality assessments can strengthen our competitive advantage and ability to innovate. relationships, past and current issues, opportunities, and decisions • Internal mechanisms (e.g. direct feedback, Group policy, around future engagement and community investment activities. To keep pace with this evolving context and align to best material risks) To understand which issues are important to the business and practice, we conduct periodic sustainability materiality assessments our stakeholders and where and how to focus our engagement, informed by the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards. • External frameworks (e.g. GRI) • Global and market trends Our materiality assessment is a process designed to identify the most important sustainability issues, opportunities and risks table 1: How we engage with our most important stakeholders for our business through two lenses: Stakeholder Concerns and interests Examples of engagement strategies • the importance of these issues to our stakeholders; and pRioRitiSation Employees Career and development Direct engagement at Company work locations; intranet; regular internal written • their impact on our business (both negative and positive). and contractors opportunities, performance and/or face to face communications about changes that could impact employees; Figure 1 shows our materiality process. The output at Table 2 • Assessment of topic importance, frequency of exposure management and senior leadership. leadership forums; leadership development programs; internal workshops and shows the main issues material to our business. conferences; company-wide employee engagement survey (conducted in FY19). • Prioritised themes identified for validation In FY19 we updated our materiality assessment. Our review Customers Performance of product, cost, Direct engagement, including commercial and contract negotiations and extensive has highlighted several new areas of importance relating to reliability of supply, ability to add interactions as part of our customer engagement initiatives; the Voice of the energy markets, increasing industry disruption, innovation and value to customer performance, Customer program measuring Net Promotor Score and customer verbatim; technological disruption and cyber security, which are included ValiDation sustainability impacts of products Customer Innovation Centre events; customer technical workshops; presentations and services. at industry events, forums and conferences. in our FY19 disclosures. Other sustainability topics remain largely consistent with materiality assessments from previous years. Suppliers and Performance of product, cost, Direct engagement; supplier engagement processes; supplier questionnaires; • Internal management review and validate themes business partners reliability of supply, sustainability regular meetings with joint venture partners. • Input from senior leaders and Board Audit and impacts of products and services. Risk Committee Shareholders, Company performance, delivery on Annual general meeting; half-year and full-year results presentations and webcasts; investors Company strategy and governance. investor roadshow meetings; direct shareholders engagement including site visits, and analysts calls and meetings, with feedback to the Board where appropriate. Sustainability performance is disclosed on our website and in our annual Sustainability Report. ReVieW We report our performance to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (Materials sector), FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project. We respond to investor and analyst queries, including ESG (environmental, social and governance) analysts. • Direct stakeholder feedback on report Local communities Employment opportunities, Site-specific stakeholder plans and programs for community contact and • Findings presented to functional business areas socio-economic contribution to information sharing; direct engagement with individuals and key opinion leaders; (e.g. Risk, SHECS, Human Resources, Corporate Affairs) local communities, local operational community investment and partnership programs; posting of employment impacts such as noise, odour, opportunities on our website; systems to register, investigate and promptly emissions and contamination. respond to community complaints; community meetings, site visits and tours by local community members including local school groups. Detailed information on these topics, as well as how we are managing them, can be found throughout this Report. For our Government Regulatory compliance, Direct engagement with government and regulatory agencies in countries and regulators research and development, where we operate; written submissions regarding regulatory impact either material topics and their boundaries please see our GRI Index. socio-economic contribution directly, or via professional groups or industry associations. and local community issues. Industry associations Discussions about industry-wide Direct engagement with industry associations; contributions to research issues and strategy, seeking input and written submissions regarding regulatory impact or policy; participation into industry association responses in working groups; attendance at events and conferences. to government consultations. Non-government Business corruption, sustainability Direct engagement with representatives from NGOs including organisations Organisations (NGOs) performance. such as Transparency International of which we are a member. Media Company performance, Direct engagement with representatives from print, radio, TV, social and online energy security and affordability, media at local, national and international level. corporate governance. Research, university Research, innovation, partnerships. Direct engagement and partnerships with representatives from universities, and technical co-operative research centres, government research agencies, start-up businesses. institutions 08 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 09 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities FoCuS on Key aReaS table 2: our sustainability themes and material topics pRoteCtinG anD DeVelopinG BUSINESS PERFORMANCE OPERATING RESPONSIBILITY PROTECTING AND DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE MINIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES ouR people • Economic performance • Corporate governance • Health and safety • Environmental risk • Customer and Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Executive Committee are accountable for performance against SHES targets. The Orica Board and compliance community health and safety FY19 HIGHLIGHTS Safety, Health, Environment, Community and Security (SHECS) Committee meets at least quarterly and undertakes site visits to • Customer experience • Ethical business conduct • Corporate culture • Greenhouse gas • Community investment review performance against targets, monitor implementation of emissions Fatality free operations SHES initiatives and programs, and consider material SHES issues. • Industry and • Executive remuneration • Capability and talent • Resource efficiency • Stakeholder engagement The SHECS committee is informed by the SHES assurance program, technological disruption attraction (energy, water, waste) which provides insights into compliance with the SHES Management 6-point improvement in System including applicable SHES legal requirements. • Energy security • Human rights • Diversity and inclusion • Climate change resilience • Sustainability as a driver organisational health score since 2016 and affordability and supply chain of innovation1 pRoGReSS in Fy19 • Business resilience • Product security 22% women in senior management, Our relentless focus on fatality prevention remains a key priority. and responsibility up one per cent from Fy18 During the year we continued to build the capacity of our frontline leaders through coaching and training. Our safety leadership • Cyber security interactions doubled from last year with leaders performing increased focus on serious injuries over 45,000 safety interactions in FY19. These interactions are with introduction of new Serious a practical way to live and demonstrate Our Charter values. • Tax transparency injury Case Rate metric Our strategic focus on major hazards continues with the aim that our key controls are 100 per cent effective, 100 per cent of the time. Continued integration of our No fatalities were recorded in FY19 and this remains our priority 1. Leveraging our employees to create new or improved products, services, technologies and business models that produce environmental or social benefits along with economic value. Global SHeS Management System in the future. 2. Highlighted indicates new material topic in FY19. into operational sites Safety performance over 9,300 verifications of key We revised our SHES performance targets this year to increase our focus on serious incidents. safety controls A new metric, Serious Injury Case Rate (SICR), was introduced to record personal injury or illness that result in a lost work day $170,000 donated to 12 charities or permanent injury or illness. This allows us to focus on causes through matched payroll giving and characteristics of serious injury events. While there was a reduction in injury severity, our SICR performance did not meet our FY19 target. This can be attributed to awareness and promotion activities resulting in improved rates of injury reporting. Our All Worker Recordable Case Rate (AWRCR) did not meet target, however the severity of injuries, and as a consequence rate of lost work days, reduced from FY18. In FY20, a targeted program will be implemented to reduce WORKPLACE SAFETY the number of serious and recordable injuries in those parts of our business which have high injury rates. ouR appRoaCH Transport safety is one of our material risks. This is managed Nothing is more important than keeping our people, customers through regional initiatives guided by a global distribution expert and communities safe. We maintain a relentless focus on preventing panel that governs driver training, equipment specification and injury and illness and improving how we manage health and safety emergency response. During the year, transport and distribution risks across our business. events reduced within the network controlled by Orica and involving third-party contractors. Our Safety, Health and Environment Policy affirms our aspiration to avoid harm, empower our people to safely and responsibly perform Our SHES assurance program helps us ensure required controls their tasks, and continually improve our performance. are in place and operating effectively, identify and share best practice, and communicate lessons learned across the organisation. To guide our people in avoiding injury, illness or environmental During the year, our teams performed a range of assurance harm we define a range of performance requirements in our Safety, activities including site self-assessments, regional assessments Health, Environment and Security (SHES) Management System. and corporate audits. Corrective actions identified during these Our SHES Group Standards and supporting procedures outline the audits are monitored for implementation to prevent reoccurrence. systems, process and controls that must be in place to protect our people and the environment. We continue to promote the reporting of serious and high potential injury events. These insights inform the development of enhanced safety measures and controls. 10 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 11 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities pRoteCtinG anD DeVelopinG ouR people all Worker Recordable Case Rate Occupational health performance ORGANISATIONAL CULTURE We made significant progress since 2016: We have a responsibility to protect the long-term health of our people in collaboration with our customers. Where appropriate, AND WORKFORCE CAPABILITY • six-point increase in our global health score (61 to 67) outperforming globally benchmarked peers. we perform routine and periodic health surveillance to detect signs of potential illness at an early stage. ouR appRoaCH • maintained or improved organisation health across most Engaged, diverse and highly capable people are integral to business regions and functions. To better understand and strengthen controls for our most delivering our business strategy. To enable this, we apply a important health risks, in FY19 we developed and validated a The results were communicated across the business and we systematic approach to managing our people globally while continue to seek employees’ input into improvement action plans. Trinitrotoluene (or TNT) biomarker for managing the health of adhering to local legislative and regulatory requirements. 0.38 0.37 0.39 0.48 0.63 operators working with TNT. Routine monitoring of this new Minimum performance standards are outlined in our policies, biomarker will commence in FY20. group standards and relevant procedures. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 During the year, two employees were confirmed with cases of Mine A key enabler of our operating model is the introduction of StRenGtHeninG ouR CultuRe tHRouGH Dust Lung Diseases (MDLD). One case was identified through the our multi-year SAP system. The human resources module was CoDe oF buSineSS ConDuCt tRaininG All Worker Recordable Case Rate Queensland Coal Mine Workers Health Scheme and the other case released in FY18 providing access to standard, global, performance Our people have a responsibility to uphold the standards through Orica’s routine health surveillance in Chile. The impacted management, learning and expense management processes and values we represent. During FY19, we further integrated employees were provided with medical support, counselling and and systems. This new self-service way of working has enabled our Code of Business Conduct by implementing mandatory Serious injury Case Rate assistance with compensation processes. To strengthen our our people (during FY19) to take greater ownership and awareness training. approach, we have reviewed our occupational health monitoring accountability for their role and professional development. program and identified several priority actions: To enable access for every employee and contractor, the Our Human Resources and Compensation Committee monitors training was designed in 13 languages via offline and online • review our internal Occupational Exposure Limits in line progress against key strategic objectives within remuneration, channels. Topics included speaking up, conflicts of interest, with emerging scientific literature, regulatory changes and culture and diversity. Our Executive Committee meets at least twice safety, use of assets or equipment and handling confidential benchmarks established by our customers; a year for dedicated “People Days” to advance the global talent and information and environmental protection. The learning was • incorporate chronic harmful substances into our Major capability agenda. Senior human resources executives also meet deployed using Orica’s integrated Learning Management 0.20 0.16 0.17 0.19 0.21 regularly to monitor execution of our People Strategy. This systematic Hazards Management program to ensure ongoing and System (LMS) to provide simple access and robust record effective verification of controls; and approach ensures a clear alignment of our global strategy through management. to execution at a local level. • review and ensure effective monitoring of respiratory The awareness training is now incorporated into all new FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 health, including early identification of MDLD against pRoGReSS in Fy19 starter on-boarding training requirements to ensure that Serious Injury Case Rate international standards. expectations of our people are clearly communicated and Culture and engagement understood. For more information on the outcomes of our pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 Code of Business Conduct training refer to the Operating Over the past three years, we’ve built a leaner, more resilient • Continue to promote and enforce safety leadership behaviours Responsibility section of this report. lost Work Day Rate business and embedded the systems and processes needed to that drive collaboration, felt and effective leadership. deliver growth, reliability and sustainability. A positive, engaged • Implement and embed our Major Hazard Management culture at all levels has been key to the transformation. 5.6 Program globally. In FY19, we undertook our third organisational health survey with Diversity and inclusion 5.1 5.4 • Refine and embed the SHES Management System globally. a participation rate of 82 per cent, up from 60 per cent in 2016. 4.5 By bringing people of different genders, ages, ethnic and Feedback is helping inform our progress in cultural transformation 3.8 cultural backgrounds together and giving them the opportunity and indicates we have a more engaged workforce. to apply their skills, experiences and perspectives, we create value for our business and customers. Our people’s diverse set of iMpRoVinG SaFety tHRouGH innoVation experiences, perspectives, and backgrounds is crucial to innovation anD teCHnoloGy and the development of new ideas. Innovation is delivering advances in safety, productivity and FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 environmental outcomes. The convergence of new technologies Lost Work Day Rate is enabling us to think differently, operate more precisely and, most importantly, remove people from harm’s way. WebGen™ uses wireless technology to initiate blasts through Major hazard management rock, water or air from surface control rooms. With the manual task of connecting down-lines and surface wires The Major Hazard Management (MHM) program is designed to removed, our customers can improve productivity and keep identify, mitigate and manage potential hazards, in order to ensure their people safe. our people return home safely at the end of each day. In FY19, we launched a global pilot to strengthen our hazards and key control We are also working to automate the explosives loading verification process. More than 9,300 key control verifications were process. The initial phase is underway and will see us make performed as part of the pilot program. Following the success of our Mobile Manufacturing Units (MMU™) completely the pilot, we will commence global implementation of the MHM self-reliant by 2021. program in FY20. Our strong track record of innovation and longstanding commitment to research and development investment was recognised in FY19 with the Austmine METS Innovation Award for WebGen™. 12 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 13 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities pRoteCtinG anD DeVelopinG ouR people We continue to implement our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy (2018 – 2020) and remain on track to deliver our 2020 strategic goals. pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 • Refine our future organisation of work to enable the ‘new ways of working’ unlocked through our digital transformation program. iMpRoVinG CuStoMeR outCoMeS In FY19: • 22 per cent of senior leadership positions were held by women, • Continue our progress towards meeting our FY20 gender diversity target. CREATING A CUSTOMER up from 21 per cent at the end of FY18; FY19 HIGHLIGHTS FOCUSED BUSINESS • Ethnic and cultural diversity remains strong with 45 percent • Refresh our People Strategy to drive and inspire organisational of senior leader positions held by people who identify their performance for the future. To ensure we deliver value to our customers, more than 100 area nationality other than Australian or New Zealand. This is slightly and territory business managers across our four main geographical 13% improvement in npS business regions are accountable for understanding their needs lower than FY18 as a result of organisational restructuring but on Fy18 levels and commercial outcomes. remains aligned to Orica’s revenue profile; VolunteeRinG anD payRoll GiVinG The experience of our customers, our plans to continually improve, • 41 per cent of graduates are women (up from 35 percent in FY18); and Our employees are passionate about their local community, launched MonitoriQ™ and the results of our customer surveys are strategic metrics for • 37 per cent of our Board are female. giving generously of their time and making financial our business. Our Executive Team review customer experience contributions to causes close to their hearts. on a monthly basis and continually work to identify initiatives Our Human Rights at Work and Diversity and Inclusion policies Through our Dare to Share matched payroll giving program, to improve customer experience at the global and local level. protect peoples’ workplace rights. In FY19, 33 per cent of our people were part of collective bargaining agreements. employees can donate to registered charities. In FY19, two Reflecting our diverse operations, 81 per cent of the global per cent of our employees made donations via payroll giving resulting in nearly $170,000 being donated to 12 charities. IMPROVING CUSTOMER ADVOCACY workforce is based outside Australia and New Zealand. Contractors We measure customer experience using the Net Promoter Score® make up 12 per cent of the total workforce. During FY19, turnover We also convene a Graduate Sustainability Committee (NPS) system. NPS enables us to measure our customers’ experiences, was 15 per cent, with the majority due to business structuring. within each of our operating regions. During the year, overall satisfaction and quickly respond to their feedback. our graduates participated in numerous volunteering and Workforce capability community support initiatives. Involving our employees in Surveys are conducted monthly, providing an ongoing measure Our customer strategy is to develop strategic and enduring these programs helps build positive culture, engagement of performance against aspects such as safety, product quality, During FY19, we continued to build critical capabilities that will partnerships that deliver safer, more efficient and productive blasting and more productive workplaces. supply reliability, technology, ease of doing business and overall help deliver our business strategy with a focus on creating pipelines outcomes and value-added services. These customer benefits are value for money. of high calibre, diverse talent for senior management, commercial Our existing payroll giving and volunteering initiatives are not enabled by our investments in technology that optimise the blasting and technical positions. universally available in all our operating regions. In FY20 we process through wireless detonation, automation and digital platforms. In FY19, we achieved a 13 per cent improvement in NPS on FY18 will review our volunteering and payroll giving programs with levels. With our implementation of SAP (Orica’s 4S program) across In FY19 we: our customer management processes, our ability to engage, the aim of increasing access and participation over time. • embedded our talent management processes deeper and understand customer feedback and analyse data is improved. more broadly across the organisation to leverage our globally We continue to focus on customer improvement initiatives such integrated human resources systems. We can now identify as product rationalisation and commercialising new technology. future talent and build succession plans in a more consistent and robust way; DaRe to SHaRe Getting customer service basics right is integral to the success of our customers and our business. • delivered our flagship Enterprise Leaders Programme (ELP) EMPLOYEE GIVING targeting a cohort of 13 high potential senior managers identified as future executives. This takes the total number of ELP participants to 39 since inception; • grew our graduate program to over 70 participants globally. The program is building a diverse pipeline of talent, with ethnic diversity from over 19 different nationalities; and 12 charities benefiting $170k helping • invested in building our commercial and technical capabilities from 1:1 matched charities to to support our growth strategy. Through innovative learning employee donations deliver more techniques and virtual classrooms, we are enabling efficient and effective learning at scale to accelerate the development of technological capabilities. In FY19 we achieved our target of retaining above 90 per cent of our key talent within our senior management, improving slightly on last year. The ongoing implementation of our operating model and executive recruitment to strengthen our people and technology capabilities also resulted in a retention rate of 85 per cent. We also reached a critical milestone in our global learning transformation in FY19, with most of our organisation now able to access an online Learning Management System. This has enabled more efficient delivery of training, more robust record management and greater compliance transparency. 14 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 15 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities iMpRoVinG CuStoMeR outCoMeS IMPROVING CUSTOMER OUTCOMES THROUGH TECHNOLOGY opeRatinG ReSponSibly CASE STUDY We continue to invest in digital technologies and automation Each function’s role is articulated in a Group Function Mandate. on a global scale. teCHnoloGy HelpinG SolVe The functions are responsible for the Group strategy and enViRonMent anD SoCial FY19 HIGHLIGHTS documents – the policies, standards and procedures that govern WebGen™, the industry’s first and safest truly wireless initiating system is now being commercialised. This is a significant CHallenGeS Orica. These documents provide the foundation for the group operating as one organisation across our global network, with development for the industry, providing material improvements During the year, our technology played an important role established an ethics and compliance common processes and systems. The operating model is designed in safety and productivity during the blast cycle. in delivering innovative solutions to social and environmental monitoring and assurance program to provide balance between empowering teams with the freedom challenges caused by tailings dam collapses. to deliver on their accountabilities, while providing the framework “ We see WebGen™ technology as a game changer that In Brazil, where significant tailings failures have occurred to drive consistency and simplicity. is enabling us to lead the industry in block cave mine at several highly publicised sites, our GroundProbe™ business over 800 business partners assessed design and planning.” In FY19, compliance with these mandatory standards was assessed is helping monitor the continued stability of the dams and for ethics and compliance risk Rob Cunningham, Mining Operations Manager, through a formal self-assurance process. ensure safety (note, GroundProbe™ was not in place before CMOC Northparkes Mines. or during the collapses). GroundProbe™ radars and lasers are implemented training in our new also monitoring several tailings dams around the world in Code of business Conduct Our drilling blast optimisation platform, BlastIQ™, provides mine a precautionary capacity. DiSCloSuRe oF politiCal DonationS management with a fully integrated data management and learning “Our radar operators unanimously agree that GroundProbe’s™ While we do not make political donations, it is important system. The platform captures real-time and post-blast data to $107m paid in income tax high quality software solution, SSR-Viewer, is unparalleled in that we can express our views to Government. This means optimise blast design, improve execution in the field and enable terms of analysis and interpretation of slope monitoring data. we sometimes pay fees to attend industry events, such improvement across the value chain. GroundProbe™ is not just a provider, but a partner.” as technical and business conferences that allow discussion We are also building multiple capabilities that provide monitoring and on major policy issues which may be attended by elected Samuel Ricardo Carvalho Carneiro, Geologist, Samarco Mineração S.A. measurement services for our customers. To complement our suite representatives. of digital technology solutions, in FY19 we launched our new data aggregation software for monitoring, MonitorIQ™. The platform brings all mining pit sensor data together in one place, revolutionising how our customers compare, contrast and view data in real time. pRoGReSS in Fy19 Corporate governance SuStainability DRiVinG neW innoVation In FY19 we continued to review our corporate governance Technology has the power to enable innovative solutions for today’s social and environmental challenges. Our advances in technology ETHICS AND STRONG GOVERNANCE arrangements. Key initiatives included: offer new ways to collect data about every aspect of blasting ouR appRoaCH • establishing an Innovation and Technology Committee to ensuring our customers can make informed, data-driven decisions. assist the Board in its oversight of our commercialisation Conducting our business with integrity is central to who we are. This is reducing environment and social impacts, increasing of new technology, digital products and performance of productivity and profits, and improving safety outcomes. We perform our work ethically and responsibly and are guided our major operational IT projects; by our policies, processes and corporate governance structures Our ENVIROTrack™ digital solution monitors, measures and controls • undertaking a holistic review of the financial and non-financial to uphold these values. a range of potential environmental impacts in surface and underground information provided to the Board and Committees and mining, quarry and construction applications. The technology The Board is responsible for oversight, sound management and implementing a revised Board Reporting Framework; measures impacts to the ground and air, including vibration, noise, strategic direction, with specific duties set out in its Charter. air-blast, dust, wind speed, air temperature, air humidity and rainfall. For further detail on our governance framework see our website. • continuing to bring focus to our governance culture that drives Communicating continually with field sensors, measurement data is behaviour by further embedding our refreshed Code of Business automatically sent to our BlastIQ™ Platform, providing near real-time We have five standing Board Committees: the Board Audit Conduct; and insights to manage regulatory compliance and community expectations. and Risk Committee; Human Resources and Compensation Committee; Nominations Committee; Safety, Health, Environment, • reviewing and updating Board and Committee Terms of Reference Community and Security Committee; and the Innovation and in preparation for meeting the updated Fourth Edition of the ASX pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 Corporate Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles Technology Committee. • Deliver superior customer service. and Recommendations (ASX Recommendations). At management level, the Executive Committee comprises our most • Improve our customer experience score (NPS), in part by: senior executives. The delegations of authority framework sets out For more information refer to our FY19 Corporate Governance those matters reserved for the Board and those delegated to the Statement. – further simplifying our global product portfolio; and CEO and other members of senior management. – continuing to develop new blasting and digital technologies to enhance customer outcomes. Our operating model defines parameters for company performance which are established at Group level. Four regional management teams have accountability for end-to-end customer service delivery and on-the-ground operational and financial performance. pRoDuCt ReSponSibility Supporting the four regions are a small number of Group functions We provide our customers with safe and secure products and which maintain functional excellence. services they can trust. For information about our approach to product security see the Operating Responsibly section of this report. 16 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 17 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities opeRatinG ReSponSibly Risk management We have updated our processes for engaging and assessing Business Human rights Reports by geographic region (%) Managing financial and non-financial risk is about understanding Partners including sales agents, distributors and freight forwarders Our Human Rights at Work Policy articulates our respect for the the uncertainties facing our business. We can then develop to manage supplier risk. In FY19 over 800 existing Business Partners broad principles outlined in the United Nations Universal Declaration strategies to benefit from the risks or minimise their impact were assessed, allowing us to categorise our partners by supply risk. of Human Rights. on achieving our business strategy and priorities. Over the next year we will extend our ethics and compliance assurance Australia Pacific 43 We oppose any form of slavery or human trafficking and are program to monitor identified high risk Business Partners. and Asia Group Risk is responsible for designing the risk management committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes framework, supporting its implementation across the business, and Europe, Middle 22 to avoid complicity. Responsible conduct East and Africa coordinating and aligning risk management activities across the Group. In FY18 we refreshed our Code of Business Conduct and communicated We respect and support the rights of our people to a healthy, Latin America 18 Material strategic risks are reported to the Board while material the new requirements to all employees and contractors. The Code safe and secure working environment, a workplace free of operational risks are reported to the Board Audit and Risk Committee. includes expectations around compliance with regulations, our values discrimination and freedom of association. We are also committed North America 17 The Safety, Health, Environment, Community and Security Committee and a broad set of Group policies and standards. to preventing the use of all forms of forced, compulsory or child has oversight of the material SHES operational risks (within that labour in our operations. Mandatory training on the Code (which covers key business conduct Committee’s remit). Several material business risks that may affect the risks including anti-bribery and corruption, trade sanctions and We continue to meet our obligations under the Modern Slavery future financial performance of Orica – including workplace safety, competition law) was delivered during FY19, ensuring our people Reports by category (%) Act 2015 (United Kingdom) and will publish our Modern Slavery ethical conduct, changing regulation and climate change – are outlined are equipped with the knowledge and tools they need to act Statement for FY19 on our website. This statement outlines the in both this report and our FY19 Annual Report. ethically and responsibly. If a breach of the Code is suspected, steps we have taken during FY19 to prevent slavery and human In FY19, we considered climate-related risks and opportunities. employees and contractors can report directly to their line manager trafficking in our supply chain or any part of our business. The outcomes of our review are described in the climate change or other management teams including Human Resources. During FY19 we deactivated approximately 40 per cent of our section of this report. suppliers thereby enabling us to reduce the risk of human rights Whistleblower For more information on our approach to risk management, refer to 83 Workplace and personnel violations in our supply chain. our FY19 Annual Report and FY19 Corporate Governance Statement. We encourage our people to disclose work-related grievances, illegal or unethical practices. During the year, new requirements 15 Theft, fraud or security We also strengthened our procedures and tools used to regulate were enacted in Australia for public companies to implement a the appointment of all Business Partners throughout Orica. Ethics and compliance program 2 Ethics or compliance whistleblower policy. While unethical, illegal or improper behaviour These procedures seek to ensure that all Business Partners are Our ethics and compliance program establishes clear requirements reviewed by the Ethics and Compliance team and are subjected can be confidentially and anonymously reported through our Speak-Up and controls to support compliance with key risks including to a level of due diligence and review which is commensurate service, our Whistleblower Policy has been updated to reinforce our anti-corruption, trade sanctions and competition (anti-trust) laws. with the risks associated with the proposed engagements. commitment to encourage and protect those who report. The Policy We provide a range of resources, training, risk assessments and will be implemented by 1 January 2020 as required by Australian law. On 1 January 2019, the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Commonwealth) other controls as part of our compliance framework which reflect Note: There were zero continuous disclosure, insider trading or In FY19, 83 per cent of whistleblower reports involved workplace confidentiality breaches. commenced in Australia. The Act requires all entities based in, or global best practice and regulatory requirements (e.g. US Foreign operating in, Australia with annual consolidated revenue exceeding and personnel grievances (including conflicts of interest). Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the Australian A$100 million to produce an annual statement. Our first statement The Australia Pacific Asia region accounted for 43 per cent When concerns are raised through our Speak-Up service, the Criminal Code). is due before April 2021 covering the period 1 October 2019 to of total global reports. facts are reviewed and a response is determined according to the Employees can access a multi-lingual online compliance tool. It records 30 September 2020. framework in our Group procedure. In FY19, 23 per cent of reports incidents, provides notifications and controls approval workflows as were partially or fully substantiated. Where allegations were We will continue to produce an annual Modern Slavery Statement required by our Ethics and Compliance Group Standard. Higher risk substantiated, appropriate action was taken to remedy and prevent which will, from next year, jointly fulfil our obligations under activities are subject to review and approval by a dedicated ethics and reoccurrence. In some cases, disciplinary action or termination Australian and United Kingdom legislation. compliance team. of contract was justified and occurred. pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 In FY19 we established a monitoring and assurance program in 10 Reports by outcome (%) • Adopt the new fourth edition of the ASX Recommendations. priority countries, selected using a risk-based approach, to assess the effectiveness of our ethics and compliance controls. The results of our • Assess a further 10 priority countries for ethical and assurance program have resulted in several corrective and preventative compliance risks. actions that will be implemented to improve our performance. An additional 10 priority countries will be targeted during FY20. • Implement our updated Whistleblower Policy. 43 Unsubstantiated • Deepen our understanding of human rights risks in our business Key ethics and compliance risks managed by orica and supply chain and produce our first joint United Kingdom 23 Partially or fully substantiated and Australian Modern Slavery Statement. 8 Unable to be determined Note: All reports are appropriately triaged, and, in some instances, formal trade Fraud Sponsorship labour anti-bribery; investigations cannot be pursued (for example due to lack of information). sanctions and donations practices anti-corruption 18 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 19 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities opeRatinG ReSponSibly PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Security key performance indicators have been established and are reported monthly to the Executive Committee and quarterly to the CYBER SECURITY The taxes Orica pays and collects form a significant part of the economic contribution to the countries of operation. AND SECURITY Safety, Health, Environment, Community and Security Committee. We implement cyber security procedures to protect our global information network. Our Cyber Security Strategy defines our Tax strategy and governance Our Product Security Group Standard, which forms part of our approach to build a cyber security capability sufficiently capable ouR appRoaCH Orica’s tax strategy is reviewed by the Board of Directors annually. SHES Management System, was reviewed and updated during of securing Orica’s technology and data from significant malware As a manufacturer of commercial explosives and blasting initiating the year. In FY20, we will implement the Standard’s performance The tax strategy is aligned with the overall corporate strategy and damage or disruption. systems, we have specific responsibilities to ensure we partner requirements across our business, and analyse product security supplements the Risk Management Policy. with, and sell to, organisations that will use our products for their events to identify common causes and characteristics to continually A key benefit of our SAP project will be enhanced security intended purpose. We also have a responsibility to eliminate or The Chief Financial Officer has oversight responsibility over the strengthen our controls. protection as some of our legacy information systems are minimise any environment, health or safety risks across the lifecycle tax risk management framework. Operational and governance replaced. Along with other improvements we are targeting of our products and services. responsibility for the execution of the Group’s tax strategy rests Security compliance a security maturity level (NIST 3.0). with the Vice President Taxation, supported by a team of tax While our detailed approach to managing product security remains No Severity 3 or greater product security incidents were recorded Our cyber security program is governed by the Board Audit and professionals. External tax expertise is used where required. confidential, key elements include: in FY19. We are also not aware of any incidents regarding nonRisk Committee and managed by our Chief Cyber Security Officer The Vice President Taxation reports on tax matters bi-annually compliance of regulations and voluntary codes relating to the (CCSO). Our internal Cyber security Governance Committee is • customer screening and vetting; to the Board Audit and Risk Committee. safety and health impacts of our products and services, product convened each quarter to review risks, events and improvement • site and transport security; and information and labelling, or marketing communications. initiatives and includes senior business managers and our Vice Orica’s approach to tax is applicable across the Orica Group President of Safety, Health, Environment and Security (SHES). and is reviewed and updated annually. • ongoing engagement and collaboration with national and In FY19, Mexico and India mandated product traceability international security agencies. requirements on explosive articles. While we anticipate more In conjunction with our external service providers, our Security countries will follow their lead, our existing management systems Operations Centre (SOC) monitors our facilities, information, Compliance Annual Self-Assessments and Life Cycle Risk Assessments (LCRA) Orica is committed to complying with all relevant revenue laws in a are well positioned to meet these new requirements as we networks, data and other assets. Cyber security is integrated are performed as part of our responsible product stewardship responsible manner, with all taxes properly due, accounted for and have processes in place to meet existing European Union with our Major Incident Management Plan. practices and SHES management system requirements. LCRA help paid. A tax standard and relevant procedures are in place to ensure traceability regulations. ensure our products are used as intended, both safely and ethically, Cyber security is as much about people as it is about technology. tax compliance obligations are managed. from order and shipment through to end-use and disposal. We deliver a global cyber security culture and awareness program, Supply chain management Our in-house global tax team manages Orica’s tax affairs is LCRA are mandatory at the beginning of product development including regular communications to our people on threats and and are maintained by accountable product and services managers. We regularly engage and work closely with our suppliers to assess appropriate online behaviour. This is supplemented by regular supplemented with external compliance support where required. whether they meet our minimum safety, environment and social testing and drills to assess the effectiveness of our controls. pRoGReSS in Fy19 standards and to support improvements where required. Structure Strengthening security governance Risks to sustainability in supply chains include labour practices, pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 Orica does not support the use of artificial structures that are We continued to strengthen our security governance and product security, environmental, health and safety, and bribery and • Extend cyber security controls and monitoring to manufacturing established just to avoid paying tax and have no commercial management of material supply chain risks. corruption. In FY19 we commenced a formal review of our upstream and production related systems. purpose. Orica will not enter into any tax avoidance activities. supply chain with a focus on our procurement of raw materials and During the year, the Board Safety, Health, Environment and inputs. This included ethical conduct and health and safety risks and Relationships with tax authorities Community Committee was extended to include security. opportunities. We identified several opportunities to avoid or Orica aims for open, transparent and respectful relationships We established a global security event monitoring and minimise safety, environment and ethical risks across our supply pRoteCtinG CuStoMeR Data anD pRiVaCy with the Australian Taxation Office and other tax authorities management system to address security-related events. chain and these will be developed for implementation in FY20. globally. Orica seeks advance rulings from taxation authorities These events are reviewed and subject to meeting materiality We are committed to protecting and securing data and personal information and comply with relevant privacy on transactions where appropriate. thresholds and investigated in consultation with regulatory pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 and security agencies. legislation. We manage privacy and data access through • Implement the Product Security Group Standard across our Code of Business Conduct, our privacy statement, Use of tax havens global operations. group standards and security controls. Tax havens are not used for tax planning purposes. Orica has operations in countries that are ‘low tax’ jurisdictions. There is genuine The European Union’s General Data Protection Regime operational substance in these locations, or the entities are dormant. (GDPR) commenced operation on 25 May 2018. We implemented a suite of internal processes to meet the Orica’s overseas companies are subject to Australia’s international requirements of the GDPR. tax rules (Controlled Foreign Corporation rules). tRanSpaRenCy Orica supports the ongoing global development of improved tax transparency to increase understanding of tax systems and build TAX TRANSPARENCY public trust. taX tRanSpaRenCy RepoRtinG Orica has signed the Corporate Tax Transparency Code Register Orica believes that enhanced tax transparency is a critical element developed by the Board of Taxation in Australia and is committed of ethical business behaviour. to applying the principles and the details of the Code. taX poliCy – ouR appRoaCH to taX Orica’s tax policy and approach to tax is published on our website. Some important aspects of that policy are set out in this report. As an Australian mining services company with global operations, Orica incurs a substantial amount and variety of taxes across its jurisdictions including income taxes, stamp duties, employment taxes and other taxes. Orica also collects and remits a number of taxes on trust including employment taxes and indirect taxes such as GST/VAT. 20 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 21 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities opeRatinG ReSponSibly taX ContRibution SuMMaRy table 3: a reconciliation of accounting profit to income tax payable In the FY19 financial year, Orica paid $107 million (FY18 $69 million) globally in corporate income taxes and Consolidated Consolidated $60 million (FY18 $56 million) globally in payroll taxes. 2019 2018 A$m A$m Orica collected and remitted $109 million (FY18 $124 million) globally in GST/VAT. Before individually significant items: The charts show FY19 corporate income tax paid/(refunded) Accounting profit/(loss) before tax 555.0 496.8 in each region (including withholding tax and trade taxes), Prima facie income tax expense/(benefit) calculated 166.5 149.0 and an analysis of total tax paid by type. at 30% on accounting profit Material non-temporary differences Fy19 Global corporate tax and WHt on income by region ($107m) variation in tax rates of foreign controlled entities (23.4) (16.3) tax under provided in prior years 9.7 2.0 de-recognition of booked tax losses – 3.5 non taxable gains on disposal of assets – (3.2) 21 Australia Pacific and and Asia ($m) other foreign deductions – (3.7) 16 Europe, Middle East and Africa ($m) non creditable withholding taxes 10.2 11.2 13 Latin America ($m) non allowable interest deductions 14.6 11.3 57 North America ($m) non allowable share based payments 3.7 4.4 utilisation of unbooked prior year tax losses (10.5) (8.0) sundry items 6.9 7.8 Income tax expense/(benefit) before individually significant items 177.7 158.0 Individually significant items: Fy19 Global tax paid by type ($276m) Individually significant items before tax (195.9) (375.3) Prima facie income tax expense/(benefit) calculated at 30% (58.8) (112.6) on individually significant items Material non-temporary differences 107 Corporate Tax ($m) variation in tax rates of foreign controlled entities 0.3 2.1 109 GST/VAT ($m) non taxable gain on formation China joint venture (10.6) – 60 Employer Payroll Taxes ($m) impairment of Minova business – 60.6 write down of US deferred tax assets – 47.9 Income tax expense/(benefit) on individually significant items (69.1) (2.0) Income tax expense/(benefit) 108.6 156.0 Material temporary differences In Australia, Orica received net corporate income tax refunds deferred tax (0.5) (6.3) of $10 million (FY18 $42 million) comprising a tax refund on the write down of US deferred tax assets – (47.9) resolution of a thin capitalisation dispute with the Australian Taxation Office of $23 million and tax payments of $13 million. Tax payments more/(less) than tax charges 22.5 (18.6) Orica also paid $19 million (FY18 $19 million) in payroll tax and Tax refunds on matters in dispute with tax authorities (23.1) (13.9) $2 million (FY18 $2 million) in fringe benefits tax. Orica collected Income tax paid per the statement of cash flows 107.5 69.3 and remitted $47 million (FY18 $43 million) in GST and $106 million (FY18 $105 million) in ‘pay as you go’ withholding taxes. Effective tax rate for Australian and global operations Notes Consolidated Consolidated 2019 2018 Before individually significant items: Australia 1 36.9% 39.9% Global operations (including Australia) 32.0% 31.8% 1. The tax rate is the percentage of income tax expense to accounting profit/loss before tax (before individually material items) adjusted to exclude exempt dividend income. 22 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 23 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities opeRatinG ReSponSibly INTERNATIONAL RELATED PARTY DEALINGS Orica prices its international related party dealings to reflect the • the provision and receipt of services from entities resident in Singapore, Chile, the United Kingdom, Germany, the MiniMiSinG ouR enViRonMental FootpRint substance in its operations in accordance with the ‘arm’s length United States, Canada and South Africa. The nature of the principle’ as defined in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation services include general management, information technology, and Development (OECD) guidelines and in accordance with the sales and marketing and logistics; laws in both Australia and the countries in which it operates. • the use of intellectual property held by a related party in pRoGReSS in Fy19 Orica has transfer pricing procedures which govern the pricing Singapore. The nature of the intellectual property includes of all international related party dealings. These procedures require technical knowhow related to the manufacture of Orica’s FY19 HIGHLIGHTS Environmental compliance all international related party dealings to be priced in accordance products and the Orica name and trademarks; and We aim to comply with relevant environmental legislation, with the arm’s length standard. Orica maintains contemporaneous licences and environmental consents across our global operations. • the provision of contract research and development activities In FY19, there were no significant (severity 3 or greater) records to support the pricing of its international related party for a related party in Singapore. 3.3% reduction in GHG emissions 3.3% environmental incidents. dealings and benchmarks and documents the outcome of its intensity on Fy18 levels, achieving material dealings on an annual basis. Orica has a treasury function based in Melbourne which Fy19 target In 2016, an environmental incident occurred in Gladstone, provides loans and accepts deposits from in excess of 80 group Queensland at Orica Australia Pty Ltd (OAPL) Fisherman's Landing The material international related party dealings impacting companies (resident in more than 40 countries) at market interest Orica’s Australian taxable income may be summarised as follows: Ammonia Terminal involving the release of approximately 330kg rates. The material transactions are with related parties in Germany, 6% reduction in total Scope 1 and 2 of ammonia. No material or serious environmental harm or injury • the purchase of raw materials and finished products from Indonesia, Russia, Singapore, the United Kingdom and Mexico. 6% GHG emissions, compared to Fy18 to persons arose from the incident. However, in FY19, OAPL was related parties in Singapore, Indonesia and China. The products It also has a subsidiary in Singapore which acts as the Group’s prosecuted for the 2016 event by the Queensland Department of purchased are ammonia, caustic soda, gas, bulk explosives and captive insurer. Environment and Science (DES). Orica pleaded guilty to one charge initiating systems; nitrous oxide emissions reduced 10% under section 430(3) of the Environmental Protection Act 1994 10%, compared to Fy18 • the sale of raw materials and finished products to related (Qld) of contravening a condition of our Environmental Authority parties in Peru, Singapore, Russia, Panama and New Zealand. and was fined $50,000 for the offence and ordered to pay the The products sold include bulk explosives, packaged explosives, adopted tCFD to progressively DES’ legal and investigation costs of $4,000. No conviction was and initiating systems; guide climate-related disclosures recorded against OAPL. from Fy20 Since 2016, our activities at Fisherman’s Landing have undergone table 4: australian tax return data an extensive risk review. We completed works to our flaring system 59% waste diversion from landfill which controls how vapour release is managed from the ammonia Notes 2018 2017 tank. Additional controls and temperature monitoring were installed A$m A$m to provide early warning of any potential release. Equipment and controls to manage ammonia were also upgraded to further Total income 1 2,534 1,999 strengthen their integrity. Taxable income 2 61 108 @ Tax Rate 30% 30% Contamination management 3 We implement a risk-based approach to assess, understand and Tax liability 18 32 verify potential health and environment risks at several of our sites Offset reductions 4 (18) (26) affected by past operating practices. Tax payable – 6 Our Material Environmental Risk Review program evaluates site SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT environmental risks and verifies management controls, including 1. Total Australian income (includes sales, dividends, interest income, etc.) before all expenses (for example, interest, employee costs, depreciation, etc.). AND USING RESOURCES EFFICIENTLY for contamination. The program complements our existing SHES assurance framework which assesses compliance against our 2. Taxable income after allowing for all deductible expenses and tax exempt income. ouR appRoaCH environment performance requirements. 3. Australian Statutory tax rate. 4. Offset reductions of $18 million (FY17 $26 million) relating to franking credits, foreign income tax and research and development. The nature, scale and geographical spread of our activities bring Environmental remediation inherent environmental challenges. We have an integrated Safety, Health, Environment and Security (SHES) Management System We manage environmental issues associated with our current and that comprises systems, processes, and procedures which define historical activities. environmental protection and monitoring measures. Our program for the safe destruction of the hexachlorobenzene The system includes our Group Environment Standard which (HCB) stockpile in New South Wales, Australia has progressed with defines the performance requirements for environmental practices the destruction of the second shipment of 1,500 tonnes completed across our global sites and activities. This requires our people to in Finland during the year. A third shipment of 2,100 tonnes was understand key environment risks and information pertaining to exported to Finland and Sweden in February 2019 and destruction environmental controls which are aimed at minimising our impacts is proceeding to plan. Application for a further 2,600 tonnes in on the environment. The management of energy, water and waste 2020 to Finland and Sweden has been submitted. is also governed by the Group Environment Standard. During FY19, remediation activities associated with past operations Our people are required to complete mandatory induction training were focused at sites in Australia. Soil remediation works were which includes environmental management. Relevant operational completed at Deer Park and Yarraville, Victoria, with subsequent personnel also undertake environmental awareness and SHES groundwater clean-up to commence in FY20. Management training as a part of their mandatory training. Further information on our remediation progress can be found During the year, our teams performed a range of assurance activities on our website. including site self-assessments, regional assessments and corporate audits. Corrective actions identified during these audits are monitored for implementation to prevent reoccurrence. 24 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 25 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities MiniMiSinG ouR enViRonMental FootpRint Energy During the year, we experienced issues with accessing externally Waste management Manufacturing our products, particularly ammonia, is an sourced recycled water at our Kooragang Island site. With supply We aim to avoid or minimise waste generation in the manufacture, energy intensive process using electricity and other fuels including of recycled water disrupted for approximately three months and packaging, supply and distribution of our products. natural gas and petroleum-based products as feedstock and raw production increases at other major manufacturing sites, our CASE STUDY In FY19, while we reduced waste generation by 2.3 per cent from FY18, materials. Energy is also consumed in our offices, vehicles and freshwater consumption increased 10 per cent on FY18 levels to a SpotliGHt on WateR we fell short of our five per cent reduction target. The proportion general plant operations. 6.3 million kl. Freshwater intensity increased 9.8 per cent from FY18 levels to 1.57 kl/tonne. In the absence of the Kooragang Island Our efforts to reduce water use at our global manufacturing of waste sent to landfill reduced by one per cent and waste recycled Natural gas prices in Australia have increased sharply in recent recycled water access issues, freshwater intensity would sites centres on reusing process water and increasing access increased by 6.1 per cent from FY18. We identified new opportunities years and we continue to advocate that gas exports do not come have remained stable at FY18 levels. Access to our recycled water to recycled water sources. at our manufacturing sites to reduce waste volumes and increase at the expense of an adequate local supply. In FY19 we completed source was restored in late FY19. reuse and recycling this year. The feasibility and business cases for In Australia, our Kooragang Island plant has gone from one of gas supply negotiations for Kooragang Island and Yarwun to the implementing these opportunities is presently being assessed. Approximately 95 per cent of the freshwater used was consumed the largest consumers of potable water to one of Orica’s biggest end of 2021 with contracts for gas supply beyond 2021 now by six of our major manufacturing plants in Canada, Brazil, Australia users of recycled water. At our Gomia manufacturing site in Nearly 60 per cent of total waste generated continues to be diverted under consideration. and India, and the Botany site (groundwater extraction) in New India, our ammonium nitrate plants are zero effluent, meaning from landfill by being treated, destroyed, incinerated, re-used or recycled. In FY19, a net total of 22 million gigajoules (GJ) of energy was South Wales, Australia. None of these plants are in 2019 waterall process waters are reused in the manufacturing plant. used, of which 12.4 million GJ (56 per cent) was used as feedstock. stressed catchments, as defined by the World Resources Institute. Waste generation by destination Initiatives to reuse water or capture rainwater are in place This 5.9 per cent increase in total energy use over FY18 was due We aim to reduce our reliance on freshwater withdrawal across many of our mining operations. The Kurri Kurri and to increased production. (groundwater, surface and potable sources) and consumption Liddell plants in New South Wales, Australia capture of potable water for manufacturing purposes. Our potable water rainwater onsite for use in manufacturing ammonium nitrate energy consumption consumption had reduced 31 per cent since FY15, however, emulsion. Recycling boiler blowdown, hot water generator 7.1 7.5 consumption increased in FY19 due to the disruption of the and washdown water is practiced at sites in Europe and Latin 6.0 0.4 Kooragang Island recycled water source. In FY20, we will increase America. Following filtration, these water sources are readily 0.6 0.2 5.0 4.4 our focus on reducing potable water consumption. We established returned to our operating processes. This approach has been 3.9 Energy consumed Energy consumed FY19 in product ancillary to product a new metric and target for potable water in our FY20 sustainability implemented at our mining services sites in Huachipa and 2.3 0.3 million GJ,12.4 million GJ, 9.8 Congata, Peru and our Xanthates site in Polkowice, Poland. 2.2 1.9 8.4 8.3 scorecard and will pursue additional reduction opportunities at our 1.0 0.2 8.2 3.9 2.9 major manufacturing sites. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 potable water consumption Landfill (on or off site) kt Reused kt Our ancillary energy consumption of 9.8 million GJ was largely Treated/Destroyed kt Recycled kt from natural gas (74 per cent), electricity (13 per cent) and steam (7 per cent). Other minor fuel sources included diesel and wood. 0.81 0.77 Net energy intensity increased marginally (3.2 per cent) from last 0.71 0.60 Waste diverted from landfill year to 5.7 GJ/tonne. While this increase was not due to a specific product or site, in FY20 we will work with our material energy consumption sites to identify opportunities to gain efficiencies where plausible. 4.4 3.3 3.1 2.5 3.0 A key challenge in adopting onsite renewable energy is the lack of suitable built infrastructure and available space at our major manufacturing sites. In FY19 we maintained grid-connected solar FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 capacity in our Indian operations, producing 511MWh of solar energy, 55 52 56 60 59 Potable Million kl Potable Intensity kl/Tonne helping avoid 498 tCO2e. We are presently investigating opportunities to utilise renewable energy at other sites around the world. Note: Potable water intensity data only available from FY16. Water management FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Water is an important resource for our products, operations and the health and viability of the ecosystems and communities Freshwater consumption by source Waste Diverted From Landfill % where we operate. It is used as a raw material in products, within manufacturing and safety processes, and for site amenities. 1.7 1.6 We monitor and manage the consumption of potable, surface, 1.4 1.5 1.4 pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 recycled and groundwater across our global operations. The various water sources that contribute to each site’s water use are analysed 1.8 • Confirm the feasibility and business case for identified waste to identify opportunities for reduced consumption and improved 2.0 2.9 2.3 reduction and recycling opportunities for implementation. 0.98 1.9 efficiency. 1.8 0.89 0.87 1.2 • Commence groundwater remediation at Deer Park and Yarraville, 1.1 During FY19, we continued to investigate feasible opportunities to: 1.9 2.1 Victoria, Australia. 1.9 2.2 • improve operational efficiency to reduce water consumption; • Review and update our SHES procedures that support meeting 4.4 3.3 3.1 2.5 3.0 our SHES standard requirements for energy, water and waste. • source water more sustainably wherever practicable; and • be less reliant on potable water for operational tasks. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 With increased production in FY19, we consumed 8.7 million Potable Million kl Surface Water Million kl Freshwater Intensity kilolitres (kl) of gross water, up 0.8 per cent from FY18. Intensity Ground Water Million kl Recycled/Waste Water Million kl of total gross water usage remained unchanged from FY18 at 2.2 kl /tonne. 26 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 27 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities MiniMiSinG ouR enViRonMental FootpRint CLIMATE CHANGE In FY19, our Board considered a detailed internal assessment of climate risk. This included an evaluation of climate-related risks Our assessment in FY19 considered three published scenarios representing the outcomes of a range of possible future pathways. ouR appRoaCH and opportunities, signposts for ongoing risk monitoring, market expectations for climate disclosure and the adequacy of our Scenario 1 – Base case – Scenario 2 – Bloomberg Scenario 3 – IEA Sustainable We are taking a phased approach to understanding and managing long-term strategic response. IEA New Policies Scenario New Energy Finance Development Scenario (2°C) climate-related risks and opportunities. Following that assessment, our Climate Change Policy was Our manufacturing and business activities generate greenhouse updated and is now available on our website. New enhancements gas (GHG) emissions. As the global economy decarbonises and include an acknowledgement that climate change as a material Base Case combines the modelling of Wood Scenario 2 is based on Bloomberg New Scenario 3 is based on the IEA’s Sustainable adopts new technologies and sources of energy, we are exposed Mackenzie and the International Energy Energy Finance data sets. Development Scenario (SDS) with the business risk, a commitment to reducing our operational emissions Agency (IEA) ‘New Policies Scenario’ which: emissions trajectory fully in line with to long-term physical and transitional risks including shifts in and adoption of the TCFD recommendations to progressively guide Key assumptions: commodity demand and customer mix. achieving the long-term objectives of our future climate-related disclosures. • considers the broad policy commitments the Paris Agreement. and plans governments have made to • almost 50 per cent of global electricity Our response to climate change is focused on: Additional information on our approach to corporate governance from renewables by 2050, primarily solar tackle climate change; and Key assumptions: • establishing governance structures and the right policy settings is detailed in our FY19 Annual Report and FY19 Corporate PV and wind supported by batteries and to manage climate-related risks and opportunities; Governance Statement available on our website. • assumes thermal coal will gradually lose other storage technologies; • integrated approach to achieving globally market share to gas and renewables as a agreed objectives on climate change, air • integrating the management of physical and transitional source for power generation in developed • coal remains a dominant fuel through quality and access to energy; Physical and transition risks economies. to 2030, but coal plant retirements will climate risks into company-wide risk management processes. outpace coal additions. Coal increasingly • global energy demand is relatively We govern climate change as a material business risk which Climate-related risks are considered in two broad categories: risks Our base case for forecasting, using a range replaced by renewables and, in the case flat until 2040 as energy consumption includes adapting to a changing climate and using future of material physical impact (physical risks) and risks associated of external sources, indicates that these of the US, gas, and higher capacity factors patterns change. Driven by energy commodity market insights and our assessment of policy and with the transition to a lower carbon economy (transition risks). competing forces deliver relatively flat, and utilisation rates for renewables efficiency and increased direct use of regulatory risks to inform our strategic business planning; In FY19, we continued to build on an assessment of our physical seaborne, thermal coal demand for the compared to the base case scenario; renewable energy; and risks undertaken in FY18 and increased our understanding of the coming decade, as the decline in its share • identifying and implementing feasible technology solutions of the energy mix is offset by increasing • gas consumption for power generation • replacement of fossil fuels by renewable transition risks associated with our business activities. In FY20, to reduce our GHG emissions; and overall energy demand in developing Asia. remaining flat, despite growing capacity; energy sources to meet global emission our approach and work program to understand climate risk will and reduction targets, with scalable carbon be with reference to the TCFD Recommendations. The demand for higher quality, Australian• improving our disclosure of climate-related information. capture and storage and significant sourced coal will continue to remain strong • growth in electric vehicles adding cost reductions in renewables and Increasing transparency on climate change is important for our There is significant variance in analyst opinion on the pace and with the shift to ultra, super-critical, coal to electricity demand. fired power generation. At some point this energy storage. stakeholders. This year we reviewed market and regulatory scope of transition towards a net-zero emissions economy and the expectations for climate-related disclosure and from FY20, our role of fossil fuels. Our strategic planning processes consider a range balance will tip, and absolute thermal coal of scenarios associated with changing commodity demand and the demand will decline at a rate that is assessment and disclosure of climate risks and opportunities will be dependent on the costs and integration with reference to the recommendations of the Financial Standards emergence of carbon markets. of variable renewable energy power systems Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). and energy storage. We maintained transparency of our report to the 2019 CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) this year which can be found on CDP’s website. As a subset of our climate-related scenario planning, we undertake • continuing to invest in new mine blasting technology and modelling of our potential direct exposure to the costs of carbon building a portfolio of digital products servicing the broader pRoGReSS in Fy19 emissions. Assumptions in FY19 included carbon pricing ranging mining value chain; Climate change governance between A$30 and A$65 per tCO2e over the decade beginning • commercialising service-based technologies and digital 2020. The outcomes of this analysis informs business planning and We have assessed and manage climate change as a material products for our customers; and emissions reduction investment cases. business risk. • growing our market share in the civil infrastructure and We continue to confront medium-term climate policy uncertainty Our Board, through the Safety, Health, Environment, Community tunnelling sector. in our two key jurisdictions of Australia and Canada. Our current and Security (SHECS) Committee, oversees the implementation of exposure to carbon costs is modest and we largely offset financial our Climate Change Policy. Advice to the Committee is considered Greenhouse gas emissions performance impacts through the generation of carbon credits and participation and endorsed by our CEO and Executive Committee. Accountability Our GHG emissions intensity target in FY19 was 1.95 tCO2e in relevant global carbon markets. for our climate change response rests with the Group Executive, per tonne AN sold. We achieved our target with a reduction Corporate Services and Company Secretary. Our scenario analysis continues to indicate a manageable transition of 3.3 per cent (from FY18) to 1.75 tCO2e per tonne AN sold. over the coming decade, given forecast commodity and energy During FY19, our SHECS Committee: Our improved emissions intensity was primarily due to the demand, immaterial direct carbon costs and opportunities to • monitored progress against our Climate Change Policy capitalise on climate-related opportunities. replacement of ageing abatement catalyst and ongoing abatement commitments; trials at our nitric acid facilities. While our Kooragang Island Over the longer term, the current pace of transition towards a abatement trials continue, initial results have confirmed several • monitored performance against our GHG emissions intensity net-zero emissions economy, growth of our digital products and operational and supply risks that must be overcome before a target; and increasing demand outside of thermal coal markets is projected longer-term abatement pathway can be confidently pursued to enable us to maintain a profitable balance in our customer and (refer Emissions Abatement Strategy section). • reviewed and approved our climate-related disclosures contained portfolio mix. With our adoption of the TCFD framework from in our FY19 Reporting Suite. FY20, we will update our transition climate risk and opportunity In FY20, we have committed to a GHG emissions intensity target assessment and define several scenarios which will form the basis of 1.80 tCO2e per tonne AN sold. This is slightly above our FY19 of future climate risk analysis. performance due to forecast production variations across our We are focused on capturing growth and diversification manufacturing plants and continued uncertainty with maintaining opportunities to maintain the resilience of our business by: consistent abatement performance in our trial plants. 28 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 29 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities MiniMiSinG ouR enViRonMental FootpRint net greenhouse gas emissions abateMent oF nitRouS oXiDe eMiSSionS 1.86 FRoM nitRiC aCiD pRoDuCtion 1.77 1.77 1.81 1.75 Nitrous oxide is a by-product of nitric acid production formed during the oxidation of ammonia. There are two main abatement techniques: secondary abatement reduces nitrous oxide emissions directly after they are formed in an oxidation 4,558,300 4,133,700 4,676,200 4,416,000 4,517,000 reactor; while tertiary abatement reduces nitrous oxide by removing emissions from the tail gas at the end of the process. 260,100 243,900 Both techniques utilise an abatement catalyst which requires 351,700 318,300 331,600 periodic replacement as performance declines over time. 1,756,800 1,824,900 1,798,800 2,243,800 2,110,700 Emissions reduction potential is therefore at a peak with newly installed catalyst in place, but overall performance is FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 dependent on the catalyst life and frequency of replacement. Total Scope 1 Emissions tCO2e Total Scope 3 Emissions tCO2e Secondary abatement technology is employed at many Total Scope 2 Emissions tCO2e Emissions Intensity tCO2e/t AN Sold of our global sites and we are currently designing a tertiary abatement system for installation in one of our nitric acid plants in 2021. Meeting customer product demand is achieved each year through a We face unique operational challenges associated with combination of our manufacturing capability and third-party supply. implementing secondary abatement catalyst in our highWe continue to incorporate supplier Scope 3 emission sources in our pressure nitric acid plants. Our current abatement catalyst GHG emissions inventory which increased 2.3 per cent in FY19 from trials seek to further understand and potentially overcome FY18 levels. This approach enables a more accurate reflection of our these barriers. While the trials are demonstrating some level total GHG emissions footprint, regardless of whether we make or of improved emissions reduction performance, the long-term purchase from third-party suppliers. viability of maintaining this technology remains uncertain. Our total (Scope 1, 2 and 3) GHG emissions decreased by 0.7 per cent from last year despite customer demand for our products and associated production continuing to increase. Operational (Scope 1 and Scope 2) GHG emissions reduced 6.0 per cent from FY18. In FY19, our total nitrous oxide GHG emissions reduced 10 per cent (equivalent of 167,000 tCO2e), from FY18 levels. Key contributors Emissions abatement strategy included Kooragang Island, Australia (21 per cent reduction), In FY19, we further progressed work to identify a longer-term Bontang, Indonesia (12 per cent reduction) and Carseland, Canada emissions abatement and investment pathway to meet our (5 per cent reduction). These emissions reductions were primarily commitment to reduce GHG emissions. Our priority is to abate due to continuing work at Kooragang Island to trial more effective nitrous oxide GHG emissions from the manufacture of nitric acid. abatement catalyst, as well as the replacement of aged abatement These comprise 59 per cent of Orica’s total emissions and have catalyst in Bontang during FY19. a global warming potential 298 times that of carbon dioxide. Further evaluation of longer-term tertiary abatement and other emissions reduction technologies will continue in FY20 to enable Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by greenhouse gas us to better understand its viability and provide necessary data to inform future investment decisions. Industry associations 31% 10% 59% Over the last year there has been increasing stakeholder interest in the role of industry associations, particularly their policy advocacy on climate change. Scope 1 – CO2 % of Gross Emissions Scope 1 – N2O % of Gross Emissions Scope 2 – CO2 % of Gross Emissions We maintain memberships with several global industry and broader business associations that provide value to our business, industry and the wider economy. We are an active participant in the development of climate change policy whether through direct engagement or through our industry associations. We advocate for climate change policies based on the following principles: • open and transparent international carbon markets; • managed transition for the energy sector towards low emissions generation, while balancing the needs of energy security, affordability and emissions reduction; and • consideration of emissions-intensive, trade exposed businesses and the priority of maintaining relative competitiveness between trading nations. 30 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 31 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities MiniMiSinG ouR enViRonMental FootpRint Climate-related opportunities Our response to climate change also creates financial, market, product and renewable energy opportunities. pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 • Implementation of the TCFD framework focusing on: SuppoRtinG loCal CoMMunitieS – updating our transition climate risk and opportunity We participate in relevant compliance and voluntary carbon markets assessment, and defining several scenarios on which to base Our OCPP has successfully delivered some great community and since 2013 have invested in Mineral Carbonation International, our future climate risk analysis; outcomes. We look forward to continuing our support by evolving an Australian start-up focused on developing technologies to safely FY19 HIGHLIGHTS the program in FY20 to better align with our changing business – establishing an internal working group to monitor progress and priorities. These include: capture carbon dioxide emissions for potential use in construction advise key decision makers, including executives and teams materials such as cements and plasterboard. managing climate change risks, opportunities and disclosures; $1.9 million contributed in our • a focus to deliver greater efficiencies, systems and processes, In FY19, we engaged with the Nitric Acid Climate Auctions Group communities through global, regional and improve our core operational and financial disciplines; – developing appropriate metrics and targets to assess climate(NACAG) on opportunities to generate carbon credits from nitrous and local partnerships and initiatives • reorienting our community investments to reflect our regional related risks and opportunities and ongoing performance. oxide emissions reduction activity. The NACAG is an initiative of the (or 0.2 per cent of earnings1) operating model; and German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation • Progress operational emissions abatement trials and technology and Nuclear Safety. reviews to identify a sustainable long-term emissions abatement • ensuring the types of community initiatives we support pathway. over 750 schools with students and on-ground meet local social needs and rising community Our engagement with the Carbon Markets Institute this year has families engaged in SteM through expectations for protecting public health and the environment. strengthened our understanding of domestic and international • Finalise design and approvals for future installation of tertiary hands-on learning carbon markets. As we look to FY20 and beyond, we are better abatement. In FY20 we will commence a comprehensive review of our placed to participate in relevant markets to capitalise on financial community investment program to ensure we are realising and reputational benefits. 10 years partnership with StelR maximum value from our work in this area. Our aim is to strengthen project supporting children in SteM the program by inspiring and involving our employees and better collaborating with our customers to deliver the best possible outcomes for our communities. CASE STUDY an iMpoRtant MileStone; StelR During FY19, we were recognised for 10 years of partnership COMMUNITY INVESTMENT with the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences and Engineering’s STELR (Science and Technology Education ouR appRoaCH Leveraging Relevance) Project. Building mutual trust between local communities and our STELR is an innovative program aiming to engage students operations remains our priority. We do this by engaging our local in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) stakeholders and forging relationships based on mutual respect. through hands-on, inquiry-based learning opportunities Our community investments are also focused on meeting the social focused on real-world challenges such as renewable energy, needs of communities located close to our operations. water and sustainable housing. Expectations and requirements on how we engage our stakeholders As the founding partner and major sponsor since 2009, are outlined in a Group Standard along with processes for handling we have helped STELR develop new curriculum materials, community complaints and issues, and our approach to making provide professional learning sessions for teachers, and community investments. purchase STELR equipment. With our support, the program has grown and been introduced to Indonesia, India, Canada Our approach comprises: and the Philippines. • developing global consistency in our systems and processes; • building internal capability around community engagement and community investment practices; and • ensuring community investment funds are effectively channelled and leveraged in all operating regions. In FY15, we implemented the Orica Community Partnerships Program (OCPP). Over five annual funding rounds, we funded 73 community initiatives in over 15 countries. Funds committed to initiatives across all our global operating regions totalled $5.7 million. 1. Earnings represents EBITDA (EBIT before individually significant items plus depreciation and amortisation expense). 32 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 33 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities SuppoRtinG loCal CoMMunitieS pRoGReSS in Fy19 Highlights in FY19 included: Measuring community sentiment • celebrating the 10th anniversary of our founding partnership CASE STUDY of the STELR Project. The hands-on learning program now To build stakeholder trust in our business we need to understand stakeholder expectations and their level of acceptance of our extends to over 750 schools worldwide including near our MuSeuM eXpReSS activities in their communities. operations in Australia, India, Canada, Indonesia, Philippines Over the last four and a half years we invested nearly $250,000 and New Zealand and reaching around one million students towards Museum Express, a local science program in the Hunter In FY19 we implemented a process for measuring community and families; and Central Coast regions of New South Wales, Australia. sentiment at seven of our major global manufacturing sites. Our analysis considered several factors that collectively • working with our partner The Smith Family to achieve their Museum Express has delivered over 300 inspiring science shape reputation and community opinion of Orica including goal of helping 300 local disadvantaged students through their shows to thousands of students at more than 50 primary environment and safety performance, outstanding regulatory Learning for Life program in Gladstone, Queensland near our schools. The program presents science in a fun and accessible issues, proximity to local communities and existing Yarwun manufacturing site. A further 300 students will be way, with the aim of sparking curiosity in the next generation. stakeholder relationships. offered placements by the end of 2020; Science, technology and engineering education is an area Overall, our findings from this analysis show that our business • co-designing a local school competition (PERUMIN 2019) with of special interest for Orica. As well as supporting Museum activities are acknowledged as being central to local regional our Arequipa community in Peru. Winning teams developed Express, our Kooragang Island site runs a unique chemistry economies and employment opportunities, and often contribute new grey water reuse and waste segregation/recycling initiatives program for senior high school students. substantially to social infrastructure. for their schools; Since 2013, more than 1,000 local students have visited These insights will help shape our stakeholder engagement • volunteers at our Brownsburg site, Quebec, Canada providing the Kooragang Island site to learn about our operations and and community investment priorities in FY20 and beyond. support for a range of local community initiatives including an apply their classroom studies to the real world. The program outdoor play area for special needs students of Saint-Julien includes a guided tour of the plant, a presentation by a chemical Community investment school in Lachute; and engineer and the opportunity for students to talk with recent university graduates working at the site. In FY19, the total value of our social and community investment • continuing to support our communities near Congata, Peru program, including contributions from our Company and our people by funding five scholarships that will assist low income students totalled $1.9 million, or 0.2 per cent of earnings2. at surrounding schools pursue technical careers and support their families. Through established corporate, regional and local partnerships Community investment a$m pRioRitieS anD FoCuS FoR Fy20 and community investments, we continued to prioritise stakeholder • Conduct a comprehensive review of our existing engagement, young people’s education, community health, and OCPP program. disaster and emergency relief initiatives. FY19 $1.9m • Launch our refreshed global community engagement and investment strategy. FY18 $1.8m CASE STUDY HelpinG loCal CHilDRen anD “I think the sponsorship changed my life, because it gave me FY17 $1.8m opportunities that I might not have had. Now I’m a youth worker, tHeiR FaMilieS in GlaDStone, part of my job is that I get to do all the referrals for The Smith auStRalia Family in Gladstone. That’s something I’m extremely proud Community investment by theme % The Smith Family is the largest children’s education charity about; that I now get to give back in that way.” helping young Australians in need to succeed at school. After helping them to establish their presence in Gladstone – the first new community for The Smith Family in 10 years, we celebrated our one-year anniversary of providing their 46 Education and young people Learning for Life education support program to local children 17 Environment and their families in Gladstone, Queensland. 14 Health and wellbeing The Learning for Life program offers critical support for students from disadvantaged backgrounds that is proven to improve their 6 Social welfare educational outcomes. This is helping students transition from 17 Other high school into further studies, training or employment. Orica is proud to have supported 300 Learning for Life sponsorships awarded to disadvantaged children and young people in the area in the first year. Note: Other includes disaster and emergency relief, arts and culture, economic development. Following the initial the success of the program, The Smith Family has announced an additional 300 Gladstone students will be invited join the program by 2020. More information on our community partnerships is available on our website. Josh, a former Learning for Life recipient who is now a Youth Worker at a Smith Family partner school in Gladstone said: 2. Earnings represents EBITDA (EBIT before individually significant items plus depreciation and amortisation expense). 34 oRica SuStainability RepoRt 2019 35 Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next A message FY19 sustainability FY20 sustainability Engaging our Protecting and Improving customer Operating Minimising our Supporting local The year at a glance About our business The way we work Focus on areas About this report from our CEO scorecard scorecard targets stakeholders developing our people outcomes responsibly environmental footprint communities about tHiS RepoRt Our FY19 reporting suite includes this Sustainability Report, our Annual Report, and our Corporate Governance Statement. VERIFICATION PROCESSES These documents are available to download via our website. We employ internal and external verification processes to assure the completeness and accuracy of information. REPORTING APPROACH AND SCOPE Our internal processes cover data review, verification and validation to accept, reject or qualify data in an objective and consistent This Sustainability Reporting covers the financial year manner. Our processes are governed by our integrated 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019 (FY19) for Orica Limited, management system incorporating Group Standards covering unless otherwise stated. Safety, Health, Environment, Security (SHES) Management and We report on our sites and activities we wholly own and operate, Environment. and those we operate in a 50 per cent or more joint venture during Requirements for monitoring equipment calibration, data collection, the year. Information regarding the controlled entities in the Orica recording, reporting, verification and validation are documented Group can be found in our FY19 Annual Report. and implemented. The structure of our report is aligned to material sustainability topics We perform independent reasonable assurance over a selection identified through our materiality review. For each topic we have of performance disclosures in our FY19 Sustainability Report. provided an overview of our approach and performance over the More specifically: reporting period, with the aim of providing readers with a clear view of how we are addressing our most material impacts. • Australian energy and greenhouse gas data for the period 1 October 2018 – 30 June 2019; and Data for energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste is only reported for the operations we wholly own and operate, with the • Canadian energy and greenhouse gas data for the period exception of the Bontang Indonesia joint venture, which is included 1 October 2018 – 31 December 2018. as we maintain management control of the operation and its There is some misalignment in our sustainability reporting material greenhouse gas emissions profile. (1 October 2018 – 30 September 2019) and external assurance Numbers in this document are subject to rounding and presented periods due to our participation in different greenhouse gas in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. compliance programs in Australia and Canada. Unassured data in the reporting period is audited in the subsequent year and Additional sustainability metrics and data is provided in our any material differences are restated. Sustainability Data Centre available on our website. For an overview of the metrics that underwent assurance this year, please see our external Assurance Statements, available via our REPORTING STANDARDS reporting website. The report contains standard disclosures guided by the Core Global Previous sustainability and annual reports can also be downloaded Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). via the website. A GRI Content Index is available on our website. We report greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and energy production from our Australian facilities under the Australian Government’s National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007, supporting regulations and relevant guidelines. Greenhouse gas emissions from our non-Australian sites are reported using the same general framework, with the application of local regulations, energy and emission factors. The reporting of non-Australian data is based on materiality thresholds. 36 oRica Orica Sustainability Report 2019 Exit Print Contents Previous | Start End | Next Enquiries can be directed to companyinfo@orica.com Exit Print Contents Previous | Start
