On the Cover Table of Contents HPCL has embarked upon to discover new horizons of growth and sustainability. The Corporation’s goal for expanding horizons to build a secure, sustainable 2-5 74-93 and inclusive future for all its stakeholders has been depicted on the cover. The ripples not only From C&MD’s Desk Addressing the represent a multiplying, high-quality growth Human Capital milieu at HPCL, but also help to show how the 6-7 76 80 Diverse Workforce Stimulating a Learning Environment different business verticals are almost like planets 82 Ensuring Health and Safety in the HPCL universe, coming together to help the About the Report 86 Fostering Growth Corporation achieve its objectives. Further, the 87 Rewarding Achievements imagery signifies the organisation’s commitment 88 Attracting Talent towards conducting its operations in a manner that 8-29 89 Engaging with our Workforce 91 Providing Employee Benefits supports, enriches and nurtures the environment and the inclusive development of its communities. About Us 92 Supporting Human Rights The green colour signifies our unwavering focus 10 Vision, Mission and Values 14 Organisation Profile towards environmental sustainability. 21 Corporate Governance 94-103 28 Awards and Recognitions Serving the Communities The future belongs to those who believe in their 30-41 97 Child Care and Education dreams and then the whole universe conspires to Engaging with our 99 100 Healthcare Skill Development 2016-17 make those dreams come true. Stakeholders 102 Environment and Community 33 Strategy Development We, at HPCL, take pride in being an integral part of 103 Expenditure in CSR Projects 40 Materiality Assessment the endeavours of billions to realise their dreams. We touch lives everyday, in everyway. We provide warmth to the kitchen which transforms a house 42-53 104-116 into a ‘Home’. We bring smiles on the wheels which make memorable travelogues. We fuel the wings Generating Revenues Product which make dreams fly. We power the economy Responsibly Responsibility which propels the wheels of prosperity. We ensure 106 Research and Development 44 Financial Performance a safe, healthy and sustainable future for you and 108 Delighting Customers 46 Physical Performance your loved ones. 52 Strategic Planning Initiatives Led by innovation and steered by a sense of 117 Affiliations responsibility, we promise a ‘Future Full of Energy’ 54-73 118 Linking Sustainable Development Goals to our Business Practices Delivering and a ‘Life full of cheer’. Happiness... Protecting our Planet 120 125 GRI G4 Content Index UNGC Index At HPCL, We Deliver Happiness. 57 Resource Efficiency 126 Independent Assurance Statement 59 Targeting Energy Efficiency and Conservation 129 Abbreviations 62 Reducing our Emissions 65 Harnessing Renewable Energy Registered Office and Corporate Headquarters Marketing Headquarters 66 Conserving and Managing Water Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited 68 Managing Waste Petroleum House, 17, Jamshedji Tata Road, Hindustan Bhawan, 8, Shoorji Vallabhdas Marg, 70 Greenco Implementation Mumbai 400 020, Maharashtra, India Mumbai 400 001, Maharashtra, India 72 Green Building Initiative 3 From C&MD’s Desk We strive towards becoming industry leaders in meeting Sustainability Approach The ever-growing demand for 17.8 MMT our social and environmental energy has brought the oil and gas Refinery Throughput commitments, health and safety industry to the centre stage of the norms, including employee welfare Indian economy, influencing major marked with several policy reforms and relations. business decisions across other and initiatives by the Government, sectors and, therefore, providing such as demonetisation, digitisation Reporting Journey a promising environment for of transactions and payments We have come a long way from investments. In order to continue and roll out of the Goods and the time we first reported on our our growth and stay ahead of the Services Tax (GST). We support initiative pertaining to the triple performance curve in the changing these initiatives, which aim to bottom line. In the past six years, business landscape, we have strengthen the economy with we have consistently improved co-created a five-year strategic plan a robust framework for future our performance in a progressive till the year 2020-21, christened T20. advancements and are intended manner. This year, we have taken The T20 strategy aims to maximise for long-term benefits. We are another quantum jump to get customer value and thereby achieve determined to exert ourselves in to the next level of non-financial exponential growth and accelerated overcoming possible challenges reporting and have transitioned to profit through implementation of of energy transition, industry GRI G4 guidelines ‘In Accordance’ strategic initiatives. disruption, supply and demand – Comprehensive option. The volatility, price fluctuations, health comprehensive criteria requires Our sustainability agenda and and safety risks and environmental disclosure on additional indicators materiality are in line with these impacts. Through all of this we are under governance and identified T20 Goals. We champion the steadfastly progressing towards a material issues. This reporting symbiotic relationship between its sustainable global future. scheme mandates us to provide stakeholders and businesses. This a better coverage of issues we interdependence has encouraged Refinery highlights: During this have addressed maintaining us to consciously engage in public fiscal our refineries have surpassed our standards as a responsible dialogue and proactive initiatives their combined crude processing Dear Stakeholders, with the SDGs as they are. We look corporation. As signatories to with the communities that we record by achieving a combined For the first time at the sustainability challenges in UN Global Compact, our report is operate in, thus advance towards a refining throughput of 17.8 MMT ever, the profit after I am delighted to present our different pathways, seeking to learn, aligned with the United Nations holistic development. We undergo and a capacity utilisation of 113% Corporation’s Sixth Annual mould and adapt to the need of the Global Compact Principles an extensive process for identifying against the previous throughput tax for the year Sustainability Report for the year hour and plan for the future. The (UNGC) on Environment, Human material issues relevant to our of 17.2 MMT in 2015-16. Moreover, crossed the `6,000 2016-17, which is a stride forward dynamics in the oil and gas sector Rights, Labour & Anti-Corruption. stakeholders and our business. both Mumbai and Visakh refineries in our efforts towards corporate are changing rapidly and require Additionally, we have complied Our focused approach towards registered MOU ‘Excellent’ rating crore mark on a responsibility. I would like to our business portfolio to reflect with Securities and Exchange environmental excellence and for the ninth year in succession. standalone basis and take this opportunity to share the current transition towards Board of India (SEBI) notified sustainable development has Our refineries recorded best-ever our landmark achievements and substitution of hydrocarbon based listing obligations and disclosure culminated in all round recognition MS, HSD and LOBS production. We `8,000 crore on a sustainability highlights. energy systems with low carbon requirements (amendment) including conferring of SCOPE continued further optimisation of consolidated basis. energy systems and renewable regulation, 2015, in Gazette of Meritorious award through the the crude basket by adding three The international community, energy systems on the global India, dated 22nd December, 2015 hands of Hon’ble President of India. new types of crude oil that will through the United Nations, has set in energy map. and have published a Business enable larger savings in the future. motion a historic plan – 17 Sustainable Responsibility Report this year as The T20 strategy aims to Development Goals (SDGs) – that The year was marked with our best a part of our Annual Report. We have undertaken investments maximise customer value and aims to build a more prosperous, all-round performance wherein we for enhancing refining capacity, and thereby achieve exponential more equal and more secure world achieved remarkable profitability, In the global oil and gas industry, both our refineries have received growth and accelerated profit by the year 2030. The Government market sales and return to the previous year was challenging environmental clearances for the through implementation of of India is strongly committed to the shareholders. For the first time due to economic, political and social expansion. The Visakh Refinery strategic initiatives. 2030 Agenda, including the SDGs. ever, the profit after tax for the factors. This year, crude oil prices Modernisation Project (VRMP) is Being a responsible corporation, we year crossed the `6,000 crore mark were low, but they recovered from slated for production enhancement are committed towards Sustainable on a standalone basis and `8,000 the 12-year low witnessed in the Economic Performance plan from 8.33 MMTPA to 15 MMTPA, development and environmental crore on a consolidated basis. We previous year to US $54-55 per Our market cap more than doubled and the Mumbai Refinery expansion stewardship. Our initiatives in exceeded previous year’s all-time barrel during January-February 2017 and was recorded at `53,380 crore. Project (MREP) from 7.5 MMTPA development of society supports the high profit after tax by 67% to and witnessed a decline thereafter. Our sustained financial progress to 9.5 MMTPA. These projects will 17 Sustainable Development Goals. reach `6,209 crore resulting in a Lower crude oil prices had a positive enables us to cater to the needs feature state-of-the-art technologies Each of our projects impact multiple significant increase in the earning impact on the inflation and the and concerns of environmental and and residue upgradation facilities SDGs and align the achievements per share to `61.12. economic growth of the nation. social performance. This fiscal was and will make our refineries capable 4 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 5 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive of producing BS VI-compliant motor fuels by 2020. Hon’ble Prime Minister matter of no-compromise as we work towards ‘zero incident’. We from’, inspires our business activities to become a responsible 101 MW Social Performance We, are steadfast in our efforts to of India dedicated newly Total Wind Power Capacity have invested in state-of-the-art energy major. Going forward, create shared values and are cognisant commissioned Rewari-Kanpur We have signed MoU with the technology, and our equipment we work relentlessly towards of the interdependency of business Pipeline & Kanpur Terminal to Government of Rajasthan with undergo diligent maintenance. We improving our environmental Our Corporation has successfully and its stakeholders, including the Nation. our share at 74% for the 9 MMTPA empower our employees to enhance commitment. commissioned 50.5 MW wind community and environment. The Refinery-cum-Petrochemical their skill set and knowledge project in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) complex with an investment of Pipeline capacity expansion by having strategic tie-ups with adding up to a total wind power policy has laid down the philosophy `43,129 crore. Moreover, we have remains a major focus area for our various renowned institutions. All Capital investment of `38.7 capacity of 101 MW. We achieved and defined the scope, structure an MoU with the Government Corporation and projects, envisaged employees and contract staff are crore on energy conservation wind energy generation of 96.2 and guidelines for identification, measures in refineries. of Andhra Pradesh for a 1.3 to be completed within the next imparted comprehensive training million kWh from Wind Farm implementation and monitoring of MMTPA Petrochemical Complex three years, are underway with on health and safety. projects set up in Maharashtra and CSR projects and activities. At the at Kakinada in JV with GAIL. We a capital expenditure of ` 2,601 The Bureau of Energy Efficiency Rajasthan, and 21,648 Renewable heart of our CSR are initiatives related are also participating (25%) in 60 crore. This year the 356 km-long The Mumbai Refinery has achieved (BEE) extended PAT (Perform, Energy Certificates (REC) were to child care, education, healthcare, MMTPA Integrated Refinery-cumMangalore-Hassan-Mysore-Yediyur best-ever safety record since its Achieve and Trade) Cycle II accrued during 2016-17. Additionally, skill development, sports and Petrochemical complex at West LPG Pipeline with a capacity of 1.94 inception with 18.34 million safe programme to the petroleum we have Solar PV installations at environment. This reporting period Coast in Maharashtra. MMTPA was commissioned. Another man-hours. sector, and both our refineries refineries, operating locations, retail we have reached out to over 36,000 moment of pride was the dedication have been actively participating outlets across India with a total people through these programmes 35.2 MMT of the newly commissioned RewariKanpur Pipeline & Kanpur Terminal Mumbai Refinery has achieved in the process. This year, we have also made a capital investment to capacity of more than 1,500 kWp. and have spent `108.11 crore on CSR activities. Marketing Throughput best-ever safety record since to the Nation by the Hon’ble Prime the tune of `38.7 crore on energy This year, our Corporation its inception with 18.34 million Minister of India. conservation measures. implemented Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Corporate citizenship is the pillar safe man-hours. M a r ke t i n g h i g h l i g h t s : Th e Yojana (PMUY), making provisions upon which our Corporation marketing volumes this year were In our endeavour to ensure Mumbai Refinery enhanced for 53 lakh new LPG connections, endeavours to make an impact recorded at 35.2 MMT. Domestic customer satisfaction we have Our belief that, ‘Opportunities don’t purchase of power through Open facilitating a clean fuel for cooking. in the oil and gas industry. It is sales grew by 2.5% over the last taken up numerous customerhappen, one creates them’, has Access this year and commenced PAHAL (Direct Benefit Transfer an intrinsic part of our business year to reach a market share of centric initiatives which have been helped us conceptualise training 40 MW withdrawal of power from scheme of LPG subsidy) registered strategy as we take diligent steps about 21% among the public-sector elaborated in the report. and development programmes the grid through Open Access 4.4 crore of active HP gas customers. to protect our natural resources oil companies. such as Project Akshay and Project mode from August 2016. More than 30 lakh HP gas customers while fueling India’s economy. We Our Corporation has set up a Green ACE. Project Akshaypath-II, the gave up their LPG subsidy under the strive towards creating a positive We achieved distinguishing results Research and Development Centre in-house leadership-development We are cognisant of our air ‘GiveItUp’ scheme. impact on the local communities in myriad products. LPG sales (HPGRDC) at Bengaluru with the initiative, was concluded in March emissions and monitor the air and this sustainability report volumes increased by 11.1%, Aviation objective to develop innovative 2017 and involved deployment of quality diligently, thus aligning We are consciously trying to demonstrates our triple bottom line Turbine Fuel by 13.4% and Lubes by and path breaking technologies scientifically-designed processes ourselves with the National leverage our pipeline network approach. Wherever our facilities 9.5%, among others. We achieved and products in the energy sector. with Mentoring and Executive Ambient Air Quality Standard. Our to reap multiple benefits in and operations exist we stand highest-ever sales volume in all three The Phase–I of HPGRDC has Coaching as key elements. We Corporation has always been a product distribution including steadfastly true to our vision, mission segments of LPG Sales-Domestic laboratories which are built with applaud the employees’ relentless pioneer in implementing initiatives cost efficiency, carbon footprint and values. The People, Planet and (4,890 TMT), ND Packed (574 TMT) state-of-the-art research facilities efforts through rewards such as for reduction of emission. Our reduction and enhanced safety. The Profit nexus drives performance of and ND Bulk (169 TMT). This is and equipment. HPGRDC has been ‘Outstanding Achievement Award’, Mumbai and Visakh refineries have highest-ever pipeline throughput our Corporation. We take stock of the second year when our stellar recognised by the Department of HP Gaurav. We value HPites and installed Tail Gas Treating Units of 17.91 million metric tonnes was our actions, its impacts and gaps business performance crossed Scientific and Industrial Research believe that their perception (TGTU) in the Sulphur Recovery achieved during the year, which that might remain. We promote the 1 million sales mark in the I&C (DSIR), and is carrying out research of how our corporation can Trains for Sulphur recovery to the helped in optimising the logistics holistic growth, shared benefits and segment (FO, HSD and Bitumen). in various areas like development improve, plays a crucial role in extent of 99.9%. cost and reducing the carbon a zeal to excel. We look forward of new products, development of our endeavour to surpass our footprint in product movement. to another year of distinguishing Among others, we also launched new technologies, upgradation previous achievements year after We actively participated in the strides in an all-inclusive milieu. poWer 99 in February 2017, which of existing technologies, etc. The year. Further, our employees implementation of BS IV fuel across As part of the Green Visakha Yours Sincerely, is a one-of-its-kind product to be Centre was dedicated to the Nation have been provided with various the supply chain and ensured Programme, Visakh Refinery sold in India. by the Hon’ble Minister of State forums such as Reflexion and HRcompliance with the Government planted nearly 2 lakh saplings in and (I/C), Petroleum & Natural Gas. Direct where they can voice their of India timelines w.e.f. 1st April around locations of Visakhapatnam. Our supply chain has an efficient concerns or give feedback to the 2017. pan-India network and infrastructure Workforce top management. Mumbai Refinery was conferred to handle the demands of all Our proficient workforce is the with the ‘National Energy products while maintaining quality, backbone of our corporation’s Environment Performance Implemented BS IV fuel Conservation Award 2016 by quantity, timelines and safety. The outstanding performance, and The maxim, ‘Our environment across the supply chain in MoP&NG, Government of India, M.K. Surana distribution network handled over we value their tireless efforts. reminds us what it means to be line with Government of and the Golden Peacock Award Chairman and Managing Director 47 MMT of petroleum products Needless to say, their safety is human, what we are connected to India time lines. for Sustainability 2016 by Institute during the year. of prime importance to us and a rather than what we are separate of Directors (IOD). 6 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 7 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive About the Report General Standard Disclosures (GSD) Below is the tabular representation mentioning the additional GRI indicators disclosed in this report with respect to 2015-16: Delivering Happiness… GSD Reported in accordance ‘Core’ in 2015-16 GSD Reported in accordance ‘Comprehensive’ in 2016-17 With great satisfaction and a deep sense of gratitude towards all our stakeholders who have helped us pave our way to an all-embracing G4 1, G4 3 to 34, G4 56 G4 1 to 58 and sustainable future, we present our Sixth Annual Sustainability Report, 2016-17. Additional GSD reported in 2016-17: G4 2, G4 35 to 55, G4 57 and 58 Our Corporation has transformed This report focuses on our broad The data presented in the report is Specific Standard Disclosures the nature of oil and gas business efforts and initiatives that we based on actual computations and in India from fueling the economy have implemented in our quest for estimations. Wherever estimates Indicators Additional to powering everyday lives. We reaching the pinnacle with respect are made, the assumptions Indicators reported reported in Indicators have explored newer strategic to People, Planet and Profit. It and methodologies have been Parameters ­­­GRI Aspects in accordance 'Core' accordance reported in businesses and ventured into also includes plans and goals that specified. We have aligned our in 2015-16 'Comprehensive' 2016-17 latest technologies that enable we have envisioned to strengthen report with the United Nations in 2016-17 the shaping of an inclusive, safe our commitment to customers, Global Compact Principle (UNGC) Energy Efficiency Energy G4 EN 3,5,6 G4 EN 3 to 7 G4 EN 4,7 and healthy future for all. It is our shareholders, employees and on Environment, Human Rights, consistent endeavour to innovate other stakeholders. Labour and Anti-Corruption. This Carbon Footprint/GHG G4 EN15 to 19 and our range of offerings to cater year, we have also published a Emissions G4 EN 15 to 21 G4 EN 20 Emissions 21 to the ever-changing demand The report is in line with Global ‘Business Responsibility Report’ Occupational scenario. This strengthens our Reporting Initiative (GRI) – G4 which is a part of our Annual Health and Safety G4 LA 5, 6, 8 G4 LA 5 to 8 G4 LA 7 Health and Safety relationship with customers guidelines along with its Oil Report. Training and and gives us an opportunity to and Gas Sector Supplement. Training and Development G4 LA 9 to 11 G4 LA 9 to 11 X explore new markets and scale As a step towards continuous This report is assured by an Education (skill upgradation) up our business. improvement, we have moved independent external third party, Efficient Water from the ‘In Accordance’ Core M/s. Bureau Veritas (India) Pvt. Water G4 EN 8 and 10 G4 EN 8 to 10 G4 EN 9 Management We aim to strike a balance as we option to the Comprehensive Ltd., as per Assurance Standard progress through our aspirations option. As the comprehensive AA1000AS (2008) Type 1 Customer Product Service and G4 PR 3 to 5 G4 PR 3 to 5 X to enrich the lives of the criteria requires additional GRI Moderate Level. Satisfaction Labelling underprivileged and marginalised. indicators on General standards Stakeholder Communication The spirit of ‘HP FIRST’ at our disclosure and specific standard Report Boundary Engagement – and Relation with G4 24 to 27 G4 24 to 27 X Corporation emboldens the disclosure, we have disclosed Our report boundary continues General Standard Stakeholders confidence and competency of additional information under to be the same as last year Disclosure HPites. Led by innovation and governance, risk management and and includes all fully-owned Ethics and Integrity steered by a sense of responsibility, against identified material issues operations of the Company. Governance (ethics – General Standard G4 56 G4 56 to 58 X we promise a ‘Future Full of Energy’ in respective sections. These include refineries at and transparency) Disclosure and a ‘Life full of cheer’. At HPCL, Mumbai and Visakhapatnam We Deliver Happiness. and the operations of Strategic Supply Chain Procurement Not a material issue EC 9 X Business Units (SBUs) under Management Practices marketing: Retail, LPG, Direct Sales, Aviation, Natural Gas Operational Excellence Non-GRI Not a material issue NA X and Renewables, Pipelines and Operations, Distribution & Reliable Operations Non-GRI Not a material issue NA X Engineering. Economic This report does not include Economic Performance G4 EC 1, 3, 4 G4 EC 1 to 4 X Performance joint ventures, subsidiaries and international operations. Business Growth and Economic G4 EC 1 G4 EC 1 and 2 X Profitability Performance All our sustainability reports are available at http://www. Asset Utilisation Non-GRI Not a material issue NA X hindustanpetroleum.com/ CSRPolicys Focus on Oil and Gas Sector OG 2 and 3 OG 2 and 3 X Renewable Energy Disclosure We welcome suggestions and feedback from stakeholders on corporatehse@mail.hpcl.co.in Common Material Issues in 2015-16 and 2016-17 New Material Issues identified in 2016-17 8 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 9 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive About Us Vision, Mission and Values 10 Organisation Profile 14 Corporate Governance 21 Awards and Recognitions 28 10 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 11 A view of Mumbai Refinery In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Vision, Mission and Values Our Approach We pledge to promote long-term economic value strive to reach higher. We respond to our societal Making Tomorrow through our financial performance, our unremitting milieu as we solicit their opinions through our Better efforts for benefiting society and for not impacting stakeholder engagement. We are cognisant of the any ecological balance. We constantly benchmark global commitment to Sustainable Development Goals Our values lie at the heart of ourselves with global industrial best practices as we and plan to imbibe each goal in our activities. the organisation and mark the genesis of our vision and mission Our strategy is based on the following approach: that steer Corporation’s business and operations. We believe that performance is multi-faceted and Planning steps/ Mobilising Setting goals actions to achieve resources to needs to be assessed quantitatively the goals execute actions and qualitatively, incorporating all the stakeholders and aspects impacted with reference to the current business dynamics. Monitoring Reviewing plans and and measuring processes to deliver performance desired outcomes Petroleum House Corporate Headquarters Vision Values To be a World-Class Energy Company known for caring and delighting the customers with high quality HP ‘FIRST’ A view of Visakh Refinery products and innovative services across domestic and international markets with aggressive growth To continue the growth momentum investment plan and a strategic of sustainable development and delivering superior financial performance. The Company will be a model of excellence in meeting F Free, Frank and Fair and stay ahead of the performance direction to focus on strengthening initiatives have been identified and curve in the changing business the core businesses of Refining and incorporated in the implementation social commitment, environment, health and safety landscape, we have formulated Marketing, strengthen presence plan for ensuring a responsible norms and in employee welfare and relations. a five-year strategic plan up to in the Natural Gas business, growth in the future with excellence I Integrity 2020-21, christened T20. diversification into Petrochemicals in social and environmental Mission and strategic participation in responsibility. The T20 strategy is aimed at Renewables and upstream business. HPCL, along with its joint ventures, will be a fully R Respect for Individuals maximising customer value, and, thereby, achieving exponential To translate the strategy into action integrated company in the hydrocarbons sector of growth and accelerated profit and realise the target aspirations, a exploration and production, refining and marketing; We pledge to promote longthrough the implementation of detailed implementation plan has focusing on enhancement of productivity, quality and term economic value through profitability; caring for customers and employees; S Sustainable Performance strategic initiatives, identified across nine broad areas and having been developed and execution has been developed for achieving the our financial performance, caring for environment protection and cultural heritage. our unremitting efforts for integrity and safety at the heart of business goals with responsibility. benefiting society and for all actions. The strategy has been Corporate responsibility has It will also attain scale dimensions by diversifying not impacting any ecological into other energy related fields and by taking up T Team Spirit formulated with clearly defined physical and financial goals, an been made an integral part of the core strategy, and a number balance. transnational operations. 12 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 13 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Policies Sustainability Policy Corporate Social Health Policy Safety Policy Environment Policy We at HPCL, are committed to Responsibility (CSR) To provide a structured programme As an integral part of its business, The Corporation is committed Our Corporation is achieve the economic, ecological Policy to look after and promote the health HPCL believes that no work or to conduct its operation in such and social responsibility objectives of vital ‘Human Resource’, essential service or activity is so important a manner as compatible with deeply concerned of sustainable development Objectives of CSR policy are: for productivity and effectiveness or urgent that safety be overlooked environment and economic about global consistently through our varied • HPCL will lay its focus on CSR of the corporation. or compromised. Safety of the development of the community. operations and activities. activities specially on local employees and public, protection Its aim is to create an awareness issues such as communities in and around Objectives of this policy are: of their as well as Corporation’s and respect for the environment, climate change, We will strive to contribute to areas of Company’s operations • Assess potential health risks assets shall be paramount. stressing on every employee’s sustained overall economic viz. Refineries, Terminals, Depots, arising from operations likely Corporation considers that safety involvement in environmental sustainability, growth by continually improving LPG Plants, Pipelines, Aviation to affect its employees and is one of the important tools to improvement by ensuring healthy corporate social the efficiency and productivity of Stations, Lube Blending Plants, contractors or the public. Institute enhance productivity and to reduce operating practices, philosophy and our operations. We will execute Project locations and other measures to control and eliminate national losses. The Corporation will training. responsibility and our business activities in such a offices etc. HPCL is committed such risks and monitor health of constantly endeavour to achieve health, safety and way that the ecological balance to allocate at least 60% of the employees. and maintain high standards of Objectives of this policy are: is not impacted. We will develop CSR Budget for these local • Establish and maintain the safety in its operations. • Adopt environment sound environment. We and conduct programmes for the communities. highest possible degree of operating systems, practices and thus have very community, suitably designed • HPCL will implement CSR physical and mental well-being Objectives of this policy are: procedures. towards building their individual activities to empower weaker, of the employees. • Design, create and maintain • Strive to progressively bring comprehensive capabilities. We will: less privileged and marginalised • Provide timely and adequate facilities, provide training, about an improvement in the policies to address sections of the society to create medical facilities for treatment establish procedures/safety rules environmental performance of • Promote sustainable development Social Capital. of employees in case of medical in all the fields and ensure that our facilities by adopting ecoeach of these concepts amongst our employees, emergencies. these are rigidly followed by the friendly techniques/processes concerns at an customers, stakeholders and Health, Safety and • Comply with relevant statutory employees, the contractors and for optimal use of energy and to organisational level. others. Environment Policy Rules & Regulations and devise the visitors inside the premises. reduce hazardous emission and • Integrate the sustainable To have safe, healthy and pollution appropriate standards in other • Carry out operations in a safe wastes. development objectives and free environment in and around cases wherever required. manner protecting people and • Establish procedures and devise considerations in all our business all our refineries, plants, facilities • Establish pre-employment property. suitable method for disposal of plans. and other premises at all times; medical fitness and subsequent • Comply with the relevant toxic, other hazardous waste and • Deploy efficient and clean instill awareness in these areas, periodic medical check-ups to statutory rules and devise scrap. technologies towards realising including relevant laws, in all determine employees’ ability to appropriate standards in other • Create environment awareness minimal impact on environment. employees, their families and carry out their functions without cases wherever required. amongst its employees and • Develop and implement good the communities in which we any risk to themselves and to • Maintain highest standards of develop programmes for practices for optimal usage of carry out our activities. Process others. vigilance and preparedness environment protection. natural resources. Safety Management (PSM) is well • B r i n g awa re n e s s a m o n g to respond to emergencies, • Comply with the relevant • Continuously monitor and control integrated in the corporation’s employees and community about supplemented with mutual aid statutory rules & regulations and our activities to minimise carbon Safety and Environment policies. the harmful effects of substance of neighbouring facilities and devise appropriate standards on footprint. Well established provisions are abuse through counselling and Government agencies. other cases wherever required. • Endeavour to provide a clean, made for preventing/minimising periodic programmes. • Create awareness in employees, • Maintain highest standards of healthy and safe working the consequences of loss of • Ensure availability and use of dealers, contractors, customers vigilance and preparedness environment to our employees, primary containment (catastrophic personal protective equipment and public on Safe Storage, to respond to emergencies neighbours, customers, releases of toxic, flammable, or while handling toxic and other Transportation, and Handling of supplemented with mutual aid consumers and stakeholders. explosive chemicals) involving all hazardous chemicals. products & materials associated of neighbouring facilities and • Sustain appropriate development the stakeholders. Sound operating • P ro g ra m m e rev i ews a n d with our activities. Government agencies. programmes for our employees, systems, practices and procedures evaluation to measure progress • Ensure awareness among • Endeavour to associate with and customers and neighbouring are maintained on a sustained of compliance with the policy. employees, contractors and support R&D on environment communities. manner complying to highest others of their responsibility and by Government agencies and • Incorporate customised standards of preparedness to accountability for safety on and reputed research institutes. m a n a g e m e n t syste m s to tackle emergencies equipped off their work premises. • P ro g ra m m e rev i ews a n d monitor and control progress with multilayered protection • P ro g ra m m e rev i ews a n d evaluation to measure progress of sustainability development barriers. Awareness and refresher evaluation to measure progress of compliance with the policy. objectives. training programme, compliance of compliance with the policy. • Remain committed to disseminate audits are taken up as part of information on our sustainability management review and continual performance. improvement. 14 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 15 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Organisation Profile Infrastructure Development We have undertaken investments 252 new LPG distributorships. Bengaluru Airport. Our Corporation Sustainable Energy for a Strong India for enhancing refining capacity We also commissioned a 356 km is taking steps to create and grow Hindustan Petroleum Corporation oil marketing in India and has continues to be largest lube and build marketing infrastructure. long Mangalore Hassan Mysore our presence in the new business Limited (HPCL) is one of the undertaken a multitude of projects marketer of India for the fourth Environmental clearance for Visakh Yediyur LPG Pipeline and our of Petrochemicals. We have largest public-sector enterprises for technological upgradation at consecutive year. Refinery Modernisation Project Hon’ble Prime Minister dedicated signed a Revised Memorandum under the administrative control refineries. HPCL is fueling the growth (VRMP) for enhancing the refinery the RKPL Pipeline & Kanpur of Understanding (RMOU) with of Government of India with a across various demand sectors such To create innovative and pathcapacity to 15 MMTPA and Mumbai Terminal to the Nation in December the Government of Rajasthan Navratna Status. HPCL is a Fortune as Agriculture, Automotive, Aviation, breaking technologies and Refinery expansion Project (MREP) 2016. Major revamp of facilities for setting up of an Integrated Global 500 Company with a ranking Defence, Fertilisers, Manufacturing, products in the energy sector, for enhancing the refinery capacity was carried out at Jabalpur, Petroleum cum Petrochemical of 384 and Platts Top 250 Global Power, Railways, Shipping, Steel, HPCL has set up a state-of-the-art to 9.5 MMTPA have been received. Loni, Akola, Nalagarh, Manmad, Refinery in Rajasthan. The planned Energy Company with a ranking Telecom, Petrochemicals etc. since Green R&D Centre at Bengaluru Project activities for both the Visakh black oil and Bahadurgarh Capex outlay during the period of 48 with Annual Gross sales of last four decades by supplying which has been developing new projects are on track. locations. In addition, temporary 2017-21 is about `61,000 crore. `2,13,489 crore during 2016-17. a wide range of Energy and technologies and upgrading the product storage facilities were HPCL is engaged in the business of refining & marketing of petroleum Non-Energy solutions. HPCL is also expanding footprints to international existing ones leading to significant cost advantages and efficiency On the Marketing front, expansion of Mundra Delhi (MDPL), Visakh commissioned at Leh Depot. To keep pace and cater to the increase 624 products in India and has a strong markets by supplying lubricants and improvement for the corporation. Vijayawada Secunderabad (VVSPL), in LPG demand, we commissioned New Retail Outlets presence with market share of other petroleum products in Nepal, HPCL is also participating in several R a m a n m a n d i B a h a d u rg a r h a new LPG plant in Bhopal which about 19% in petroleum product Bhutan, Myanmar, Malaysia, Sri Lanka R&D projects with prestigious (RBPL) Pipelines, Extension line has a bottling capacity of 60 252 sales in the country. and Thailand. Over the years, HPCL institutes like TERI, IISc and IITs. from Palanpur to Vadodara with TMTPA during the year 2016-17. In New LPG Distributorships has widened its business portfolio associated terminal facilities, addition, capacity augmentation Commissioned Since the formation in 1974, HPCL and deepened the customer reach in new POL Depots, LPG Plants projects of 60 TMTPA each at the has been catering to the growing energy needs of nation, guided line with the growing energy demand of the nation. During 2016-17, HPCL `2,13,489 crore and Lube Blending plants have been planned. This year, 624 new Ajmer, Patna and Loni LPG plants were also completed. Aviation To keep pace and cater to the Turnover in 2016-17 increase in LPG demand, we by its vision of excellence in social recorded the best ever combined retail outlets were commissioned, Service facilities was augmented commissioned a new LPG plant and environmental responsibility. refinery crude throughput of 17.8 taking the total to 14,412 that by setting up fixed facility at Pune, in Bhopal which has a bottling HPCL has pioneered a number of million metric tonnes along with We retained our position of cater to products such as diesel, Vijayawada, Dehradun and Jaipur. capacity of 60 TMTPA during customer centric initiatives and highest ever market sales of 35.2 being market leaders in Lube petrol, Turbojet, Auto LPG, CNG The supply infrastructure was the year 2016-17. innovative services in downstream million metric tonnes. Corporation marketing. and lubricants. We commissioned augmented to reach product up to HPCL Organisation Profile Pipelines g rketin Retail Mumbai Ma Refineries LPG Direct Sales Visakh Aviation Natural Gas & Renewables Operations, Distribution & Engineering There are no changes in the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain in the reporting period. New LPG Plant at Bhopal 16 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 17 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Sustainable Supply Chain Refinery While value chains are the an integrated procurement Ensuring sustainability at all Our refineries at Mumbai and Visakhapatnam help backbone of any business, they system, which helps us ensure levels throughout the value us meet the ever-increasing demand for petroleum are known to become increasingly cost effectiveness, prompt chain is of central importance and other value-added products. The range of such complex, demanding management delivery, reliability, responsible to us. products include MS, Kerosene, HSD, LPG, Naphtha, of suppliers (primary, secondary sourcing of raw material and ATF, FO, bitumen and numerous grades of lubricants, and sometimes tertiary), product inventory management. Suppliers, specialties and greases. We have identified the quality and processes. Ensuring distributors, dealers and business potential in alternative fuels like unleaded sustainability at all levels transporters have been identified petrol and low sulphur diesel. Our refineries with statethroughout the value chain is as important stakeholders and are of-the-art technology are aligned with international of central importance to us. To involved in stakeholder workshops standards. We emulate our vision to become industrial manage these intricate details in order to make them aware of leaders through our efficient operations and excellent in the supply chain, we have the important sustainability issues. product quality. Our lube refinery at Mumbai is the largest lube refinery in the country which makes us the leader in the segment. Supply Chain Flow Chart With our sustainability focus towards the protection of the environment, we have been a front-runner at implementing initiatives for reduction of emissions. Continuing efforts toward a safe and secure work Finished Product Imports Indigenous Crude Imported Crude environment, we ensure that both our refineries have robust systems and processes in place. LPG Import Facilities Terminal Refineries Rail Road Pipelines Vessel LPG LPG Plants Terminal/Depots Lube Blending Plants LPG Retail Aviation Service Carrying and Lube Distributorships Outlets Facilities Forwarding Agents Distributors Domestic Automotive Aircrafts Industrial Bazaar Customer Customers Lubes Note: indicates starting point 18 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 19 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Lube Refinery at Mumbai Marketing LPG & Consumers (I&C) business lines LPG is an ideal fuel in terms of quality, wherein the former caters to the We offer numerous products and cater to a huge customer base from the cost, efficiency and environment, requirement of lubricants and domestic, automotive, commercial and industrial segments. Our business and, therefore, has a high business greases for power plants, chemical verticals include Aviation, Retail, LPG, Direct Sales, Pipelines, Natural Gas potential. It is supplied under the and fertiliser industry, railway and and Renewables, Operations and Distribution. We are now in the process HP Gas brand. The brand, HP Gas, transport, etc. On the other hand, of further strengthening our network and infrastructure and are planning is preferred over most others and I&C markets bulk fuels, bitumen and our facilities to suffice for the energy needs. has received awards like Super specialties to various industries. As Brand and 100 Most Valuable we maintain our standing as the Brands. We ensure highest safety largest lube marketer in India in this standards throughout the value reporting period, the total lubricant chain. Apart from domestic LPG, HP sales volume was 607 TMT while the Gas also markets LPG cylinders for total I&C sales was 5 MMT with a commercial and industrial purposes growth of 2.6%. We also crossed the Retail Outlet at Visakh and bulk LPG by tanker for industries. 1 million metric tonnes sales mark in fuel oil, diesel and bitumen. HP Gas served more than 61 million 33.53 Retail customers through 4,532 LPG 14,412 Retail SBU is the face of our distributors with sales of 5.63 MMT MMTPA Retail Outlets Corporation as retail sales constitute approximately 67% of the total market during the year. This fiscal, the gain in market share was recorded to be Designed Multi Product 4,532 sales of the Corporation. Through a widespread network of retail 0.06% with current market share of 26.80%. 47 Pipeline Capacity LPG Distributorships outlets, we take care of not only the customer’s fuel needs, but also of the LPG Bottling The brand, HP Gas, is preferred complete vehicle. We have Club HP Plants over most others and has Aviation Service Facility and Club HP Star as outlets offering 1,638 differentiated services. In addition, received awards like Super Brand and 100 Most Valuable 2 SKO/LDO products for cashless transactions, like Co-branded cards, Fleet cards Brands. Aviation LPG Import Dealerships and other loyalty cards have been Our Corporation’s Aviation Business Facilities developed for the convenience of Unit have been providing Aviation customers. Turbine Fuel (ATF) across the country for decades. The product 218 This year, 624 new retail outlets ATF is fully compliant with Indian 22 Auto LPG were commissioned, taking the and International Regulations for Jet Exclusive Lube Dispensing total to 14,412 that cater to products fuel. In the reporting period, we have Depots (COLD/COD) Stations (ALDS) such as diesel, petrol, turbojet, auto added aviation majors like Lufthansa, LPG, CNG and lubricants. We have Aerologic, Brussels Airlines, DHL recently launched ‘poWer 99’ high Group and Aeroflot to our existing octane petrol the only company in customer portfolio. Our 37 Aviation 231 India to offer this product. Our total Service Facilities, which undergo 7 CNG Outlets retail sales volume was 22.78 MMT with a growth of 0.2% over 2015-16. Silvassa Lube Blending Plant continual upgradation to meet norms through feedback and inputs Lube Blending from our robust Quality Control, Plants 22.78 MMT Direct Sales our Global Tech Partner Shell 3.6 37 2016-17 Retail Sales Volume The Direct Sales business segment caters to Defence, Railways, State Aviation, International Publications, IATA Guidance Material, Customers MMTPA Aviation Service Transport and other Government departments, Shipping companies, and other stakeholders. Our market share has increased by 0.34% Lube Oil/Black Facilities Road Construction and all industrial from the previous fiscal. Keeping Oil/ATF Pipelines Capacity 40 42 consumers. We have Direct Sales Regional Offices (DSROs) and pace with technology, in-house innovative improvements were Inland Relay Terminals Depots, Terminals & Marine Bunkering made to existing refueller to develop Depots & TOPs cells for marketing these products. smart refueller, which incorporates This segment is also responsible for several features and benefits the exports of bulk fuels and finished field staff to remotely monitor and petroleum products. It is subcontrol vital parameters of refueller. Carousel at Yediyur LPG Plant divided into Lubes and Industrial 20 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 21 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive huge quantum of products in a cost-effective, energy-efficient, safe Rajasthan and Maharashtra. The 258 kWp solar plant at Ennore Corporate Governance and environment-friendly manner. Terminal is registered for the Aiming high towards Excellence We currently have an infrastructure Renewable Energy certificate. of 3,370 km of pipelines with a HPCL believes in good corporate policies, rules, regulations and laws and external regulations, in mainline capacity of 23.21 MMTPA We are operating a CNG network governance practices, ethics, by which companies are directed, a transparent manner. Being and a branch capacity of 10.32 at Ahmedabad with one mother fairness, professionalism and controlled and administered by a Government Company its MMTPA. We also recorded the station branching out into 21 accountability to enhance the management in meeting the activities are subject to review highest-ever mainline throughput daughter stations. This fiscal, the stakeholder’s value and interest stakeholder’s aspirations and by several external authorities of 17.91 MMT. sale of CNG through CNG stations on sustainable basis and to build societal expectations. like the Comptroller & Auditor in Ahmedabad was 11.73 TMT an environment of trust and General of India (CAG), the Central resulting in a growth of 7.4% over confidence of its stakeholders. At HPCL lays special emphasis on Vigilance Commission (CVC), and 17.91 MMT 2015-16. HPCL, corporate governance is conducting its affairs within the Parliamentary Committees etc. Mainline Throughput to follow a systematic processes, framework of policies, internal Visakh Black Oil Terminal Keeping in view the above philosophy, the Corporate Governance at HPCL Operations, Distribution is based on the following main key principles and practices:& Engineering The Operations, Distribution & Engineering vertical extends support to the Marketing SBU through a countrywide network of terminal and depots for product Proper composition of the movement. We have 42 Terminals Board of Directors, size, varied and 40 Inland Relay Depots thru experience and commitment to which OD&E has achieved thruput discharge their responsibilities of 47.0 MMT. Our Marketing terminal follows the highest safety standards for all operations. We Solar PV Plant at Ennore Terminal have also implemented an array of technologies and rolled out a Enhanced accuracy Well-developed internal number of initiatives to increase and transparency in control, systems operational efficiency and to meet Natural Gas business operations, and processes, risk increasing customer demand. We and Renewables performance and management and have also sustained focus on the India is poised to grow on the lowfinancial position financial reporting Key Principles of implementation of bio-fuels at our carbon path and we aim to leverage locations. this potential opportunity. To align CORPORATE our business with these changing patterns we are strengthening GOVERNANCE our presence in natural gas and renewables. Clearly defined Full adherence and We have made significant management compliance of laws, investments in wind and solar power. performance and rules and regulations We have recently commissioned a accountability wind power project of 50.4 MW, taking the total installed capacity to 100.9 MW. Our wind installations Timely and balanced have generated 9.6 crore kWh of disclosures of all material electricity in 2016-17. The wind information on operational energy projects are installed in and financial matters to the stakeholders Vijayawada Pumping Station We have recently commissioned a wind power project of 50.4 MW, taking Pipelines the total installed capacity to Backed by our vast network of 100.9 MW. pipelines we are able to move a 22 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 23 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Board of Directors Government Directors (Ex-Officio Part-Time) The Board of Directors are capacity. In HPCL, President of and abroad for keeping abreast committed to ensure effective India is the largest shareholder with the latest developments in the formulation of policies, strategies holding 51.11% of the Paid Up Share Hydrocarbon Sector. and goals pertaining to economic, Capital. As required under the SEBI environment and social aspects (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Newly elected Directors are while keeping Corporation’s vision, Requirements) Regulations, 2015, familiarised with different functions/ mission and values at the core. HPCL has framed policies on Material workings of the Corporation Subsidiaries and Policy of Material through detailed presentation During the Financial Year 2016-17, Related Party Transactions and these made to them from time to time. Ms. Urvashi Sadhwani Shri Sandeep Poundrik there were no material transactions polices are hosted on the website They are also sponsored for Senior Advisor, Ministry of Joint Secretary (Refineries), with Directors or their relatives of the Corporation. All the related/ various programme conducted by Petroleum & Natural Gas Ministry of Petroleum & having potential conflict with the material party transactions were Department of Public Enterprises, (DIN: 03487195) Natural Gas (DIN: 01865958) interest of the Company at large. approved in line with the provisions SCOPE etc. regarding their areas Being a Government Company, all contained in the Act/Policies. of concerns. Independent Directors the Directors of HPCL are appointed by the Government of India through All the Directors of the Company Being a Government company and Administrative Ministry i.e. Ministry have rich educational background in accordance with the provision of Petroleum and Natural Gas. and experience in varied field. contained in article 121 of the articles The Functional Directors who are The Corporation gains from their of association of the Company, all appointed on the Boards of unlisted expertise when important matters directors on board of HPCL are Subsidiary/JV Companies do not are placed before the Board for appointed by the Government hold any shares in these companies consideration and approval. The of India through administrative in their individual capacity and Directors participate in important Ministry i.e. Ministry of Petroleum give advices in the professional Seminars/conferences both in India and Natural Gas. Shri Ram Niwas Jain Smt. Asifa Khan Shri G.V. Krishna Dr. Trilok Nath Singh Director Director Director Director The Board of Directors as of 31 March 2017 are: st (DIN: 00671720) (DIN: 07730681) (DIN: 01640784) (DIN: 07767209) Whole Time Directors Shri Mukesh Kumar Surana Chairman and Managing Director (DIN: 07464675) Our Board of Directors presently prescribed under the Companies for their areas of operation. Shri S. Jeyakrishnan Shri Pushp Kumar Joshi comprises of five whole time Act, 2013, Securities and Exchange The decisions pertaining to Director Marketing Director Human Resources directors, two part time ex-officio Board of India (Listing Obligations each SBU is taken as per the (DIN: 07234397) (DIN: 05323634) government directors and four and Disclosure Requirements) provisions contained in the Limits Shri J. Ramaswamy Shri Vinod S. Shenoy independent directors. The tenure Regulations, 2015 and Department of Authority Manual. Decisions Director Finance Director – Refineries (DIN: 06627920) (DIN: 07632981) of whole time directors is for a of Public Enterprises guidelines related to important issues period of five years or up to the on Corporate Governance and requiring approval of Committee date of their superannuation or our internal requirements. These of Functional Directors (CFD)/ until further orders whichever is Committees are Audit Committee, Board are put up for the earlier. The tenure of government S t a ke h o l d e r s R e l a t i o n s h i p consideration of CFD/Board. directors is till the period they Committee, Nomination and continue in the ministry or until Remuneration Committee, CSR In order to further streamline the further orders whichever is earlier. & Sustainability Development process and effectively delegate The tenure of independent is for Committee and Investment responsibilities and authority a period of three years or until Committee. Please refer Annual the Corporation is guided by further orders whichever is earlier. Report of HPCL for 2016-17 which the Limits of Authority Manual The performance evaluation of contains details of these Board (LAM), Purchase Manual, Chart of all the directors is done by the Sub-Committees. Accounts, etc. These guidelines aid Ministry or Department of the the decentralised decision making Central Government which is Decision Making process throughout the organisation administratively in charge of the At HPCL, Senior Management spread out throughout the country Company. Comprises of Members of the at various levels of the organisation. Board, Officers occupying the Apart from Board which is an apex positions of Executive Directors/ body, various sub-committees Chief General Managers/General of the Board are constituted Managers. Each Officer heading keeping in view the requirement as the SBU functions is responsible 24 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 25 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Nomination and Selection Processes and Remuneration Internal Systems and Controls Our Board has constituted the of the Companies Act, 2013. The attended by them. We do not have Our culture of ethics, integrity and transparency is paramount and in Nomination and Remuneration remuneration payable to whole a policy of paying commission on order to safeguard these core values we have established policies and Committee, the Board Subtime directors is approved by the profits to any of the Directors of mechanisms such as Code of Conduct, Vigilance and Integrity Pact Committee to look into various Government and advices received the Company. The remuneration etc. These policies form the foundation of our Internal Systems and aspects including Remuneration through the Administrative Ministry, payable to officers below Board Controls. Strategic decision making at our Corporation is supported by as well as Compensation and viz., Ministry of Petroleum & Natural level is also approved by the our commitment to ethical business practices and our zeal to align our Benefits for the employees. The Gas. The non-official part–time Government of India. (Please refer activities to international standards. terms of reference of Nomination Directors are paid sitting fees to the Company’s Annual Report and Remuneration Committee is for Board Meetings and Sub2016-17 for details on remuneration). as prescribed under Section 178 Committee Meetings of the Board Code of Conduct work against corruption in all forms (http://www.hindustanpetroleum. The Code of Conduct is originated including demand and acceptance com/documents/pdf/Whistle_ from the provisions contained of illegal gratification and abuse Blower_policy.pdf) CSR and Sustainable Development Committee under the SEBI (Listing Obligations of official position for obtaining and Disclosure Requirements) pecuniary advantage for self or We coordinate with the Central We have a keen interest to have a positive footprint in terms of Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Regulations, 2015. The Code any other person. It maintains Bureau of Investigation (CBI), at large and our Board of Directors has constituted a sub-committee on CSR and Sustainable Development. This of Conduct is applicable for all strict vigilance against bribery and Central Vigilance Commission Committee spearheads the CSR and sustainability initiatives. An Independent Director heads the committee. Members of the Board of Directors corruption cases through regular and (CVC), Chief Technical Examiner and Senior Management of the surprise inspections, surveillance of (CTE) and the Vigilance Wing of The composition of the CSR and Sustainable Development Committee as on 31st March 2017 is as follows: Listed Entities. It also includes procurement and contract files and MoP&NG. We have an automated duties of Independent Directors. scrutiny of employee property returns. system to register complaints and an online disciplinary management Name of Director Designation Type of Director Apart from Code of Conduct, We have adopted a Whistle Blower system to eliminate unethical Corporation has adopted and Policy which fosters a culture where practices at any level in the Shri Ram Niwas Jain Chairman Independent Director amended from time to time, Rules it is safe for employees – officers organisation. called ‘Hindustan Petroleum – and workmen to raise concerns Shri G.V. Krishna Member Independent Director Management Employees’ Conduct, about instances if any, where such Additionally, our legal department Discipline and Appeal Rules, 1976’ rules, regulations and policy are personnel located in offices spread and this rule is applicable to all the not being followed in furtherance throughout the country can be Shri Pushp Kumar Joshi Member Whole Time Director Management Employees of the of business. Genuine whistle contacted via all usual means Corporation. blowers are accorded protection (e-mail, call, face-to-face, etc.). Shri S. Jeyakrishnan Member Whole Time Director from any kind of unfair treatment Our employees can contact the Vigilance or victimisation. However, any legal department for any questions We understand that accountability abuse of this protection warrants or concerns relating to ethics or Shri Vinod S. Shenoy Member Whole Time Director for our activities and business a disciplinary action. Details compliance. No special channels practices is consequential and have of the Whistle Blower Policy have been set up for anonymous a vigilance mechanism that supports can be found on our website. contacts. good corporate governance. Our concept of ‘Vigilance for Corporate Growth’ focuses on ‘preventive and proactive vigilance’. The Vigilance Department contributes positively by engaging all stakeholders and employees through regular interactions, meetings with functional authorities and stakeholders, promoting transparency, fairness, equity and leveraging technology in all areas of functioning of the Corporation. It endeavours to We encourage a responsible and ethical work environment and expect strict adherence to the rules and regulations in the Corporation. Mumbai Marathon with Children with Special Needs Vigilance Excellence Award for Outstanding Contribution to Investigations 26 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 27 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Transparency and Accountability Risk Management Integrity Pact The Corporation has introduced how to reach Company’s officials, what to expect in term of services 96.27% ‘Integrity Pact’ (IP) to enhance and how to seek a remedy in Complaints Resolved as on ethics/transparency in the process case of a problem. This charter is 31st March 2017 of awarding contracts. An MoU has applicable to all our business units been signed with ‘Transparency and products. Details of offices are being attended. The system can be International’ on 13th July 2007. given in the charter to reach out in accessed through: http://pgportal. This was made applicable in the case of any complaints or to give gov.in. Corporation effective 1st September a feedback. 2007 for contracts above ` 1 crore. We have developed a ‘Grievance The Integrity Pact has now become We have established a Public Redressal Cell (GRC)’ to deal with a part of tender documents to be Grievance Redressal system grievances from the parties who signed by the Company and by the wherein designated officers of the participated or intend to participate vendor(s)/bidder(s). Corporation will be available on in the procurement tenders. There specified time at all major locations are various committees as per Investors’ and Analysts’ Meet Right to Information Act to hear and facilitate Redressal of different SBUs. The grievance We respect the Right of the people Grievances of the Public, if any. redressal process has two levels to An effective risk management review of documents etc. The level Our Corporation has adopted to have access to information The public can contact the Public address the issues. The complainant system facilitates good corporate of risk is evaluated on the basis a well-defined process in accordance to the Right to Grievance Redressal Officers at has the right to appeal at level 2 in governance and also helps of likelihood of occurrence and for managing its risks on Information Act 2005. We have the Regional offices. The details to case resolution given in level 1 is the management in achieving magnitude of impact. Identified an ongoing basis and for a robust mechanism to comply locate and contact or correspond not agreeable. There are specified performance and profitability risks are segregated under critical, conducting the business in with the requirements of the with the Grievance Redressal timelines for addressing the targets. With the current dynamic cautionary and acceptable risks a risk conscious manner RTI Act. Citizens can request for Officer are mentioned on our complaints at all the levels. business environment, it becomes depending on its level. in-line with our objectives and information from the Corporation corporate website. all the more important to have a risk regulatory requirements. through the Government of India management framework in place. There are broad classes of risk ‘RTI online portal’ or by sending Additionally, we are in line with We have established a Public such as Operations, Strategic, in applications to a widespread the Centralised Public Grievances Grievance Redressal system Our Corporation has adopted a wellIn identifying and managing the Information Technology, Marketing, network of operating locations and Redress & Monitoring System wherein designated officers defined process for managing its risks prevalent risks, we are also able to Brand and Environment to name offices. These requests are handled (CPGRAMS). CPGRAMS is a web of the Corporation will be on an ongoing basis and for conducting identify opportunities which helps a few. The key risks identified by Public Information Officers and based portal of the Department available on specified time the business in a risk conscious us in the long-term. are project implementation Appellate Authorities. The details of Administrative Reforms & Public at all major locations to hear manner in-line with our objectives and process, disaster management of the locations can be accessed Grievance (DARPG). It has been and facilitate Redressal of regulatory requirements. There is a well-defined preparedness, market through the information manual designed and implemented in all Grievances of the Public, organisational structure for risk effectiveness, fluctuating crude given on our Corporation’s website: the Ministries/Departments of if any. The steps to comprehensive risk management which mentions oil prices and competitive markets. www.hindustanpetroleum.com. Government of India. Grievances management framework is as below the various roles such as Risk Based on the nature of the risk, raised by public are forwarded to Champion, Risk Owner, Risk specific treatment plans are Public Grievances Further, we have highly effective Coordinator, SBU Council, Working devised. Redressal Mechanism Complaint Management Systems Identifying Committee and Risk Management We have a Citizen/Client We have always believed in (CMS) for registering any Steering Committee (RMSC) etc. The status of risk assessment and Charter that specifies the creating value and giving bestcomplaints from our customers. We and responsibilities of each of the minimisation procedures for risk standards of service delivery in-class products and services to also have toll free helpline numbers role holders. These self-regulatory groups is periodically reviewed by that our Corporation commits our customers. We have a Citizen/ for registering complaints from processes and procedures are the RMSC. The Board Members and the avenues for complaint Client Charter that specifies the customers and are committed to contained in the Risk Management are informed about the risks resolution and other related Assessing standards of service delivery that resolve all the complaints within a Charter and Policy. and mitigation procedures. The information. our Corporation commits and the stipulated time. corporation has engaged the avenues for complaint resolution Risks are identified in a number services of an independent expert and other related information. The nodal officer at our Corporation. The of ways namely structured for assistance. main objective of Citizen/Client received grievances are addressed by workshops, brainstorming sessions, Charter is to improve the quality concerned department or SBU in a Monitoring of public services. This describes time bound manner. In the reporting period, we have received 3,489 public Identified risks are segregated We have a robust mechanism grievances of which 3,359 complaints under critical, cautionary and to comply with the have been resolved as on 31st March acceptable risks depending requirements of the RTI Act. 2017 i.e. 96.27% while others are Reporting the Issues on its level. or Concerns 28 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 29 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Awards and Recognitions Sustainability and Safety Excellence Business Excellence • HPCL received the PetroFed Oil & Gas Industry Awards for Oil & Gas Marketing Company of Year 2015. • HPCL has bagged 37 Awards in the Official Language Implementation, including the Petroleum and Natural Gas official language shield for the past three consecutive years. • Visakh Refinery bestowed with Oil & Gas Conservation Fortnight Award for the year 2015, in the category, ‘Best Performance in steam leaks Official Language Award over previous year’ from MoP&NG. • HPCL received Best Innovation in R&D 2014-15 for HP-HiGAS Technology for Process Intensification of Distillation/Absorption Process from SCOPE Meritorious Award Oil Industry Safety Award MoP&NG. • Innovator of the year – Team 2015 by PetroFed Oil & Gas Industry • HPCL received the SCOPE Meritorious • Meritorious Performance in Industrial Safety Awards for innovation in indigenous development and utilisation of Award 2014-15 under the ‘‘Environmental Award to Loni Terminal by National Safety Council, catalyst and catalytic visbreaking process. Excellence and Sustainable Development’’ and Maharashtra Chapter. PetroFed Award ‘Best Women Empowered Company’ categories. • HPCL awarded with Forecourt Retailer of the Year Award for the ninth • Golden Peacock Occupational Health & Safety time at Star Retailer Awards 2016. • Conferred with Platts Global Energy Award 2016 Award 2016, under Oil Production Category to for Corporate Social Responsibility by S&P Global MPSPL. • Received Trusted Brand Award from Readers Digest for the 11th Platts. • MDPL Group of Pipelines (MDPL, RBPL, RBhPL, consecutive year. • National Energy Conservation Award (Second ASPL) conferred with the prestigious OISD Award • HPCL received Retailer of the Year (Forecourt Retailing) Award by Prize) to HPCL Mumbai Refinery by Ministry of for the Best Overall Performance in Safety for Chief Marketing Officer Council (CMO) Asia. Power, Government of India. the Year 2014-15 in the Cross-Country Pipelines • HPCL awarded with OISD Safety Award for Best product category. • India’s Most Trusted Brand Award 2016 to HP Lubricants for HP Neo Asia Pacific Procurement Leaders Award Synth 5W 30 in India’s Most Trusted Automotive Synthetic Engine Oil Near Miss Incident Reporting POL Marketing • HPCL won the ‘Certificate of Merit – Challengers Organisation. Category’ under Sustainability 4.0 Awards 2017 Category. • Greentech HR Gold Award to HPCL Visakh MENASA Edition instituted by Frost & Sullivan • Golden Peacock Innovative Product Service Award 2016 to HP Lubricants Refinery by Greentech Foundation for excellence and The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). for the second consecutive year. in employee engagement. • Madurai LPG Plant awarded Greentech Environment Award in Gold Category. • HP Aviation was awarded Best Fuel Supplier in Asia region by United • SVAGRIHA Star ratings to RKPL for control room Aviation Services. buildings at Kanpur (4 Star Rating) and Mathura • Golden Peacock Award for Sustainability to & Bharatpur (3 Star Rating) from GRIHA Council Mumbai Refinery for the year 2016. • CMO Asia – Oil & Gas Excellence Awards to the Rewari Kanpur Pipeline PetroFed Award Project in the category of Best Project and Facilities & Construction. and TERI. • Madurai LPG Plant awarded Greentech Environment • Visakh LPG Terminal awarded Greenco Platinum Award in Gold Category. • Asia Pacific Procurement Leaders Award 2016 to the Central Procurement Rating by the Confederation of Indian Industry Organisation (CPO), HPCL at Annual Asia Pacific Procurement Forum, Godrej Green Business Centre. Singapore. • OD&E SBU has bagged the prestigious FICCI Award for ‘Process Innovator of the year’ in petroleum and petrochemical category. • HPCL received the Express Intelligent PSU Award 2016 in Analytics/ Express Intelligent PSU Award Big Data category. • HPCL has been declared as the Silver Award Winner at the 2016 Stevie Awards for Great Employers under the ‘HR Achievement Category’ for Project SHRESTHA (Techno-Behavioural Managerial Development programme for LPG Plant Managers) and Project GYANJYOTI (Workmen IT literacy program). Under the category ‘Achievement in Workplace Safety & Compliance’ category, we were declared Silver Award winner for the initiatives towards building safety culture: Project SANKALP of National Energy Conservation Award Sustainability 4.0 Award FICCI Award OD&E SBU and Project SACHET of LPG SBU. 30 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 31 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Stakeholder Meeting at Visakh Refinery Stakeholder Meeting at Central Procurement Organisation Engaging with our Stakeholders Strategy 33 Materiality Assessment 40 Stakeholder Meeting at GMO-South Central Zone Stakeholder Meeting Official Language at GMO-North Zone Awards Stakeholder Meeting at GMO-North West Zone 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 31 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Stakeholder Meeting at GMO-East Zone Stakeholder Meeting at Bengaluru Terminal Engaging with our Stakeholders Strategy We identify key internal and external stakeholders who are directly or indirectly affected by our business activities. We assess the kind of impact that these stakeholders might have, as well as the extent to which our business decisions affect them and prioritise them accordingly. Stakeholder Stakeholder Stakeholder Managing Stakeholder Identification Prioritisation Engagement Expectations Stakeholder Identification Our corporation has a pan-India presence and a variety of stakeholders are associated with us. Given the scale of our business operations, a number of stakeholder groups pose significant influence to our business. The internal and external stakeholder groups having considerable influence on our business are: Stakeholder Meeting at Mumbai Refinery Internal and External Stakeholder Groups Stakeholders are the individuals Sustainability department and other responses from the identified or groups or organisations that line management representing stakeholder groups through various are impacted by or may influence different SBUs engage with channels, including workshops and Internal External the business significantly and stakeholders regularly through a one-on-one discussions. We analyse Stakeholders Stakeholders are the ones whom the business structured engagement mechanism. concerns that have a potential high is accountable to. Stakeholder We find this exercise to be a impact and which helps us work engagement gives an insight into good method for identifying towards our sustainability priorities. Employees Customers Contract Workmen the material issues to a business. opportunities for value creation. Our approach invigorates a learning Management Dealers and Distributors Competitors It is of vital importance to us that It opens avenues for productive environment whereby we provide Non-Management Suppliers/Contractors Investors we engage in a dialogue with them dialogue between stakeholders and information on sustainability and Transporters Local Community regularly to foster a collaborative us for understanding perspectives, latest developments, while we stay Forecourt staff at retail outlet Regulatory Departments environment, understand mutual communicating challenges, and abreast with the current scenario in LPG delivery person/staff Shareholders interests and address concerns for in the process, builds trust for the industry. better decision-making. stronger partnerships. We garner This year we took a stride ahead demographic spread of the versa. The target sample size for the in making the stakeholder stakeholders across India was also survey considering all categories engagement process more precise taken into consideration while was 2,000. We have achieved 100% by arriving at a statistical sample arriving at the sample sizes. The of the required sample size during size that attempts to give a nearregions of country which had the our survey with a total of 2,016 exact picture of material issues presence of more number of our respondents. through an accurate representation stakeholders had proportionately of all the stakeholders. The larger representations and vice Stakeholder Meeting with CSR Beneficiaries 32 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 33 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Dealers/ Suppliers/ Delivery Men/ Managing Stakeholder Expectation Employees Total Distributors Transporters Community Understanding the attitudes and beliefs of our objectives and activities for us. Based on the responses Achieved Sample Size 1,101 337 293 285 2,016 stakeholders, responding to their needs and ensuring received through the engagement, the findings are Target Confidence Level 95% 90% 90% NA** — their buy-in to the business decisions are the key being described below: Achieved Confidence Level* 99.96% 93.56% 91.28% NA** — Engagement Framework with various stakeholders is presented below: * Confidence level is the expected accuracy of the responses basis the statistical calculations of the subject survey. ** The total population of Delivery men and Community members being variable, the corresponding confidence level for this category has not been stated; however their opinions and perspectives are included in the survey. Frequency and Modes of Concern Areas Our Actions Engagement Stakeholder Prioritisation Management and Non-Management Employees Every stakeholder group has different perspective on the issues factored into the survey design and Career Progression, Annual performance reviews We ensure regular performance review of all our employees a unique association with our concerning the corporation’s analysis methodology by assigning opportunities for and appraisal (half yearly reviews) and appropriate feedback is being given corporation. Also the type of sustainability and the level of appropriate weightages for each higher education through online performance review and appraisal systems. Education growth plan transactions that our corporation appreciation of a particular issue stakeholder group against each In case the employee is not satisfied with the review, he/she has with every stakeholder group varies between stakeholder material issue. can raise the grievance in MERC (Management Employee varies. Every stakeholder has a groups. These aspects need to be Relations Committee) for their concerns. We also have an education growth plan for our employees Stakeholder Engagement for supporting their higher education. The stakeholder engagement for each stakeholder category, the corporate headquarters, Need-based Trainings Regular in-house technical and We have been continuously making provisions for and followed the systematic plan for keeping in mind individual concerns CSR beneficiaries, R&D centre, behavioural trainings emphasising on technical and behavioural trainings for stakeholder identification and and expectations. During the zonal offices, regional offices, all our employees. These initiatives and programmes have Nomination to external trainings, prioritisation. Advance intimations engagement session, all stakeholders refineries, marketing locations helped them to grow in the organisation. conferences and seminars were sent to targeted Zonal/ were briefed about sustainability and management development Certified Petroleum Manager Programme, MBA (Oil & Gas), Regional offices/Locations of all and how our Corporation is institute. We interacted with 2,016 e-learning platform, nomination of employees to conferences, SBUs for inviting different categories working towards it. After sensitising stakeholders and solicited their seminars of international repute etc., are few of the initiatives of stakeholders for achieving the stakeholders towards these issues, perceptions and feedback. We also taken towards competency development. desired sample size as per the feedback was taken through sensitised them on sustainability survey design. As our stakeholders customised questionnaire. and on our Corporation’s initiatives Rewards and Annual/Bi-annual recognitions We have a provision of Performance Related Pay (PRP) for belonged to diverse categories towards sustainable development. Recognition schemes management employees and productivity incentive scheme and geographical backgrounds, This fiscal, stakeholder engagements The information thus obtained from for non-management employees to motivate them to higher customised presentations and were carried out at 36 locations these engagement sessions was levels of performance. questionnaires were designed spread across the country, covering collated and analysed. We have various recognition schemes for our employees such as HP Icon, Outstanding Achievers Awards and HP Gaurav Award etc. Methodology of Stakeholder Response Analysis: Focus on Health and Quarterly safety committee Regular safety trainings, health check-ups and awareness Safety meetings sessions are organised to ensure the best health and safety Collection of response from each stakeholder at targeted locations against all material issues practices. Under the Periodical Medical Examination scheme, all Arriving at location wise average score of each stakeholder group against each material issue employees undergo a thorough medical check-up. The periodicity being determined by the age profile and nature Arriving at corporate level scores for each material issue against each stakeholder category of work. Project Sankalp, Shapath, Shrestha and Sachet are few of our safety training programmes. Factoring of weightage in the corporate level scores for all stakeholder groups We are taking steps for ensuring compliance to the MB Lal committee recommendations at our locations. Further, we The importance to business is determined basis the feedback from internal stakeholders and emphasise on behavioural-based safety-training programmes. plotted as abcissa and the importance to external stakeholders is plotted as the ordinate Work-life Balance Regular interactions We have taken concerted efforts to maintain a motivating work environment with activities such as picnics, quiz Employee-connect forums The material issues scoring more than 50% weightage on both the axes collectively are the ones competitions, festival celebrations and women’s day which are of high importance to both the business as well as external stakeholders. These are celebrations, among others. We have recently launched selected as the material issues and relevant information has been disclosed in the report Paramarsh, which provides counselling and support to employees and their family members. This comprehensive exercise brought our attention to certain key issues, which are discussed in the next section. 34 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 35 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Frequency and Modes of Frequency and Modes of Concern Areas Our Actions Concern Areas Our Actions Engagement Engagement Grievance Redressal  egular interactions R We have a robust mechanism to handle and resolve Payment Process Online platforms We have an integrated disbursement module through which grievances. Online grievance redressal mechanisms, such bills can be submitted and tracked up to disbursement by e  -platforms Awareness regarding Need-based communications as ICS E-Care, HR Direct, etc., for better management of the vendors. new bill tracking Vendor trainings the concerns are available for our employees. system We are continuously automating and improving existing LPG Distributors processes to reduce cycle time and enhance transparency. Product Quality and R  egular distributor meets We strictly monitor quality parameters during various stages We have conducted a series of workshops in various working Product Delivery in the entire value chain. locations for familiarisation with the new system R  egular visits and inspections Complaints Redressal Online platforms We also have a robust grievance mechanism for suppliers We are developing innovative solutions and leveraging Mechanism and contractors. Grievances can be reported to unit heads technology such as a Vehicle Tracking System, OLA, online One-to-one meets at operating locations on specified day and time every week. inventory monitoring, online LPG connection, etc., for Health and Safety Training programmes The suppliers and contractors are regularly engaged in ensuring timely product delivery. on safety training programme and fire drills organised by the working Periodic inspections are carried out by operating personnel. locations. Regular health check-ups Safety T  raining programmes The distributors are regularly trained on the safe handling Regular health check-ups are organised with the support Regular meetings on safety of the products. of renowned hospitals. R  egular inspections and safety Regular safety audits and inspections are conducted at retail To emphasise on safe-driving practices, safety parameters, audits outlets and LPG. trainings and awareness campaigns are conducted for our Business Challenges O  ne-to-one meetings We have a continued focus on behavioural and business transporters and their crews on a regular basis. and Competitors skill-related training of distributors through capacity building We conduct regular health check-up programmes for the N  eed-based trainings programmes. transporters’ crew. We also conduct sessions on spirituality and health for them. Our online DCMS portal ensures transparency in business transaction. It has the capability of monitoring indents, On-time Payments Email communications An online system has been made available for payments and loan status where transporters can log in and check supplies and account receivables, which lead to real-time One-to-one meetings the payment status, taxes and the amount of TDS that has tracking of transactions. Online platforms been deducted. We offer premium, branded and niche products for unique Higher Running and Trainings We organise regular training programme on defensive driving positioning in the market. We also provide customised Maintenance Costs habits and fuel conservation techniques. Tank truck health check-up offerings based on customer requirements. Our operating locations coordinate with leading OEMs for Business downsize N  eed-based meetings We have studied the penetration of Natural gas in the urban organising camps for the tank truck fleet. due to penetration of markets. The level and pace of penetration are localised only Top performing drivers are awarded and recognised. piped natural gas to few metro cities. As of now, cylinders remain the feasible Improved RTKM Regular meets and discussions We have adopted improved “Online Logistics Assistant source of clean fuel to majority of the consumers. Transportation Rates OLA” matching the local requirements. Competition from O  ne-to-one meeting Case to Case feasible solutions are discussed and One-to-one meeting Attrition in manpower Peers implemented. due to low profit Credit to Customers R  egular Dealer meets Working with the banks in getting adequate financial support margin in extending working capital management. Training Need Regular interactions We have dedicated SOPs for delivery men, both in LPG and Retail Dealers Retail, on safe use and handling of products. Training sessions on safety Improvement in R  egular meetings with vendors We have developed a portal to lodge, review and resolve the Regular training sessions are organised for the delivery men. Vendor Services and dealers complaints in specified time period. Punitive action taken Delivery Men against erring vendors. Customer Retention Regular training sessions For the retail staff, a training module, Sada Aap Ke Liye, A robust monitoring mechanism is in place for compliance. focuses on upgrading their skills and knowledge and helps Upgradation of outlet O  ne-to-one discussions We have procured dispensing units in large numbers, with them understand the importance of customer satisfaction. and dispensing units latest configuration during the year and the same have been R  egular Dealer meets Programmes, like, Ji Haan Samarth and Samvad, aim to provided to dealers. enhance the knowledge and attitude of delivery staff for Suppliers and Contractors creating differentiated customer experiences. Increased R  egular supplier meets at To ensure transparency and trust in the bidding process, we Contract Workers Transparency operating level have an online tendering process. Health and Safety Annual health check-ups We ensure health check-up of contractual employees and Time Delay in O  ne-to-one meetings We hold panel meetings with select representatives. hold regular sessions on healthy living. Tendering Process Regular wellness sessions P  anel meetings We promote good health and safety practices to enhance Regular trainings P  re-bid meetings the well-being and productivity of our workforce. 36 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 37 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Frequency and Modes of Frequency and Modes of Concern Areas Our Actions Concern Areas Our Actions Engagement Engagement Training Need Regular training We conduct regular trainings on operational safety and Customers emergency preparedness. Product Quality and Periodic customer satisfaction We have systems and processes in place for adherence to Regular Payment Regular interaction We ensure minimum wages are being paid to contractor’s Service Standards surveys and customer meets applicable specification and standards to ensure highestemployees. Need-based communication quality products from the refining stage to distribution. We have awareness programmes on Provident Fund and We are continuously innovating and offering products, which ESI-related matters, which has helped the contractors to have a reduced impact on the environment. better understand their wages in a more detailed manner. Annual customer satisfaction surveys are being conducted We have ensured that all contract workmen are covered for garnering customers’ feedback. under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) and Resolving Complaints One-to-one meetings Customer connect is established through multi-language Pradhan Mantri Bima Suraksha Yojana (PMBSY). online applications. Need-based communication Regulatory Departments We have effective complaint management systems in place Online complaint management Compliance R  egular interactions with We strictly ensure timely compliance to all applicable to address the grievances of our customers on a timely basis. system Government departments and statutory regulations and local laws. We are also aligned with the Centralised Public Grievances statutory bodies We also ensure we have regular interactions with various Redress & Monitoring System (CPGRAMS). Government departments and statutory bodies on Awareness on Safety Periodic campaigns on safety Awareness sessions on safety are conducted to enhance compliance-related matters. and Environment and resource conservation customer awareness on the safe usage of our products. Safety Community R  egular interaction with the We invest in the implementation of CSR initiatives in the Aspects clinics are organised for LPG consumers for awareness on Development community through our CSR key areas of child care, education, healthcare, environment, safe handling of LPG. initiatives community development, sports, skill development, etc. Programmes for conservation of oil are conducted at various Disaster Management T  raining on safety issues; We inform and involve members from nearby communities locations and retail outlets for spreading awareness amongst mock drill for emergency and neighbouring industries in onsite and offsite mock drills the masses. preparedness to enhance their level of preparedness and imbibe a sense M  utual-aid meetings of confidence. M  eetings with local authorities Community More support and R  egular meetings with We are in constant touch with the identified communities regular meetings in communities to improve the facilities provided. healthcare Meeting deadlines of M  eetings with NGOs and We constantly engage with NGOs and implementing agencies projects implementing agencies explaining the process and perspectives of each project. Regular follow-up is maintained for timely completion of identified projects. Shareholders Financial Annual Report We update our shareholders and investors on the current Performance business environment and the Corporation strategy to meet Periodic press releases new challenges and our way forward. Annual General Meeting Analyst meet Good Corporate Regular meetings We have a Stakeholders Relationship Committee which looks Ethics and at the grievances of our shareholders, debenture holders Online platform Compliance and other securities holders. In order to better understand the concerns of our shareholders, we provide an online feedback form, which is made available to all our shareholders. Stakeholder Meeting at GMO-North Central Zone 38 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 39 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Materiality Assessment 13 Customer Satisfaction 20 Creating an energised workforce 27 Emissions to air (SOx,NOx, VOC etc.) 34 Waste Management (Tailing Waste, other hazardous waste) Material aspects are issues that have through stakeholder engagements, Reports. Our Management assessed 14 21 28 Security of data and 35 Inclusive Development Economic Performance Emergency Preparedness significant economic, environmental which are based on a structured these issues based on their specific information systems and social impacts on a business approach as per the GRI guidelines. relevance to the Corporation. The Awareness regarding Grievance or are relevant for and influence A broad list of material issues was final list was then ranked by the 15 22 Labour-Management Relations 29 Process Safety 36 Community Development Redressal Mechanism the decisions of its stakeholders made through the study of the identified stakeholder groups. Carbon Footprint/GHG substantially. The aspects material sector guidelines by the GRI and 16 Emissions 23 Community Impact Assessment 30 Fires & Explosion 37 Employment Practices to Corporation are identified reviewing our peers’ Sustainability Talent Attraction and 17 Energy Efficiency 24 Leakages 31 38 Public Policy & Advocacy Retention Identification Assessment Prioritisation Top Material Issues Strategies to address risk & Regulatory Issues & 18 Local Employment/Sourcing 25 32 Material topics pertaining to Material topics assessed Shortlisted materials opportunities from Climate Change Compliance the oil and gas sector, peer and shortlisted based on evaluated and prioritised by Availability of skilled Raw Material Security analysis, trend analysis and their significance on our stakeholders to arrive at the 19 26 33 Security & Asset Protection manpower (Availability) internal risk assessment operations and impact on top material issues key stakeholders • T he Importance to business is • The material issues scoring more than 50% material issues and information pertaining Materiality Matrix determined basis the feedback from weightage on both the axes collectively to each material issue has been disclosed internal stakeholders and plotted as are the ones which are of high importance in the respective section of the report. Based on the perceived importance of a particular issue by various internal and external stakeholders the materiality abscissa and the importance to external to both the business as well as external Material issues of similar nature are matrix is depicted below: stakeholders is plotted as the ordinate. stakeholders. These are selected as the clubbed under one head. 2 1 Key Performance GRI Category Material Issue GRI Aspects Boundary Indicators as per GRI Economic Asset Utilisation Non-GRI Inside NA Business Growth and Economic Inside G4 EC 1 and 2 5 3 Profitability Performance HIGH Economic Performance Economic Inside G4 EC 1-4 7 6 Performance 4 Importance to Stakeholders Operational Excellence Non-GRI Inside NA 9 Non-GRI Inside NA 13 Reliable Operations 11 8 21 14 Supply Chain Procurement Practices Outside G4 EC 9 15 10 Management 19 17 16 12 Environmental Carbon Footprint/GHG Emissions Inside and Outside G4 EN 15-21 18 Emissions Efficient Water Water Inside G4 EN 8-10 20 Management 22 Energy Efficiency Energy Inside G4 EN 3-7 28 24 30 LOW 26 Focus on Renewable Oil and Gas Sector Inside OG 2 and 3 25 23 Energy Disclosure 33 27 Social Communication Stakeholder Inside and Outside G4 2427 35 31 29 36 and Relation with Engagement – 37 34 32 Stakeholders General Standard 38 Disclosure Customer Satisfaction Product Service and Outside G4 PR 35 LOW HIGH Labelling Impact to Business Governance (ethics and Ethics and Integrity Inside G4 56-58 transparency) – General Standard Communication & Relation Business Growth & 1 with Stakeholders 4 Profitability 7 Transparency & Ethics 10 Asset Utilisation Disclosure Health and Safety Occupational Health Inside LA 5-8 2 Health & Safety 5 Reliable Operations 8 Efficient Water Management 11 Operational Excellence and Safety Training and Development Training and Inside G4 LA 9-11 Training & development (Skill 3 Focus on Renewable Energy 6 Grievance Mechanism 9 12 Supply Chain Management Education Upgradation) (skill upgradation) 40 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 41 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Generating Revenues Responsibly Financial Performance 44 Physical Performance 46 Strategic Planning 52 Initiatives White Oil Terminal at Visakh Lube Blending Plant at Silvassa 42 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 43 Millenium Plus Retail Outlet at Visakh In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive SUMO Cylinder Installation at Industrial Customer’s Premises Generating Revenues Responsibly Economic Performance Economic Value Generated (in ` crore) Economic Value Distributed (in ` crore) 2,15,317.7 7,089.7 7,906.8 2,946.0 5,584.2 1,98,887.9 2,08,332.3 4,721.3 2,321.32 2,414.6 2,406.13 1,705.1 6,208.8 3,726.1 65,674.3 52,234.73 40,752.4 2,733.2 Inauguration of Millenium Plus Retail Outlet at Visakhapatnam 108.1 71.7 34 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Being an oil major with pan-India presence, our products form the Operating Costs Employee Benefits Expense building blocks of the Indian economy. We boost our performance Total Revenue Profit After Tax through technology advancement, innovation and operational Payment to Providers of Capital excellence while adopting a customer-centric approach. We Contribution to Exchequer Community Investment understand that sustainability is inseparable from creating economic Shareholding Pattern value while maintaining a balance within the triple bottom line As on 31st March 2017, the shareholding pattern was that can bring shared value, prosperity and happiness for all as follows: stakeholders. 22.04 Financial Performance % Delivering Economic Returns 0.06 51.11 We have progressed by leaps and bounds during 2016-17, achieving 67% amounted to `108.11 crore. We have robust systems and processes `6,209 crore 0.34 Net Profit 6.25 Share growth with a net profit of `6,209 in place to monitor our financial crore. The Earning per Share went up performance and assess the from `36.68 to `61.12 per share, the growth and profitability of our gross sales were of `2,13,489 crore Corporation. Our debt and equity `61.12 0.09 16.88 while the market capitalisation in ratio for the current year has Earnings Per Share 2016-17 doubled from the previous been 0.51:1. During the current fiscal period (2015-16). We have financial year 2016-17, subsidy contributed `65,674.37 crore to the Government in the form of taxes on PDS kerosene and domestic subsidised LPG from Central and `108.11 crore 3.24 and duties. In order to reach out State government amounting to Spending on Social Initiatives to the communities, our annual `20.01 crore (2015-16: `11.77 crore) The President of India Financial Institutions FII/OCBs Banks spending on social initiatives has been accounted. Mutual Funds NRIs Employees (Physical) Others 44 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 45 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Physical Performance Highlights We have gone from strength to • Upgradation and augmentation • The Corporation has signed Refinery Performance a Revised Memorandum of strength and have developed of existing facilities under the infrastructure to meet our future Visakh Refinery Modernisation Understanding (RMOU) with needs. Some of our key initiatives Project (VRMP) and Mumbai the Government of Rajasthan and achievements from this fiscal Refinery Expansion Project for an Integrated Petroleum cum are: (MREP), to increase the capacity Petrochemical. to 15 MMTPA and 9.5 MMTPA, • Mumbai Refinery enhanced • Both the refineries at Mumbai respectively. These projects purchase of power through Open and Visakh registered MoU include bottoms upgradation Access (OA) in 2016-17. They ‘Excellent’ rating this year. while meeting the BS VI Auto Fuel commenced 40 MW withdrawal • Mumbai Refinery has achieved Specifications for MS & HSD in of power from grid through OA best-ever safety record, since compliance with the Government mode from August 2016. inception, with 18.34 million manof India guidelines. • We have a basket of varied hours as of 31st March 2017. • We obtained a Four Star Trading crude oils from different • Higher crude processing has House status for a period of geographies for its spot/term resulted in record LPG, MS, HSD, five years, after a gap of two, crude procurement, thus ensuring LOBS and Bitumen production thus allowing mix-bonding and security of sourcing. To optimise with 840 TMT, 3286 TMT, 6,962 waiving of bank guarantee by and enlarge the crude basket Night view of Mumbai Refinery TMT, 431 TMT and 1,216 TMT, customs, imports and exports on for refineries, three new types respectively. self-declaration basis, preferential of crude oil were processed in The reporting period 2016-17, has other remarkable achievements Combined Gross Refining Margin, • We have switched to complete BS treatment and priority in handling 2016-17. been another year of momentous include a combined distillate yield which was recorded at $6.20 per IV regulation from January 2017, consignments. • Our refineries are fully in achievements where our refineries of 75.8% along with the highest ever barrel during 2016-17. much in advance of timelines • Savings of over `12 crore per compliance on safety standards at Mumbai and Visakh maximised production of High Speed Diesel given by MoP&NG, without any annum are achieved through as per M B Lal Committee crude processing with an (6.96 MMT), Lube Oil Base Stock interruption in supply. refinancing. recommendations. 113% unparalleled combined refining (431 TMT) and Motor Spirit (3.29 throughput of 17.81 MMT and MMT). The terrific performance capacity utilisation of 113%. Our of the refineries boosted our Capacity Utilisation in 2016-17 Marketing Performance During 2016-17, we aced highest-ever sales volume of 35.2 million metric Through this performance, we have been able to succeed in reaching our target for the lowest-ever specific tonnes, including exports. Our domestic sales grew by 2.5% over historical energy consumption. to reach a market share of about 21% amongst the public sector oil companies. Operating Performance of Refineries for 2016-17 Crude Specific Energy Installed Capacity Distillate Yield Fuel and Loss Refinery Throughput in Consumption Capacity in MMT Utilisation (%) (%) (%) MMT (MBN) Mumbai 8.51 7.5 113 77.7 87.9 7.2 Visakh 9.3 8.3 112 74 78.9 7.3 22.78 MMT 5.63 MMT 5 MMT Crude Throughput by Refineries in MMT Retail Sales LPG Sales I&C Sales Mumbai Visakh 8.51 9.3 8.01 9.22 7.41 8.77 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 17.81 MMT 17.23 MMT 16.18 MMT 0.61 MMT 0.69 MMT Total Crude Throughput Total Crude Throughput Total Crude Throughput Lube Sales Aviation Sales 46 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 47 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Operations, Distribution and • Our Corporation commissioned 7.4% over sales of 2015-16 for the Engineering its first LPG cross-country Ahmedabad CNG Network. • Achieved throughput of 47.0 pipeline, Mangalore Hassan • Gas Transportation Agreement MMT during the year 2016-17 Mysore Yediyur LPG pipeline executed with GAIL for supply • Productivity enhanced by of 356 km length with capacity to RLNG to fertiliser plants. achieving cycle time of 46 mins of 1.94 MMTPA, taking the total • Commenced RLNG supply to one against historical of 53 mins length of pipelines to 3,370 km. new industrial customer (NPL) • Foundation stone laid for India’s • Planned-capacity enhancement and one new City Gas Distribution first 2G bio-refinery of Mundra Delhi Pipeline Company (MNGL) with total • Energy Efficient Lighting System (MDPL), Visakh-VijayawadaRLNG sales reaching 6.5 TMT. installed at 20 locations resulting Secunderabad pipeline (VVSPL) • Commissioned 50.4 MW Wind in savings of approximately `3.4 and Raman Mandi Bahadurgarh Project under Renewable crore per annum. Pipeline (RBPL) Energy Certificate Mechanism • Solar plants of total capacity 226 • Newly commissioned Rewari at Rajasthan, taking the total kWp commissioned at 9 locations Kanpur Pipeline and Kanpur installed wind energy capacity • Average bay filling rate increased Terminal were dedicated to the to 100.9 MW. The project to 845 litre per minute against a Nation by the Hon’ble Prime generated 9.6 crore kWh during Launch of Brand Appu historical of 715 litre per minute Minister of India 2016-17. • Total 21,648 Renewable Energy Retail LPG Direct Sales (I&C and Lubes) Pipelines Natural Gas & Renewables Certificates (RECs) were generated • Achieved volumes of 8,435 • Achieved highest-ever sales • Our Corporation has recorded • Achieved highest-ever • Achieved CNG sales of 11.73 TMT from newly commissioned 50.4 TKL MS and 18,904 TKL HSD in volume, registering double-digit total lubricant sales volume throughput of 17.91 MMT against during the fiscal with a growth of MW wind farm. 2016-17. growth of 11.1%. of 607 TMT, an increase by 17.61 MMT in 2015-16 • Total retail sales volume grew by • Achieved record bottling of 9.5%, making it the largest lube 0.2% over 2015-16 compared to 5.465 MMT against 4.915 MMT marketer in India for the fourth PSU industry de-growth of 0.6%. (2015-16). consecutive year. • Launched ‘poWer 99’ in February • Continued market leadership in • 1 MMT consistently for three I&C 2017, we being the only company non-domestic bulk LPG segment. products: FO, HSD and Bitumen. in India to offer this product. • Under Niche Market products, FO crossed 1.5 MMT. Cashless Transaction Registered total poWer sales of achieved 1.4 TMT sales of HP • Improved market share in HSD, 260 TKL in 2016-17. Gas SUMO (450 kg) for the first Bitumen, LDO and Hexane. We st ro n g l y s u p p o r t t h e • All contract workers deployed Percentage of Cashless • Achieved the best-ever Retail year. Bagged the contract from • Became a market leader in Government of India in promoting across the Corporation are paid Transaction at Retail outlets SBU Capex of `1,010 crore. South Central Railway for supply Bunker Sales among PSUs with cashless transactions. The their wages through National During the stakeholder • 6 24 n ew re t a i l o u t l e t s of HP Gas Razor, metal cutting highest-ever Bunker Sales of 340 milestones achieved in this regard Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT). engagement sessions held as a part commissioned during the year. gas. Launched Brand APPU for TMT. are as follows: • We affixed RFID tags on 10,100 of Sustainability Reporting exercise, • Automation achieved at 1,611 5 kg FTL marketing. • We also commissioned the • `7,522 crore worth of business POL tank trucks; it was among 81% of the sample of our retail outlets which is the highest in any • HP Gas enrolled 8.7 million new scattered tankage of over 4,400 was converted to digital mode the pioneering OMCs to complete dealers have reported cashless one year since inception, taking consumers inclusive of 5.3 million KL in Leh in record time. through transactions from credit cashless transaction at NHAI toll transaction with retail customers the total number of automated new LPG connections issued card, debit card and e-wallets. gates. upto 50% while 15% of the sample outlets to 4,342. under the PMUY programme. Aviation • We also have an initiative called, • Bank POS machines were have reported cashless transaction • 12,550 outlets are terminalised • C o m m i s s i o n e d 2 5 2 n ew • The aviation turbine fuel sales Loyalty Cards, and it facilitated installed at 11,002 retail outlets of more than 50%. as of March 2017 with any one distributorships and 6 nonwent up by 13.4%. business through cashless • Digital payment methods like facility (EDC or wallet) with the domestic distributorships. • Market-share gain of 0.35% was transactions worth `11,408 crore. wallet and POS were enabled coverage of 88%. • Commissioned LPG Plant recorded in aviation fuel sales. • 1,118 T-1 customers and 4,359 T-2 for 3,200 LPG distributors 15 • 50 retail outlets were upgraded at Bhopal (60 TMTPA) and • Supply to all major scheduled customers were enrolled in our for receiving payments from 4 % to Club HP Star during the year augmented capacities at Ajmer, domestic airlines of the country. Loyalty Cards initiative this year. customers. taking the tally to 256 Club HP Patna and Loni bottling plants. • Achieved 100% business of new • Another facility called FASTag • In order to enhance the Outlets. • We have launched the Centralised scheduled airline of Air Carnival, was launched in December 2016, understanding of digitisation, • Solarisation was done at 445 Distributor and Consumer Zoom Air and Quikjet Cargo. in collaboration with ICICI Bank, training methods like on-the81 retail outlets during the year Management (CDCM) system • Aviation service facilities were for our dealers. spot training for supervisors and cumulatively covered 1,247 at all LPG distributorships, augmented by setting fixed • Currently about 96% of retail was conducted. Additionally, outlets against 1,200 committed which enables LPG distributors facilities at Pune, Vijayawada, outlets are digitally-enabled for flipcharts and classroom modules to MoP&NG under 12th plan. to have better control on the Dehradun and Jaipur. cashless transactions. were also conducted. 0% to 50% 51% to 100% transactions and also ensures • Launched the innovative idea of No Response data security and integrity. smart refueller. 48 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 49 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Asset Utilisation Refineries Marketing increasing the operational safety Operations, Distribution & and Reliable Sustained reliability of assets is a 113%. This feat was achieved by Our marketing locations are and reducing manpower cost. Engineering (OD&E) Operations significant aspect of the superlative refining performance. During the sustained equipment reliability, timely shutdown adherence certified under international standards for quality management Biometric access facility has been installed at three LPG locations on OD&E forms the backbone of the marketing of petroleum The Oil Industry is quite asset year 2016-17, Mumbai Refinery and commendable operational systems, environment management pilot basis in 2016-17. products with a robust supply intensive, making capacity successfully completed the planned discipline. systems, occupational health and chain management system. utilisation one of the most critical turnaround cycles of Fluid Catalytic safety compliance, specifications Direct Sales Lubes Innovative solutions like aspects. We focus on promoting Cracking Unit I (FCCU I), Solvent In pursuit of continual improvement for security management systems The Lubes SBU implemented wellhigher-flow rates, technology better asset management, proper Extraction Unit III (SEU III), Lube in refinery operations, both our for the supply chain as well as safety planned strategies and optimised upgradation, improved logistic utilisation and reliability of our Oil Upgradation Plant (LOUP) refineries have been participating and sustainability management. the product mix by balancing planning and reduced truck operations. This is essentially and Hydrogen Generation Unit in the performance-benchmarking between tonnage growth and turnaround time helps us stay because better asset utilisation (HGU). Visakh Refinery successfully study by M/s. Solomon Associates. A total of 87 locations are ISO brand-premium growth. We ahead of competition. Further, rates plummet costs and enhances completed turnarounds of Crude The study is now being conducted 9001 certified, 78 locations are are present in all Lube product detailed planning was carried out efficiency. Distillation Unit III (CDU III) and Fluid for the calendar year 2016. The ISO 14001 certified, 76 locations segments, from the high-volume for meeting the future-market Catalytic Cracking Unit I (FCCU I) phase of data submission has are OHSAS certified, 34 locations entry-level segments to the superdemand along with time-bound Our zeal for becoming a worldwithin the stipulated timelines and already been completed by both are ISO 50001 certified and 61 premium segment like synthetic infrastructure development. class energy company has been with utmost adherence to safety at the refineries. Bureau of Energy marketing locations are certified lubricants. The aggressive the driving force behind the the same time without causing any Efficiency (BEE) has extended with ISRS rating. business strategy adopted for Pipelines innovation and incorporation of disruption to product availability in the PAT (Perform, Achieve and both segments, viz. Consumer We have laid special emphasis technologically-advanced facilities the market. Trade) Cycle II programme to the Retail Lubes and Retail Lubes, steps for on acquiring high levels of and equipment at our refineries and petroleum sector, which is being In the petro-retailing market, improving operational efficiency competency in managing the SBUs. We own and operate two Maximising the asset utilisation coordinated by CHT for Indian it is imperative to consider the and optimising the inventory of pipeline network effectively of India’s major refineries, with a has always been the priority of refineries. Our refineries are actively proximity of the retail outlet to the lubricants helped the Lubes SBU to optimise cost and maximise pan-India infrastructure of pipelines our refineries. Our Corporation participating in the PAT Cycle II. point of consumption for driving to record excellent performance revenue, along with the and an extensive network of has taken the advantage of regular As a part of this process, a gap sales. Focusing on this, we have during 2016-17. planning and development of terminals, depots, LPG bottling turnarounds and installed new FCC identification audit was carried out continued the approach of strategic new cross country pipeline plants, Lube filling plants and feed nozzles, at both refineries, by the Petroleum Conservation network expansion. Information Direct Sales I&C network. Pipelines continue aviation service facilities, which which were specially developed Research Association (PCRA). technology-related initiatives As part of the strategy to maximise to y i e l d at t ra c t i ve re t u r n s contribute to India’s growth yearand designed by the R&D team Our refineries have participated include SMS-triggered retail sales, we have looked beyond through lower logistic costs on-year. Our efforts also extend to indigenously. Keeping abreast of in this audit and the operating automation systems and a Network traditional domestic product apart from increasing safety exploring alternative fuels, natural the latest technology has yielded data acquisition phase has been Planning tool for evaluating the sources, for tapping the seasonal in product movements and gas and renewables, all of which in benefits on the operational and completed. potential of new locations for market demand. During the year, decreasing carbon footprints. strengthen the unconventional energy front and assured product network expansion. To enhance the we have made the first-ever imports With a continued focus on energy landscape of the economy. quality for the refineries. In this Both our refineries are certified brand image, various activities are of Bitumen and Fuel Oil to meet asset utilisation, in 2016-17, We are determined to further direction, Mumbai Refinery has with ISO 14001. adopted for increasing the visibility market demand and we focused the Corporation recorded the enhance the capacity of the present revamped the existing SEU III in the market places. on infrastructure development highest-ever mainline throughput infrastructure and have several furnace with novel split-pass flow and capability-building in this new of 17.91 MMT. projects underway to cater to technology and Visakh Refinery LPG business opportunity. The growth the energy needs of our growing has adopted structured MODGRID We leverage technology and in the I&C business line was the In line with the philosophy nation. packing for the FCC-2 reactor innovation extensively to drive result of a well-calibrated strategy of enhancing the asset stripper. Visakh Refinery also growth, increase operational to focus on products of bitumen, utilisation, various initiatives Regular maintenance with added a second reactor at FCC NHT efficiency, ensure safety and fuel oil, diesel and specialties were rolled out as an integral appropriate checks and controls and debutanizer at DHT facilities reduce operating cost in LPG. In like Hexane and MTO, against a part of business. Each of have ensured better performance which has enabled the refinery for order to increase productivity backdrop of increasing demand these initiatives has resulted of our facilities. We are taking complete compliance to production in LPG plants, we have installed for these products. in tremendous improvements concerted efforts to make of BS IV specification MS and HSD. vision-reader units at 12 of them in productivity, reliability and our facilities more advanced during the year. This helps eliminate Aviation asset utilisation. and efficient. The R&D centre Our technologically-advanced manual intervention by facilitating In the aviation business segment, explores innovative solutions for fa c i l i t i e s a t M u m b a i a n d auto reading of cylinder tare weight strategic initiatives undertaken Natural Gas our operations. We also ensure Visakhapatnam have shown and due date for testing of the during the year, like new business We are actively participating in the reliability by benchmarking our exemplary performance this LPG cylinders. Additionally, 12 agreements, renewals with new natural gas business unit and are refineries and SBU locations against year with a combined refining online valve-changing machines and existing airlines, leveraging pursuing improved participation in international and national standards throughput of 17.81 MMT, surpassing were installed in 10 LPG plants to relationship with commercial the upcoming City Gas Distribution in order to maximise our efficiency previous year’s throughput of 17.23 eliminate conventional methods partners, etc., have all contributed opportunities. and avoid outages. MMT with a capacity utilisation of Visakh Refinery of cylinder evacuation before to the business growth and changing the valves, thereby enhanced profitability. 50 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 51 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Strategic Planning Initiatives Strategy Management saving of `256 crore over the to plan logistics and monitor entire increase was achieved only through Going ahead, IMM will explore technically-accepted bidders on a and Implementation benchmarked price. The vendor value chain of the Corporation. It detailed planning and without any distribution planning for LPG for competitive basis. We encourage Office (SMIO) participation registered an also looks over controls of margins augmentation of infrastructure. which a detailed SOP and handlocal suppliers depending upon The Strategy Management impressive growth of 13-45% with throughout the supply chain Similarly, pipelines throughput holding procedures have already the economics and quality of & Implementation Office is 19-57% reduction in PR to PO lead and departments at every level was increased by 19.5% (2.9MMT) been put in place. products and services meeting facilitating the strategic planning time across most of the categories. from sourcing, refining, supplies, in 2016-17 as compared to 2014-15 our specifications. Further, on a and execution process at HPCL to operations, distribution and due to improved logistic planning. Safety being the top most priority, case-to-case basis, relaxation in ensure implementation of strategic initiatives and realisation of `5,500 crore inventory management. Keeping the current and future trends in Through in-house optimisation package for coastal movement, all these activities are performed while considering safety and the past track record is also being extended to improve the capacity strategic objectives for corporation. Worth of procurement handled mind, rigorous planning processes reduction in coastal movement was reliability at the core. and capability of small vendors. T20 strategy has been developed by the CPO are being conducted. These achieved which resulted in savings The details of procurement of with clearly defined year wise processes help us in surpassing of around `8.2 crore per month. Co-opting Opportunities goods and services through Micro, physical and financial targets, our past best performances. To for the Local Community Small and Medium Enterprises investment required and action • Uniform item codification has monitor these performances, In 2016-17, we were successful We endeavour to collaborate (MSME) in the reporting year is plan for implementation covering been implemented to drive value elaborate backcasting processes in hedging a part of the refinery with the local communities for tabulated below: both ‘Business-as-usual’ and through standardisation and were developed. Further activities margins by concluding derivative building positive and long-term ‘New initiatives’ up to the year consolidation in procurement. such as realistic crude procurement deals in the international OTC relationships. Our initiatives for Procurement of goods and 2020-21. T20 strategy is being Through an extensive training planning through crude cost and (over-the-counter) market. We sourcing locally help to reduce services from Micro, Small & institutionalised through SMIO with programme, CPO has conducted feasibility optimisation, identifying also resumed the activities of costs, accelerate speed of delivery Medium Enterprises (MSME) clear ownership of implementation 15 workshops covering 250 users of opportunity crudes and necessary Oil Price Risk Management and foster skill development in in 2016-17 and a well-defined progress across all marketing teams and analysis for processing were also through the IMM group. the local communities for a better review mechanism at Business Unit and Corporate level. To help refineries to drive the mandatory use of item codes in procurement. performed by the IMM. Therefore, it functions as the nerve centre of Th e O i l R i s k M a n a g e m e n t Committee, which comprises livelihood. 20% implementation, the strategic • Vendor Registration Portal was the Corporation with the objective the senior management, keeps The Corporation is engaged with Target objectives of the corporation enhanced to facilitate existing of maximising the Net Corporate a focused view on all the risk several local and small vendors have been linked to execution vendors to update their profiles. Realisation across the crude-tomanagement policies, principles, for the procurement of materials by defining the KPIs aligned to A new drive KYV (Know Your customer value chain. The model risk management activities on and services. We also conduct 33.72% T20 objectives and the balanced Vendor) was launched to facilitates methods to maximise regular basis. Systematic reviews various vendor meets for capacity Achieved score card is being leveraged for rationalise the vendor base. margins between procured crude of hedging positions and credit building. We have developed a `2,519 crore achieving the targets. SMIO is • The scientific cost estimation price and realised product price exposure of counter parties local vendor base and we send focused on implementation of T20 methodologies have been while managing the imbalances are also been made by this procurement inquiries under the Strategy and enable HPCL realise i n s t i t u t i o n a l i s e d by t h e and striving to deliver superior committee. policy of Open Competition from Value of Procurement its growth and profit objectives. introduction of templates for value across the chain. This year, items, services and development our Visakh refinery successfully cost for high-spend categories to processed opportunity crudes from T20 strategy has been facilitate quality procurement at across the world like Basrah Heavy developed with clearly a competitive rate. (Persian Gulf), Kissanje (West Africa) defined year wise physical • CPO is driving various centralised and Urals (Russia). IMM has been and financial targets. governmental flagship initiatives able to improve the optimisation such as Make in India, MSME– practices, data analytics and market Central Procurement SC/ST Vendor Development intelligence that keep us abreast Organisation and Startup India. MSME Public with the developments across Central Procurement Organisation Procurement Policy compliance the industry. Various initiatives (CPO), which was set up with was extensively driven. Various of IMM like additional pipeline an objective to manage the vendor meets were conducted capacities (Rewari Kanpur pipeline), procurement practices of our with a focus on these flagship introduction of enterprising efforts Corporation, has progressed rapidly programmes. like unique plugging material on all fronts, deriving value through • CPO also enhanced the capability (HPCK), drag reducing agents and category-based procurement, of all its officials on sourcing inventory management helped efficiency, transparency and strategies and business analytics the Corporation for seamlessly uniform policy compliance. CPO has through extensive trainings switching over to BS IV fuels on expanded its operation by taking programmes. pan-India basis. over the procurement function of the SBUs, Zones and the Corporate Integrated Margin IMM has enabled the Corporation office in its fold. Management to achieve a throughput increase • CPO handled procurement worth Integrated Margin Management by 10.6% (1.7 MMT) in 2016-17 `5,500 crore and recorded a (IMM) was initiated as a single entity as compared to 2014-15. This Encouraging Supplies from Local Community 52 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 53 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Protecting our Planet Resource Efficiency 57 Targeting Energy Efficiency and 59 Conservation Reducing our Emissions 62 Harnessing Renewable 65 Energy Conserving and Managing Water 66 Managing Waste 68 Greenco Implementation 70 Green Building Initiative 72 54 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 55 Well maintained Greenery at Lucknow IRD In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Rain Water Harvesting at Mumbai Refinery Protecting our Planet Resource Efficiency We are cognisant of our high dependence on the Materials Units Total natural resources for running our business. We seize opportunities and strategies to become increasingly Rubber Hoses Nos. 259 resource efficient through innovation, recovery and Batteries Nos. 169 recycling methods, deriving maximum value from the raw materials we utilise at the refineries and other Associated Materials Consumed in 2016-17 facilities thus decreasing our environmental impact. We were awarded the ‘Oil & Gas Conservation Fortnight Material Quantity (kg) Award 2015’ for ‘Best performance in steam leaks R-22 (Refrigerant) 2,013 over previous year’ from the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas in 2016-17. Material Consumption at Marketing Material Consumption at Refineries in locations in 2016-17 2016-17 Materials Units Total Crude Oil Processed Bottling Cylinders MT 54,69,230 Brass Valves MT 62,808 Additives and Chemicals MT 16,422 HFHSD MT 4,894 MoU signing on “Climate Change Risks Study” Soap Solution MT 405 Pressure Regulators MT 4,091 Management Approach 8.51 MTO MT 406 In MMT Global warming and Climate change Management System. 34 locations of technical bulletins and newsletters 9.30 O-rings MT 262 are the single largest threats to have taken up ISO-50001 Energy which focus on concepts, legislation, places, species and people. It is Management Study (EnMS) upcoming trends and techniques, Dry Chemical Powder MT 73 our onus to safeguard the planet implementation. important events, best practices etc. Lube Oil and Grease MT 48 and pass it on to next generation. We constantly strive to be a model Our facilities undergo environmental We seek to understand risks posed Cotton Waste MT 20 of excellence in all our endeavours and energy audits periodically and the by climate change to its business Caustic MT 14 be it in business excellence or recommendations for performance and is a member of a comprehensive environmental stewardship. Our improvement are implemented. We study on ‘Climate Change Risks and Mumbai Refinery Visakh Refinery Ethyl Mercaptan MT 11 environmental performance is have carried out Environment Impact Preparedness for Oil and Gas Sector the mainstay of our sustainability Assessment for our new projects and in India’. This study would enable Base Oils KL 4,83,449 context. It enables us to address locations undergoing expansion. This us to decrypt the impact of climate Materials Units Total Ethanol KL 3,13,000 climate related risks and forge year environmental clearances have change on the infrastructure of our Additives, Chemicals and Catalyst MT 26,483 prudent and practical solutions for already been received for projects like facilities and operations and methods Biodiesel KL 9,500 Caustic MT 5,619 boosting operational efficiency and Madurai LPG Plant, Haldia LPG Plant that we can adopt to mitigate the Liquid Nitrogen MT 2,172 Paint & Primer KL 575 being ready for a low carbon future. etc. Our major expansion projects consequences. Implications of the VRMP and MREP also received various policies implemented at local Lube Oil and Grease MT 525 Corrosion Inhibitors KL 193 The approach towards an effective environmental clearances. and global level will be analysed to Orange Dye MT 32.1 Foam KL 148 environmental performance is guided help avoid policy risks. We plan by our various policies. We organise trainings for building to design a strategy for decision Dry Chemical Powder MT 12 Blue Dye KL 31 skills and better understanding making that will incorporate these Cotton Waste MT 5 ('000 We have established environment on environment management, air climate related risks. Containers and Cartons 21,023 Ethyl Mercaptan MT 1 Nos.) management system at the refineries quality monitoring, flare management and marketing locations. Both of etc. For our internal stakeholders, Project ‘DigiAv.’ Concept of Foam KL 72 Plastic Seals and Caps MT 2,903 our refineries and 78 locations are we regularly publish easy to read, Paperless SBU implemented in Corrosion Inhibitors KL 66 Batteries Nos. 1,844 certified with ISO 14001 Environment condensed information in the form Aviation SBU. Blue Dye KL 10 Filters Nos. 1,593 Others KL 7 Rubber Hoses Nos. 1,278 Filters Nos. 961 Wooden Pallets Nos. 850 Wooden Pallets Nos. 1,074 56 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 57 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Recycled Materials at Refineries in 2016-17 Recycled Materials at Marketing Locations in Targeting Energy Efficiency and Conservation 2016-17 Materials Units Total Materials Units Total In the present century even as we are transitioning towards alternative fuels and renewable energy sources, Indirect Energy Consumption (in million GJ) Slop MT 94,274 Bottling Cylinders MT 52,46,450 the oil and gas sector continues to dominate the energy mix supporting the growing energy demand. Given, Catalyst MT 305 Brass Valves MT 61,296 1.99 that refinery operations are energy intensive processes, Plastic Containers Nos. 18,000 Plastic Caps MT 2,443 the responsibility of this industry lies in minimising the energy required and consumed for production and Metal Containers Nos. 8,640 O-rings MT 244 processing of fossil fuels. We take this responsibility 1.89 seriously and diligently monitor and assess our Resource Efficiency energy requirement and consumption patterns. We 2.03 Initiatives make sincere efforts for conservation of energy and Reduction in steam consumption Visakh LPG terminal had taken Nagar market ex-Bokaro through increasing the energy efficiency at all our marketing due to structured packing in initiative for reducing Paint West Bengal territory resulting locations and refineries. An international conference FCCU-1 reactor stripper. Steam consumption for DPT Cylinders. in a saving of approximately `1 on ‘Energy Innovations: Today and Tomorrow’ was consumption is also reduced due By reducing the size of paint crore on an annual basis. conducted by us this year. Mumbai Refinery won the to integration of Merox & CFC nozzles, we could achieve At Ennore terminal tanker ‘Energy Conservation Award – 2016’ from MoP&NG, 0.82 0.76 ARU. reduction of paint consumption discharge simultaneously through Government of India and ‘Golden Peacock Award for 0.74 FlWaste heat recovery from by 4.6%. 2 separate pipelines helped to Sustainability – 2016’ from Institute of Directors. FCCU-2 CO boiler. Modification of Optimised increase the flow rate resulting Flare gas recovery and usage in Logistic Assistance (OLA) for in savings of approximately `3.4 Energy Consumption within the furnaces. curtailment of RTKM for Tata crore per annum. Organisation Direct Energy Consumption (in million GJ) Saksham-2017 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Oil and Gas conservation campaign workshops, painting competitions programme at Visakhapatnam 47.55 is observed for a period of one etc. are conducted at both our presided over by Minister of State Refineries Marketing Locations month at all our locations covering refineries and all marketing locations (I/C) Petroleum and Natural Gas all employees as well as other for competency building. We also during the Oil and Gas Conservation stakeholders. During this period organised a mega driver training Campaign Saksham 2017. 47.04 Energy Intensity (in GJ/MT) 43.07 2.83 2.96 2.95 2.73 2.73 2.65 0.23 0.21 0.21 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Refineries Marketing Locations 0.01 0.01 0.01 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Mumbai Refinery Visakh Refinery Marketing Locations * For refineries, per MT of crude processed. For marketing, per MT of product throughput. ** Mumbai Refinery data includes fuels and lube refinery data. Energy intensity calculations are worked out on the basis of Direct and Mega Driver Training Workshop at Visakhapatnam A Glimpse of the Driver Training Workshop Indirect energy consumption. 58 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 59 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Energy Consumption SRFT/year (standard refinery fuel were identified as well. Periodic steam leak survey was I nstallation of Variable Frequency L ED lightful initiative was outside the Organisation tonnage per year).  s a part of PAT cycle, mandatory A carried out and the identified leaks Drives for motors. implemented to tap the solar The energy requirement towards Energy Audit is being carried out were arrested. A comprehensive Maintaining power factor close to energy and improve energy commute of employees of Refineries SRFT/year (standard refinery fuel by M/s. PCRA. Data was collected steam trap management system unity by using capacitor banks. efficiency while maintaining the and Marketing SBUs is estimated at tonnage per year) for various utilities and process is in place in the refinery. Sensitisation of workforce to same lux levels at Trichy, Calicut, 0.017 million GJ and towards product unit motors for the Mandatory prevent idle running of equipment. Visakh, Nalia and Dum Dum ASFs. movement of Marketing SBUs is Energy Audit. In addition, energy Interventions at Marketing estimated at 10.074 million GJ*. improvement study is in progress to Locations Installation of LEDs Installation of Solar Light Pipes * Energy consumption excludes product identify areas for further reduction. O nline energy management Installing LEDs is one of the easiest and Sky Shelves at Marketing movement via rail Mumbai refinery enhanced power system was installed at Visakh ways of boosting energy efficiency Locations Conserving Energy purchase through Open Access New White Oil Terminal as a Pilot, in lighting and illumination. We Solar light pipes have been installed Energy conservation and energy (OA) during 2016-17. The OA for efficient monitoring of energy have undertaken several initiatives at Visakh LPG Terminal, Silvsassa efficiency eliminate wasting of 40 MW was commenced for consumption and to reduce across our locations to switch to Lube Blending Plant and Hazarwadi 21,800 13,700 resources and result in direct withdrawal of power from grid specific energy consumption. LEDs. LPG Bottling plant to maximise monetary benefits as energy since August 2016. Roll out planned at other OD&E E nergy Efficient Lighting daylight use. Sky shelves have been consumption forms a considerable locations in 2017-18. system (100% conversion from installed in the admin building of portion of the operating cost. Interventions at Visakh Refinery Energy Audits were conducted at conventional lighting to LED Visakh LPG Terminal to reduce the Efficient use of energy plummets  s a part of PAT cycle, mandatory A 17 OD&E locations during the year lighting) were installed at 20 OD&E heat losses, thereby resulting in costs across the value chain and Energy Audit is being carried out thus completing energy audits at locations resulting in savings of energy savings due to lighting and benefits users by making the by M/s. PCRA. Data was collected 36 OD & E locations. approximately `3.4 crore. air conditioning units. product more affordable. We Mumbai Refinery (includes Lube Refinery) for various utilities and process An excess contract demand of HPSV lamps replaced with LEP/ conserve energy by means of Visakh Refinery unit motors for the Mandatory 2,436 KVA at 5 OD&E locations LED lights at Visakh, Madurai and developing and implementing Energy Audit. In addition, energy was surrendered resulting in Jatni LPG Plants with capacity of recent technology, eliminating Interventions at Mumbai improvement study is in progress annual savings of `40 lakh. 16.8 kW each, Savings upto 60% energy losses and doing away Refinery to identify areas for further New initiative of Power Purchase achieved. with dispensable activities. We R  evamp of SEU III to improve reduction. through online exchange was analyse and determine areas design efficiency in SEU III furnace N ew Flare Gas Recovery  commenced at Visakh and for significant energy savings using split flow technology, compressors were commissioned Mangalore Terminals. and implement both long-term resulted in reduction of fuel for recovery of flare gas from and short-term strategies for consumption. HC flare header and reuse as energy conservation. This year Online chemical cleaning of FRrefinery fuel gas. This measure we have implemented a broad VPS/FRE-VPS/LR VPS/SEU-II/ has resulted in better utilisation range of interventions for energy PDA furnaces was carried out. of flare gases thereby reducing conservation including use of Survey of excess air in furnaces emissions. alternative energy sources, energy and air leak survey of air header  O nline chemical cleaning of efficient equipment & processes was carried out periodically and CDU furnaces was carried out and clean technology at both identified air leaks were rectified. periodically resulting in reduced marketing and refinery facilities. Steam optimisation was carried stack temperatures and fuel out in LR VPS furnace. savings. Initiatives at Refineries F eed CCR of NFCCU was  P eriodic cleaning of fouled  The Mumbai and Visakh refineries increased which has resulted in preheat exchangers in CDUs was have implemented various initiatives increase in steam generation from carried out for sustaining preheat to improve energy efficiency waste heat thereby reducing load temperature. through modern revolutionary on conventional boilers reaping The lowest ever Specific Fuel technologies and futuristic methods. the benefit of lower overall fuel Consumption of 0.336 MT/ We made a capital investment of consumption. MWh in CPP was achieved upon `29.2 crore at Mumbai Refinery Refinery has also taken up ISOmaximisation of GTG loads as per and `9.5 crore at Visakh Refinery 50001 Energy Management the characteristics of individual on energy conservation equipment Study (EnMS) implementation. GTGs. during financial year 2016-17. Energy policy was framed for Steam generator (5 MT/hr) for Our efforts have resulted in the the refinery with appointment CDU-III slop cut rundown stream LED Lighting at Hassan Terminal Solar Light PIpe at Visakh LPG Terminal Control Room Corporation recording lowest ever of a management representative was installed & commissioned. energy consumption with respect (MR) and an Assistant MR Reduction in stripping steam to MBN and Energy Intensity Index along with formation of consumption achieved after (EII). The energy conservation steering and core committee the provision of state-of-the-art measures undertaken by both the for implementation of EnMS. structured packing (MODGRID) refineries during the year 2016-17 Energy Performance Indicators in FCCU-I reactor stripper in the have resulted in a savings of 35,500 (EnPIs) for Mumbai Refinery place of baffles. 60 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 61 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Reducing our Emissions Emission Intensity ( in tCO2e/MT) Air Emissions in 2016-17 as an emission control measure for sustainable operations. Climate change is an outcome footprint and are driven consciously Greenhouse Gas Inventories 2006, Flare Gas recovery system is of increased Green House Gas towards curbing negative impacts the IPCC AR4 Fourth Assessment 367 installed and is in operation emissions causing rise in global and supporting climate action. Report; Central Electricity Authority thereby reducing air emissions. temperature. It is vital for every (CEA) CO2 Baseline Database for 0.003 0.003 corporate to measure, monitor and The standards, methodologies and the Indian Power Sector, version 2,010 Interventions for Control and mitigate their carbon emissions. As assumptions used for the purpose 11 th April 2016 and India GHG Monitoring of Air Emissions: one of India’s leading oil company, of our calculations were obtained programme 2015 Version 1 (for Both refineries have upgraded their 0.191 0.202 we are aware of our carbon from IPCC Guidelines for National Emission factor for Rail Transport). MT continuous ambient air monitoring stations and have added analysers 5,901 for monitoring of parameters such Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions as Ozone, Benzene, Ammonia (GHG emissions due to burning of fuels for (GHG emissions from the generation of and H2S to the new SOx and NOx generating energy within the premises) purchased electricity) analyser. Data from these stations 0.238 0.244 is uploaded in real time on Central Direct GHG Emission (in million metric tCO2e) Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (in million metric tCO2e) Pollution Control Board (CPCB) SPM TOTAL NOX TOTAL website, New Delhi as well as on SOX TOTAL respective SPCB website and is 3.41 0.45 0.47 available in the public domain. All 2016-17 2015-16 Initiatives for Emission quality parameters of the ambient Mumbai Refinery** Reduction at Refineries air were conforming to the National  ver 75% of the petroleum O Ambient Air Quality Standards 3.39 0.43 Visakh Refinery products from the refineries (NAAQS) during the year. In 3.14 Marketing Locations are being evacuated through addition to the online monitoring, pipelines. Dependence on manual monitoring of ambient air * F or refineries, per MT of crude processed. For marketing, per MT of product throughput. road transport for evacuation as per NAAQS is also being carried ** MR data includes fuels and lube refinery data. of products has been reduced out by external MoEF&CC approved Emission intensity calculations are worked d ra s t i c a l l y, r e s u l t i n g i n laboratory. A Leak Detection and out on the basis of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. considerable reduction in auto Repair (LDAR) programme is in emissions to atmosphere. place for monitoring and controlling Scope 3 Emissions We have successfully switched the hydrocarbon emission level. In 2015-16, we had reported Scope over to complete BS-IV regulation 3 emissions (other indirect GHG from January 2017 without any Initiatives at our Marketing 0.19 0.17 0.16 emissions) which included emissions interruption in supply. Locations from product transportation by Flue Gas Scrubbing unit and  onversion from BS III to BS C 0.024 different mode such rail, road and Purge Treatment unit control IV fuels – the entire process of 0.016 0.016 ships. This year, we have undergone Sulphur Dioxide and Suspended migrating from BS III to BS IV more comprehensive accounting Particulate Matter wherein more on all India at all POL locations 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 by including emissions due to than 90% of these pollutants are and retail outlets successfully employee commute. The scope reduced before letting the flue completed within the timelines. Refineries Marketing Locations Refineries Marketing Locations 3 emissions for movement of gas into the atmosphere. Commissioned Euro IV TW loading Sources: Emission factors IPCC; Calorific value Internal values products by rail, road and ship was Fuel gas is treated in fuel gas facilities at Vijayawada and No specific base year has been considered for reporting the data 0.802 MMTCO2e* and for employee desulphurisation unit to bring loaded 28 rakes to Ramagundam commute was 0.001 MMTCO2e in down the sulphur content before resulting in savings of `8.12 crore 2016-17. being fired in furnaces and boilers in freight. * A  ssumption: Emission factor for Rail Transport: for reduction in SOx emissions. In order to reduce our emissions, 0.00996 kg CO2/Ton – km): India GHG programme 2015 Version 1. Tail Gas treating units are installed we are continuously striving to in sulphur recovery units for adopt clean mode of transport. recovery of elemental sulphur in We are increasing our product continuous operation. movement through pipelines Low NOx burners are installed for which is considered as one of the NOx emissions reduction. cleanest mode of transport. We U ltrasonic Mass flow meters  have increased our total Pipeline are installed for continuous infrastructure of 3,015 km in 2015-16 Over 75% of the petroleum monitoring of flare. to 3,370 km in 2016-17 and increased products from the refineries Natural gas is being used as our pipeline throughput by 1.7%. are being evacuated through fuel in fired equipment thereby Biofuels are known to satisfy energy Electric Car at Calicut ASF pipelines. substituting part of the liquid fuel needs in an environmentally 62 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 63 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive benign and cost-effective manner. 2016. We also procured 3,13,000 sulphur content as well and thus Harnessing Renewable Energy In our endeavour to develop clean KL of Ethanol and 9,500 KL of taken tremendous efforts towards fuels we are using a technique Biodiesel for blending in MS production of BS IV fuels. Climate change is indeed a global Wind Projects Solar Projects of blending biological fuels such and HSD respectively. The sales HPCL is the only OMC which has concern, however it brings with We are increasingly stressing on S o l a r p owe r i s b e co m i n g as ethanol and biodiesel. this volume of ethanol Blended MS provided all its retail outlets in itself an era of exploring and generation of electricity through mainstream at a fast pace given technique achieved 3.51% ethanol was 30,43,500 KL and Biodiesel Delhi City with Stage 2 vapour delivering cleaner technologies wind power and have undertaken the encouragement from the blending in petrol. Foundation Blended Diesel Sale was 2,16,469 recovery system. that preserve our environment two major projects in Rajasthan government and our national stone for India’s first 2G Bio KL. We have been working without compromising the ability and Maharashtra. We recently targets. We have fostered solar Refinery to be set up at Bathinda, towards production of cleaner to meet our own needs. We realise commissioned 50.4 MW wind initiatives across SBUs. Our total Punjab was laid on 25th December fuels in terms of decreasing the the potential in renewable energy power project in Jaisalmer, installed capacity of solar power and the tremendous opportunities Rajasthan in December 2016, is more than 1,500 kWp. it offers, in terms of solving taking our capacity to 101 MW. future energy crisis and limiting The electricity generated is partly Solarisation was done at 445 Developing Green Belts present carbon emission levels. used in our locations while rest is retail outlets during the year  isakh Refinery planted nearly V sequestration in the years to HSE-Sustainability department Being an energy intensive sector, supplied to State Electricity Boards. and cumulatively covered 1,247 2 lakh saplings in and around come. carried out mass plantation of we try to harness energy from During 2016-17, total electricity outlets against 1,200 committed Visakhapatnam as part of Green At our pipeline operating locations, 4,000 saplings in March 2017 in non-conventional sources and generation through wind farms was to MoP&NG under 12th plan. Solar Visakha Program. 3,552 trees were planted during an organised manner. At present, contribute to the zero carbon goal. 962 lakh kWh. In addition, total plant with a capacity of 258 kWp Agro climatic greenbelts have the year. our locations are having a total Our landmark initiatives include 21,648 nos. of Renewable Energy was registered for Renewable been developed at 13 OD&E With a theme of ‘Each One Plant green belt area of 1,052 acres. commissioning of wind and solar Certificates (REC) were generated Energy Certificates. Certificates locations by planting 6,422 trees One’, Chennai New Terminal projects that not only supply from newly commissioned valued at `7.77 lakh were received which will lead to higher carbon under the guidance of Corporate electricity to our plants but also 50.4 MW wind farm during and balance certificates valued contribute to the state grids. We 2016-17. These RECs which were at `5.95 lakh are under process. are assessing current and future valued at approximately `3 crore will These certificates will be redeemed electricity demands at our terminals be redeemed by Mumbai refinery to for Mumbai Refinery to meet their and refineries and are deliberating meet renewable obligation under renewable obligation under solar upon the development of captive non-solar category. category. renewable energy projects. During Solar projects with a total capacity the reporting period, we have of 295 kWp were installed and invested more than `350 crore in commissioned at 4 LPG Plants renewable energy projects. Ajmer, Visakh, Anantpur and Aurangabad. Solar plants with a total capacity of 226 kWp were installed and commissioned at 9 OD&E locations. Solar plants with a total capacity of 158.5 kWp installed at VVSPL Visakh stations. Mass Tree Plantation at Chennai New Terminal in March 2017 Projects under consideration in Official Language Awards the coming year  50 kW Capacity Solar PV Captive 7 plant at Bahadurgarh terminal. 350 kW Capacity Solar PV Captive Plant at Salawas Depot, Jodhpur. Feasibility study for developing solar plant at 4 captive locations is also under progress. Well Maintained Official Plantation at Chennai New Terminal October 2017 Language Awards OfficialPV Solar Plant atAwards VVSPL-Visakh Dispatch Station Language 64 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 65 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Conserving and Managing Water Water Recycled/Reused at Refineries in 2016-17 technology used conforms to existing MINAS (revised (in ‘000 KL): environment standards). The purified treated water is Water forms an integral part of our consumption. Moreover, with the efficient technologies across Treated Water from ETP used within recycled for refinery consumption and has reduced the 1,977 industry and in light of the growing growing emphasis on biofuels there our operations in both refineries premises intake of fresh water from the municipal corporation. concerns over limited fresh water is an increased significance of the and marketing locations. Water Reuse of water in processes 49,848* resources, we strive to adopt energy water relationship. We stress is of significance to the Ro Reject Water 315 MR recycled 7,24,576 m3 of water as compared to sustainable water management measure and monitor the quantity local communities and through Total Refinery Recycled/Reused 52,140 5,77,511 m3 of water during the previous year. In order techniques. In refining operations, of water consumed and identify sensitisation programme we aim to * This quantity includes bearing cooling water circulation. to ensure that the effluent finally discharged meets water is mainly used in boilers, operations where water conservation create an awareness among them so the norms, an Effluent Quality Monitoring System cooling circuits and other refining techniques can be implemented. that the local impact can be tackled (EQMS) is installed which monitors parameters such Water Recycled/Reused at Marketing Locations in processes. These processes are We reuse recycled water wherever collaboratively. We ensure that our as pH, Oil & Gas and flow. EQMS data connectivity is 2016-17 (in ‘000 KL): water intensive and we make possible to limit our water footprint. activities do not significantly affect established till CPCB/MPCB. Total Water Recycled/Reused 507 concerted efforts to optimise this We consciously upgrade to water water sources due to withdrawal. Marketing Locations Our Initiatives S  tringent metering and monitoring of water Water Withdrawal by Source at Refineries in Specific Water Consumption in 2016-17 Refineries consumption and maintaining water balance at 2016-17 We have rain water harvesting facilities in operation locations. Source of Water Units Total at both the refineries and in 110 marketing locations. Installation of water efficient fixtures at locations. Sea Water (‘000 KL) 1,02,088 Recycling of tank truck calibration water. Municipal (‘000 KL) 9,886 Effluents in water are minimised or treated to decrease Recycling of sewage water through phyto remediation Rain Water harvested and (‘000 KL) 82 the impact on the local water quality. The nature of units. Presently we are having a capacity of 60 KLD collected for reuse our operations involves handling large quantities of of sewage water treatment through these units. Total (‘000 KL) 1,12,057 water carrying process waste which might contain Re-using water from hydro testing of product tanks. Water Withdrawal by Source at Marketing Locations 6.29 KL/MT oil, grease and other hydrocarbons. Management for water stewardship entails responsible withdrawal and Recirculation of water in the cylinder washing/ hydrotesting units. Refineries judicious use of water resources, reuse, recycle and Rejected water from Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant in 2016-17 appropriate disposal of waste water. We are working for flushing of toilets and treated water from ETP Source of Water Units Total towards Zero Liquid Discharge at our operating sites. used for gardening purpose. Groundwater through borewell (‘000 KL) 810 We have a state-of-the-art New Integrated Effluent Efficient irrigation systems with timers, spray nozzles Municipal (‘000 KL) 379 Treatment Plant operated in Mumbai Refinery. The and sprinklers etc. are installed. Tanker (‘000 KL) 210 Fresh Water from other (‘000 KL) 73 0.021 KL/MT organisation River/Canal Water (‘000 KL) 45 Towards Water Positivity Reservoir/Lakes (‘000 KL) 9 We are making every effort in Ground water aquifers are need of rain water harvesting. We Marketing Rain Water harvested and (‘000 KL) 4 helping our locations to become recharged during monsoons have conducted quizzes, drawing collected for reuse water positive. This involves strict by roof top and surface water competitions etc. in our operating Total (‘000 KL) 1,530  er MT of crude processed for Refineries, per MT of product throughput * P monitoring of water consumption, harvesting. We have rain water locations and schools in order to for Marketing. reduction in wastages, ensuring harvesting at both the refineries create awareness. maximum reuse and recycling of and 110 marketing locations. We water and enhancing ground water are also monitoring ground water These interventions have motivated recharge. quality at our Mumbai refinery as our LPG distributors to voluntarily per IS 10500: 1991 regularly. construct rain water percolation Our Rajahmundry LPG Plant has pits in their godown premises. 108 been recently certified as ‘Water We are making efforts for LPG distributors of Visakhapatnam Positive by 17,100 KL’ for the sensitising our stakeholders recharged more than 30,000 KL. calendar year 2016. towards water conservation and Our Rajahmundry LPG Plant has been recently certified as ‘Water Positive by 17,100 KL’ for the calendar year 2016. Rain Water Recharging Pit at Rajahmundry LPG Plant 66 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 67 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Managing Waste of following parameters pH, O&G Central Pollution Control Board Disposal Facility’ (CHWTSDF), and Flow are installed at the (CPCB) recyclers and disposed operated by Mumbai Waste The global shift towards circular We have categorised the waste premise or disposed through CPCB final discharge. The EQMS data around 787 MT of various Management Limited (MWML) economy requires businesses to generated at all our facilities and approved common hazardous connectivity is established till hazardous waste materials. for secured landfill and take charge of and manage the abide by applicable regulations. waste treatment, storage and CPCB/MPCB. Mumbai Refinery achieved incineration. Further, a waste that is generated by their We comply with the statutory disposal facility (CHWTSDF). We Visakh Refinery achieved highest crude sludge processing of about consignment of 27.5 MT of spent activities. We take stock of the norms and regulations stated by believe in closing the loops when it ever processing of oily sludge 4400 m3. metal catalyst and oily sludge waste generated by us and invest MoEF&CC, CPCB and SPCB. The comes to managing our waste and (14,275.7 m3). Mumbai Refinery disposed was sold to a recycler through in upgrading our operations to waste that is generated in our therefore emphasise on recycling. All spent catalysts and discarded approximately 2,216 MT of spent MSTC e-auction. minimise our waste generation. facilities is either treated within the chemicals at Visakh Refinery were catalyst at ‘Common Hazardous disposed off to the authorised Wastes Treatment Storage Hazardous Waste Generation in 2016-17: Marketing Locations Refineries Type Units Total Oil Zapper Technology Type Units Total Metal Scrap MT 3,130 Oily Sludge (including ETP oily Wooden Scrap MT 175 This technology was developed by The Energy The microorganisms degrade oil to convert low oily MT 12,839 and Resources Institute (TERI). It is based sludge to fertile soil. sludge) Plastic Waste MT 29 Spent Catalyst MT 2,782 Paper Scrap MT 3 on a biological treatment method called bioInsulation Wool Waste MT 498 Metal Containers Nos. 25,081 remediation where in microbes are used to remove The bio-surfactant formulation developed has proved Spent Charcoal (including coke) MT 131 Plastic Containers Nos. 21,096 hazardous contaminants including oily sludge from to be cost effective and has enhanced oil recovery E-waste MT 11 Scrap Equipment Nos. 873 contaminated water. At our refineries the oil is from petroleum sludge in our refineries. In the year Oily Soaked Cotton Waste Food Waste MT 30 mechanically recovered from the oily sludge which 2016-17, Mumbai Refinery bio-remediated a batch MT 0.02 leaves behind low oily sludge or oily sediments. of 2,000 m3. (including gloves) Tyres and other rubber scrap MT 0.01 Waste Management Initiatives (including Hoses and O rings) Slop gets generated during crude oil refining process Chemical Containers Nos. 4,780 At Marketing Locations as well as during product handling process. This slop Scrap Batteries Nos. 329 O  ur locations ensure proper segregation of waste. generated at the process plants and in marketing The waste generated at locations is disposed off by selling it to SPCB locations is reprocessed/re-blended for converting it authorised CHWTSDF to ensure proper processing. Marketing Locations into a valuable product on regular basis. Our locations employ vermicomposting method and organic waste Type Units Total converters for converting biodegradable waste to manure. The manure Oily Sludge (including ETP oily We have Effluent Treatment facilities set up at various MT 614 generated is used in in-house gardens. sludge) refineries and marketing locations to treat the effluents Our locations have ETPs and STPs in place for treatment of effluent Paint Sludge MT 94 and further re-use the treated water/effluent at and sewage water. Insulation Wool Waste MT 17 our locations. We have also upgraded our Effluent Oily Soaked Cotton Waste MT 9 Treatment Plants (ETP) at both the refineries. (including gloves) E-waste MT 3 We have also installed organic waste converters at Sustainability Initiatives taken by Suppliers/ Chemical Containers Nos. 4,793 select locations for speedy conversion of waste to Contractors/ Vendors Scrap Batteries Nos. 2,020 manure which is further used within the locations. Filter Elements Nos. 1,200 During the stakeholder engagement sessions held as a part of Sustainability Reporting exercise, Tyres and other rubber scrap MT 7 At Our Refineries our external stakeholders have shared few of the Sustainability initiatives undertaken by them (including Hoses and O rings)  isakh Refinery completed installation of on-line V at HPCL or at their premises: Used Oil KL 56 effluent analysers in ETPs and their connectivity has been established to CPCB for ETP-IV analysers during the year. Overall compliance to the MINAS Non-Hazardous Waste Generation in (environment standards) has enhanced. 2016-17:‑ Mumbai Refinery has state-of-the-art New Integrated Refineries Effluent Treatment Plant consisting of primary, Type Units Total secondary and tertiary treatment sections which Energy Energy Audits Fuel Efficiency  se of Solar U Metal Scrap MT 9,832 has been in operation consistently since 2010 with Efficiency Equipment at Paper Scrap MT 250 a design capacity of 300 m3/hr. The technology Home Wooden Scrap MT 0.12 conforms to existing MINAS (environment standards) Plastic Waste MT 0.07 and can also cater to further stringent standards in Plastic Containers Nos. 7183 the future. Metal Containers Nos. 3,741 MR recycled 6,64,149 KL of treated water in the year Scrap Equipment Nos. 7 2016-17 and the cumulative water recycling since Others MT 637 the inception (till 31st March 2017) of the ‘Effluent Treatment Plant’ is 35,32,518 KL. Rainwater Sewage Tree Plantation Water Conservation Harvesting Treatment Plant E  ffluent Quality Monitoring System (EQMS) consisting 68 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 69 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Greenco Implementation SEC (kWh/MT) (%) SWC (KL/MT) (%) 2.93 0.26 20.4% 30.7% 2.69 0.22 2.33 0.18 CII Greenco Platinum Rating to Visakh LPG Terminal 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 The ‘Greenco’ rating system by the CII-Godrej Percentage reduction Percentage reduction Green Business Centre, gauges the environmental performance of companies who are committed to greening their operations. The multifaceted rating Recently our Visakh LPG terminal Installation of five solar light Utilised the scrap material from system, takes into account various parameters such has been declared as ‘GreenCo pipes in the control room which the aftermath of Cyclone Hudhud as energy efficiency, water conservation, renewable Platinum’ rated unit. Some of the have resulted in annual savings to construct benches, table, energy, GHG emission reduction, material conservation initiatives taken at our LPG Plant in of 6,768 kWh. trolleys, shed-material, chains and recycling, waste management and green supply Visakh that have helped us achieve and pipes for internal use. chain. The mechanism assesses and helps companies platinum rating are as below: Water Saving Initiatives Empty oil barrels were converted to perform beyond compliance and become globally Installation of five phytoto waste collection bins for competitive. Energy Saving Initiatives remediation pits (15 KLD), the internal use. LED fixtures for high masts, resulting first LPG plant in India to use The prominence of this system is further cemented in energy reduction of 77%. recycled water in the process. Waste Management by the fact that it featured in India’s INDC pledge LED for FLP fixtures in loading  S etting up of two rainwater Installed organic waste converter submitted to the UNFCCC. bay which has reduced power harvesting pits; each pit with a having a capacity of 75 Kg/batch consumption from 300W to 60W capacity of 13 KL. where garden and food waste is We have the distinction of having five units among per fixture. Usage of sprinklers and dripconverted to manure. the GreencFo rated units: Retrofit of FTL/CFL across all irrigation techniques for efficient 15 KLD of treated water from buildings to LED. irrigation. phyto-remediation units is reused Compressor optimisation by in plant processes like pneumatic modifications and arresting Resource Utilisation testing and irrigation purposes. Unit Greenco Rating leakages resulting in 4% reduction  PG recovery prior to intelligent L in energy consumption. pigging of 12” dispatch line Our many initiatives serve as a Visakh LPG Terminal Platinum has resulted into LPG savings yardstick for our other locations Visakh Vijayawada Secunderabad Pipeline (VVSPL), Visakh Platinum Renewable Energy of 450 kg in each pigging to follow and we have achieved Initiatives operation. reduction of 20.4% in specific New White Oil Terminal, Visakh Gold Installation of two solar PV units Reuse of salvaged caps which energy consumption as well as of total capacity 130 kWp which has translated to 81% reduction reduction of 30.7% in specific Silvassa Lube Blending Terminal Silver generate average of 14,800 kWh in consumption of fresh caps over water consumption over the last on a monthly basis. 3 years. three years. Cherlapally LPG Bottling Plant, Hyderabad Silver 70 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 71 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Green Building Initiative With a commitment for Holistic initiatives and are in the process of Water Conservation Environment Conservation, getting the building certified as a Water being a common and an Sustainable Development, and ‘Green Building’. extremely essential resource, Safety and Healthy lifestyle of requires to be used rationally the esteemed workforce using Some of the green initiative and ethically. At HB, we conserve our office buildings, we are implemented at Hindustan bhavan this invaluable resource through LED Lighting implementing concept of ‘Green are: installation of waterless urinals, Buildings’ in all new projects and sensor faucets, installation of select existing buildings. Both our Electricity Conservation sewage treatment plant (35 headquarters offices – Corporate We are committed to optimise the KLD STP). We also contribute in Organic Waste Converter and Marketing headquarters, have consumption of electricity as we recharging ground water through been taken up for conversion to believe that ‘Energy saved is Energy our rain water harvesting system. ‘Green Buildings’. Generated’. In this endeavour we It has helped in eliminating the have taken initiatives which have need for 24 KL of tanker water The initiative to convert our brought about a reduction of 6 % per day and the ring well yields Corporate headquarters office in electricity usage in the 2016-17 10,000 litres per hour. During building ‘Petroleum House’ into as compared to that of 2014-15. The heavy rains, total water collected Green building is underway. Due initiatives undertaken at HB include: from terrace into RWH collection to decades old architecture with Replacement of magnetic ballast tank is approximately 4,000 litres heritage value, green initiatives are with electric ballast retrofitting of per hour. The water is certified as being implemented in a phased existing lights with LED Lights. potable by Government Certified manner. Replacement of inefficient 3  Laboratories. phase package unit with Single Air Quality Monitoring System Sewage Treatment Plant Emergency Escape Chute Hindustan Bhavan (HB), the phase package unit. Installation Waste Management Marketing Headquarter of our of 5 star Energy Equipment. We have a policy in place for is converted to manure and 20-25 ensure a healthy and safe working Escape Chute installed on its Corporation is one of the Heritage Intelligent lighting system and minimising waste disposal and kg of organic manure is generated environment include: terrace. It is a sliding type escape buildings in the country. Being a tagging or zoning of electrical recycling waste generated. An on a daily basis. We use 4-5 kg A q u a b a l a n c e d C h l o r i n e in case of emergencies. heritage building, it was challenging switches. organic waste converter was for gardening and the rest is given Dioxide– The residual chlorine  Additionally HB has smoke/ to convert the existing building  Installation of VFD for installed during financial year either to employees free of cost which remains in water after heat Detection system, manual into Green building without any centralised Air Conditioning Unit. 2016-17 which helped in converting or sold off. Saving is in terms of disinfection can pose a serious call points, DCP & CO2 Fire structural changes. However, with Arrangements are also being 95% of all waste generated from cost incurred in waste dumping threat to purifying equipment, Extinguishers, Fire Water Line, FMour consistent efforts, we have been made to take corrective steps kitchen and canteens to organic and financial gain through selling dosing pumps and humans. 200 gas fire suppression system. able to implement numerous green for the air return flow mechanism. manure. 100% of all organic waste of manure produce. Aq u a B a l a n c e d C h l o r i n e Emergency Mock Fire Drills are Dioxide (ABCD) is a unique conducted once in six months. Air Quality formulation with Chlorine Proper ventilation and circulation Dioxide trapped in an aqueous Replacement of Toxic of fresh air within a building is a form which is safe to handle Asbestos Sheet with Zinc necessity for occupants. Indoor and easy to use. Alume Sheets air quality also pertains to levels Radiation management system We have shifted from Asbestos of RSPM, CO2, CO, O2, NOx, SO2, Radiations are detected sheets to Zinc alume sheets which are humidity and temperature. At HB with the use of scientific not only non-toxic but they also have these parameters were assessed instruments, their causes high heat resistance leading to lesser and found to be in compliance with & origins are analysed and cost of HVAC and zero leakages. The ASHRAE standard. We have a 6,000 solutions implemented. new high heat resistant sheets come CFM Double Skin Air Handling Regular health check-up camps of with a comprehensive warranty of unit, Electrical Control Panel with canteen, housekeeping staff and 10 years and can be disposed 7 HP VFD built in electrical panel contract staff are organised. The off easily. for AHU, ducting system and CO2 workmen are also made aware of Monitoring and Control Devices. Air hygienic practices to be followed quality is monitored regularly by a and executed. data logger portable measurement Regular servicing of the water device with analysis software. filters and testing for the portable water is being conducted on Health and Safety regular basis. Health and Safety of our employees HB is the second building in Hindustan Bhavan Marketing Headquarters is non-negotiable. Our efforts to Mumbai Region having the 72 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 73 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Addressing the Human Capital Diverse Workforce 76 Stimulating a Learning 80 Environment Ensuring Health and Safety 82 Fostering Growth 86 Rewarding Achievements 87 Attracting Talent 88 Engaging with our Workforce 89 Providing Employee Benefits 91 Supporting Human Rights 92 74 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 75 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Addressing the Human Capital Employee Category (By Gender) Employee Category (By Age) 177 79 44 215 6 119 1,520 946 934 1,761 1,855 4,112 4,455 4,255 309 30-50 >50 Years <30 Years Years 485 379 3,272 1,776 1,602 2,965 Senior Management Middle Management Senior Management Middle Management Junior Management Non-Management Junior Management Non-Management Workforce at Visakh Refinery Employee Turnover Senior Middle Junior NonBy Region Total Management Approach employee benefits, while supporting Diverse Workforce Management Management Management Management Our Corporation values its brilliant a healthy work-life balance, to We believe in providing a work Corporate HQO 17 16 61 14 108 and proficient workforce and enhance productivity and employee environment that fosters a culture Marketing HQO 6 5 10 7 28 their zeal to consistently steer its retention. We regularly conduct of diversity and equality for people MR 3 22 12 40 77 economic growth, while bolstering employee engagement programmes of different ethnic backgrounds VR 1 16 21 22 60 its environmental and social to foster a sense of team spirit and gender. We encourage our North Zone 0 3 15 22 40 performance. We encourage this and have mechanisms in place for employees to challenge their South Zone 0 11 15 20 46 performance through innumerable addressing their grievances. Given limits and grow in the organisation West Zone 0 19 22 74 115 initiatives, such as building and the nature of our business, the by understanding, taking up East Zone 0 5 14 43 62 enhancing skills, acknowledging health, safety and the well-being of and fulfilling various roles and North West Zone 0 1 11 10 22 exemplary performance, providing our employees are of high priority to responsibilities. We are proud to North Central Zone 0 0 5 5 10 opportunities for career growth and us and we take the onus of ensuring be an employer of choice for this South Central Zone 0 9 11 28 48 development within the Corporation. the same. A comprehensive Human huge employee base with 10,422 Resources Policy enables us to employees. We focus on the needs of our achieve these goals. employees and provide adequate Employee Turnover (By Gender) Employee Turnover (By Age) 26 7 1 25 2 4 Employee Strength 103 4 4 103 16 156 32 428 269 30-50 >50 Years <30 Years Employee Category 180 17 Years 274 25 Senior Middle Junior 149 23 By Region Non-Management Total Management Management Management Corporate HQO 75 287 411 201 974 Marketing HQO 51 162 190 118 521 Senior Management Middle Management Senior Management Middle Management MR 19 206 477 818 1,520 Junior Management Non-Management Junior Management Non-Management VR 18 169 426 543 1,156 North Zone 16 172 359 355 902 Note: The figures for turnover includes numbers of death and superannuation during service. South Zone 7 134 202 295 638 West Zone 10 240 503 945 1,698 East Zone 6 136 271 401 814 North West Zone 6 105 298 209 618 North Central Zone 3 73 218 130 424 South Central Zone 10 196 402 549 1,157 76 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 77 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Our employees being the driving force behind the corporation’s success, it is of utmost importance that 0*%: There is a change in the stakeholder engagement questionnaire structure. The options of good sustainability for our corporation be understood through their perspective. The stakeholder engagement exposure, career progression were added in 2016-17, thus it is showing 0% for the year 2015-16. Nil response exercises conducted throughout the country as a part of sustainability reporting which involved more than was received in ‘Others’ category in 2016-17. Employees were given option to select more than one reason 1,100 employees gave insights on the following parameters: to work with HPCL. Top reasons to work with HPCL (%) Management Employees Strengths of HPCL with respect to Workforce Management (%) 70 Management Non-Management 63 63 58 51 52 46 40 43 39 39 35 37 33 30 32 16 5 5 0* 0* 0 Brand Name Good Employee Good Career Others Renumeration Policies Exposure Progression No Response Employee Connect Robust Policies & Transparent & Compensation & No Response Robust Policies & Employee Connect Transparent & Management Employees 2016-17 Management Employees 2015-16 Compensation & Procedures Benefits Procedures Benefits 0*%: There is a change in the stakeholder engagement questionnaire structure. The options of good exposure, Ethical Work Culture Ethical Work Culture career progression were added in 2016-17, thus it is showing 0% for the year 2015-16. Nil response was received in ‘Others’ category in 2016-17. Employees were given option to select more than one reason to work with HPCL. Top reasons to work with HPCL (%) – Non-Management Employees 60 Compensation and Benefits came out as a top strength with respect to workforce management. Also, ‘Employee 60 Connect’ and ‘Transparency & Ethical Work Culture’ are other strengths rated significant by employees. These findings are consistent with the previous year (2015-16) where employees appreciated ‘Ethical work practices’ and ‘Caring for employees and their families’ as one of the top strengths. 46 49 43 37 33 31 17 0* 0* 0 Brand Name Good Employee Good Career Others Renumeration Policies Exposure Progression Non-Management Employees 2016-17 Non-Management Employees 2015-16 Stakeholder Engagement Session at HP Green R&D Centre 78 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 79 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Stimulating a Learning Environment collaboration with the Institute eVidya Phase 2: Training on usage of of Petroleum & Energy Studies, An online various internet applications, HP Management Approach Average Training (man-days) Dehradun. l e a r n i n g Portal apps on smartphones, as In this age of changing market platform, eVidya well as, usage of Zimbra e-mail IDs. 4 requirements, we need our Shrestha was launched in Phase 3: Based on the proficiency people to keep pace with the 35,789 764 Shrestha is a Management February 2017. of the participants, different developments and enhance their 45,188 Development programme for the This platform trainings are being imparted to skills and knowledge base. Given 15,680 867 LPG Plant Managers aimed at has been specially designed for employees. the nature of our business, our developing techno-behavioural officers in the Salary Grade A/B/C 3,811 workers need to be aware of 66,034 skills. It enables the LPG Plant of NWZ LPG SBU. The topics During the last year, 2,010 the various health and safety Managers to create a culture of covered in the programme are MS participants completed Phase 2 measures that they must take. safety and operational excellence Excel, Safety @ workplace, of this programme and we are We also believe in building on Management Non-Management in the plant. 46 LPG Plant Managers electrical & maintenance safety and currently in the third phase. our leadership’s competency have participated in the programme purchase-related activities. Contract Workmen Transporters and enhancing their technical during the year. Samvardhan know-how and specific training The module is available to the S a mva rd h a n , modules developed. Our efforts in Daksh participants through the Android launched in building a resilient and responsive Skill Development MDI-Gurgaon and IIPA-New Delhi, Daksh is a technomobile app, eVidya. Participants September workforce has been appreciated Initiatives and we have been nominating our behavioural can also download and install it 2016, is a and acknowledged at various The capability-building department senior executives for the same. t r a i n i n g directly on their mobile phones. customised national and international forums focuses on improving competencies, programme The objective of this initiative is competency through recognitions and awards. strengthening the leadership MBA (Oil & Gas) d e s i g n e d fo r to provide end-to-end online development programme for pipeline, cultural interventions MBA (Oil & Gas) is a year-long location-in-charges of the OD&E resources for training. The topics upscaling the current skill set of We have categorised our trainings to enhance collaboration and programme that covers several SBU. This programme is aimed at covered in the module have employees in the clerical roles. It is as: leveraging technology for learning important business disciplines, providing focused developmental been specifically chosen by the a three-day programme, aimed at Behavioural training – pertaining and development. These objectives such as economics, human inputs to the depot and terminal employees themselves. developing professional and to an employee’s personal were met through various initiatives, resources, marketing and business managers in a phased manner, personal behavioural competencies development. such as MOUs with renowned policy, and is aimed at developing enabling them to make a positive Sustainability Training of participating employees at Functional training – pertaining academic institutes for various young engineers to prepare them and sustainable impact on their We have designed a comprehensive marketing locations. The basic to the technical aspects specific specialised programmes: to become future leaders. It is location’s performance. The training training module on sustainability objective of the programme is to to business verticals building NITIE Mumbai for Certification conducted for CPM (Certified programme revolves around four along with institutes of national inculcate identified behavioural leadership. Programme in Project Petroleum Manager) degree holders themes, namely stakeholder repute. The trainings were competencies in clerical employees. Management. in association with our knowledge management, self-discovery, conducted by subject matter As of March 2017, 784 employees In order to hone leadership skills,  I IM Indore for Certificate partner UPES (University of building effective teams and experts at our management participated in the programme. we identify individuals who Programme in Management. Petroleum and Energy Studies), workplace effectiveness. development institute for our have demonstrated promising I IM Calcutta for General  Dehradun. The programme helps management employees. This Path of Light performance and involve them Management Programme for in equipping the officers with the Manthan programme played an instrumental We have a in our leadership development Regional Managers. requisite knowledge to enhance Manthan is a training role towards changing the mind-set dedicated programmes like Akshaypath, their effectiveness in driving programme for HR and adding sustainability dimension t r a i n i n g which started in 2011. Our leadership development business value through sustained officers with four in their routine operations. There programme, initiatives include interactions value creation and adopting a contact programmes has been immense response for this Path of Light, Akshaypath with renowned thought leaders contemporary approach. This year, focused on programme from the participants. fo r re t i r i n g n o n exe c u t i ve Akshaypath Programme was from business schools of repute, 102 officers enrolled for the second i n d i v i d u a l employees. It covers topics launched in 2011 and has been such as ESADE-Spain, Texas A&M batch of MBA (Oil and Gas). developmental needs, with Gyan Jyoti pertaining to post-retirement operational since then. It is an University, CEIBS (China Europe specific inputs on self-awareness Aimed at enhancing benefits and superannuation. This in-house leadership development International Business School), etc. Certified Petroleum Managers and development, business t h e co m p u te r p ro g ra m m e e d u c a te s t h e programme meant for Senior Programme knowledge and HR knowledge. literacy levels employees on ways to safeguard Managers, Chief Managers and Advanced Management Certified Petroleum Managers Three such contact programme among the Nontheir financial, physical and mental DGMs as well. The programme Programme for Senior Programme is the flagship were scheduled in the financial year Management well-being in their retired life. is conducted by an experienced Management programme of the marketing 2016-17. employees, Gyan external trainer with a rich experience Our Advanced Management division, which aims at capability Jyoti is a comprehensive training Prerna in leadership development. The programme (AMP) is driven to building of young talented officers. programme carried out in three O u r C o r p o ra t i o n d e p l oys project is structured around the develop a strategic understanding Apart from providing the right phases: approximately 20,000 contract concept of Emotional Intelligence of the issues involved in managing a mix of technical, managerial and Phase 1: Basic computer skills workmen for carrying out non-core to be able to develop in-house globally-competitive organisation. behavioural competencies, the and hands-on training on typing, jobs in various locations. With an leaders through coaching and This programme is conducted in programme encompasses the mouse operation and HP portal aim to aid them in their personal mentoring with emphasis on selfcollaboration with institutions functional and technical knowledge Note: New initiatives launched in 2016-17 applications. well-being and social upliftment, awareness, decisiveness and change of repute, such as IIM Calcutta of the entire hydrocarbon management. (SCOPE), ASCI-Hyderabad, value chain. It is conducted in 80 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 81 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive different trainings are imparted. Ensuring Health and In order to have a periodic Safety Committees One such training initiative, that was rolled out in January 2017, is Safety maintenance of all equipment and infrastructure, a separate In order to encourage proactive participation and involve the workforce in matters pertaining to HSE, Safety Committees are active at every location, with equal representation of management and non-management Prerna. Management Approach department known as Maintenance employees. These committees ensure adherence to the Corporation’s HSE policies and compliance to regulations, Ensuring a healthy and safe work and Inspection has been thereby maintaining a healthy and safe work environment. The Committees have an effective mechanism to 39 programmes covering 1,231 environment is never compromised instituted for every SBU. A senior contract workmen have been at our Corporation. Driven towards management level position has conducted across different zones. a goal of ‘zero incident’, we strive been identified at headquarters to maintain the highest safety and zonal levels for carrying Visakh Refinery and Mumbai standards. The safety culture is out the yearly inspection, of all Refinery covered 1,484 and 2,438 driven, on priority, by the top locations, according to a specified contract workmen, respectively, management and executed at every format. This exercise provides a during the year under this level through the Health and Safety thorough understanding on asset programme. Committee. The safety mechanisms integrity, improved maintenance are monitored through audits and schedule and investment plan there are checks in place to identify required to ensure safe, trouble the gaps in the safe operations free and efficient operations. We at our facilities. Our workforce is aim to inculcate the industry’s best made aware of the health and safety practices to achieve better safety policies, along with the relevant performance every year. measures to be taken in case of an emergency through regular Due to the various new safety trainings that are conducted in every initiatives taken and implemented Driven towards a goal of ‘zero SBU. PPEs are also made available by Mumbai Refinery on a sustained incident’, we strive to maintain Mock Fire Drill in progress at Mangalore LPG Import Facility to our workforce and we conduct basis with the support and the highest safety standards. medical examinations periodically. coordination of all its employees, Mumbai Refinery completed take feedback from the workforce We have implemented various behaviours are encouraged and 20 million man-hours of safe and address near-miss incidents, management systems across our perpetuated with zero tolerance operation on 1st October 2017. This thus identifying the gaps and safety locations and refineries. towards unsafe acts and conditions. is the highest-ever safety record risks. It also helps identify the of Mumbai Refinery, especially training needs of the employees. Safety Trainings Embarking on the success of considering the turnarounds that Further, the Committees work Sachet the Sachet initiative at our LPG it faced. Earlier, the all-time best towards establishing world-class Sachet is a behaviourlocations, the HR and Marketing safety record was of 12.58 million safety systems. We have a wellbased safety initiative teams collaborated with the OD&E man-hours in the year 1991. documented way of capturing aimed at reinforcing SBU to extend the safety culture to near-miss incidents and recognising the kind of behaviour its respective locations. In view of Health, Safety and individuals who provide these that drives safety at the same, Sachet was launched in Environment Department inputs. the workplace. It aims July 2016 simultaneously across all Being an important sustainability to create a culture in which safe OD&E locations. aspect that is monitored by our leadership, we have HSE departments in place right from the Headquarters office, including Our Safety Performance SBU and corporate level, refineries, Permanent Employees zonal offices and all locations Refineries Marketing Total across India. The primary role of Type Male Female Male Female Male Female HSE departments is to monitor Injuries 11 0 0 0 11 0 and assess the safety mechanisms Occupational disease cases 0 0 0 0 0 0 through audits, generate awareness Man-days lost 0 0 0 0 0 0 among the workforce and the Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 concerned stakeholders, and engage with government officials Contractual Workforce with respect to environment and safety concerns. Refineries Marketing Total Type Male Female Male Female Male Female Injuries 27 0 1 0 28 0 Occupational disease cases 0 0 0 0 0 0 Free Medical Check-up for Contract Workmen Man-days lost 4.9 0 0 0 4.9 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 82 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 83 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Shapath  orporate HSE department C T  he Pipeline SBU has conducted Shapath is a joint developed criteria for indexation 1,013 village meets, 1,328 police initiative by LPG of mounded storage vessels meets and 6 OSCC meets across SBU and HR and (MSV) facilities which was all pipelines. Marketing published in the souvenir at Petro The Retail SBU launched its firstteams, aimed at safe 2016. ever retail-training module called, creating a safety  Workshops on safe on-road Total Retail Safety, jointly with culture by enhancing the technical driving and fuel-efficient driving HSE (M) for field officers, and and behavioural competencies of were conducted through PCRA, carried out extensive trainings at the LPG workmen. The second covering 588 LPG truck drivers all zones throughout the country. phase of this was launched in June in different batches across the The Retail SBU launched a Near 2016. In this phase, officers were country. Miss Reporting System as a part identified as facilitators and were T he Anantpur LPG Plant  of the SMIO initiative in the HP given first-hand knowledge on the introduced a robotic arm for Portal. methodology of the technical increasing safety in the operations Surveillance Safety Audits were assessment and interview skills. The of the Online Valve Changing conducted for 64 marketing Technical Assessment (TCT) and Machine. locations and 188 retail outlets. Behavioural Assessment (BCT) of Online Behaviour Based Safety 624 officers from various SBUs Safety Check-up Camp for Bulk Trucks the LPG workmen and clerical staff (BBS) Index was rolled at various participated in 29 training were completed for all plants by LPG plants for capturing the programmes on total retail and Visakh Refineries, where our external stakeholders have Suppliers/ Contractors/ July 2016. 845 workmen and clerical status of BBS implementation safety and OISD-154, as well suggestions on improvements shared few of the safety initiatives Vendors staff attended this programme. at the field level. as trainings on LPG Customer were discussed. undertaken by them in their sphere  tringent use of PPEs. S  The OD&E SBU achieved All Safety, Statutory Legislations and A bilingual safety boowwet for of influence. Safety trainings. Sankalp India HSE Index of 95.1 (average) Electrical Safety. safety awareness of employees, Improvement in housekeeping. S a n ka l p i s a against the target of 94.0. LPG SBU conducted two training contract workers and other LPG Distributors joint initiative The Pipeline Intrusion Detection programmes on risk assessment stakeholders was compiled. afety orientation for new S Healthy Work Environment launched in 2011, System (PIDS) was installed and emergency preparedness, A gap assessment was conducted consumers. We care for our workforce and by HR (Marketing) between SV-8 to the Kanpur covering 36 participants. at both the refineries for the Audio recordings with safety tips their invaluable health. We aim and the OD&E Station section of RKPL during The HSE systems and procedures revision of OISD standards for promotion. to enhance the productivity of SBU, to enhance January 2017. were reviewed at Mumbai and mitigation measures were Door to door safety campaigns. our people and hence we have the safety quotient of the Nonreviewed. A compliance action  P romotion of safety through proactively undertaken a myriad Management employees working plan was sent to OISD. Banners and boards. of initiatives and programmes. in the depots and terminals across Various capacity-building Organising safety clinics in localities. We have a comprehensive India. workshops and trainings were Conducting training sessions for health insurance policy for all our Technical and Behavioural conducted during the year for students. employees and their dependents. assessments were completed better refinery safety, such as: We also have a wellness portal in in BEI. The Safety quotient has Industrial Radiography Safety Retail Dealers place that contains latest healthincreased to 72.33% (in 2016) by Atomic Energy Regulatory  raining for delivery staff. T related articles, news and other as against 64.58% (in 2014) and Board (Mumbai Refinery). Adequate signage for safety. interesting health-related facts. All 54.2% (in 2011). I ntroduction to hazardous C u sto m e r a n d E m p l oye e employees undergo compulsory  67 out of 84 locations have atmosphere and principle awareness on health and safety. periodical medical examination shown a positive change in safety of protection of electrical Following rules and regulations depending on age and work profile. quotient. equipment (Visakh Refinery). as per SOP. These results are digitised and Gas explosion and modelling Improved housekeeping. made available to each employee HSE Highlights using computational fluid Pledge boards and notice boards. through the wellness portal.  17 personnel from LPG locations 3 dynamics and use of CFD Regular Fire drills for safety and and 765 personnel from OD&E in safety studies on FLAX awareness. We conduct health, education, locations have undergone live fire software. awareness sessions and diagnostic training. Hazard and Operability Study Transporters camps for employees and contract C orporate HSE department (HAZOP). Restriction on driving vehicles workmen also at different locations. developed and organised a National Safety Council Seminar during midnight hours. Medical check-ups are carried out module on ‘HSE training program’ on Safety. Strictly following safety guidelines. for contract workmen and truck for field and safety officers of all H uman factor and system  Monitoring of speed limits and crew to ensure their wellbeing. In SBUs supported by internal and design. route deviation. these check-ups, the workmen are external faculty. Terrorist Attack Mock Drill at Nasik LPG Plant More Training for crew. made aware of their current health During the stakeholder Increase awareness of the drivers status and are advised suitable engagement sessions held as a part on traffic rules and speed limits. measures to maintain normal health of Sustainability Reporting exercise, Availability of PPEs. and avoid illness. 84 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 85 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive  health check-up camp covering A 102 contract workers was Paramarsh Consult in Health Initiatives Rewarding Achievements organised at Rajahmundry LPG Co n f i d e n ce, Our Corporation has several positions) was introduced in order HP Outstanding Achievers Plant in July 2016. launched in reward and recognition schemes, to encourage, recognise and reward Award (For Junior A talk on Stress Management March 2017, encouraging all employees for team-based behaviours. This Management) and Meditation was organised is a uniquelyimproved performance. Various wbi-annual award acknowledges: This award has been instituted by Team HR from Mangalore in personalised assistance platform reward and recognition schemes Officers who are excellent team for the officers from junior July 2016. The talk was given where employees, their spouses are instituionalised based on the leaders. management to recognise their by Brahma Kumaris to the and children can share and seek Periodic Medical Health Talks and grades of employees and are Officers who inspire their teams outstanding contributions. During Examination for Lectures employees of Mangalore-based consultation on any personal or Employees mentioned below. to perform better. the year 2016-17, 57 employees were locations. professional matter, from expert Officers who put in efforts for felicitated with the HP Outstanding An eye check-up camp was counsellors. It is a 24x7 service, HP ICON Awards (For subordinate development. Achievers Award. organised in July 2016 at GMOwhich runs through various contact Leadership Positions) Officers who demonstrate values WZ with an expert team of modes such as Telephonic HP ICON Awards of effective team management. HP Gaurav Awards (For physicians. conversation, Mobile App, Live chat for officers Officers who serve as role models. Non-Management) Aarogyam Hrudaysampada, a through portal and Email etc and is in Middle Th i s a n n u a l health awareness lecture on available in ten languages. The management 16 employees were felicitated a w a r d rampantly increasing heartinformation shared by employees or Health Camps Sessions on roles (leadership during the award ceremony. recognises Nonrelated diseases was organised their dependents is kept completely and Medical Ergonomics, Management Check-ups Psychology for employees at Khapri LPG confidential. for Contract and Stress employees who Plant, Nagpur, in February Workmen and Management have demonstrated exemplary 2017. A total of 25 participants Through this platform, the Tank-truck Crew commitment in the pursuance of benefited from the programme. employees and their dependents the Corporation’s business interests can avail counselling in confidence and have performed exceedingly for issues that can lead to stress and well on various key parameters. anxiety, such as: During the year 85 employees were felicitated. • Work-life balance, lack of support systems, etc. • Work-related support, such as career guidance, conflict Basic LifeYoga and 16 Employees HP ICON Awards management, etc. Support Trainings Meditation for Handling Camps (For Middle • Communication issues, etc. Management Roles) Emergencies • Relationship issues at home/work. • Health concerns. • Any other personal/professionalrelated matter. Fostering Growth 57 Employees We are cognisant of the fact that system involves several processes, is emphasised upon to enhance HP Outstanding Achievers an organisation’s growth is a including relative assessment of the robustness of performance Award (For Junior close reflection of the aspirations performance that eliminates management, by aligning all Management) of its employees and it is vital biases. All employees undergo employees towards the common that these efforts are assessed. this appraisal process and career organisational objectives. More Gauging performance allows development review periodically. than 80% officers are covered under individuals to understand where The HR is focused on creating a the standardised KPI templates. they stand in their career graph high-performance work culture The following environment and and how they will be able to through a structured process of social parameters are available contribute efficiently. We have a goal setting and performance under these standardised KPI Performance Management System reviews, while rewarding employees templates, depending on the role with a systematic framework that recognises proactive initiatives, for their efforts through objective performance assessment. As a part and responsibility of the individual: Stakeholder Management. 85 Employees shortcomings, strengths and of the process, goals and targets Corporate Social Responsibility. HP Gaurav Awards weaknesses. It not only serves the for the year are defined in terms Energy Efficiency. (For Non-Management) purpose of rewarding individuals of Key Performance Indicators Environment Stewardship. appropriately, but also enables and corresponding milestones are Health & Safety. identification of training needs, identified in the Balanced Score Support towards sustainability exposure and guidance to Card format. The standardisation efforts. overcome pitfalls. Our appraisal of Key Performance Indicators 86 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 87 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Attracting Talent Engaging with our Workforce As one of the Fortune 500 length and breadth of the country. work and culture. The structured Employee engagement is pivotal for Yuvantage the youth by enhancing their organisation, HPCL has a strong We encourage opportunities for programme provides the new employee retention. We understand It is a unique Youth managerial, behavioural and brand presence and brand resonance persons with disabilities across officers with an overview of the the role employee engagement engagement technical competencies. among the top engineering/ various domains, including HR, Oil and Gas industry, different programmes play in making the initiative for non-engineering talent available Legal, Information System, etc. Strategic Business Units and the workforce more involved in their Officers below the It is a wave of change brought across the country. We are including special recruitment drives organisation’s culture. In September work and enthusiastic about the age of 35 years, out ‘By the Youth, For the Youth continuously building strong for hiring candidates from the PWD 2016, the Samavesh process has part they play in the Corporation’s uniting HPites and Of the Youth’. Various events connections and brand image category. been revamped and divided into success. We have initiated several across all nooks categorised into Euphoria, Spark, among the potential talent pool three phases to build a relationship such programmes for greater and corners of the country. It is Blitz and Carnival are organised at through various engagement We ensure to create a learning between: employee satisfaction. aimed at holistic development of location, zonal and corporate level. initiatives, our presence in Print/ and supportive work environment 1) C orporate: Employee and The themes of these events have Social/Broadcast media and having that promote a healthy, motivating organisation techno-business, cultural, social one of the best HR practices in the and collaborative work life balance 2)  Z one: Employee and the and fun elements. country. Being one of the fastest for an individual. We protect the respective zonal team growing companies in the oil & interests of our employees through 3) Location: Employee and the Yuvantage is a biggest ever platform gas sector plus the tag of being a fair and transparent policies that respective reporting officer and in the history of HPCL and the Oil Navratna organisation has enabled promote their growth, safety and his/her team & Gas PSUs, which enables youth us to reach a vantage point and wellbeing. We continuously strive coming together in large numbers, project brand HPCL as an Employer to leverage technology in all our Samavesh was scheduled in 1,200+ officers have been part of Choice. hiring processes leading to more September 2016 for 146 new of Yuvantage Journey since its than 90% of process being online recruits who joined the Corporation. inception in 2013. Yuvantage is not We recruit the best available talent thereby promoting Digital India During this edition, a day-long only being appreciated by the youth across the country through an campaign and having a positive programme called PARADIGM was but it is also receiving its share of objective, structured and reliable impact on the carbon offsetting also organised at the zonal level appreciation from middle and senior assessment process that enables us as well. for the new officers before they management. MoP&NG has directed to get on board talented individuals went on to join their initial posting HPCL to organise Yuvantage at with a zeal to excel. We ensure Programmes for New locations. During the programme, Industry level involving both public diversity in our hiring process by Joinees the new joinees were introduced to and private players. selecting candidates belonging to We conduct an onboarding different policies and procedures, unprivileged background including programme, called Samavesh, given the opportunity to voice their Corporate Ran-neeti other backward classes, scheduled for the smooth induction of new concerns and also interact with the Yuvantage, in partnership with castes/tribes etc. as well as by joinees. It integrates our new hires Zonal Heads. Capability Building Department, visiting various campuses across seamlessly into our Corporation’s HQO, launched the fourth edition of the business simulation game, Corporate Ran-neeti, in 2016. It is meant to provide the participants with a unique opportunity to be the master of their very own business venture. Reboot@35+ Reboot@35+ was l a u n c h e d by o u r Chairman & Managing Director, for officers in the age group of 35-50 years. It aims to operationalise the vision of engaging ourselves, our immediate families and fostering and building common interest networks across the Corporation. It aims at transforming one’s approach towards life to be able to appreciate its multifaceted nature. Samavesh Programme for New Recruits 88 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 89 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive HP ON AIR HR Direct deployed along with the LPG Providing Employee We understand the Superannuation Benefits HP on AIR HR Direct, provides employees Strategic Business Unit. The Benefits importance of child care to Employees aims to with an opportunity to directly initiative aims at bringing during adoption and provide Our Corporation has formed four enhance communicate with the Directorabout significant productivity We have invested ourselves leave, for a period of 60 days, separate trusts to administer employee HR on any issue concerning their improvements by fostering diligently to promote a to female employees who superannuation benefits to its engagement aspirations, current practices, collaboration, building ownership conducive work environment have legally adopted. employees – Provident Fund and internal communication at people processes or feedand imparting knowledge and skills with a good work-life balance Trust, Post Retirement Medical HPCL with ‘Infotainment’ using the forward for areas related to the to enable the employees, especially for all HPites. We extend our Benefit Trust, Superannuation powerful medium of Radio. It is a Corporation’s vision, strategy, the LPG SBU workmen, to achieve support through a number of process, a leave of 60 days is Benefit Trust and Group Gratuity 1 hour daily show hosted on internet systems, future direction and excellence in a consistent manner. schemes and programmes, such provided. This provision is for Assurance Trust. As required by during the lunch time. The objective collective aspirations. The as performance-related profitfemale employees who do not have governing regulations, all the of HP ON Air is to inform, educate, Director-HR interacts interacts Project Utkrisht sharing scheme, superannuation any children and have obtained a Trusts are recognised under engage and keep all the employees with employees through this online Project Utkrisht is benefits, leave encashment, child through surrogacy. Income Tax Act & PF Trust is also connected. With leaders’ views, forum and address their concerns. a collaborative gratuity, during-service and notified as an Exempted Trust by employees’ voice on air, news about initiative of HR post-retirement medical benefits, Child Care Leave EPFO under Ministry of Labour & HPCL, latest updates on what is Workmen participation in (Marketing) and benefits for family members of the A leave period of 730 calendar Employment under Government happening around us and of-course management the OD&E SBU, employees posthumously, housing days can be availed by our female of India. Our Provident Fund great music are some the elements Project Utkarsh aimed at bringing loan, vehicle loan, furniture loan, employees for child care. This leave Trust continues to give higher of this program. The HP radio has Project Utkarsh, is a significant LFA, transfer benefits, employees’ is to facilitate care of children aged returns than the EPFO mandated played a key role in aligning longitudinal and improvements in productivity. The children education loan, computer up to five years and can be availed returns to the employees of the employees with the organisational integrated initiative, project has resulted in the bay loan and monthly vehicle twice during the entire service. Corporation. The SBFS Trust takes objective by strengthening their conceptualised by the filling time being reduced from 49 allowance. However, it is restricted to only the care of Post retirement pension Connect with the HP family and HR team and jointly to 46 minutes during the year i.e. first two children. requirements of the employees enhancing employee engagement. designed and a reduction of 6%. Maternity Leave through tie-up with LIC of India. We strongly support the women Paternity Leave Our PRMB trust covers the in our workforce and foster a In 2016-17, a paternity leave of 15 post-retirement medical needs gender-sensitive workplace. calendar days has been introduced of retired employees and their Maternity leave is one among the for male employees. Paternity dependent family members. many benefits that are provided leave is granted to a married at our Corporation. It is a paid male regular employee, having Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan leave of 180 days to support our less than two surviving children, Yojana (PMJDY) female employees for prenatal during the confinement of his wife Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and postnatal care. This leave is for childbirth. Paternity leave is is a National Mission for Financial admissible in case of a miscarriage also admissible to a married male Inclusion to ensure access to for a period of six weeks. regular employee having less than 2 financial services for every surviving children on valid adoption citizen of the country. It was of a child below the age of one year. launched by the Government We strongly support the of India in August 2014. The women in our workforce and Launch of HP ON AIR Automated Online Time scheme provides the facility of foster a gender-sensitive Certification Package accident insurance cover up to workplace. An Online Time Certification `1 lakh without any charge for the Package has been designed for account holder, loan benefits of the payment of shift allowance, up to `5,000 and many more. The Adoption Leave acting allowance and overtime scheme was launched to cover We understand the importance compensation to employees. This contract workmen in order to of child care during adoption and package has been implemented take care of their financial needs. provide leave, for a period of 60 in our refineries, LPG plants and All locations were advised to days, to female employees who OD&E locations. It ensures accurate ensure coverage of the contract have legally adopted. This provision payment of allowance applicable workmen under PMJDY. Under is admissible for a woman employee to the employees, based on their this scheme, 99.4% coverage who has less than two surviving attendance data, without any of contractual workmen was children and wish to adopt a child manual intervention. ensured by April 2016. aged up to five years. Surrogacy Leave 730 Days Under this scheme, 99.4% coverage of contractual In support of our female employees No. of leaves which can workmen was ensured by for taking care of their child be availed by female April 2016. Project Utkrisht obtained through a surrogacy employees for child care. 90 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 91 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Pradhan Mantri Suraksha We adhere to the ten A total of 28 Memorandum of including revision in rating based The process for grievance ICS E-Care has an in-built Bima Yojana (PMSBY) principles of the UN Global Settlements were reached during on MERC recommendation. In case handling through the mechanism to ensure Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Compact and uphold the last year under the provisions of dissatisfaction with the final Management Employee resolution within the defined Yojana is a scheme to cover all the internationally-proclaimed of the Industrial Disputes Act, decision, an option for appeal has Relations Committee has timelines; in case of existing contractual workmen in human rights. 1947, covering implementation of been provided to the aggrieved been in place for ensuring non-resolution, a three-tier order to take care of their financial automation, closure of location, officers. All appeals to the appellate effective and expeditious escalation mechanism is needs, as well as the needs of their redeployment/rationalisation authority are also reviewed in detail handling of grievances. defined. family in case of accidental death conduct and we undertake trainings of manpower, productivity and redressed, including revision or disability at the workplace or for generating an awareness improvement, etc. We have formal of rating. otherwise. Given this, all locations amongst our employees on the agreements with Trade Unions aggrieved officer and the nature were advised to ensure coverage same. We believe in conducting all to cover issues related to labour of grievance. of the problem. 93% of the MERC looks into all of the contractual workmen under our business activities with ethics laws, health and safety of our • Cross-functional constitution employees expressed delight for representations carefully the PMSBY scheme for the year and transparency. Our Corporation employees, training and education of MERCs to ensure objective the resolution of their concerns through a process of 2015-16, followed by the renewal is a workplace that provides a and grievance redressal. grievance handling. through ICS E-Care. For those systematic review and for 2016-17. As of September 2016, platform for equal opportunity to • MERC looks into all representations who do not have ready access conducts discussions with 100% of the contractual workmen all and we strive towards ensuring carefully through a process of to computers or the internet, the We emphasise on arriving at the concerned person, as were covered. that all our employees grow and systematic review and conducts proxy-access facility is available. bilateral agreements with the required. prosper in the organisation, thus discussions with the concerned On an average, 990 service Union while implementing LPG Incentive Scheme enhancing their standard of living. person, as required. requests are registered every any change management The LPG incentive scheme was We adhere to the ten principles of • The aggrieved officer, if not satisfied HR Central: ICS E-Care month and the resolution time is initiative involving the nonreleased for all the months in the UN Global Compact and uphold by the decision of MERC, may This is an online platform for a 4.63 days. management employees. the year 2016-17 for all Noninternationally-proclaimed human appeal within 10 days of the same. single point of contact, for all Management employees across rights. We have a robust grievance HRand Payroll-related concerns. Shri Raja Kulkarni Samman LPG Plants. The incentive was mechanism in place to address and The revised policy has been Through this portal, an employee HPCL has formed a Trust called released in the subsequent months’ resolve any cases of violation of HP Connect introduced with the provision can seek resolution for several ‘HPCL Trust for Promoting Industrial payroll, in coordination with the human rights that might arise. There HP Connect was conducted in of recommending the review issues such as compensation and Harmony’ which has instituted Zonal HR coordinators, as well as was no incident of discrimination coordination with the Employee of performance ratings by benefits, business travel, leaves, prestigious Shri Raja Kulkarni the location in charges. The LPG on the grounds of race, colour, Relations Department, HQO and countersigning authority in children education loan, children Samman to recognise outstanding incentive has been released with gender, religion, political opinion, NWZ. The participants were case of grievances pertaining to scholarship, payroll, etc. It has contribution of Union Leaders in 100% accuracy and coverage. nationality, extraction or social given training on various topics, performance rating, for further an in-built mechanism to ensure the arena of Industrial Relations. origin in the reporting period. such as Corporate Strategy, review and revision of performance resolution within the defined Integrated Margin Management, rating, if deemed fit. The final timelines; in case of non-resolution, POSH workshop The LPG incentive scheme Freedom of Association Compensation Management decision of the countersigning a three-tier escalation mechanism Employee relations department was released for all the and Collective Bargaining beyond LTS & CDP, etc. authority is communicated to the i s d e f i n e d . Th e e m p l oye e organised a one day workshop months in the year 2016-17 We believe that productive aggrieved officer. feedback on the portal seeks to all the Internal Complaints for all Non-Management industrial relations are primary for Management Employee review based on five parameters, Committee members on all India employees across LPG Plants. the growth of our Corporation and Relations Committee Under this provision, all aggrieved namely, responsiveness, courtesy basis, on 17 th Jaunuary 2017 to its non-management employees. (MERC) officers are given personal hearing extended, understanding the create awareness on their roles Supporting Human Freedom of association and collective bargaining, along with the The process for grievance handling through the Management Employee and grievances are redressed, problem, timelines and resolution and responsibilities. Rights right to freedom of expression, are Relations Committee has been in supported our Corporation. Nonplace for ensuring effective and We are resolute when it comes Management employees across all expeditious handling of grievances. to strict adherence to respecting our locations and operations are It was implemented with enhanced human rights and abiding by all allowed to form Unions. 97% of our features in 2016-17. The revised the relevant laws. We believe Non-Management employees are policy included detailed guidelines that respecting the dignity of an currently a part of these Unions for timely grievance redressal employee is critical to the very and this enables them to bring through a decentralised mechanism foundation of an organisation. up their concerns, if any, before for process implementation and the Corporation. These issues online workflow application. The We embrace diversity and inclusion, are resolved through discussions salient features of the same are while bolstering a culture of with the management to arrive at as follows: empowerment for our employees. sustainable solutions. E-enabled platform through We have stringent mechanisms in the HP Portal for submission of place against cases of any kind We emphasise on arriving at grievances. of discrimination on the basis of bilateral agreements with the Union • De-centralised two-tier structure religion, origin, gender, status, etc. while implementing any change of grievance redressal with the Policies at our Corporation uphold management initiative involving MERCs and appellate authority strict adherence to ethical business the non-management employees. as per the salary grade of the 92 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 93 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Entrepreneurship Development Project for SC/ST Women Helping People affected by Floods Serving the Communities Child Care and Education 97 Healthcare 99 Skill Development 100 Environment and 102 Community Development Expenditure in CSR 103 Projects Project Agastya: Fueling scientific temper 94 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 95 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Promotion of Sports Project Dhanwantari : Reaching medical aid to remote areas Serving the Communities The Corporation has a board• HPCL will implement CSR and Education, National Health approved CSR policy. The objectives activities to empower weaker, Policy and National Health Missions, of the CSR policy are: less privileged and marginalised Healthcare in India – Vision 2020, sections of the society to create National Skill Development Mission • HPCL will focus its CSR activities Social Capital. and policies on community/rural on local communities around development. which the Company lives The Corporation’s CSR focus and operates like Refineries, areas are inspired from national Terminals, Depots, LPG Plants, developmental policies and Pipelines, Aviation Stations, Lube international commitments of the Blending Plants, Project locations nation for advancement of children, and other offices, etc. HPCL is women and weaker sections. Our committed to allocate at least CSR focus areas are based on 60% of the CSR Budget for these inspiration from legislations on local communities. Child Rights, Child Development All projects/ programs/ activities will be in the areas of: Celebrating CSR Month Introduction Our collective efforts are essential for creating a positive impact on Child Care Education Healthcare Skill Development Sports Environment the quality of life of those who are marginalised and less privileged. and Community Development We believe in the inclusive development of the communities in which we operate. Rather than creating new parallel systems, we have adopted the strategy of ‘bridging the gaps’ by identifying and Child Care and Education narrowing those gaps in the existing system. We thus endeavour to ensure the maximum impact on the disadvantaged populace from our well-planned initiatives. Management Approach We believe in the creation of value for them. Whenever feasible, appropriate methods for shared values and interdependency we hire locally and use businesses consultation as we recognise that between business and its and services from the areas around challenges or disagreements with stakeholders, including community our operations. We also work with our communities may arise over and environment. Over the years community partners and NGOs to the course of our projects and we have built a mutual trust find ways to create programme and our business activities. We have and strong relationship with provide support around our areas of processes in place to address the communities around our operation. Our employees and their grievances with the aim to operations area. Not only do we families also participate in these maintain a good relationship with regularly connect with residents of events through volunteer activities, them. Long-term agreements Distribution of Study Material to School Children by Mumbai Refinery these local communities, we treat thus fostering the spirit of social with NGOs and execution them fairly and with respect. We inclusivity. partners provide us the expertise A major focus of our CSR classes. We understand the vital for the specially-abled, enhancing recognise that every community and assistance much needed in activities is to address child role a corporation can play as the quality of education, training is different and has needs that are We engage with communities executing various projects. care and education in local a driving force in transforming and skill-set development among unique. The focus of our community regularly to understand their communities, remote areas lives through education. We are youth as well as making provision development initiatives is to create concerns and needs. As part and backward areas. Education running several projects that for wholesome meals at schools. long-term economic and social of our activities we also ensure is the key to uplift socially focus on multiple facets, such as backward or underprivileged woman empowerment, education 96 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 97 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive rural areas. In collaboration with NIIT, we train children from appear for two evaluations on the completion of the programme and 6,000 underprivileged and marginal are awarded certificates. Training Students trained with Computer families in basic computer of teachers is also conducted for Education education. The students are sustaining the project for the longprovided with a 40-hour session term. In 2016-17 we trained 6,000 and reading material. They have to students under this project. Healthcare HP Scholarship Distribution Project ADAPT: Providing Support to Children with Special Needs HP Scholarships and to encourage young minds. providing education and reducing To energise the academic talent Project Akshayapatra supplements dropout rate, but also in the overall among meritorious students from the efforts of Government Mid-Day development of the beneficiary SC, ST, OBC and PWD Communities Meal Scheme resulting in reduction families and their empowerment. scholarships were distributed to in malnutrition, improved school During the fiscal year, we have 10,932 school and college students. attendance and cognitive abilities. reached out to 12,000 girls under It aims to make wholesome meals this programme. 10,932 available for children so that they School and College Students get an opportunity to stay in school and learn better. It focuses 12,000 received Scholarships on tackling the challenges posed No. of Girl Child Educated by malnutrition in economically Project ADAPT weaker sections of the society, thus Project Agastya Access to education must not be enabling them to uplift themselves Furthering our efforts in providing Eye Check-up Camp for School Children denied to anyone. Project ADAPT in an equal and just society. This quality education we have also focuses on providing education year the project successfully made initiated Project Agastya that aims People across the country are Dhanwantari that provide free basic weaker sections of the society. to differently-abled children to provisions for 12,585 children across to ignite the curious minds of school susceptible to diverse issues healthcare facilities in the ‘last mile During 2016-17 the Corporation provide them equal opportunities India. children by fuelling scientific temper and challenges in healthcare. connect’. This year the project made provisions for 1,100 heart and growth. The project enables at a young age. Under this project, We have initiated the following reached out to approximately 350 patients under this programme. them to become independent through various special training 12,585 mobile science laboratories provide the infrastructure and learning programmes for the marginalised and disadvantaged communities in villages and urban slums. Project Suraksha programmes and therapy methods. Children provided with Mid-Day opportunities to underprivileged It also sensitises the stakeholders at large to accept them as equal Meals across India school children. This year the programme reached 23 schools and terms of extending accessibility to good and affordable healthcare: 350 We are concerned about the longdistance truck drivers who form the Villages and Urban Slums most vulnerable group in our supply members of society. We touched 9,548 students. the lives of 315 differently-abled Nanhi Kali Project Dhanwantari reached under Project chain as they are most exposed to Through the Nanhi Kali initiative we Lack of quality infrastructure in rural Dhanwantari risks of STIs such as HIV/AIDS, etc. children this reporting period through this programme. aim to provide quality education to the girl child especially in rural 9,548 areas, access to basic medicines and healthcare facilities and low-quality Dil without Bill Project Suraksha is an initiative that reaches out to them by offering free Students reached under Project 315 and socially backward regions. There is increasing emphasis on Agastya services hint towards a dire need for improvement in these areas. The Medical cost has been observed to be one of the most common reasons medical consultation, counselling and other outreach services through Differently-abled Children women taking part in decision project aims to provide medical help for rural bankruptcy. Add to that ‘Khushi Clinics’ at our retail outlets Helped making in different walks of life. Project Unnati in villages in some of the remotest the plight of those living in extreme on highways. We have seven such Education lies at the foundation As the world transitions regions of the country and urban poverty and dearth of resources. clinics on highways. Project Akshayapatra of woman empowerment, which increasingly towards a digital era slums through mobile medical With this in mind, we initiated The UN SDGs state that in 2016 enables better decision-making where governments, businesses units that can reach the doorsteps project Dil without Bill, which aims approximately 155 million children skills and reduces inequalities. We and society can interact on a of the community. We have 17 to provide free heart surgery for under 5 years of age were suffering strongly believe that educating girl platform and relate to each other, Mobile Medical Vans under Project patients hailing from economically from stunted growth (too short child means educating family. The digital literacy has become not for their age, a result of chronic malnutrition). It is significant to note Corporation, through its support network, constantly engages with only a necessity, but a way of life. Project Unnati aims to support the 17 1,100 that ‘to be well-read the child must families and villagers to remove Digital India initiative by spreading Mobile Medical Vans under Heart Patients provided be well-fed’. We are committed to social barriers that has kept them computer literacy among school Project Dhanwantari support under Dil without Bill reach out to children across India in from getting any education. This children from underprivileged Programme our zeal to prevent malnourishment programme not only helps in communities in semi urban and 98 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 99 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Skill Development Curricula Our Corporation have renovated SDI-Visakhapatnam has won several The course structure is as per facilities like hostels, classrooms, accolades for its contribution in the Qualification Packs/National laboratories, canteen, recreation domain of skill development. Occupation Standards norms and other amenities in the campus. approved by respective Sector Entrepreneurship Skill Councils through National Skill Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Development Project Development Corporation. The Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) (EDP) for SC/ST Youth course duration is for three months The SDI-Visakhapatnam has HPCL’s culture thus encourages and with batch size of 30 students in obtained 4-Star rating accreditation enables its employees to participate each trade. as PMKVY Centre and has been in various CSR project which allocated targets for four shorttranslate in nation building activities. Collaborating with Stakeholders term courses, viz. Electrician, Fitter, Employees of HPCL who make We took this opportunity to involve Inventory Clerk and Plumber. up All India Hindustan Petroleum and bring in synergy among all SC/ST Employees’ Welfare stakeholders and enlist their support, Being a part of the Government of Association (HPSEWA) launched viz., Central Government (Petroleum India’s Skill Development Mission, Entrepreneurship Development Providing Hands on Training to Youth by Professionals & Natural Gas, Skill Development the SDI-Visakhapatnam is reaping Project (EDP) for SC/ST Youth & Entrepreneurship), National Skill various benefits, including better which aims to define ‘development India has a big youth population, allowing them an opportunity to Information & Broadcasting, Development Corporation, Sector placement opportunities for its of marginalised community’ beyond which is expected to be the future become economically independent Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu (currently Skill Councils, State Government of students and attracting prospective the scope of economic parameter. economic driver for the country’s through these vocational training the Hon’ble Vice President of India), Andhra Pradesh, District Collector employers. It is among the topThe programme introduces, overall development. It is essential programmes. In this fiscal period Hon’ble Union Minister for Civil Office, Andhra Pradesh State ranking institutes of this kind and mentors, handholds and provides that this population is equipped Project Swavalamban trained Aviation, Shri P. Ashok Gajapati Skill Development Corporation, is paving the way for attracting business platform to first time with relevant skill set to contribute 4,500 youths. Raju and Hon’ble Union Minister Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal students even for paid courses, entrepreneurs, a concept which was towards nation-building. To for Petroleum & Natural Gas, Corporation, Income Tax Office, which will help in long-term selfnew in the field of CSR or any other provide the essential thrust to the capability of the youth from the 4,500 Shri Dharmendra Pradhan (currently heading Petroleum Ministry and Rajahmundry Central various training partners from the Prison, sustenance for SDI. entrepreneur courses. During March 2017, 35 entrepreneurs graduated Youth Trained in Different Skill weaker sections of the society and Ministry of Skill Development & private sector through APSSDC, Under the PMKVY scheme, the and 35 enterprises were registered Sets to enable them to become selfEntrepreneurship). and others. Institute has been allotted a special under MSME for industrial and reliant, we have initiated various project of rendering its training to non-industrial goods and services. projects under skill development Highlights of the Skill Campus and Facilities Prisoners of Rajahmundry Central programmes: Development Institute The Institute currently operates Prison inside the jail premises. Four Within the short span of time, on interim basis from a campus hundred prisoners will be trained in Project Swavalamban starting from the day of its offered by Greater Visakhapatnam Welding and Plumbing trades over Our efforts towards enabling inception, the institute has taken Municipal Corporation. the next two years. children and youth to grow up and remarkable forward strides in earn a decent livelihood encompass terms of achievements. These those who might have a different skill Skill Development Institute achievements are: set than the traditional academic We have aligned ourselves with the learning capabilities. We are driven Government of India’s National Skill Training to provide these young men and Development Mission by setting up We offer courses on Plumbing, women with an opportunity to be Skill Development Institute (SDI) Welding, Computer Network able to contribute to the growing at Visakhapatnam. We are the lead Application, Electrician work, workforce. partner for SDI-Visakhapatnam. The Fitting work, Instrumentation, Institute manages its affairs from its Pipe Fitting, Warehouse Picking/ Project Swavalamban trains school own resources and with assistance Packing, Heating Venting and Air dropouts for employment in various from our Corporation in certain Conditioning. In the reporting sectors like Automobile repairing, areas of day-to-day administration. year, 338 participants were Hospitality, Welding, Driving, benefited by this program. SDI, Construction, Tailoring, Beautician The Skill Development Institute, Visakhapatnam, also conducted course etc., and thus enhancing Visakhapatnam, was dedicated to five training programme for 90 their employability. The project the Nation on 20th October 2016, by LPG Mechanics as per OISD 154 also covers difficult geographical the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Andhra Standards and 50 Forecourt areas, which includes Naxalite Pradesh, Shri N. Chandrababu Salesmen of retail outlets on a pilot areas and conflict areas of Jammu Naidu, in the presence of the then basis as a precursor for conducting & Kashmir. It aims to boost their Hon’ble Union Minister for Housing similar programme under HSSCcapabilities in market-driven skills & Urban Poverty Alleviation and approved courses. Training Youth in different skill sets at Skill Development Institute, Visakhapatnam 100 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 101 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Environment and Community Development Expenditure in CSR Projects The environment is yet another been participating in a substantial activities promoting objectives The Government of India (GoI) has mandated a CSR No. of Beneficiaries important aspect of our Corporate manner and has contributed by of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan spend, which is 2% of the profits earned during the Social Responsibility initiatives. Our providing LPG connection to the through ShramDaan and awareness preceding three years on certain identified activities Name of the 2016-17 2015-16 efforts are driven towards making underprivileged section of the campaigns. through the Companies Act 2013. We have been Project a difference through direct impact society. Our Corporation released undertaking various programme to bring about measures as well as generating 5.3 million new LPG connections Our Corporation constructed 112 prosperity in the communities where we operate. We Adapt 315 300 awareness in the society on our under the PMUY programme. school toilets out of which 72 incurred an expenditure of `108.11 crore in 2016-17 on onward journey towards sustainable were for girl students. We also various CSR initiatives and this is well exceeding the 2% 23 schools living. These programmes are Swachh Bharat Abhiyan constructed 37 community toilets mandate. It reflects our sincere commitment towards Agastya covering 9,548 focused on provision of clean The Government of India has at public places with large footfalls. building stronger communities. students drinking water, development of steered a national level campaign These projects are implemented infrastructure, sanitation, etc., for the to promote cleaner and hygienic across the length and breadth Akshaya Patra 12,585 12,000 underprivileged and marginalised environs. The campaign entails of the country, including Andhra Total Expenditure on CSR Activities groups in the society. cleaning roads, promoting Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, (in ` crore) Nanhi Kali 12,000 11,000 sanitation, constructing toilets and Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat and Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala 50% building other basic infrastructure. Haryana. The Corporation has also Unnati 6,000 5,000 Yojana (PMUY) We are proud to take part in this undertaken special initiatives for 108.11 It is a welfare programme of the mission and contribute to this providing prefabricated disabled110% Government of India to provide LPG massive task. Employees across the friendly toilets for college hostels. Dil without Bill 1,100 800 connection to BPL families. Under Corporation’s business locations this scheme, our Corporation has have participated in various 17 MMVs catering 71.76 to approximately Dhanwantari 17 MMVs 350 villages/urban slums 34.07 7 clinics on Suraksha 7 highways Swavalamban 4,500 3,737 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 Percentage Increase Details of expenditures incurred in 2016-17 on various CSR projects are mentioned on Page 45-50 of Annual Report 2016-17. Feedback from NGOs and CSR Beneficiaries During the stakeholder engagement sessions held as a part of Sustainability Reporting exercise, the representative sample of NGOs and CSR beneficiaries Pradhan Official Mantri Ujjwala Language Awards Yojana have praised few of our CSR initiatives as mentioned below: Referring to Healthcare units Education to Material and Mobile Medical Our Corporation tertiary care which provide underprivileged Social Support Vans released 5.3 million new centres for healthcare at girl children LPG connections under specialty and doorstep for super specialty poor the PMUY programme. cases 102 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 103 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Product Responsibility Research and Development 106 Delighting Customers 108 104 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 105 Quality Control Lab at Mumbai Refinery In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Product Responsibility Product innovation and research The lifecycle approach and the health, safety and environmentand development are an integral sustainability of our products related risks. Thereafter, the part of sustainability and business across the value chain is considered appropriate remedial steps, as performance at our Corporation. by systems that spot, evaluate and recommended, are implemented. We interweave them in our vision control risks. The product design and mission. Be it incorporating stage incorporates safety measures, Our stakeholders are increasingly intelligent systems or investing in where customer health and safety interested in responsible products, advanced technology, we have been are a priority. Systematic processes which have been a major driver for consistently striving for innovation are in place and we communicate research in cleaner fuels. Customer and improvement. The focus of information pertaining to customer satisfaction is at the heart of our our technological advancement is safety through booklets and business strategy and we work primarily to address risks pertaining guidelines on product-handling symbiotically with them on product to climate change, to improve procedure and risks, including, stewardship. Further, we have a resource efficiency, creation of Material Safety Data Sheets robust framework to monitor environment-friendly products and (MSDS). MSDS are distributed to and track incidents pertaining to HP HiGAS Technology Hydrogen PSA Technology to tackle air emissions. all personnel involved in product product stewardship and assess our handling and usage. Qualified performance periodically. We also ensure compliance and adhere to We h a v e m a d e n o t a b l e This SprayMax nozzle performance HP CoSol Safety, throughout the lifecycle auditors assess all our operations achievements in 2016-17 in is better than existing licensorWe have developed a highlyof our products, is an essential related to manufacturing, storage all relevant legal regulations. product innovation and process supplied nozzles in terms of dryselective HP CoSol process for element in our business practices. and marketing periodically for upgradation. gas yield and conversion. lube oil yield improvement in Solvent Extraction units. This was Research and Development (R&D) HP-HiGAS Technology Cat-Visbreaking implemented at Mumbai Refinery. HPGRDC developed a new Technology The commercial plant trials resulted Our conviction for providing laboratories in the areas of FCC, experience in their respective fields. generation HP-HiGAS technology R&D has developed the Catin 2-3 weight % raffinate-yield resource-efficient and disruptive Hydro-processing, Catalysis, BioThe R&D centre became functional for gas absorption and separation Visbreaking process for increasing improvements for 500 N distillate solutions have inspired us to set processes, Crude Evaluation and in 2016-17, with research being application. The technology is the distillate yield in the Visbreaker and de-asphalted oil operation, up a HP Green Research and Fuels Research, Analytical and conducted on the development based on ‘Process Intensification’ unit, while maintaining the stability respectively. Development Centre (HPGRDC) Nano Technology. We have a team of new products and advanced whereby it intensifies mass transfer of fuel oil. The usage of the VisCat at Bengaluru. The centre aims of 80 scientists on board with us technologies, upgradation of through rotating packed bed Catalyst helps in increasing poWer 99 to develop innovative and pathat HPGRDC. These scientists are existing ones, etc. It was dedicated having high centrifugal force. The conversion in the Visbreaking unit A high-performance gasoline breaking technologies and products recognised by the Department of to the nation by the Hon’ble Minister first-of-its-kind commercial unit and reduces the fuel oil production. fuel composition, with 99 Octane in the Energy sector. Phase I of Scientific and Industrial Research of State (Independent Charge), was commissioned at our Visakh This was successfully demonstrated rating using a suitable additive, HPGRDC has seven world-class (DSIR) for their expertise and MoP&NG, on 14th October 2016. Refinery for the process of H2S at the Visakh Refinery Visbreaker was developed. poWer 99 is the removal from fuel gas. unit with conversion improvement product, with the highest-octane of 3-4 weight %. rating in the country, targeting Hydrogen PSA Technology high-end vehicles. The product has Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) is HP FurnOKare been launched in Bengaluru and extensively used for the purification Furnace tube scaling is a commonly New Delhi markets. of Hydrogen from a mixture of gases. encountered problem in refineries, The technology is offered by very which over a period of time results We encourage the development few foreign licensors worldwide. in thick deposits. This reduces the and use of green products. In We have commercialised the heat transfer efficiency of the the reporting period our major H2PSA technology, and the first tubes and the skin temperature achievements in this domain are unit with 36,000 Nm3/hr capacity increases to the maximum design as follows: was commissioned at our Visakh temperature. To address this, the Refinery producing 99.5% H2 from R&D team developed an in-house HP-BioActiva the CCR off-gas feed. chemical formulation for online In a petroleum refinery, processcleaning of furnace tubes for waste water is treated in effluent SprayMax FCC Feed removal of scales without shutting treatment plants (ETP) by a Nozzle down the unit. The product was combination of physical, chemical R&D-designed SprayMax Feed successfully implemented at 16 and biological methods. HPGRDC nozzles were successfully installed furnaces in our refineries. developed a unique bio-additive, and are operational at the FCC Units HP-BioActiva, for use during the Inaugration of HP Green Research and Development Centre of Mumbai and Visakh Refinery. biological method. HP-BioActiva 106 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 107 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive has significant tolerance to phenol, remarkably robust and efficient technologies allow biofuel to be Digitising Transactions also offer co-branded credit cards chlorides, sulphides, ammonia, etc. in degrading the petroleum produced from other sources as Our Corporation has taken with ICICI Bank and Amex and a It can also achieve substantial crude to about 75% within 50well, like, agro-residues and lingovarious initiatives towards co-branded debit card with decrease of phenolics, BOD and 60 days. Planning for large-scale cellulosic biomass. Such ethanol is digitising transactions. 99.8% ICICI Bank. COD within a very short time production of microorganisms and called 2G Ethanol. of the payment receipts from Central CashPIN-based interval. The product was used field-level trials is in progress. The institutional customers, dealers Cash @ POS during Management Secured in Mumbai and Visakh refineries developed product is expected to At our HPGRDC, research efforts and other business associates are System Transactions Demonetisation during 2016-17. reduce the time of bioremediation are being made to develop an through electronic-payment routes. We supported the cash requirements significantly. efficient biomass process for The Retail and LPG network also of the retail outlet customers during HP-Bioremedia the development of 2G Ethanol strived to motivate customers to demonetisation. This facility was At HPGRDC, a new microbial Biofuel and 2G Bioethanol with less chemical and water adopt digital payments through provided at 749 retail outlets formulation consisting of newlyBioethanol is a renewable, earthrequirements. Further, studies on debit cards with zero bank charges, through ICICI Bank, Axis Bank isolated bacterial and fungal strains friendly biofuel that reduces in-house enzyme development mobile wallet payments, online and SBI. Cash worth `41 crore was were evaluated for crude and greenhouse gas and other harmful are also being carried out as payments, etc. We established Chip-based Interactive disbursed to the customers. sludge hydrocarbon degradation. pollutant emissions. Most ethanol the enzyme is a critical factor electronic data capture (EDC) User Cards Secure Web The trials indicated that the newlyis currently being made from corn in deciding the viability of services and mobile wallets at more Portal Awards received by DT Plus isolated microbial strains were and molasses. However, the new technology. than 12,500 retail outlets, thereby enabling digital transactions at • Best Digital Customer more than 88% of the total retail Delighting Customers fuel stations during 2016-17. At Experience Initiative present, about 96% of retail outlets • Best Engagement and are digitally enabled for cashless Loyalty Scheme of the Year transactions. DynamicAttractive parameterised Redemption Rewarding Option • Emerging Brand Awards Through our retail outlets and LPG distributor networks, we played a crucial role during demonetisation by being one of the points Other Initiatives authorised by the Government to We have launched Club HP on accept high-denomination notes. the platform of Outstanding Customer & Vehicle Care. It offers Mobile Website Loyalty Card Programme and SMS Alerts a bouquet of value-added products Our Corporation has the Drive Track and differentiated services to Plus loyalty card programme for customers. There are more than fleet customers and motorists. The their fuelling cost as it is benefits 2,000 Club HP retail outlets Drive Track Plus Card is accepted at approximately 40-50% of their across India and these provide over 12,000 retail outlets and is used operating cost. The programme differentiated services under the Management Development Programme for Retail Dealers by more than 1,30,000 customers. the fleet operators (customers) Club HP Brand. This year, 50 outlets We also have the HP Refuel loyalty by providing them with a safe and were converted into Club HP Star We are a customer-centric This fiscal, we have executed several card programme, a prepaid card for secure platform to manage their fuel and 719 outlets were converted into Corporation, where we value the customer-centric initiatives in every 624 retail customers (driving two, three expenses, while giving full control, Club HP. trust our customers show in us and SBU. The strategic expansion of New Retail Outlets and four wheeler vehicles). Due to convenience and attractive rewards diligently work towards winning our network saw the commissioning Commissioned the enhancement in user-friendly along with insurance benefits. We About 330 toilet blocks with their loyalty and ensuring their of 624 new retail outlets during features, acceptance of these cards cater to the corporate customers separate facilities for male and satisfaction with our products, 2016-17, which include 209 retail has increased, resulting in larger also through this platform. We also female customers were constructed services and the HPCL brand at outlets positioned to cater to sales volumes, from 8% to 16%, introduced the DT Plus Digital in at the retail outlets, on the state and large. It is at the centre of our customers in rural areas. This through loyalty cards. 2016-17, which is a cashless option. national highways, for the increased performance parameters and, year HP GAS served more than convenience of customers. hence, is blended in our promise to deliver products of high quality 61 million customers through a network of 4,532 LPG distributors. 61 million For Fleet Customers The Drive Track Plus Programme For Retail Customers In the retail segment, we offer the HP GAS, the LPG brand of our at the right quantity, and those A significant addition to the Customers Served aims to provide ‘More Control, More HP Refuel Card, which is an efficient Corporation, is one of the most that reflect contemporary needs. customer base was made through by HP GAS Security, More Value and More and convenient cash-management preferred brands among LPG For achieving the objective of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana Convenience’ to its customers. system with rewards and insurance consumers and has been bestowed delighting customer through timely (PMUY), by which we tried to It offers a host of unparalleled benefits. Another attractive with awards, based on market delivery, process improvement, make accessible the benefits of features and benefits, such as: reward scheme is the PAYBACK research and customer surveys, innovative products and services user-friendly fuel to people at the The transport and logistic card programme, which is a multisuch as, Super Brand and 100 Most continue to be the key focus areas. bottom of the pyramid. companies are concerned about coalition loyalty programme. We Valuable Brands. 108 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 109 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Ensuring Quality for our Customers improvement. We have various quality assurance initiatives under field salesmen and delivery boys, and motivate them to provide the inspections carried out and in the implementation of process The Marketing Quality Control department of the organisation 4,342 We meticulously gauge every our Good Fuel Promise campaign. customers a delightful experience. improvements. plays a crucial role in assuring Automated Outlets stage of the process of production ‘Check and Fill’ campaigns are the product quality for various and delivery to maintain a desired regularly conducted to invite Our Corporation has also created Knowledge management is the business units, viz. Operation & dealers, transporters, new trainees, level of quality in our products and customers to check the quality and an online e-inspection portal to most important aspect for an Distribution, Retail, Direct Sales etc. Various training programmes services. Our Corporation has a quantity before filling their vehicles. track compliance with respect organisation to grow and fulfill its (Lubes), Aviation and Pipelines. are organised by the task force strong marketing network of retail Additionally, surveillance audit of to parameters wherever there is objectives. Keeping this in mind, At present, Quality Control is at the ground level to spread outlet dealers, LPG distributors and Club HP retail outlets is conducted a scope for improvement in the the Quality Assurance department catering to the needs of its awareness on quality. The trainings Lube distributors for marketing on a regular basis through an activities being carried out at the has indigenously launched the customers through its network of are made more effective by adding primarily MS, HSD, LPG and Lubes. international certification agency outlets and distributorships. These following manuals: 45 laboratories across the country, audio-visual effects and practical Our dealers and distributors are of repute. In the reporting period, parameters are meant to help us 11 of which are NABL accredited. sessions. the brand ambassadors of our a total of approximately 45,000 exceed customer expectations, a) Handbook on DU tampering All other laboratories have Corporation and we ensure that inspections were carried out. and thereby, leading to delighted b) Handbook on DU sealing been covered under Standard The Quality Control Department various parameters of quality are met customers: Operating Procedure (SOP), of New White Oil Terminal, at these outlets and distributorships. In order to spread awareness • Quality of Products Dispensed The Quality Assurance Officers which has been developed in line Visakhapatnam is a pioneer in India Our Corporation ensures quality and ensure implementation of • Quantity of Products Dispensed also participate in business council with the ISO17025 requirements. in producing reference materials assurance for product standards as various quality parameters, regular • Safety meets and share field experiences The product quality is monitored for gasoline and diesel fuels in per BIS specifications throughout inspections and audits across our • Functioning of the Automation and exchange knowledge, at at different stages of the matrix matching streams. The the value chain. outlets and LPG distributorships are System similar platforms, round the year. product cycle in distribution and facility is accredited as Reference being carried out. These inspections • Branding and Visual Identity With best practices in place, QA is marketing, viz. Receipt, Storage Material Producer (RMP) under We believe that our zeal for and audits are comprehensive • Random Product Sampling a proactive management practice and Dispatch of the products at ISO Guide 34:2009 by NABL. This consistently improving quality at assessments covering the entire that is used to assure a stated terminals, depots and outlets. RMP initiative is a step towards every level in the process gives us gamut of operations across the The Quality Assurance team has level of quality as reiterated in the Make in India initiative with a competitive edge in the market. aspects of quality, quantity and a robust mechanism in place to Corporation’s objectives and Industry Quality Control Manual the potential of saving foreign We believe quality is not merely safety. During the inspection or address customer grievances and forms an integral part of risk (IQCM) is the guideline for currency expenditure by import meeting standards, but is to be audit, our officers ensure interaction feedback. We are an industry mitigation strategy. the oil industry to maintain substitution. taken in the spirit of continual with the dealers, their office staff leader in terms of a number of and monitor the quality of the Quality Control products at different stages. As an improvement measure in Quality is a crucial parameter, which However, to assure the quality of delivering quality and quantity differentiates an organisation from the product, our QC department products, state-of-the-art its competitors. Our organisation has implemented more stringent automation was implemented at lives the values of quality norms for the depots and terminals 1,611 outlets, which is the highest in management that is clearly defined that are over and above the IQCM any one year since our inception. Workflow in its Vision statement. requirement. The total number of automated outlets has increased to 4,342. We are unconditionally committed We have set up a Condition to providing quality products to Monitoring Laboratory for our All our products are in line our customers at any point of time. industrial customers. We have also with BIS specifications, Process And, this commitment is achieved set up laboratories for ensuring the internationally-accepted Reviews by assuring the product quality quality of the packaging material standards and customer-specific right from the refineries to the used in lube oil production. standards. We ensure that all customer’s end. Both Mumbai our products are appropriately QUALITY and Visakh refineries have NABL Quality Control issues automaticallylabelled and are in compliance (National Accreditation Board generated test reports, along with with product-labelling ASSURANCE for Testing and Calibration the commercial invoice, in order re g u l ato r y co d e s ( n at i o n a l Laboratories) accredited worldto address the concerns over the and international). During the class laboratories with state-ofavailability of the test report at reporting year, there was no the-art equipment and trained the time of bulk product supply incidence of non-compliance Summary Quality manpower. The calibration to industrial customers. pertaining to product labelling Reports laboratory ensures the accuracy and information regulations. We of calibration for various kinds of Adhering to the quote by do not sell or market any product equipment being used in these W. Edwards Deming, ‘Quality that is banned or disputed. In the laboratories and various bulk is everybody’s responsibility’, reporting year, there were also no plants in our Corporation, which customised training modules have fines for any non-compliance of in turn ensure achieving highest been developed for different target laws and regulations concerning Audits accuracy. groups, viz. operations, TT crews, the use of products and services. 110 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 111 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Vehicle Tracking System (VTS) 100% distributors. This initiative is towards improving sale and • We have implemented VTS in expected to save `2 crore annually providing a hassle-free experience, all vehicles transporting petrol as procurement cost, eliminate the thereby improving customer and diesel for monitoring the hassles of supply chain management service. The initiative is a first-ofspeed limit and route deviations. of `1 crore stationery and stock its-kind in the industry. E f f e c t i ve co m m u n i c a t i o n monitoring, and eliminate impact is maintained with erring on the release of new connections. e-KYC transporters and punitive action Introduced Aadhaar-enabled e-KYC is taken against continuing PCRA SAKSHAM in the LPG registration process for offenders. The Petroleum Conservation the first time in the industry. • Speed deviations per trip has Research Association (PCRA) been reduced from the level launched an initiative, Sanrakshan Digi Locker of 5.6 deviations/trip to 2.8 Kshamta Mahotsav (SAKSHAM), Moved around 4.3 crore SVs of LPG deviations/trip, nurturing safety with an objective of better health consumers who had submitted culture and demonstrating the and environment and for securing Aadhaar to us on the Digi Locker growing safety awareness among availability of Oil & Gas. Various platform. Our’s was the first TT drivers. location of our Corporation had company to launch the Digi Locker • A mobile application for online massively participated in the for storing SVs. All the SVs with Sadaa Aap Ke Liye Training for tracking of TTs by transporters, initiative and sensitised stakeholders us have been loaded into the Digi Ji Haan Samarth Training for LPG Delivery Staff Retail Forecourt Staff dealers, sales officers, regional on the conservation of Oil & Gas. Locker of the Government of India. managers and depot officers has been launched. Web-Based Cash Memo Vernacular language SMS in HP Safety Clinics organised by Ji Haan Samarth • An SMS query-based application Introduced a web-based printing ANY TIME LPG Distributors It has been designed to traverse delight the customers with fulfilling launched for tracking the TTs by facility for A4 refill cash memos, First vernacular language SMS during 2016-17 the course of a day in the life of their latent needs. 60,000+ FSMs transporters/dealers. streamlining the legacy mode of service for our valued HP GAS Interaction with representative a LPG Deliverymen and aims to have been trained since inception dot-matrix printing, making the customers, covering all the states, sample of LPG Distributors during equip them with the requisite skills, in 2008 till financial year 2016-17. Customer Satisfaction cash memo as a smart tool for has been launched in the Hindi stakeholder engagement sessions, knowledge and attitude to perform Customer satisfaction is a reflection sharing information with HP GAS and Telugu languages. This is gave us the following insights: job and to succeed in their various My HPCL Mobile Retail App of the success of an organisation. customers as a part of value-added being done for the first time in the roles. The ultimate objective is to We have a mobile application Our core values clearly demonstrate service. Through this initiative, HP industry. The SMS service will cover give HP GAS customers a unique for technology-savvy customers, our commitment towards enhanced GAS proved to be the pioneer in the following being sent for the HP and differentiated customer which is available for all Android customer satisfaction as we the industry yet again. ANY TIME refill booking system: 22.04 experience. 32,115 LPG Deliverymen as well as iOS platforms. 12 continuously strive to improve • Booking SMS have been trained by our HR our service by understanding their Proactive Marketing of • Cash memo SMS 8 Officers through 1,005 Ji Haan Vehicle Identification System expectations and providing them Domestic Cylinder • Delivery SMS Samarth training programs. A new IT-enabled initiative, Vehicle % with best-in-class products and The LPG SBU initiated the Proactive • Cancellation SMS Identification System, using RFID services. Marketing of Domestic Cylinder, a 64 Samvad technology and leveraging retail technical innovation and completely Safety through ‘O’-rings 16 It aims to sensitise the customer automation at retail outlets, offers Our customer-centric initiatives system-driven marketing process Field trial on high-quality ‘O’-rings service cell staff of LPG Distributors a complete fuel-management include: by tracking the consumers’ refill started at the Madurai plant after on various types of customers and solution to fleet owners. Plain Paper SV/TV Facility pattern, identifying low-consuming technically clearing the ‘O’-rings. equip them with skills to handle Introduced plain paper SV/TV customers and enrolling double These ‘O’-rings are expected to grievances in an effective manner. printing facility for the first time in bottle connections by instituting enhance the safety at consumers’ 14,599 Customer Service Staff were the industry by phasing out legacy an SMS-based intimation process premises. trained by our HR Officers through Number of Safety Clinics Organised pre-printed stationary covering in the business with an objective 474 Samvad programs. 0 to 10 11 to 20 Sadaa Aap Ke Liye (SAKL) More than 20 No Response It is aimed at imparting knowledge on Standard Operating Practices and engaging ‘Retail FSMs The graph signifies that 88% (Forecourt Sales Men)’ as key SOP of surveyed LPG distributors Implementers at the Retail Outlets organise safety clinics for so that they not only satisfy the their consumers regularly. customer’s stated needs but also Training on Oil and Gas Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana Programme Conservation to TT Crew 112 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 113 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive internet of things and smart cities of an incoming vehicle by the Communicating Customer Feedback to HPCL has enabled tapping extraordinary transmission of electromagnetic opportunities with novel solutions. waves of a frequency of 24 GHz. These waves are reflected by the Customer feedback is very important for improvement HP Lubricants has taken one such moving vehicle and there is a of services. Our dealers and distributors actively take stride in the area of intelligent frequency shift due to the Doppler roads by implementing the world’s effect. The SmartLife poles detect feedback from customers and actively communicate it first anti-collision vehicle system the speed and communicate with to us. Below is the response received in the stakeholder on NH1, which connects the each other and immediately caution Kashmir Valley to Leh. This national the vehicle approaching from the engagement survey: highway has been acknowledged other side by honking. The system, to be one of the most precarious specifically designed for reducing highways by National Geographic. the risk of accidents in hilly regions, Retail Dealers LPG Distributors With its numerous sharp turns and has appreciably made highways hairpin bends, the highway would safer for commuting. earlier record at least two to three accidents each day. There was, The police department has 5 6 Daily Daily therefore, a compelling need for reported a significant drop in the 19 a system to intimate drivers of number of accidents on the 110km Weekly Weekly 19 approaching vehicles to evade Jammu-Srinagar highway after Monthly Monthly the possibility of collision and the installation of the anti-collision Communication Communication accident. system. of Customer No Response of Customer 48 No Response 44 Feedback Feedback HP Lubricants came up with A campaign, Roads That Honk, SmartLife Poles the concept of SmartLife poles was initiated based on the 32 that have been placed on sharp disruption on social media on the 27 Roads That Honk turns. The poles work on advance increasing number of accidents. In the last few years, the internet has network devices comprising It was actively shared on various revolutionised the way the industry wireless technology, radar systems platforms and was widely approaches problem-solving and and anti-collision warning systems, acclaimed with several positive has redefined businesses. The most powered by solar PV modules. testimonials that asserted the recent technological wave of the The system detects the speed effectiveness of this campaign. The graph signifies that 95% retail dealers The graph signifies that 94% LPG distributors communicate end customer’s feedback to the communicate end customer’s feedback to the Corporation effectively so as to continuously Corporation effectively so as to continuously improve the services. Balance 5% have provided improve the services. Balance 6% have Nil feedback. These feedback helps us in provided Nil feedback. Innovative Measures taken by our Supply Chain Partners improving overall customer satisfaction. During the stakeholder engagement sessions held as a part of Sustainability Reporting exercise, our supply chain partners have shared few of the innovative measures undertaken by them within their sphere of influence: Customer Satisfaction Surveys of these surveys is not only to Customer Grievances We are persistent in our effort understand the expectations of We cater to millions of customers to p rov i d e p ro d u c t s a n d our key stakeholders, but also to and try our best to keep them Retail Dealers LPG Distributors Transporters services that meet or exceed devise strategies to address their satisfied. However, with the huge our customers’ expectations and concerns. The customer satisfaction customer base that we deal with, • Customer education on • Advertisements of products. • Quarterly meeting for which satisfy them by pre-empting survey was carried out during the there end up being some instances quality, quantity and value • Display of banner on all discussion on problems. their requirements. In order to period of January 2016 to March of customer complaints. We remain added services. delivery vehicles. • Efficient driving for less fuel monitor our progress in meeting 2017 and 57,705 respondents were cognisant of the source of such • Rewards and motivation to • Timely SMS alerts to consumption. customer needs, we regularly covered on an all-India level. The dissatisfaction, resolve the issues drivers. customers. • Community initiatives. conduct customer satisfaction score of our survey was 66, as per within the stipulated time and try • Online/Cashless payment • Showroom standardisation, surveys, across the country, for all India Customer Satisfaction to minimise these incidents. In this facility. rural campaigns and demo our retail outlets and domestic Index (CSI), which is rated as reporting period, we received a • Excellent forecourt tents. LPG customers. The surveys are healthy performance as per the CSI total 2,54,489 complaints and out management. conducted through independent Benchmarking of Majestic MRSS of them only 0.49% (1,259) of cases • Emission tests and vehicle external agencies. The objective India Ltd. are pending as on 31st March 2017. insurance. • Free battery ws. 114 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 115 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Business Development Cell under Corporate Strategy and Planning Affiliations has been formed. The Business Development Cell is focused towards leveraging and capitalising on the various opportunities available for achieving accelerated and diversified business growth in areas like investments in development/ 1 All India Association of Industries acquisition of assets, development of renewables and alternate 2 Administrative Staff College of India energy sources, promoting the Start-up ecosystem for nurturing 3 All India Management Association Start-ups and Entrepreneurs in the Oil & Gas sector, collaboration 4 Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India with other business entities on fuel and non-fuel businesses, 5 Association of Business Communicators of India identification of challenges from disruptive technologies like Electric 6 Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry Setting up of Indian Institute of Petroleum & Energy at Visakhapatnam Vehicles etc. 7 Bombay Management Association HPCL Start-up India Scheme storage solutions, Model for Setting up of Indian Institute ‘Start-up India’ is a flagship initiative Waste to Energy, etc. in its focus/ of Petroleum & Energy at 8 Centre for Public Sector Studies of Government of India intended innovation areas. The funding level Visakhapatnam to build a strong eco-system for is maximum up to `1 crore per To meet quantitative and qualitative 9 Confederation of Indian Industry nurturing innovation and Startproject. Additional funding would gap in the supply of skilled ups in the country that will drive be considered only for exceptional manpower for the petroleum sector 10 Council for Fair Business Practices sustainable economic growth and cases. The funding provided will and to promote research activities, generate large scale employment be over a period in instalments the Indian Institute of Petroleum & 11 Employers’ Federation of India opportunities. CPSEs under the against agreed milestones and Energy (IIPE) has been established Ministry of Petroleum & Natural finalised terms. at Visakhapatnam under the Andhra 12 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry Gas (MoP&NG) have undertaken Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014. initiatives for facilitating creation HPCL would be coming out IIPE is proposed as a research 13 Global Compact Network India of an innovation eco-system and with open innovation challenge focused institution offering promote Start-ups in the field of advertisements in 2017-18 calling undergraduate/postgraduate, 14 Indian Merchants Chambers Energy and Oil & Gas. As part of applications from Start-ups and research and industry specific the Scheme, HPCL Board approved Innovators for seeking support programs. Courses are proposed 15 Indo American Society a fund of `25 crore as contribution under HPCL Start-up India Scheme. to be offered in various areas towards HPCL Start-up India fund. Approx. 10 Start-ups are expected pertaining to Oil & Gas sector as 16 Indo German Chamber of Commerce The objective of HPCL Start-up to be finalised for incubation/ well as upcoming research areas India Scheme is to support and acceleration/ pilot implementation like Shale Gas, Coal Bed Methane 17 International Market Assessment India Pvt. Ltd. – CEO fund projects from New/Early process. and Renewable Energy. Stage Start-ups for establishment 18 International Market Assessment India Pvt. Ltd. – CIO or validation of Proof of Concept Formation of Business The IIPE Society has been registered 19 Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture (POC) or having established Proof Development Cell under under AP Society Registration Act, of Concept, in the areas of primary Corporate Strategy and 2001 in 2016 for establishment of 20 Maharashtra Economic Development Council energy and hydrocarbon sector Planning Department the institute. The governance of that aim to pursue innovations HPCL has formulated a T20 affairs of the Institute is presently 21 National HRD Network leading to commercialisation/ Strategy, road map up to the year being managed by the Board of business development. Projects 2020-21, focusing on achieving IIPE Society. HPCL is the lead 22 National Institute of Personnel Management pertaining to various focus/ objectives of accelerated profit, promoting Oil company engaged innovation areas specifically in exponential growth and customer in providing assistance and support 23 Petroleum Federation of India the areas of petroleum refining, value maximisation. One of the to IIPE for various activities. The marketing and alternate energy key enablers for meeting the Institute will be established as an 24 Standing Conference of Public Enterprises would be supported under HPCL above objectives is foray into New Institute of National Importance Start-up India Scheme. HPCL has Businesses and New Geographies/ post enactment of the IIPE Act. 25 The Energy and Resources Institute also included generic segments like Boundaries. To steer the above as Manufacturing of Nano Materials well as for identification of future 26 Vigilance Study Circle, Mumbai Catalysts, IOT, Innovative energy business needs of the corporation, 116 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 117 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Linking Sustainable Development Goals to our Business Practices Goals Sustainable Development Goals Page No. Goals Sustainable Development Goals Page No. 45 15, 53 81 72-73 91-92 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable End poverty in all its forms everywhere 102, 106-108 96-97 industrialisation and foster innovation 114, 116 100-101 REDUCED INEQUALITIES 91-92 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote 96-98 98-99 Reduce inequality within and among countries sustainable agriculture 100-101 62-64 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND 68-69 COMMUNITIES 72-73 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 82-86 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 102 99 47 80-81 50-51 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong 97-98 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 57-69 learning opportunities for all 100-101 71-73 77, 80, 56-73 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 91, 92, 98 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 106-108 66-67 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, 64 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for 71-73 sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse 69 all 102 land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 15 PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS 12 46-51 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, 25-26 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 65 provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and 92-93 71-72 inclusive institutions at all levels 45, 53, Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and 76, 80 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global 117 productive employment and decent work for all 86-93 partnership for sustainable development 100-101 Note: Sustainable Development Goals applicable to our business 118 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 119 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive GRI G4 Content Index Description of the Indicator Page No. Reason for External Description of the Indicator Page No. Reason for External Omission Assurance Omission Assurance General Standard Disclosures G4 26 Organisation's approach to stakeholder engagement 35-39 Assured Strategy & Analysis G4 27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 35-39 Assured engagement G4 1 Statement of MD & CEO 2-5 Assured Report Profile G4 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 27, 56 Assured G4 28 Reporting period 6 Assured Organisational Profile G4 29 Date of most recent report 6 Assured G4 3 Name of the organisation Cover Page Assured G4 30 Reporting cycle 6 Assured G4 4 Primary brands, products and services 18-20 Assured G4 31 Contact point for quesitons regarding report or its 6 Assured G4 5 Location of oranisation's headquarters Inside Cover Assured content Page G4 32 In accordance option the organisation has chosen and 6 Assured G4 6 Number of countries where organisation operates 14 Assured GRI index G4 7 Nature of ownership and legal form 14, 45 Assured G4 33 External assurance 6, 126-128 Assured G4 8 Markets served 14 Assured Governance G4 9 Scale of organisation 17-20, 45-49, 76 Assured G4 34 Governance structure of the organisation 22-24 Assured G4 10 Employee profile 76-77 Assured G4 35 Report the process for delegating authority for 23 Assured G4 11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 92 Assured economic, environmental and social topics from the bargaining agreements highest governance body to senior executives and other G4 12 Organisation's supply chain 16 Assured employees G4 13 Significant changes during the year 14-15 Assured G4 36 Report whether the organisation has appointed an 23 Assured G4 14 Precautionary approach or principle 27 Assured executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and G4 15 Externally developed charters, principles or other 118-119, 126 Assured whether post holders report directly to the highest initiatives to which the organisation subscribes governance body G4 16 Memberships of associations 117 Assured G4 37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders 23, 38 Assured Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is G4 17 Entities included in the organisation's financial statements 6 Assured delegated, describe to whom and any feedback G4 18 Defining report content and aspect boundaries 6 Assured processes to the highest governance body G4 19 Material aspects 41 Assured G4 38 Report the composition of the highest governance body 22-24 Assured G4 20 Aspect boundary within organisation 41 Assured and its committees G4 21 Aspect boundary outside organisation 41 Assured G4 39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body 22-23 Assured is also an executive officer G4 22 Effect of any restatement of information provided in There have Assured previous report been no G4 40 Nomination and selection process of highest governance 24 Assured restatements body and committees of information G4 41 Process for the highest governance body to ensure 22 Assured provided in conflicts of interest are avoided and managed the previous reports G4 42 Highest governance body's and senior executive's 22 Assured roles in the development, approval and updating of the G4 23 Significant changes from previous reporting period in 6 Assured organisastions’ purpose, value or mission statements etc. Scope, Aspect and Boundaries G4 43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest 22 Assured Stakeholder Engagement governance body's collective knowledge of economic, G4 24 Stakeholder groups engaged by organisation 33 Assured environmental and social topics G4 25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 33 Assured G4 44 Evaluation of the highest governance body's performance 23 Assured 120 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 121 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive GRI G4 Content Index (Contd.) Description of the Indicator Page No. Reason for External Description of the Indicator Page No. Reason for External Omission Assurance Omission Assurance G4 45 Role of highest governance body in the identification 27 Assured G4 EC 3 Coverage of Organisation's defined benefit plan 45, 91-92 Assured and management of economic, environmental and social obligations impacts, risks and opportunities G4 EC 4 Financial assistance received from the Government 44 Assured G4 46 Role of highest governance body in reviewing the 27 Assured effectiveness of risk management processes Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4 47 Frequency of highest governance body's review of 27 Assured G4 EC 9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant 53 Assured economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and locations of operation opportunities Category: Environmental G4 48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and 24 Assured Material Aspect: Materials approves the organisation's sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered G4 EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume 57 Assured G4 49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the 26-27 Assured G4 EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input 58 Assured highest governance body materials G4 50 Nature, number and mechanisms to resolve critical 26 Assured Material Aspect: Energy concerns G4 EN 3 Energy consumption in the organisation 59 Assured G4 51 Remuneration policies 24 Assured G4 EN 4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 60 Assured G4 52 Process for determining remuneration 24 Assured G4 EN 5 Energy intensity 59 Assured G4 53 Method for seeking stakeholder's views regarding 24 Assured remuneration G4 EN 6 Reduction of energy consumption 59 Assured G4 54 Ratio of annual total compensation for the organisation's 24 Assured G4 EN 7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 60 Assured highest paid individual to median annual total services compensation for all employees OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy 65 Assured G4 55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total 24 Assured compensation for the organisation's highest paid OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source 65 Assured individual to median percentage increase in annual total Material Aspect: Water compensation for all employees G4 EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 66 Assured Ethics and Integrity G4 EN 9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of 66 Assured G4 56 Organisation's values, principles, standards, and norms of 10, 25 Assured water behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4 EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 67 Assured G4 57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking 25-26 Assured reused advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Material Aspect: Emissions G4 58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for 25-26 Assured G4 EN 15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 62 Assured reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as G4 EN 16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 62 Assured escalation through line management, whistle-blowing G4 EN 17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 63 Assured mechanisms or hotlines. G4 EN 18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 63 Assured Specific Standard Disclosures G4 EN 19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 62-64 Assured Category: Economic G4 EN 20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 57 Assured Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4 EN 21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 63 Assured G4 EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 44 Assured Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4 EC 2 Financial implications and risks and opportunities due to 56 Assured climate change G4 EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 68 Assured 122 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 123 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive GRI G4 Content Index (Contd.) UNGC Index Description of the Indicator Page No. Reason for External UNGC Principle Category Description Reference Page No Omission Assurance Category: Social Principle 1 Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the Supporting 92 Sub-Category: Labour Practices and Decent Work protection of internationally proclaimed human Human Rights Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety rights G4 LA 5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal 83 Assured Principle 2 Human Rights Businesses should make sure that they are not Supporting 92 joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights safety programs Principle 3 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of Supporting 92 G4 LA 6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 83 Assured lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workassociation and the effective recognition of the Human Rights related fatalities, by region and by gender right to collective bargaining G4 LA 7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 82-86 Assured related to their occupation Principle 4 Labour Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Supporting 92 G4 LA 8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 92 Assured forms of forced and compulsory labour Human Rights with trade unions Principle 5 Labour Businesses should uphold the effective abolition Supporting 92 Material Aspect: Training and Education of child labour Human Rights G4 LA 9 Average hours of training per year per employee by 80 Assured gender and by employee category Principle 6 Labour Businesses should uphold the elimination of Supporting 92 programme for skills management and lifelong learning discrimination in respect of employment and Human Rights G4 LA 10 that support the continued employability of employees 81 Assured and assist them in managing career endings occupation Percentage of employees receiving regular performance G4 LA 11 and career development reviews, by gender and by 86 Assured Principle 7 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary Risk 27 employee category approach to environmental challenges Management Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Principle 8 Environment Businesses should undertake initiatives to Protecting our 56-73 Material Aspect: Product and Service Labelling promote greater environmental responsibility Planet G4 PR 3 Type of product and service information required by 106 Assured the organisation’s procedures for product and service Principle 9 Environment Businesses should encourage the development Protecting 56-73, information and labelling, and percentage of significant and diffusion of environmentally friendly our Planet 106-108 product and service categories subject to such information requirements technologies and Product G4 PR 4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 111 Assured Responsibility regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes Principle 10 Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all Corporate 21-27 G4 PR 5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 115 Assured its forms, including extortion and bribery Governance 124 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 125 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Independent Assurance Statement Introduction and objectives of work Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for external Assurance BUREAU VERITAS has been engaged by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL) to conduct an of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance. independent assurance of its Sustainability Report for the year 2016-17. This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. The work was planned and carried out to provide a “Moderate” level of assurance and we believe it provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions. This information and its presentation in the Sustainability Report 2016-17 are the sole responsibility of the management of HPCL. Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility Our findings was to provide independent assurance on its content. On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our opinion that: • Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed statements within the scope of our verification Scope of work are inaccurate and the information included therein is not fairly stated; The assurance process was conducted in line with the requirements of the Assurance Standard AA1000AS • It is our opinion that HPCL has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis (2008) Type 1 assurance. The scope of work included of quantitative data such as Environmental, Health & Safety, Human Resource, Labour as well as Product and Investor related data. • D  ata and information included in Sustainability Report 2016-17 for the reporting period 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017; Alignment with the principles of AA1000AS (2008) • Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyse and Inclusivity review the information reported; HPCL has processes in place for engaging with a range of key stakeholders including socially responsible • Evaluation of the Report against the main principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008)1 investors, Government officials, local community representatives and has undertaken a number of stakeholder • Inclusivity engagement activities for Sustainability report 2016-17 covering a range of topics such as Customer satisfaction, • Materiality Employee welfare, Supply Chain, Community Welfare and Environment. • Responsiveness • Evaluation of the Report against the principles of Accuracy, Accessibility, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Materiality Reliability, Timelines and Stakeholder Inclusiveness, as defined in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The Report addresses the range of environmental, social and economic issues of concern that HPCL and its G4 “In accordance-Comprehensive”; stakeholders have identified as being of highest material importance. The identification of material issues has considered both internal assessments of risks and opportunities to the business, as well as stakeholders’ views The level of assurance has been applied as “Moderate” for all sections of the report. and concerns. The material issues were identified by a process of stakeholder engagement and interaction and the entire process was conducted in the presence of KPMG who were engaged by HPCL for that purpose. Methodology As part of its independent assurance, Bureau Veritas undertook the following activities: Responsiveness HPCL is responding to those issues it has identified as material and demonstrates this in its policies, objectives, 1. V  isited selected locations of HPCL and interviewed relevant personnel of HPCL indicators and performance targets. The reported information can be used by the organisation and its stakeholders • Corporate Head Office as a reasonable basis for their opinions and decision-making. The Company has taken various initiatives towards • Goa Aviation Service Facility delivering environmentally friendly services along with occupational health and safety, appropriate measures • Mazgaon Lube Plant for emergency handling, control and risk management in its operations. • Mumbai Pune Solapur Pipeline, Trombay • Mumbai Refinery Evaluation against Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting • Nasik LPG Plant Guidelines • Sion Retail outlet Bureau Veritas undertook an evaluation of HPCL Sustainability Report 2016-17 against the G4 Sustainability • Vashi Terminal Reporting Guidelines. This included cross checking the GRI index table against all the reference documents to provide an opinion on the self-declared GRI reporting option. We interviewed Plant Operations & Maintenance, Health, Safety & Environment managers, lube and bottling plant personnel and also the Sustainability team of HPCL Based on our work, it is our opinion that the Sustainability Report 2016-17 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Reporting Framework including appropriate consideration of the 2. H  PCL had submitted performance data on reported GRI indicators. The data pertaining to each location Reporting Principles and necessary indicators to meet the requirements of GRI G4 Reporting Option visited was audited by Bureau Veritas. “In accordance – Comprehensive”. 3. The data was audited on a sampling basis. Data on various GRI sustainability indicators was verified for the locations that were visited. Later, it was confirmed that the same verified data went into preparation of the Best practice and observations final data within the sustainability report. • The process of stakeholder engagement and consultation for the determination of material aspects was 4. Bureau Veritas reviewed stakeholder engagement activities that had been undertaken by HPCL prior to comprehensively executed with different stakeholders across supply chain. the preparation of the Sustainability Report. The Stakeholder Engagement process was reviewed. Various • The Mumbai Refinery has achieved best-ever safety record since its inception with 18.34 million records of the stakeholder engagement activities were reviewed to confirm how aspects material to HPCL’s Safe Man-Hours. stakeholders had been determined. • HPCL has set “Green Research and Development Centre“(HPGRDC) at Bengaluru with the objective to develop innovative and path breaking technologies and products in the energy sector. 1 Published by Accountability: The Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability http://www.accountability.org.uk 126 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 127 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Independent Assurance Abbreviations Statement (Contd.) HPCL has successfully commissioned 50.5 MW wind project in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan, adding up to a total wind power capacity of 101 MW and achieved wind energy generation of 96.2 million kWh from Wind Farm projects set up in Maharashtra and Rajasthan, and 21,648 Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) were accrued during ALDS Auto LPG Dispensing Stations FSMs Forecourt Sales Men 2016-17. The organisation has Solar PV installations at refineries, operating locations, retail outlets across India AMP Advance Management Programme GHG Green House Gas with a total capacity of more than 1,500 kWp APSSDC Andhra Pradesh State Skill GJ Giga Joule • A large number of energy conservation initiatives were taken at the refineries and marketing during the Development Corporation reporting year. GoI Government of India ATF Aviation Turbine Fuel • The GHG emissions in Direct and Indirect categories have been systematically computed and presented in GRI Global Reporting Initiative the report. The report could also communicate if there are any targets set for GHG reduction or for green BEE Bureau of Energy Efficiency HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study energy capacity installations as well as time frames to achieve the same. Also, a breakdown of the GHG-wise BIS Bureau of Indian Standards HFHSD High Flash High Speed Diesel direct emissions would be more helpful to understand. However, many actions were taken in 2016-17 at the BPL Below Poverty Line HGU Hydrogen Generation Unit two refineries and at marketing locations to reduce the quantity of emissions. BS Bharat Stage • Career development programmes and leadership programmes were run to enhance employee career skills HPGRDC HP Green Research and Development C&MD Chairman & Managing Director Centre and capabilities. CCR Continuous Catalytic Regeneration HSD High Speed Diesel Limitations and Exclusions CDA Conduct, Discipline & Appeal HSE Health, Safety and Environment Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to: CDU Crude oil Distillation Unit I&C Industrial and Commercial • Activities outside the defined assurance period stated hereinabove; CFD Committee of Functional Directors IATA International Air Transport Association • Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future intention) by HPCL and statements of CHT Centre for High Technology IETP Integrated Effluent Treatment Plant future commitment; • Our assurance does not extend to the activities and operations of HPCL outside of the scope and geographical CHWTSDF Common Hazardous Waste Treatment IIM Indian Institute of Management boundaries as well as the operations undertaken by any subsidiaries or joint ventures of the Company. Storage and Disposal facility IMM Integrated Margin Management CII Confederation of Indian Industry IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate This independent statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that CMS Complaint Management System Change may exist within the Report. CNG Compressed Natural Gas ISO International Organisation for CPCB Central Pollution Control Board Standardisation Statement of independence, impartiality and competence CPO Central Procurement Organisation ISRS International Sustainability Rating Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in Quality, Health, Safety, Social CSR Corporate Social Responsibility System and Environmental management with almost 180 years history in providing independent assurance services, and an annual turnover in 2015 in excess of ¤4.60 billion. DARPG Department of Administrative Reforms KL Kilo Litre & Public Grievance kWp Kilo Watt Peak Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among DHT Diesel Hydro Treater LDS Leak Detection System staff in their day to day business activities. We are particularly vigilant in the prevention of conflicts of interest. DPE Department of Public Enterprises LED Light Emitting Diode DSRO Direct Sales Regional Office LEP Light Emitting Plasma No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with HPCL, its Directors or Managers beyond DT Drive Track LFA Leave Fare Assistance that required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification independently, and there has been no conflict of interest. EII Energy Intensity Index LNG Liquefied Natural Gas EnMS Energy Management Study LOBS Lube Oil Base Stock The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and EnPI Energy Performance Indicators LOUP Lube Oil Upgradation Plant health and safety information, systems and processes and has over 5 years combined experience in this field EQMS Effluent Quality Monitoring System LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas and an excellent understanding of Bureau Veritas standard methodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports. ESI Employees’ State Insurance LR Lube Refinery ETP Effluent Treatment Plant MDI Management Development Institute FCC Fluid Catalytic Cracking MDPL Mundra Delhi Pipeline FCCU Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit MMT Million Metric Tonne FRE Fuel Refinery Expansion MMTPA Million Metric Tonne Per Annum Gibson Lemos Sanjay Patankar Lead Assuror Technical Reviewer Date: 29-Dec-2017 128 6th Sustainability Report 2016-17 129 In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Abbreviations (Contd.) Sustainability Report 2016-17 MoEFCC Ministry of Environment, Forests & PSU Public Sector Undertaking Climate Change PV Photo Voltaic Feedback Form MoP&NG Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas RBhPL Ramanmandi Bathinda Pipeline MoU Memorandum of Understanding Your feedback is important for continuously improving our Sustainability performance and reporting. Please take a RBPL Ramanmandi Bahadurgarh Pipeline few minutes to answer the following questions: MPSPL Mumbai Pune Solapur Pipeline REC Renewable Energy Certificates MREP Mumbai Refinery Expansion Project RKPL Rewari Kanpur Pipeline Project 1. How would you rate the overall report quality? MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet Excellent Good Average Poor RLNG Regasified Liquefied Natural Gas MSME Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises RO Reverse Osmosis MT Metric Tonne 2. Which aspect/(s) did you like the most in the report? RTI Right to Information MTO Mineral Turpentine Oil Coverage of topics Design & Layout Data Representation Readability RTKM Round Trip Kilo Meter MW Mega Watt RWH Rain Water Harvesting 3. Which section/(s) did you like the most in the report? MWML Mumbai Waste Management Limited SAKL Sadaa Aap Ke Liye About Us Engaging with our Stakeholders Generating Revenues Responsibly NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards SBU Strategic Business Unit NCR Net Corporate Realisation Protecting our Planet Addressing the Human Capital Serving the Communities Fill, Tear, Scan, E-mail SCOPE Standing Conference of Public NFCCU New FCCU Enterprises Product Responsibility NGO Non-Governmental Organisation SEU Solvent Extraction Unit NHT Naptha Hydro Treater SKO Superior Kerosene Oil 4. What additional information would you like to see in our future reports? NSE National Stock Exchange SME Small & Medium Enterprises NWZ North West Zone Strategy Management and O&D OD&E : Operations, Distribution & SMIO Implementation Office Engineering SOPs Standard Operating Procedures 5. Any other comments/suggestions? OA Open Access SRFT Standard Refinery Fuel Tonnage OHSAS Occupational, Health and Safety Assessment Series STP Sewage Treatment Plant OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate SV Sectionalising Valve PAT Profit After Tax tCO2e Tonnes of Carbon dioxide equivalent PAT Perform Achieve Trade TGTU Tail Gas Treating Unit Kindly provide us your contact information for further correspondence: PCRA Petroleum Conservation Research TMT Thousand Metric Tonne Association TMTPA Thousand Metric Tonne Per Annum Which of the following best describes your occupation/industry? PDA Propane De-Asphalting UNGC United Nations Global Compact Academia Corporation Customer Financial Analyst PDS Public Distribution System VFD Variable Frequency Drive Government Media NGO Shareholder PIDS Pipeline Intrusion Detection System VPS Vacuum Pipe Still PMJDY Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana Others, please specify VRMP Visakh Refinery Modernisation Project PMSBY Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana VTS Vehicle Tracking System Name: Company: POL Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants VVSPL Visakh Vijayawada Secunderabad Address: PPE Personal Protective Equipment Pipeline PSA Pressure Swing Adsorption VWOT Visakh White Oil Terminal Phone: Email: Mail your responses to: Sustainability Department – Corporate HSE Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Mumbai Refinery, Lube Admin Building B D Patil Marg, Chembur, Mumbai – 400 074 Email ID: corporatehse@mail.hpcl.co.in Online Feedback can be given at: https://hindustanpetroleum.com/feedbacklist 130 6 Sustainability Report 2016-17 th In accordance GRI-G4 Comprehensive Sustainability Performance 2016-17 Economic 17.8 MMT Highest Ever Crude Oil Processing 35.2 MMT Highest Ever Marketing Throughput `6,209 crore Highest Ever PAT `65,674 crore Contribution to Exchequer Environment Social 18.34 million Safe Man-Hours Best-ever safety record at Mumbai Refinery 35,500 SRFT Energy Conservation at Refineries 5.3 million New LPG Connections Released under the PMUY programme 2 lakh saplings Planted in and around Visakh Project Swavalamban: 4,500 Youth trained in different skill sets 962 lakh kWh Renewable Energy Generation Project Akshaypatra: 12,585 Children provided with mid-day meals across India BS IV Fuel Implemented across supply chain in line Project Nanhi Kali: 12,000 with Government of India timelines Girl Children Supported in backward areas 17.91 MMT Project Unnati: 6,000 Highest ever pipeline throughput Students trained with basic computer education Helped in optimising logistics cost and reducing carbon footprint Healthy Performance As per Customer Satisfaction Survey 133 aicl.in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited concept and design by (A Government of India Enterprise) Petroleum House, 17, Jamshedji Tata Road, Mumbai 400 020
