COMMUNICATION on PROGRESS (CoP) 2018 Who We Are? S360 Website Our Services We are a proud B Corp company. • A certification conferred by the nonprofit B Lab​ • A company that meets a high level of social and environmental performance AND makes a legal commitment to consider all stakeholders​ • Any for-profit company in any country can pursue certification (LLC’s included) https://bcorporation.net/about-b-corps Statement by the CEO I am pleased to confirm that S360 Sustainability Services reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact regarding the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our actions on the purpose of integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, corporate culture and daily operations are described in this Communication on Progress (CoP), which is our fifth annual report. We also commit and declare to share this information with our stakeholders via our primary communication channels. Sincerely, Kerem Okumuş, Founder, CEO DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights and Labor Rights Principles S360’s goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also adhere to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and encourage our clients to do so. In the scope of our Labor Principles we aim to ensure all employees are provided with fair and equal working environment. Our Human Rights Principles are as follows: Our Labor Rights Principles are as follows: • To ensure that employees are provided safe, • to ensure that recruitment decisions are based on relevant suitable and sanitary work facilities. and objective criteria • to protect employees from workplace • to comply with minumum wage standards harrassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or • to prevent discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable psychological harrassment, abuse or threats. pay for comparable work • to ensure all employees’ health and safety Implementation • We implement a horizontal management approach in our company. Complaints and/or requests are assessed and discussed during regular meetings. With the participation of whole team we come to a conclusion regarding issues proposed for the agenda. • We provide strategic tools for our clients to ensure that human rights are protected in all business processes and employees work under fair, equal and safe conditions. Social Outcomes Employees by gender Employees by age Employees in management by gender 33% 47% 46% 53% 54% 67% Female Male Under 30 Between 30-50 Female Male Female Male Total Number of 10 9 19 employees Four of our employees are part-time while 15 are full-time. Full-time Part-time Female Male Female Male There were four posture-related muscle and joint injuries in 2018, but no Number of absenteeism due to injuries. As a solution, ergonomic assessment was made by an employees by 9 6 1 3 expert and office equipment has been replaced. employment type Environmental Principles As an office based company, S360’s goal is to reduce its carbon footprint and environmental impact caused by its activities as well as to encourage its clients and business partners to improve their environmental performance. Our Environmental Principles are as follows: • to reduce our carbon footprint caused by transportation. • to reduce our environmental impact by recycling materials. • to encourage our clients and business partners to set goals for reducing environmental impact. Implementation • We offer strategic advice for our clients to reduce their carbon footprint and perform an effective waste and water management. Thus, we play a role in tackling today’s environmental challenges. • Online meeting tools are preferred instead of visits, when possible. • Recyling boxes are installed in various points of the office. Environmental Outcomes Recyled waste (%) Waste amount Recyled waste Recyled materials in 2018 % (ton) (ton) 36% 100% Glass 24 24 60% 44% Plastic 3,4 1,5 4% 18,8 14,6 78% Paper 87% Glass Plastic Paper Total 46,2 40,1 Anti-corruption S360’s goal is to eliminate all kinds of corruption when doing business and pursue all of its business processes with its partners with an ethical and transparent approach. Our Anti-corruption Principles are as follows: • to mention anti-corruption and/or ethical behaviour in all contracts made with business partners. • to commit being in compliance with all relevant laws including anti-corruption laws Implementation • to communicate with and provide training for all employees on anti-corruption • to ensure consistency with the anti-corruption commitment via internal checks • to implement the anti-corruption commitment with a responsible and accountable management approach
