Annual and sustainability report 2018 Contents This is Cloetta Letter from the Chairman 73 The year in brief 1 Corporate governance report 74 Words from the President 2 Remuneration of the Group Management Team 80 Goals and strategies 4 Internal control over financial reporting 82 Long-term financial targets 4 Board of Directors 84 Sustainability targets 5 Group Management Team 86 Strategic priorities 6 Financial reports 88 Cloetta’s value chain 8 Consolidated profit and loss account 89 Cloetta’s sustainability agenda 10 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 90 Consolidated balance sheet 91 The confectionery market 11 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 92 Strategies for growth 14 Consolidated cash flow statement 93 Brand, category and product development 15 Notes to the consolidated financial statement 94 Brand and category leadership 16 Parent Company financial statements and notes 130 Strategic product development 21 Proposed appropriation of earnings 140 Consumer front and centre 24 Auditor’s report 141 Cloetta’s leading brands 26 Ten-year overview 144 Key ratios 145 Cloetta’s main markets 30 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures 146 Supply chain 37 Factories 42 Long-term sustainability 148 Increased resource efficiency 44 Stakeholders and materiality issues 150 Raw material 46 Strategic priorities for Cloetta’s sustainability work 152 Responsible sourcing 48 GRI index 153 Auditor’s limited assurance report on sustainability report 155 Employees 51 Definitions and glossary 156 Share and shareholders 56 Cloetta’s history 158 Financial performance 62 Membership of organizations 160 Net sales and profit 62 Shareholder information 161 Financial position 65 Comments on the cash flow statement 67 Future outlook, Environmental impact and 68 environmental management, Sustainability Report  he audited annual report for Cloetta AB (publ) 556308-8144 consists of T the administration report and the accompanying financial statements on Risks and risk management 69 pages 1–4 and 62–140. T he sustainability report consists of pages 5–10, 24–25, 37–41, 44–55, 71, Industry and market-related risks 70 77, 148–154, 160. Operational risks 71 The annual report is published in Swedish and English. Financial risks 72 The Swedish version is the original. Cloetta – a leading confectionery company in the Nordic region and the Netherlands SALES IN 50 FOUNDED IN 1862 2,458 EMPLOYEES LEADING BRANDS COUNTRIES 8 ANNUAL SALES SEK 6.2 BILLION CHOCOLATE CANDY PASTILLES CHEWING GUM PICK & MIX NUTS VISION MISSION To be the most To bring a smile to your The vision, together admired satisfier of Munchy Moments with the goals and Munchy Moments strategies, expresses Cloetta’s business concept Categories in which Cloetta is a market leader Sweden Finland The Netherlands Denmark UK Norway Pastilles Pastilles Pastilles Pastilles Pick & mix Pastilles Candy Candy Candy Candy Candy Chocolate bars Chewing gum Chewing gum Pick & mix Pick & mix Chocolate bags Pick & mix Pick & mix Cloetta’s strengths • Strong leading local brands. • Scale benefits in Northwestern Europe • Core markets in stable Northwestern versus local competition. Europe. • Route to market scale in core markets. • Strong European leader in pick & mix. • Locally tailored innovation. Cloetta’s net sales by category Cloetta’s net sales by country International Markets 7% q Candy UK 7% q qSweden 31% Other 2% q t 58% Nuts 4% u Germany 5% u Pick & mix Nordic Chewing gum 6% u Branded 28% Other countries packaged products The Netherlands 14% u 33% 67% 72% Pastilles 12% u Norway 6% u p Finland 21% Chocolate 18% p Denmark 9% p The year in brief 1 The year in brief Net sales SEKm 2,000 1,500 • Katarina Tell appointed President • Ordinary dividend of SEK 0.75 and Cloetta Sweden. special dividend of SEK 0.75 is paid. 1,000 • Michiel Havermans appointed • Amended and extended loan proSenior Vice President International gramme and launched commercialMarkets and UK. paper programme. 500 • Thomas Biesterfeldt appointed •F rans Rydén appointed CFO. Chief Marketing Officer. •N ew production line installed in the • Oskari Vidman appointed factory in Turnhout, Belgium. 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Chief Pick & Mix Officer. •C andyking units in the Nordic n 2017 n 2018 countries implemented Cloetta’s Q1 Q2 business enterprise Cash flow from system. operating activities SEKm 350 300 250 • Cloetta awarded “Listed company •C loetta awarded best corporate of the year”. web site in Sweden. 200 • Malaco Gott & Blandat with •R ecord number of shareholders 150 30 % less sugar launched. (23,956) in Cloetta. • Red Band celebrated 90 years. 100 Q3 Q4 50 0 –50 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 n 2017 n 2018 Operating profit, adjusted Examples of new launches SEKm 250 200 150 100 50 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 n 2017 n 2018 Key ratios SEKm 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Net sales 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 Operating profit (EBIT), adjusted 677 604 695 690 632 Operating profit margin (EBIT margin), adjusted % 10.9 10.4 13.6 12.2 11.9 Operating profit (EBIT) 660 527 635 671 577 Operating profit margin (EBIT margin), % 10.6 9.1 12.4 11.8 10.9 Profit/loss before tax 562 443 469 493 338 Profit/loss for the period 483 –97 –191 386 242 Profit/loss for the period excluding impact of impairment loss discontinued operation including corporate income tax effects and other items affecting comparability 483 402 403 386 242 Earnings per share, basic, SEK 1.69 –0.34 –0.67 1.35 0.84 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 1.68 –0.34 –0.67 1.35 0.84 Net debt/EBITDA, x 2.31 2.39 2.44 3.03 3.97 Cash flow from operating activities 628 712 889 927 500 For definitions, see page 156. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 2 Wo r d s f r o m t h e P r e s i d e n t Cloetta positioned for profitable growth During 2018 Cloetta both increased sales in branded packaged products and grew operating profit. A sharper marketing focus, together with a cost savings programme and synergies from Candyking all contributed to our progress. When I summarise 2018 I can conclude that Integration of Candyking and develcreating the conditions for long-term value we laid the foundation for profitable growth opment of the pick & mix concept creation. By understanding and managing during the year. Even if Cloetta’s organic Pick & mix is a growing and important our impact on people and the environment, growth was negative, mainly due to the loss consumer market for us based on underlying and at the same time being an attractive of a larger pick & mix contract, we managed consumer trends such as individualism and employer that also exceeds consumers’ and to grow our branded packaged products for less use of plastic packaging. As the leading customers’ expectations, we are creating the first time in many years. This bodes well confectionery company in the Nordic coun­ the conditions for long-term profitability. for the future. During the year, the 2017 tries we have good opportunities to develop This means that Cloetta must be a safe and acquisition of Candyking was integrated into the category and thereby drive profitability also attractive place of work, that consumers Cloetta, giving us the ability to make the and growth. must be offered products of high quality but combined pick & mix business more solid Savings from synergies from Candyking, also that Cloetta’s brands offer choices to the and profitable. acquired in 2017, were in line with expecta­ consumer, for example with less or no sugar. tions for 2018. This means that half of the It means reducing the environmental impact Increased sales and total synergies of SEK 100m still remain to from Cloetta’s factories and from the use of improved operating profit be realised during 2019 and 2020, which is in packaging, as well as placing environmental This year’s net sales increased by SEK 434m line with the plan. and social requirements within our sourcing to SEK 6,218m (5,784) compared to last year, Operationally, the integration of Candy­ process. driven by structural changes and exchange king will be complete by summer 2019 once In our role as a responsible company we rate differences. Organic growth was –2.8 the last of the Candyking markets have shall offer consumers a choice when they percent. Operating profit, adjusted for items implemented Cloetta’s business enterprise want to enjoy our brands. We have success­ affecting comparability, increased and system. The insourcing of the Candyking fully launched both a product with 30 per amounted to SEK 677m (604). Profit from volumes is proceeding according to plan and cent less sugar and products with no sugar continuing operations improved and amount­ the necessary investments to further increase under the leading candy brand Red Band ed to SEK 483m (237). insourcing will be fully implemented during in the Netherlands. We also successfully 2020. Once all these investments are in place, launched a product with 30 per cent less sug­ Net debt/EBITDA ratio in line with the full synergies from the acquisition of ar under the brand Malaco Gott & Blandat in targets and increased dividend Candyking will be able to be realised. Sweden and Norway in 2018. Our long-term For the third year in a row we have achieved In the short term, our focus is on improv­ ambition is to be transparent and offer more a net debt/EBITDA ratio that is in line with ing the operating profit margin from pick choice to the consumer when making tradeour target. This gives us financial flexibility & mix. This may entail price increases on offs on sugar, naturalness, gluten etc., so that to focus on continued dividend payments certain contracts, and that we may choose to people have alternatives and can make their and potential acquisitions. In light of our exit unprofitable contracts. own choices. stable cash flow and an improved operating The cocoa and chocolate that Cloetta result, we proposed to the Board of Directors Sustainability work a priority buys is UTZ certified. We have removed palm an increase in the ordinary dividend to By further integrating and embedding oil from the majority of our glazing agents SEK 1.00 (0.75) per share. environmental and social aspects into our and for any products still containing palm business strategy and our operations, we are oil, we have started the transition towards Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Wo r d s f r o m t h e P r e s i d e n t 3 ” M y goal is to grow Cloetta organically and with acquisitions to an EBIT margin, adjusted of 14 per cent. ” Henri de Sauvage-Nolting President and CEO segregated, traceable palm oil. This increases Driving growth traceability. By focusing on our core categories and We also aim to decrease our carbon markets and, over time, doubling sales in dioxide per produced tonne even further, but International Markets, we will be able to in 2018 we have not seen a decrease due to grow at least in line with the market. This less renewable electricity being purchased. means both increasing market share as well We can decrease carbon dioxide further, for as increasing volumes in branded packaged example by taking a more integrated perspec­ products, at the same time as we increase our tive on the supply chain. penetration and improve our product offering Cloetta is a member of the UN’s Global within pick & mix. Additionally, we want to Compact and supports their ten principles make selective acquisitions in our categories regarding human rights, working conditions, in our main markets or adjacent markets. the environment and anti-corruption. Our able to reach the goal of a 14 per cent EBIT sustainability agenda also supports eight of Enabling growth margin. the UN’s 17 sustainability goals. We will create “One Cloetta” with a common We still have much to do in order to im­ Sustainability is one of Cloetta’s priority agenda and scale synergies to produce better prove and develop in the pick & mix business, areas. During 2019, we will therefore further conditions for growth. However, we also need but the foundation is now in place. This makes develop this work based on the materiality to strengthen our brands through increased me confident that we will increase profitabili­ analysis that we recently carried out. This and more effective marketing and innovation. ty in this important category while simultane­ means that both our ways of working and Through zero tolerance for accidents in the ously growing it over time. objectives may change. workplace and simultaneously creating a cul­ I am far from satisfied, even if we did ture of winning, we can ensure that we attract, increase profitability in 2018. Our goal of Strategic initiatives develop and retain competent employees. reaching an underlying operating profit mar­ My goal is to grow Cloetta organically gin of 14 per cent remains. Indeed, much work and with acquisitions to an EBIT margin, Financing growth remains, but we have laid the foundation that adjusted of 14 per cent. To succeed in this, the To free up resources to increase growth and will enable us to reach our goal through the consumer must always come first, at the same profitability, we will carry out cost-cutting plans and activities we have developed and as customers see Cloetta as their partner activities throughout Cloetta. This means started during the course of the last year. of choice. Through our strong leading local challenging costs and improving internal My new Group Management Team is now brands and a leading position in pick & mix, systems and processes. There is also ample complete following several new appointments we can benefit from economies of scale in scope in our factories to drive further during the year. This means that we now have production and innovation and use our strong efficiencies and cost reductions. To increase the people and the organisation in place that channels to market to continuously improve capacity in our factories, we are working can contribute to profitable growth. our brands. Quality and local tradition con­ with a capacity enhancement programme Cloetta has a profitable business with a tinue to be our guiding principles. ‘Perfect Factory’ and at the same time we stable cash flow in stable markets. We have We will strengthen our position as the are investing to enable more insourcing and strong brands and strong market positions leading confectionery company in North­ organic growth. and we have competent and committed western Europe. This should be done through employees that are proud of our company and a continued focus on profitable growth in our Cloetta stands strong our products. All this makes me confident in existing categories in our main markets and I am pleased that we managed to grow our saying that Cloetta stands strong. in selected international markets, while we branded packaged products during every concurrently carry out selected acquisitions. quarter of 2018, leading to a 1.5 percent Stockholm, March 2019 We have three main areas that are growth in the category. Branded packaged important for our ability to reach our goals. products are generally very profitable, which They are driving growth, enabling growth and is why profitable growth in this category is Henri de Sauvage-Nolting financing growth. of a significant importance for Cloetta to be President and CEO Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 4 G oa l s a n d st r at eg i e s Long-term financial targets Organic sales growth EBIT margin Net debt Cloetta’s long-term target is to increase organic sales at least Cloetta’s target is an EBIT margin, Cloetta’s long-term target is a in line with market growth. adjusted of at least 14 per cent. net debt/EBITDA ratio of 2.5x. Sales EBIT and margin, adjusted Net debt/EBITDA SEKm SEKm % SEKm 7,000 700 14 3,500 6,000 600 12 3,000 5,000 500 10 2,500 3.97 4,000 400 8 2,000 3,000 300 6 1,500 3.03 200 4 2,000 1,000 100 2 2.44 1,000 500 2.39 2.31 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 nn EBIT, adjusted EBIT margin, adjusted, % nn Net debt, SEKm Net debt/EBITDA, x Comment on the year’s outcome Comment on the year’s outcome Comment on the year’s outcome Historically, total annual growth in the mar­ The EBIT margin, adjusted improved In 2018, and for the third year in a row, kets where Cloetta is active has been around during the year, mainly due to growth Cloetta met its long-term target for one to two per cent. In 2018 organic growth in sales of branded packaged products, net debt/EBITDA. Net debt/EBITDA accounted for –2.8 per cent, due entirely to higher production volumes and good cost reached 2.31x, which is lower than the decreased pick & mix sales caused primarily control, partly offset by higher production target of 2.5x. by a lost contract in Sweden and the signif­ costs. icantly raised sugar tax in Norway. Sales of branded packaged products grew by 1.5% and pick & mix sales decreased by 12.8%. Dividend policy Cloetta’s goal is to have a dividend payout ratio of 40 to 60 per cent of profit after tax. Comment on the year’s outcome Given that this year’s profit is higher compared to the previous year, the Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 1.00 (0.75) per share for 2018, which corresponds to 60 per cent of the profit for the period. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G oa l s a n d st r at eg i e s 5 Sustainability targets Employees Increased Responsible sourcing and customers resource efficiency Employees Energy consumption Cloetta’s ambition Cloetta has zero tolerance for occupational Energy consumption per produced tonne • Sustainability programmes will be injuries. to be reduced by five per cent by 2020, implemented for all prioritized raw compared with 2014 levels. materials. Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) Energy consumption • Palm oil present in Cloetta’s products (LTIR is absence due to accidents (for more MWh/prod. tonne Goal should be RSPO (Round Table on than 24 hours) per 1,000,000 hours worked.) 2020 2.0 Sustainable Palm Oil) certified*. Number • 100 per cent of all cocoa and chocolate 10 purchased by Cloetta is UTZ* certified. 1.5 • F rom 2018, Cloetta will only source Goal 8 2018 sustainable shea butter according to the AAK* principles. 1.0 6 Comments on 4 0.5 the year’s outcome • 100 per cent of cocoa purchased by Cloetta is UTZ certified. 2 0.0 • During 2018, Cloetta has switched to 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 sourcing sustainable and traceable shea 0 Waste butter via the AAK programme. 2017 2018 The volume of waste per produced kg to be • Cloetta has replaced the majority of reduced by 25 per cent by 2020, compared the palm oil used in glazing agents with with 2014 levels. other alternatives. This means that Waste many of Cloetta’s products are palm oil kg/prod. tonne free. This effort to replace palm oils has Goal 80 2020 mostly been driven by customer expec­ tations and demands. In those chocolate 70 and fudge products that contain palm 60 oil, Cloetta has started transitioning to 50 segregated palm oil in accordance with LESS SUGAR & 40 RSPO principles. RSPO certification of Cloetta’s factories will take place in SUGAR-FREE 30 2019. Less sugar and sugar-free 20 * Read more on pages 49–50. Cloetta’s larger brands will offer alter­ 10 natives with less sugar, no added sugar or sugar-free products 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Carbon dioxide emissions CO2 emissions from production to be re­ duced by 5 per cent per produced kg by 2020, compared with 2014 levels. Carbon dioxide emissions CO2e (Scope 1+2) per prod kilo, kg Goal 0.35 2020 0.30 NAFNAC 0.25 No Artificial Flavours & No Artificial Colours 0.20 No artificial colours or flavours 0.15 Cloetta believes it is important to in­ 0.10 crease the proportion of natural ingredi­ ents. Cloetta’s target is to have switched 0.05 entirely to natural colours and flavours in 0.00 its products by the end of 2020. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The figures for 2016 and 2017 have been adjusted. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 6 G oa l s a n d st r at eg i e s Strategic priorities Cloetta’s mission is “to bring a smile to your Munchy Moments”. For us, the consumer must always be front and centre, and we do everything we can so that our customers perceive Cloetta as their number one partner. Cloetta’s goal is to grow organically and with acquisitions to an EBIT margin, adjusted of 14 per cent. Cloetta aims to strengthen its position as the leading confectionery company in Northwestern Europe. Cloetta has strong leading local brands and a leading position in pick & mix. Cloetta can utilize its scale in production and innovation and its strong route to market to continuously enhance its brands with a focus on high quality and local traditions. Cloetta’s core categories are candy, chocolate, pastilles, chewing gum, nuts and pick & mix. The company’s core markets, where organic growth should be at least 1 – 2 per cent, are Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark, the UK, Norway and Germany. Cloetta will also selectively expand and grow faster with a number of brands in International Markets. Cloetta will create the conditions for growth by building “One Cloetta” with a common agenda across the Group. Further, a focus on cost-efficiency will enable Cloetta to increase profitability and invest for the future. Investments may be made to strengthen and increase the Group’s capabilities within production, marketing or sales as well as selective acquisitions. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G oa l s a n d st r at eg i e s 7 Cloetta’s strategy is built on three pillars: 1 2 3 Drive growth Facilitate growth Fund growth • Strengthen the strong local • Zero tolerance for • D rive cost saving activities brands and selectively exoccupational accidents throughout the entire organpand brands internationally isation • C reate “One Cloetta” with one • Focus on core markets and agenda and way of working • E mbed “Perfect Factory” double the sales in Internaand Lean programme in the tional Markets • Strengthen brand and supply chain category management • G row market shares and • Insource production volume in branded packaged • Create a winning culture products • I mprove profitability in pick • D evelop, attract and retain • G row the pick & mix pene& mix skilled leaders and employees tration and offering in core • I mprove marketing efficienmarkets cy and internal systems and • S elective acquisitions in processes Cloetta’s core categories in core and adjacent markets Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 8 G oa l s a n d st r at eg i e s Cloetta’s value chain Cloetta’s mission for creating value is «To bring a smile to your Munchy Moments». Cloetta creates economic value through innovative product development, efficient purchasing and high-quality production, as well as good relations with the retail trade and marketing that strengthen the brands. + Product development 1 Purchasing 2 Production 3 Value creation • Product development is based on • Cloetta’s total purchasing costs • Cloetta had 2,458 employees during 2018 a combination of customer and amounted to SEK 4,001m, of which and total personnel costs amounted to consumer-driven needs/preferences, SEK 2,680m were for raw materials SEK 1,331m. innovation and opportunities in the and consumables. The three main raw • Cloetta’s 8 factories had 1,645 employees. existing production network. materials in terms of purchasing costs are sugar, cocoa and milk powder. • During the year, Cloetta produced 102 thousand tonnes of candy, chocolate, chewing gum, pastilles and nuts. • For several years Cloetta has conduct­ • Suppliers to Cloetta’s production Environment ed a long-term programme, NAFNAC are subject to an approval process in • Continuous endeavours to use energy aimed at offering a portfolio of which both product safety, socialand Sustainable corporate responsibility more efficiently in production and to products that contains only natural environmental requirements are reduce CO2 emissions. flavours and colours. evaluated. • Improved resource efficiency through • Cloetta systematically develops alter­ • Cloetta promotes sustainable produc­ recycling of materials and energy. native products for its major brands tion of the prioritized raw materials that have lower sugar or are sugarcocoa, palm oil and shea butter. Read • Systematic environmental manage­ free. Under the brands Red Band and more on pages 48–50. ment is a natural part of processes in all Malaco Gott & Blandat products that factories. are low sugar, sugar-free or vegetarian Occupational Health have been launched. and Safety (OHS) • Focus on personal safety. • OHS activities with systematic monitoring are part of the daily follow-up. Sustainability programmes for Product Safety cocoa, palm oil and • Product safety system in place in all shea butter factories. • T he factories focus on measures to prevent serious product complaints. Read more on page 40. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 G oa l s a n d st r at eg i e s 9 Taxes paid Tax paid per country Other 2% q Slovakia 1.0% q Corporate income tax 3% q qBelgium 0.7% Germany 1.0% q qIreland 0.2% Value-added tax UK 4.5% q Employmentt 41% t Sweden 16.7% related taxes u Norway u 21% Total 17.9% SEK 1,326m t Finland 13.7.% Sugar tax u 33% t The Netherlands Denmark u 9.8.% 34.5% Tax information Cloetta paid SEK 1,326m (1,177) in various taxes in 2018. These were Tax paid in Norway and Denmark is proportionally higher mainly value-added tax, sugar tax and employment-related taxes. due to sugar taxes. Considering the profit reported before tax, the amount of corporate income tax paid is relatively low due to the availability of tax losses carried forward. The majority of the remaining tax losses carried forward are expected to be utilized in the near future. Repayment of borrowings Customers 4 Consumers 5 • Total net sales amounted to • Cloetta satisfies Munchy Moments. SEK 6,218m. Cloetta’s largest cus­ • Feedback on complaints and points tomer category is the grocery retail of view. trade. The service trade is also a very important customer group. Profit for the year was SEK 483m • In general, customers require BRC or •P roducts of a high quality are ISO certification. marketed responsibly. Shareholders • A ll packaging can be sorted for waste •O ffer consumers a wide range of A certain share of non-restricted equity is dis­ management. products. tributed to Cloetta’s shareholders in the form of dividends, after the business has been pro­ vided with the capital necessary for continued development. For 2018 the Board of Directors (Board) has proposed an ordinary dividend Generated value SEK 6,222m of SEK 1.00 per share, which corresponds to Creditors, qShareholders 7% 60 per cent of the profit for the period, to be financial partners 2% q paid in 2019. In 2018, SEK 433m was distrib­ Corporate income tax 1% u Employees uted to the shareholders through ordinary as t 23% well as special dividend. Distributed value Other suppliers u SEK Suppliers of raw 22% 5,942m* materials and consumables t 45% * E xcluding amortization/depreciation, and profit for the year and including paid dividends. Economic impact Production and sales of Cloetta’s products generate economic value that benefits its stakeholders. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 10 G oa l s a n d st r at eg i e s Cloetta’s sustainability agenda By further integrating environmental and social aspects into both the business strategy and operations, Cloetta is creating the conditions to grow as a company. This also leads to risks and opportunities being identified, while enabling Cloetta to understand and manage impact on people and the environment, and live up to the expectations of the world around us. The materiality analysis is a process for de­ fining the environmental and social aspects Health and development Increased resource that are most relevant both to Cloetta’s ability of our employees efficiency to create long-term value as a company and Cloetta’s employees are essential for Cloetta’s Cloetta makes all efforts to use resources as to how Cloetta creates value for the most success. Cloetta’s ability to attract, retain and effectively as possible. Cloetta manages the important stakeholders. Cloetta has through develop employees is therefore of the utmost environmental impact from operations and the materiality analysis defined four priority importance. This is why Cloetta has activity transportation through optimising energy areas, and within each of these, goals have plans and goals in place for ensuring that consumption, reducing emissions and waste been set and programmes and follow-up the workplace is as safe and as attractive as and prioritising climate-smart transporta­ systems have been established. possible. tion. Cloetta is also developing packaging The materiality analysis also serves as a solutions with improved environmental basis for adapting the sustainability agenda to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, Consumer front and centre performance. and it supports eight of the 17 goals. In 2019, Cloetta will offer safe and high-quality the Group’s sustainability agenda will be up­ products. In response to consumer prefer­ Responsible sourcing dated and new long-term goals and KPIs will ences, Cloetta also offers products with more Cloetta controls that suppliers live up to be defined and integrated into the business natural raw materials, less sugar, sugar-free Cloetta’s standards by integrating environ­ strategy. products and products with functional prop­ mental and social requirements into the erties, such as chewing gum for better dental sourcing process. Furthermore, Cloetta has a hygiene. programme for purchasing certified raw ma­ terials that is aimed at improving the social and environmental conditions in the places where the raw materials are produced. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 T h e c o n f ect i o n e ry m a r k e t 11 The confectionery market The confectionery market is traditionally divided into candy, chocolate, pastilles and chewing gum. Cloetta is active in all these categories, as well as in nuts. Cloetta’s main markets are Sweden, Finland, strong confectionery brands, the continuous Consolidation of the confectionery in­ the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, the UK launch of new flavours and products is a key dustry is taking place gradually. The industry and Germany. The total market for confec­ success factor. as such has a long history and the pace of tionery in Cloetta’s main markets amounts to In terms of value, candy including technological product innovation is low. approximately SEK 228bn (225). pastilles accounts for 26 per cent, chocolate for around 66 per cent and chewing gum The nut market Mature market for around 8 per cent of the total market in Cloetta is also active in the nut market via The confectionery market is relatively Cloetta’s main markets. the brands Nutisal and Parrots. The total nut insensitive to economic fluctuations and market in the Nordic region is worth around shows stable growth that is driven primarily Competitive market SEK 5bn, and the private labels of the retail by population trends and price increases. The global market for confectionery is domi­ trade account for approximately one third of Market recessions affect Cloetta mainly nated by international companies like Mars/ the total market. through general price pressure from the retail Wrigley, Mondelez, Nestlé, Ferrero, Perfetti, In Cloetta’s main markets, the nut market trade and increased competition from the Haribo, and Lindt & Sprüngli. However, in is experiencing annual growth of 1–2 per trade’s own private labels. However, private the local markets these meet tough opposi­ cent in volume. However, the nut market has labels account for a relatively small share of tion from players with locally established grown in value by some 4 per cent due to price confectionery compared to other grocery brands such as Cloetta, Fazer, Orkla and increases and a shift to the premium product products. Toms. No player has a strong position across category during 2018. Since growth takes place almost exclu­ all European markets. sively through the development of existing Confectionery consumption Market size, by region, Market development per capita Cloetta’s main markets, 2018 in Cloetta’s main markets Kg per person 2018 SEK billion MEuro 20 100 4.000 3.500 80 15 3.000 60 2.500 10 2.000 40 1.500 5 1.000 20 500 0 0 0 Ge UK Sw Ne De No Fin Ge UK Sw Ne De No Fin 2004 2008 2012 2018 rm ed t n r rm ed t n r an e n h e r l m a r way l a n d an l e n h e r l a m a r way a n d u Chocolate u Candy u Chewing gum u Pastilles y an k y nd k ds s Source: Datamonitor and Mintel The graph refers to candy and chocolate in u Chocolate u Chewing gum the countries where Cloetta is active. u Candy incl. pastilles Source: Mintel Source: Mintel Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 12 T h e c o n f ect i o n e ry m a r k e t Consumption patterns Consumption patterns and taste pref­ pick & mix is considerably lower in Central Confectionery is one of the most impulseerences vary between the different markets. Europe where packaged candy and chocolate driven categories in the retail trade. With For example, compared to the rest of Europe, have a stronger position. In Sweden, pick over 80 per cent of purchasing decisions made the Nordic region has a lower per capita & mix accounts for 30 per cent of the total at the point of sale, brand, availability and consumption of chocolate, but a significantly confectionery market, while in the other product placement are significant success higher consumption of candy. Nordic countries it accounts for 5 to 15 per factors. cent. Pick & mix candy as a market is growing The European confectionery market is Pick & mix faster than packaged products in most Nordic characterized by strong consumer loyalty to The pick & mix category has a very strong countries. local brands. The main considerations when position in the Nordic countries and accounts buying are brand, flavour, quality and curiosi­ for a high share of the total confectionery ty about new products. consumption, while the consumption of Cloetta’s sales channels Grocery retail trade Service trade Other sales channels Increasingly fewer and larger stores, Generous opening hours, centrally These include movie theatres, build­ which is leading to greater efficiency and located in the form of convenience stores ing supply stores, airports and arenas. strength. Typically covered by central and filling stations. An increasingly wide This channel often requires support in agreements at a national level. range of snack alternatives. developing its confectionery sales. The e-commerce sales channel is growing rap­ idly, although still at a relatively low level compared to other consumer goods. Pantone 485 (Red) 100m 100y Pantone 116 (Yellow) 15m 100y Pantone 301 (Blue) Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 T h e c o n f ect i o n e ry m a r k e t 13 Traditional sales channels Other sales channels online and over 50 per cent say they are will­ Cloetta’s foremost sales channels in all Since availability and a strong brand are two ing to do so in the near future. markets are the grocery retail trade and the key factors for impulse-driven purchases, The UK is the most mature market in service trade. Cloetta continuously evaluates new types of Europe, closely followed by France and the The grocery retail trade has undergone sales channels to ensure availability where Netherlands. extensive consolidation and restructuring the consumers are found. The typical online shoppers are families over the past ten years, and the number of Other sales channels include those where with small children, in urban and suburban stores has decreased at the same time as floor confectionery has been offered for many areas. The main driver for buying groceries space per store has grown larger. Concen­ years, including ferry lines, movie theatres, online is ‘convenience’. tration in the grocery trade is high in the airports and arenas, and also channels that The fast-moving consumer goods indus­ majority of European markets, which means have not been traditionally associated with try has taken several initiatives to strengthen that the channel can place high demands on confectionery sales, such as building supply its e-commerce presence. Unilever has its suppliers. Nonetheless, as a leading sup­ stores, furniture and appliance stores, hotels acquired Dollar Shave Club (shaving prod­ plier Cloetta has the opportunity to develop and bars. ucts for consumers) and Wal-Mart has both partnerships that benefit both sides. Strong One key success factor is to develop acquired JET.com (an online discount plat­ brands and high-quality products that are different packaging solutions to help custom­ form, including confectionery) and increased attractively priced and can be effectively dis­ ers in the different channels to display the its holding in JD.com, a major Chinese played and marketed are therefore of major products. online retailer that also offers food products. importance. Alibaba (a Chinese e-commerce platform) A large share of the everyday consump­ E-commerce has acquired a stake in a large Chinese tion of confectionery has traditionally taken E-commerce is continuing to grow globally offline retailer. In addition, the American place via the service trade, i.e. filling stations in all types of industries, including food e-commerce platform Amazon has purchased and convenience stores, kiosks, etc. Over products and confectionery. Historically, the Wholefoods, an offline groceries player, clear­ the past decade, confectionery sales to the consumer goods industry has not been a lead­ ly demonstrating their ambition to move into service trade have decreased, primarily due er in the e-commerce segment, but forecasts groceries. In Sweden Axfood has acquired to the presence of fewer filling stations, but indicate that half of the growth in the next five Mat.se and in the Netherlands, Albert Heijn also because the service trade has developed years will be driven by online sales. Research has acquired BOL.com, a local competitor to its own snack alternatives that compete with shows that in 60 countries, 17 to 30 per cent Amazon. Read more about Cloetta’s e-com­ confectionery. of consumers are already buying groceries merce development on page 17. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 14 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h Strategies for growth Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h 15 Brand, category and product development • Innovation • Consumer and business gap identification • G eographical expansion of existing brands • Valorisation Strategic product • Development of package development enables sizes and prices organic growth How Cloetta creates continuous organic growth – Brand and category read more on pages 21–23. development is the core of day-to-day activities • When potential strategic opportunities arise, Cloetta will widen its footprint New markets, through the acquisition or development brands and of new brands, expansion into new concepts geographical markets or new initiatives/ business concepts • Continuous support for core brands through effective marketing campaigns • Leverage category development strategies and future key growth drivers with customers • Excite the consumer with enchanting core brands through line extensions, new flavours and packaging How Cloetta takes care of its innovations strong porfolio of brands – • Develop pick & mix concepts read more on pages 16–20. • Develop consumer and customer-centric concepts with a strong and competent sales force • Maximum visibility in stores • Sales and in-store campaigns Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 16 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h Brand and category leadership Confectionery is the most impulse-driven category in retail. Consequently, good availability and visibility in stores, alongside strong brands with high recognition and loyalty, are critical to confectionery sales. Cloetta’s continuous development of its brands and concepts, and having a strong sales force, are therefore of vital importance. Brand management Marketing communication Above all, it is a key ambition to ensure Cloetta’s ten largest brands account for Effective and well-planned marketing advertising effectiveness for the marketing around 49 per cent of the Group’s sales. communication across relevant touch-points, investments Cloetta makes. It is about what Read more about the leading brands on pages shaped by the audience profile and behaviour, is creating impact and is giving consumer im­ 26–29. is the key driver for building awareness, pref­ pression, which must be carefully developed For each brand there is an individual erence and emotional connection to Cloetta’s and planned for each campaign based on the development plan aimed at continuously brands. When combined with in-store pro­ defined performance objectives. See example contemporizing and developing the brand. motion and visibility, marketing communica­ on page 20. To ensure strong and sustainable consumer tion stimulates brand trial, loyalty and overall connection with our brands, activities such demand for Cloetta’s products. Category development as impactful and relevant communication, Cloetta’s marketing is tailored to each Confectionery is a very important and prof­ new flavours and line extension, package brand’s strategy and position. It is often itable category in retail. Hence, category de­ development and commercial campaigns are characterized by image and emotion-creat­ velopment and category management are key considered key drivers for growth. ing brand advertisements, sponsorship and levers in developing penetration and loyalty events directed at selected target groups. through consumer experience and service. Acceleration of brand strength Awareness and loyalty Development Availability Tools to strengthen brands Tools to strengthen brands Tools to strengthen brands • Impactful and effective brand • New flavour innovations and • A large and competent sales force communication. seasonal products to meet relevant supports retailers. consumer needs. • Consumer centricity: Actionable • Cloetta offers stores a complete insights to drive relevance. • Package development to expose product range to satisfy consumer the product and adapt it to different choice. sales channels. Opportunities • Utilize technologies for enhanced Opportunities consumer services and experience. Opportunities • Continuously identify new • Further cross-market developments channels to reach consumers. • Be visible where consumers are: create new opportunities, scale and optimize targeting of marketing and • Develop new sales solutions adapted cost synergies. point-of-purchase campaigns. to different customer categories. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h 17 Profitable growth for both Cloetta and its sumer can pick in bags or cups. Today, pick & and margins in the store. Through the sales customers is supported by always having the mix accounts for 28 per cent of the Group’s organization’s category knowledge and strong best facts and insights. sales. in-store presence, Cloetta can reach out with Cloetta also provides the pick & mix campaigns, monitor local compliance with Category vision and strategy concept under the private labels of certain centrally negotiated listings and distribution A long-term category vision supports the retailers, and also sells pick & mix candy to agreements, and ensure good visibility on development of the shelf, the assortment and other concept suppliers. the store shelves, in the checkout lines and in consumer experience from the current state Through the Parrots brand, Cloetta is other places. Read more on page 19. towards tomorrow´s future state. Powerful also a leading pick & mix player in the natural brands and a differentiated product portfolio snacks market in Sweden and Finland. Sales-promotional activities that fit today’s and future consumer and Cloetta typically combines marketing activ­ customer needs are important parts of the Package development ities with in-store campaigns. New products category vision. Thus, any category strategy An important part of brand management are normally given sales support through to support this vision must be built on solid consists of package development to provide campaigns, events, in-store activities and and relevant consumer and shopper insights. the best consumer experience. The packaging advertisements to reach consumers as quick­ material must perform several functions, ly as possible. New flavours including protecting the product on its way to The launch of new and attractive product the consumer, enabling easy handling of the E-commerce variants or flavours, in segments where there product, providing product information and Like many food producers, Cloetta has a clear is consumer demand, strengthens Cloetta’s communicating the brand. Package develop­ strategy for how to grow its online business. offering to both customers and consumers. ment also includes retail packaging for the A central e-commerce team supports the Since successful innovations inspire various sales channels. local markets in building the right capabil­ trials of both the new product and often also ities and competencies and gaining a better the original product, good seasonal products Visibility in stores understanding of digital retail, both in “Brick and innovations normally generate incremen­ One decisive success factor for consumer & Clicks” (e.g. ICA.se and AH.nl) as well as tal sales. sales is good exposure in the store, thus, how “Pure Play” (e.g. Mathem.se and PicNic.nl) the retail trade receives new products and in­ retail. Pick & mix novations is a crucial factor. Customers must Cloetta aims to achieve online growth Cloetta is the leading concept supplier in the perceive that the products are needed, easy to in line with its market share. Online sales of pick & mix category in the Nordic region and handle and profitable for their trade. confectionery are lower than for other catego­ the UK. This means that the Group offers Cloetta has a large, trend-setting and ries, but are expected to catch up in the next retailers a total concept in pick & mix, under innovative sales force in its main markets. few years. Although the share of confection­ the brands Candyking, Karamellkungen, Through good trade relations and extensive ery sold online is still very low, the growth Parrots and Karkkikatu. knowledge about the industry, market and rate among consumers who have started to The concept consists of products, racks products, Cloetta can present attractive buy groceries online is around 30 per cent, and merchandising as well as in-store and sales solutions that support the customers’ year on year. logistics services. A customer can choose business objectives and create added value for Cloetta has in-house skills in e-com­ from different concepts containing between both Cloetta and the customer. merce from its online stores. For instance, in 16 to 200 different articles. The pick & mix The most important part of the sales Finland, Cloetta has optimized and rebuilt assortment consists of chocolates, gummy force’s day-to-day work consists of helping the Xylitol Direct2Consumer web shop candies, hard-boiled candies, toffee, foam, the individual retailers display Cloetta’s (www.ksylitolikauppa.fi) for mobile devices liquorice and natural snacks that the con­ products to achieve higher turnover rates to deliver a better consumer experience. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 18 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h Online sales are set to impact impulseIn addition to media, touch-pointplications for both national and international driven goods like confectionery. Hence, specific tracking and general brand health registration of brands that are identical to, or Cloetta will accelerate its focus on online measurement (e.g. brand consideration and can be confused with, Cloetta’s key brands. confectionery sales to play a leading role with preference), the success of our investment For example, Kexchoklad’s chequered key customers in the future. can be gauged by the detailed reactivity of pattern has been design-protected for many immediate sell-out, the final truth in the years and the name “Kexchoklad” has been Measurement tools fast-moving consumer goods industry. trademarked since 2004. Effective marketing is dependent on con­ tinuous monitoring and analysis of changes Protection of intellectual in consumer patterns. In-depth knowledge property rights of consumer behaviour and media trends is To prevent infringement of its intellectual essential for successful product development property rights, Cloetta uses a specific mon­ and marketing. itoring service that provides alerts about ap­ Examples of new flavours during the year Juleskum Kola Aakkoset Choco Jenkki pro fresh apple Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h 19 Good relations with customers at a central and local level Through good relations with the retail trade and in-depth knowledge of the industry, market and products, Cloetta can present attractive sales solutions that support each customer’s business objectives. The right products Good visibility for the right customer for Cloetta’s products Selling the right products to the right cus­ High visibility in stores, and particularly at tomer generates profitability for both Cloetta the checkout stands, is vital for growth in and for the customer. Cloetta’s sales force sales. In order to maximize the visibility of is strong and effective, which provides good Cloetta’s products, the sales force also works opportunities for a presence at many different actively to increase the number of display sales points. points in the stores. Success factors for the sales organization Effective sales campaigns Boost sales in cooperation with To increase sales, Cloetta’s products need to be where consumers are. The task for the customers Cloetta’s sales organization is therefore to Marketing campaigns are typically combined continuously seek new non-traditional sales with sales promotional activities in stores. points for selected parts of the product range, The sales force helps retailers to display these and also to increase display space and sales in in the best way. Ensure compliance existing stores. with customer agreements The sales force ensures compliance with central agreements and that the agreed range of products is found in the stores. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 20 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h Impactful campaigns Venco – an everyday Dutch favourite The campaign for Venco established Venco as part of the everyday Dutch life and that everything becomes better and tastier with Venco. Three television campaigns were combined with campaigns in other media, according to the 360-degree model, to reach consumers through several channels simultaneously. The campaign strengthened the brand’s leading position in the liquorice market. Tupla Space Expedition This year’s major investment in adventurous Tupla started with the launch of a Tupla into space and the announcement of a competition looking for candidates for a space programme. Twenty fearless applicants were chosen to go to a camp to test their stress resistance and mathematical knowledge. The top five candidates had the opportunity to travel to the Yuri Gagarin Cosmo­ naut Training Center to experience the challenges of real cosmonauts. Finally, the winner was sent to Arizona, USA for a real Zero-G flight. The campaign generated a high level of engage­ ment and Tupla increased its market share in Finland by 2 per cent during the year. Major investment in the new Plopp chocolate bar The launch of the new Plopp chocolate bar flavoured with Djungelvrål, Gott & Blandat and Kexchoklad was supported by a major four-week campaign during the autumn. Traditional media such as television and out­ door advertising were combined with digital media such as on-line videos, social media and display advertising. The film dramatizes the combined flavours of Plopp milk chocolate Successful campaign The Jelly Bean Factory and the tasty familiar “friends” from Cloetta. for Pops in Norway – in international airports Samples were also handed out in many places During 2018, Pops has moved from the number Together with Heinemann, Cloetta’s Travel around Sweden. four to the number two market position for Retail has developed The Jelly Bean Factory bagged chocolate in Norway. Aside from the “stands” for Ferihegy airport in Budapest, product itself, the success of Pops can be Gardermoen airport in Oslo and Stavanger explained by the media campaign to strength­ Airport. Investments in The Jelly Bean Til dem der falder i søvn, en the brand combined with effective pricing Factory are part of the global brand strategy campaigns. The communication concept has to increase awareness of the brand. The Jelly når de læser højt. focused on the product itself and the new design. Bean Factory is sold in some 60 markets Facebook and Instagram were two important around the world and at several European channels. The results were so good that Face­ airports. book has published the campaign as a success story on its global Facebook Business website. Danes loves Malaco “Family Guf ” Malaco “Family Guf” (Family Candy) is the second-best selling confectionery product in Denmark. It is a mixed candy bag for the whole family. There are many different family struc­ tures in Denmark and to embrace these, Cloetta created a campaign around the candy bag. The campaign included changing the product to 6 different family structures (“Families with children”, “Royal family”, “Bonus family”, “Rainbow family” etc.), encouraging consumers to in­ teract with the brand and talk about their family. The campaign was hugely successful and sales Guf til alle slags familier increased by 22 per cent during the period . The campaign included outdoor, online advertising and TV commercials and involved influencers, instore activities and PR. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h 21 Strategic product development Cloetta develops strong brands to maximize value accretive, organic growth through strategic product development based on consumer insights. Our strategic initiatives include brand extension, new geographical markets, the relaunch of brands and pure innovations. Strategic initiatives also include pricing strategies and the related changes in packaging sizes. Innovation and trends provide the marketing department with valu­ Product development process Product development is a key driver for the able data for analysis of changes in consump­ An effective product development process strength of Cloetta’s brands and enables tion patterns. is essential for profitable growth. Product differentiation in the market. Cloetta’s inno­ Natural ingredients and consideration for development is steered by combining market vation work and optimization of the product environmental and ethical aspects are factors trends and consumer behaviour optimally development process create the conditions for that are increasingly affecting the confection­ with existing brands. new product launches and relaunches. ery market. Cloetta continuously reviews all The biggest costs in product development Fashion and trends are present in all products and questions their ingredients. For arise in the product launch phase. They are areas, even in the confectionery industry, example, sweeteners and fruit flavourings primarily associated with marketing where they are primarily related to colours, have been replaced with stevia and fruit juice. activities, but also with ensuring efficient packages, flavours and ingredients. Identify­ Stevia is used in Läkerol and xylitol is used in production. ing the trends that could impact Cloetta is of Läkerol Dents and DentaFresh. Cloetta has Cloetta carries out category projects major importance. Knowledge about market an ambition to launch all major brands with in candy, chocolate, pastilles, chewing gum trends and consumer behaviour is necessary a sugar-free or less sugar alternative. Some and nuts. This is the framework for Cloetta’s for the development of successful product examples are the recently launched Red Band product development process that combines innovations. and Malaco Gott & Blandat –30% sugar line consumer demand and needs with the possi­ Market analysis, trend monitoring and and Venco liquorice with zero sugar, sweet­ bilities of the existing production structure interaction with consumers in social media ened with Stevia. Strategic product development during the year Gott & Blandat – less sugar Plopp – chocolate bars Venco – sugar-free Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 22 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h The path to a new product Launch Consumer validation New product Market – consumer-driven Product development – innovation Idea – concept Product solution • Evaluation • Product development 3 3 • Market surveys • Packaging • Packaging solution Consumer Technical solutions • Needs 2 2 • Function in existing production lines • Preferences • Exchange between the factories • Ideas • Feelings Target group Trends • Who? 1 1 • Internal and external data • Why? collection • When? • Collaboration • What? • Technical development and the innovation activities on-going within market. A large database of earlier tests and to the various trade sales channels and mar­ the Group. reference values facilitates the necessary kets. With the right packaging, many of the Tools for idea and concept generation and assessment. products that are strong in one market can continuous follow-up create the pre-requi­ The process from concept to a launchalso secure a good position in new markets. sites for Cloetta to be even greater when it ready product normally takes around one Package sizes are often associated with comes to innovation. year, but can be accelerated through focused pricing strategies for different customer resources. categories and markets. Changing a package A focus on taste size is therefore a strategic decision for how Packages and marketing can tempt con­ Launches in new markets a brand can be further developed in order to sumers to try a new product, but if the taste A product that is successful in one market can reach new customers and, thereby, also new doesn’t measure up there is rarely a second be launched in another market under an ex­ consumers. purchase. It is therefore critical that the new isting local brand. For Cloetta, with its many products launched by Cloetta meet consumer brands in different markets, economies of Travel retail requirements and expectations. So when scale in production can be utilized effectively For many years Cloetta has had substantial Cloetta develops new products, the focus is on by matching brands. Some examples include: sales to ferry lines, charter tour operators and taste. Before a product is launched, it under­ • Sportlife Mints from the Netherlands sold airports, referred to as Travel Retail. goes both internal and external taste tests via as Mynthon ZipMint in Finland. Well-known brands and unique packages consumer panels that assess factors such as • Polly from Sweden sold as Pops in Norway, in terms of both appearance and size are two flavour, consistency and overall impression. and Norwegian Pops Puffar sold as Polly of the most important competitive tools in To systematically gather consumer Puffar in Sweden. this market. feedback, Cloetta uses a consumer panel that regularly provides feedback and ideas via the Package design internet after receiving product samples to In addition to tasting good and being reasona­ their homes. The ideas received have been bly priced for the consumer, a new product highly valuable for Cloetta’s innovation work. must be commercially attractive to the retail Without approval from the consumer trade and part of a category concept. Its panel, products are not released on the weight, package and distribution are adapted Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h 23 On-the-go More and more, we eat outside the home on our way to and from different activities. Natural raw materials Greater availability of products and different solutions allow consumers to satisfy their and transparency needs immediately. Greater individualization There is a continued interest in natural and Consumers are increasingly seeking satis­ genuine raw materials. Additives of various faction of their individual needs. This means types and artificially produced substances that they want the option of both choosing are being questioned in favour of natural products, and also having access to products materials. On packaging, E numbers are and services that are individualized and being replaced with the name of the additive can be adapted to different occasions. Pick in plain language. Natural sugar or stevia are & mix is a good example of a concept that is preferred to artificial sweeteners. individualized. 6 distinct consumer trends Health and less sugar E-commerce and social People are increasingly seeking raw materials media gaining importance with positive health effects. E-commerce is growing rapidly across all Cloetta’s product range includes nuts, sectors, including the grocery retail trade. which are rich in vitamins and minerals. Both grocery retailers and food producers are Xylitol, which is found in chewing gum and building up their own e-commerce capacity chewy pastilles, is good for dental health. In to sell their goods online, and new players addition, Cloetta has launched sugar-free products or products with 30 per cent less Responsibility for are also capitalizing on the strong growth of online sales. Alongside e-commerce, direct sugar under the Red Band brand and Malaco the environment and communication with consumers via social Gott & Blandat brand. working conditions media is emerging as one of the most impor­ tant channels for further developing brand One key trend is the interest in the effects of personalities and capturing trends. food production on the environment and social conditions. Suppliers and retailers have re­ sponded to consumer demand for information, above all in terms of the origin of raw materials, quality and cultivation methods, by introduc­ ing different types of labelling and certification. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 24 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h Consumer front and centre Consumers must be able to feel confident that products are safe and of high quality, and that Cloetta is transparent in the information provided about product contents. The importance of transparency Cloetta gives consumers the possibility to make well-informed choices, by being clear and transparent about the contents of our products, their calorific value and the impact of the raw materials included. Cloetta offers choices Sugar is an important ingredient for providing products with great taste, structure and preservative properties. Cloetta’s mission “To bring a smile to your Munchy Moments” means that Cloetta pro­ vides alternatives in the form of sugar-free products, products with less sugar and products that are naturally free from sugar. Cloetta is working to have key brands with a sugar-free alternative or an alternative with a reduced amount of sugar. No artificial flavours, no artificial colours There is an increasing consumer interest in natural ingredients. Different types of additives and chemically produced substances are being questioned from a health standpoint, even though they are safe and have been approved for food products. To respond to consumer demands, Cloetta is working to remove artificial flavours and colours from its assortment. Cloetta’s target is to have switched entirely to natural colours and flavours in its prod­ ucts by the end of 2020. TARGETS Offer No alternatives Artificial with Flavours (NAF) or less sugar NAFNAC Colours (NAC) LESS SUGAR & No Artificial Flavours & by 2020 SUGAR-FREE No Artificial Colours Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h 25 Nuts – full of nutrients Nuts are a natural source of many vital nutri­ ents and also contain antioxidants. Cashew nuts are rich in iron, folic acid and zinc. Pea­ nuts are rich in protein and contain high levels of Vitamin B3. Almonds are rich in Vitamin E and pistachios are very rich in antioxidants. Dental benefits with xylitol Less sugar The sweetener xylitol, which has fewer In response to the increasing demand for calories than natural sugar, is extracted from products with less sugar or sugar-free prod­ various deciduous trees and maize. Xylitol ucts, Cloetta offers products with less sugar. prevents caries and is found in several of Cloetta’s long-term goal is that all our larger Cloetta’s chewing gum products, such as brands will be able to offer both sugar-free Jenkki and Mynthon, and in the pastille and low sugar alternatives. Läkerol Dents. Consumer front Uusi and centre ilme! Natural raw materials High quality The Jelly Bean Factory is an example of prod­ and product safety uct that only contains natural ingredients. High quality and product safety are preArtificial colours and flavour agents have been requisites for food production and are strictly replaced by natural fruit and plant extracts, adhered to in every step of Cloetta’s produc­ and all other unnecessary additives have been tion process, from inspection of raw materials removed. to finished products. Good quality raw ma­ terials, correct handling and well-controlled Clear declaration processes create the right flavour, appearance of ingredients and consistency and eliminate any risks to consumers. Cloetta works continuously to develop responsible and clear information about the contents of the products via packages and our website. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 26 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h Cloetta’s leading brands Cloetta is the name and symbol of the Nordic region’s oldest confectionery company, with a very strong local heritage. Cloetta’s brands fulfil the mission »To bring a smile to your Munchy Moments«. Bridge is a candy mix that was created in 1966 when some employees were playing bridge and ate a mixture of different tasting products that were made at the factory. One day someone came up with the idea of launching this mix of various delicious flavours in a bag. Bridge is the mature candy mix where everyone can find their favourite. Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Denmark. Ahlgrens bilar is a fruit-flavoured foam that a large majority of the Swedes love and enjoy. The original taste and elegant design have remained unchanged since 1953, when Ahlgrens’ candy factory decided to try to produce marshmallows. The result was not as expected; instead it was small foam pieces of candy in the shape of a car. Sweden’s best tasting car was born! New car models have been launched since then, in flavours such as salty liquorice and sweet & sour. Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the US, Center Thailand, Poland, Cyprus, Guinea, Malta. has been around since 1941 when the roll was first launched in Sweden. Center is the tasty roll at the centre of attention – just unroll a piece and enjoy! Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Cyprus, Poland. The Jelly Bean Factory offers 36 different flavours of gourmet jelly beans, made from 100 per cent natural flavours Chewits and fruit juices. Free from gluten, gelatine and nuts. The Jelly Bean Factory was established in was launched in the UK in 1965 as a kids chewy 1998 in Ireland. Every day over 12 million gourmet sweet. Chewits is vegetarian, free from artificial jelly beans are produced at the factory in Dublin, colours and contains no hydrogenated fats. The packaged in a wide range of playful formats. stick’s flavours are strawberry, cola, blackcurrant, “The most juicy, mouthwatering jelly beans on orange, fruit salad and ice cream. The Chewits the planet.” Xtreme range consists of sour apple, tutti frutti Sold in: around 60 countries worldwide, mainly and pineapple. Newest to the range is the Chewits in the UK, Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, Crazy Face, an extreme candy based on well known Switzerland, Austria, the Baltics, Russia, Canada, bonbon technology, filled with extreme powder the US, Cyprus, Portugal, Spain, Israel, China, flavours. “Chewie the Chewitsaurus” is the brand Singapore, Australia, New Zealand. mascot. Sold in: the UK, Norway, Finland, the Baltics, Russia, Belarus. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h 27 Juleskum is the original that has become a natural part of the Swedish Christmas traditions. Cloetta started making marshmallow Santas as early as the 1930s. Each year a limited edition is released, this year with a caramel taste. Although Juleskum is only sold for a limited period around Christmas, it is the fourth largest-selling candy bag in Sweden on an Jenkki annual basis. Juleskum Original is a fluffy, is the market-leading chewing gum brand in Finland, two-coloured marshmallow Santa with a where it was originally launched in 1951. Since 1975 taste of strawberry. the brand has been sweetened with the dental Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Denmark. innovation xylitol, and has thus become a smart tooth-friendly habit for Finns: as a breath refresher or an enjoyable treat after each meal. Sold in: Finland, Estonia, China. Candyking/Karamellkungen allows you to put together the most delicious sweets we can find and lets you mix things your way. Sour, sweet and salty. Hard, soft and chewy. The original brand, Candyking, in Sweden known as Karamellkungen, has been developed over 30 years. This pick & mix concept is currently offered at 8,000 sales points. Sold in: Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, the UK, the Baltics. King The De Vries family started producing peppermint in 1902, and from 1922 under the brand name King. Over time, the brand has evolved from a simple throat lozenge into a modern breath freshener. Today, after more than 90 years, it still contains the same secret peppermint blend that makes King loved by many Dutch consumers. Sold in: the Netherlands, Lithuania, Russia, Canada, the US, Italy, Germany, France, Belgium, Surinam, Australia. Kexchoklad was launched as early as 1938 and is one of Cloetta’s active Swedish classics. Sweden’s best-tasting between-meal snack. Three layers of crispy, chocolate-covered filled wafers make Kexchoklad a snack for active people who need to quickly refill their energy. Sold in: Sweden, Denmark, the Baltics, the US, Cyprus, Guinea, Malta, Russia. Lonka At Lonka, the focus is on soft and delicious sweets made with passion and high quality. Since the first Lonka factory opened in 1920 in the Netherlands, Lonka has been providing consumers with traditional favourites like caramel, fudge, soft nougat and chocolate. With Lonka products, consumers make their coffee and tea moment more indulging. Sold in: around 40 countries worldwide, mainly in Benelux, Sweden, Denmark, the UK, Spain, Germany, France, Israel, Latvia. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 28 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h Läkerol Dents is the world’s first xylitol pastille with 50 per cent xylitol. In Finland it is market-leading and in Sweden and Norway it is new, and it is available in several flavours. Take two tablets after every meal to stop acid attack and strengthen your teeth. Läkerol Dents is the most delicious Läkerol way to take care of your teeth. Läkerol DentaFresh – a smart habit for stronger teeth. is a classic brand and the tastiest refresher for all Sold in: Finland, Sweden, Norway. occasions. The first box was sold in 1909. Läkerol is available in a variety of flavours and is perfect when you want to soothe your throat, refresh your breath or just fancy something tasty. Läkerol makes people talk. Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Switzerland, the US, China, South-Korea, Singapore, Lebanon, Belgium, the Netherlands. Malaco Mynthon offers a wide variety of candy products. The name is the leading pastille brand in Finland, where Malaco comes from the first letters of the company it was launched in 1976. Fresh and effective is name Malmö Lakrits Compani, founded in 1934. Mynthon’s brand essence. The product range Over the years, many new products have been consists of chewy, hard and compressed launched under the brand, such as Gott & Blandat, pastilles in a variety of fresh flavours. In 2012, TV MIX, Aakkoset, Familie Guf, Lagerman Konfekt chewing gum was also launched under the and Kick. Quite simply – Saturday all week. brand. Sold in: Sweden, Finland, Norway, Denmark, Sold in: Finland, Norway, Germany, the Baltics, Switzerland, Canada, the US, Germany, Thailand, Russia, Belarus. Cyprus, Guinea, Malta, the Baltics. Nutisal is the Group’s nut expert as of 2014. The business started in a shop in Beirut, Lebanon. There, back in 1948, a unique ‘dry roasting’ method was developed Plopp for roasting without oil. Nutisal took this technology is the mini-bar for indulging yourself or someone close to to Europe and created a range of dry-roasted mixes your heart. Originally introduced in 1949, Plopp is personified that was launched in 2007. Since no oil is used in by the little mini-bar that stands for nostalgia, fun and playthe process, the consumer can enjoy the genuine fulness. Plopp is loved by many for its good milk chocolate taste of nuts. and its sweet liquid toffee filling. In 2018, Plopp has expanded Sold in: Sweden, Denmark, Finland, the Netherits brand by launching milk chocolate tablets with exciting lands, Switzerland, Saudi Arabia, Italy, Latvia. flavours from the candy and chocolate portfolio. Sold in: Sweden. Pops Pops are one of Norway’s Polly best-kept and tastiest secrets —bags of light and was launched in 1965 and is the leading brand of bagged airy chocolate bites. Pops is chocolate on the Swedish market. It’s impossible to eat just fun to share, perfect for the one. Polly is delightfully chewy foam drops, covered with weekend treat and enjoyed chocolate. The original is flavoured with vanilla, arrack and by the whole family. butter toffee. Polly is also the candy that surprises, for example Polly with a taste of Ahlgrens bilar. Sold in: Norway (and in Sweden as Polly Pops). Sold in: Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Poland. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 St r at eg i e s fo r g r owt h 29 Red Band has roots going back to 1928. Since its start, the Red Band brand has built up a leading position in the Dutch and German confectionery markets with a promise to deliver fun, quality and pleasure. The classic Winegum Mix, the original Drop Fruit Duos and Pret Mix are some of the well-known products that are sold under the Red Band brand. Today Red Band also offers the consumer more alternatives with the sugar-free version, the 30% less sugar and the vegetarian version. Sold in: more than 25 countries, mainly the Netherlands, Switzerland, Belgium, Germany, France, the Baltics, Canada. Sisu is a liquorice pastille flavoured by a secret Sisu-aroma that was launched in Finland in 1928. Sisu is named after the true nature of the Finnish people – the word ‘sisu’ means guts, endurance or relentless courage. For the Finns, the Sisu brand is part of the Finnish spirit that no other brand can replace. With Sisu, you can do it. Sisu is available in several flavours packaged in boxes. Sold in: Finland. Sportlife was launched in the Netherlands in 1981 as the first chewing gum in “blister” packaging. Since its start, Sportlife has been a leader in the Dutch market and also has a strong position in Belgium. Sportlife is based on the brand essence of unexpected freshness and has an international brand profile. In 2015 Sportlife launched the core flavors in jars. Sold in: the Netherlands, Belgium, Surinam. Sportlunch is a crispy wafer generously coated with pure milk chocolate in easy-to-break pieces. Sportlunch was launched in Sweden in 1937, under the name “Mellanmål” and changed name to Sportlunch in 1996. Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Lithuania. Tupla was launched in 1960 and is the number one chocolate countline in Finland. Tupla means ´double´ in Finnish and Tupla original countline contains two pieces that are filled with energy and easy to share. The original Tupla countline has a cocoa nougat filling covered with milk chocolate, with a twist of saltiness and roasted almond crush. The taste and texture of Tupla is fuel for the body and attitude. Tupla is available in different flavours and sizes, and since 2015 also as a sport bar Tupla+, which contains protein. Sold in: Finland, the Baltics, Russia. Venco Venco was launched as early as 1878 and is the leading liquorice brand in the Netherlands. Venco has ‘a passion for liquorice’, which is delivered in a wide range of unique, iconic and top-selling items like chalk and honey liquorice. When the Dutch think of liquorice, they think of Venco. Sold in: the Netherlands, Canada, Germany, Israel, Spain, Italy, Surinam, South Africa, Belgium. LEADING BRANDS Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 30 C lo e tta’ s m a i n m a r k e t s Cloetta’s main markets Cloetta’s main markets are the countries where the Group has its own sales and distribution organization, and consist of Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, the UK and Germany. Sweden Finland • 31% M  ain markets – countries where Cloetta has its own • 21% organization. C ountries where Cloetta’s products are sold Norway • primarily through distribution agreements. S hare of Cloetta’s sales. 6% The UK The Netherlands 9% Denmark 7% 14% Germany 5% International Markets 7% Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C lo e tta’ s m a i n m a r k e t s 31 Sweden Sweden is the largest single market in the Nordic region, with around one third of the total confectionery consumption. In 2018 the total market grew. Share of Population Top-selling brands Cloetta’s sales 31% 10.1 million SWEDEN Market size Cloetta’s largest CAGR Cloetta’s presence customers 2013–2018 Candy Chocolate Axfood, Source: Datamonitor Consumer sales Coop, ICA, Pastilles of approx. Chewing gum Bergendahls SEK 16.6 bn and Privab 2.3% Nuts Pick & mix Cloetta’s sales and competitors Categories, Sweden In Sweden Cloetta is the market leader in candy and pastilles, Confectionery market excl. pick & mix Mondelez (including the Marabou brand) in chocolate and Wrigley’s Chewing gum 9% u in chewing gum. Overall, Cloetta is the second largest player in the t Candy and pastilles 44% Swedish market for packaged confectionery, with a share of around 23 per cent (23). Mondelez has approximately 30 per cent (31) of the market. The private labels of retail chains have a share of around 5 per cent (5) of the confectionery market and 42 per cent (42) within nuts. Pick & mix, an important category that accounts for 30 per cent of the total market, is not included in the market shares above, but Chocolate 47% u through contracts with retailers Bergendahls and ÖoB, the acquisition of Candyking and delivery of candy to other pick & mix players, Cloetta Source: Datamonitor is the market leader in this category. Sales channels Largest players, Sweden The Swedish grocery retail trade is concentrated and increasingly Confectionery market excl. pick & mix centrally steered, but with good opportunities to influence at a local store level. The task for Cloetta’s sales force is to ensure distribution Others 40% u t Cloetta 23% as well as placement and space in the stores in compliance with central agreements, and also to provide the trade with support in implementing campaigns and launches. The pick & mix concepts are handled by a dedicated sales and merchandising organization. #2 The service trade is a vital sales channel. In recent years, alterna­ tive sales channels like building supply stores, movie theatres, arenas, t Mondelez 30% etc., have become increasingly important. Fazer 7% p Source: Datamonitor Organization In Sweden, there are around 300 employees in the sales and merchan­ dising organization and at the Swedish head office in Malmö. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 32 C lo e tta’ s m a i n m a r k e t s Finland Finland is the third largest market in the Nordic region, with around one fifth of the region’s total confectionery consumption. The Finnish market grew in 2018. Share of Population Top-selling brands Cloetta’s sales 21% 5.5 million FINLAND Market size Cloetta’s largest CAGR Cloetta’s presence customers 2013–2018 Candy Chocolate Soiurce: Datamonitor Consumer sales Pastilles of approx. S-Group, Kesko Chewing gum and Tokmanni SEK 9.1 bn 0.4% Nuts Pick & mix Cloetta’s sales and competitors Categories, Finland Cloetta is the second largest player in the Finnish market, with a share Confectionery market excl. pick & mix of around 25 per cent (25) of packaged confectionery. The market lead­ Chewing gum 7% q er is Fazer, with approximately 40 per cent (40) of the confectionery t Candy and pastilles 45% market. The private labels of retail chains have a share of around 8 per cent (8) of confectionery sales in the Finnish market. Cloetta is the market leader in pick & mix which represents about 10 per cent of the total market value. Sales channels The Finnish grocery retail trade is dominated by two players, Kesko Chocolate 48% p and S-Group. Lidl has a larger share of retail trade compared to the Source: Datamonitor other Nordic countries with 10 per cent. Finland has the most central­ ized purchasing of all the Nordic region markets. This centralized purchasing enables new products to achieve wide distribution and Largest players, Finland become quickly available to consumers. Confectionery market excl. pick & mix Organization Others 29% u t Cloetta 25% In Finland, there are around 200 employees in the sales and merchan­ dising organization and at the office in Turku. Cloetta Finland has one of the strongest and largest sales organizations in the country, with 130 people in field sales, visiting stores every day. #2 Mondelez t Fazer 40% 6 %u Source: Datamonitor Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C lo e tta’ s m a i n m a r k e t s 33 The Netherlands The Netherlands is the sixth largest market in Western Europe with regard to confectionery consumption. The Dutch confectionery market grew slightly in 2018 mainly driven by chocolate, candy and pastilles. Share of Population Top-selling brands Cloetta’s sales 14% 17.1 million NETHERLANDS Market size Cloetta’s largest CAGR Cloetta’s presence customers 2013–2018 Candy Albert Heijn, Chocolate Source: Datamonitor Consumer sales Superunie, Pastilles of approx. Jumbo Chewing gum SEK 15.8 bn Supermarkten and Maxxam 0.9% Nuts Pick & mix Cloetta’s sales and competitors Categories, the Netherlands Cloetta is the second largest player in the candy market in Holland Confectionery market with a market share of 20 per cent, following closely behind its main Chewing gum 8% q competitor Perfetti van Melle. Cloetta holds a number one or two t Candy and pastilles 37% position in the liquorice, other candy and chewing gum markets, which has enabled the company to build strong relationships with the Dutch trade. Other competitors like Mondelez and Haribo have a couple of strong products in the market. Cloetta’s share in the overall chocolate and sugar confectionery market is 10 per cent (10). The private labels of retail chains, including hard discount, have a Chocolate 55% u share of around 9 per cent (9) of total candy sales in the Dutch market. Source: Datamonitor Sales channels The grocery retail trade is concentrated around a few major players. Primarily centralized purchasing allows for wide and rapid distribu­ Largest players, the Netherlands tion of new products that are launched. Confectionery market The hard discount retail chains have increased their share of the q Cloetta 10% market during the year, with a high proportion of private labels. Other Others 71% u important channels for confectionery are pharmacy and out-of-home. t Perfetti 11% Online grocery shopping has a stronger position in the Netherlands than in any of Cloetta’s other main markets. #2 t Mondelez 8% Sales organization Cloetta has around 85 employees in the commercial organization at the office in Oosterhout mainly focusing on the Dutch market. The Oosterhout office also supports the Cloetta International Markets Source: Datamonitor division through back-office and support activities including demand, customer service, marketing, business controlling and finance & accounting. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 34 C lo e tta’ s m a i n m a r k e t s Denmark Denmark accounts for around a quarter of the Nordic region’s total confectionery consumption. The confectionery market grew during the year. Share of Population Top-selling brands Cloetta’s sales 9% 5.8 million DENMARK Market size Cloetta’s largest CAGR Cloetta’s presence customers 2013–2018 Candy Chocolate Source: Datamonitor Consumer sales Coop, Salling Pastilles of approx. Group and Chewing gum SEK 10.3 bn Reitan 1.0% Nuts Pick & mix Cloetta’s sales and competitors Categories, Denmark Cloetta is the second largest player in the Danish market for candy Confectionery market excl. pick & mix and pastilles, with a market share of around 19 per cent (16). Haribo is Chewing gum 6 %q the market leader with around 24 per cent (29). The private labels of t Candy and pastilles 45 % retail chains have a market share of around 6 per cent (6). Cloetta is the leading pick & mix player in Denmark and has strong positions in both candy and nuts. Sales channels Chocolate The grocery trade in Denmark is moving towards greater centraliza­ 49 % u tion, albeit with a combination of centrally driven chains and a more decentralized approach than in the other Nordic countries. Extensive Source: Datamonitor efforts are therefore required at an individual store level to achieve distribution and sales of in-store display racks. Growth in the discount channel has ceased and new channels such as non-food outlets and Largest players, Denmark DIY stores are growing in importance. Candy and pastilles excl. pick & mix Organization Others 39% u t Cloetta 19% In Denmark, there are around 100 employees at the offices in Brøndby and Randers and in the sales and merchandising organization. #2 t Haribo 24% Toms 18% p Source: Datamonitor Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C lo e tta’ s m a i n m a r k e t s 35 Norway UK Norway is the smallest market in the The UK is the second largest market in Nordic region, with just under a fifth of the Western Europe and accounted for region’s total confectionery consumption 7 per cent of Cloetta’s sales. It is a market and accounted for 6 per cent of Cloetta’s characterized by fierce competition from sales. The volumes in the Norwegian all international confectionery companies. confectionery market declined in 2018. Market size Market size Consumer sales Consumer sales of approx. of approx. SEK 9.2 bn SEK 74.5 bn NORWAY UK Cloetta’s largest Top-selling brands Cloetta’s largest Top-selling brands customers customers Candyking The Jelly Bean Factory Chewits Coop, Source: Datamonitor Hancocks, Lonka NorgesGruppen Wilko’s and and Rema 1000 Tesco Cloetta’s sales and competitors Cloetta’s sales Cloetta is the third largest player in the Norwegian confectionery Cloetta is the market leader in pick & mix in the UK with the Candy­ market, with a market share of 9 per cent (9). The market leaders are king concept. However, pick & mix is still a very small segment of the Mondelez with 38 per cent (38) and Nidar (owned by Orkla) with 22 confectionery market in the UK. In addition, Cloetta is a strong niche per cent (22). Cloetta is the leading player in the market for candy. player with the premium brand The Jelly Bean Factory. Cloetta also Cloetta is the leading pick & mix concept provider with approximately sells the Chewits brand to multiple channels and Lonka to discount and one third of the market. Cash & Carry in the UK. In January 2018, the sugar tax was increased substantially, which The Candyking concept is sold and delivered direct-to-trade changed the dynamics in the confectionery category and thereby whereas a distributor model is used for Chewits and Lonka. The Jelly had a negative impact on Cloetta’s sales during the year. In 2019, the Bean Factory is distributed via multiple distributors. sugar tax has been reduced again to the level it was at prior to the 2018 increase. Organization Both the pick & mix business and the branded packaged products Organization business are commercially managed out of Cloetta’s office in In Norway, Cloetta has around 65 employees at the office in Høvik just Fareham. Cloetta has a sales and merchandising team of approximately outside of Oslo and in the sales and merchandising organization. 130 people. Largest players, Norway Confectionery market excl. pick & mix q Cloetta 9% Others 16% u Brynhild 7% u Conaxess #3 8% u t Mondelez 38% Nidar (Orkla) 22% p Source: Datamonitor Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 36 C lo e tta’ s m a i n m a r k e t s Germany International Markets Germany is the largest market in Western International Markets accounted for Europe and accounted for 5 per cent of 7 per cent of Cloetta’s sales in 2018. Cloetta’s sales. The market is characterized by its large proportion of discounters and hard discounters. Market size Consumer sales of approx. SEK 90.0 bn GERMANY Cloetta’s largest Top-selling brands Cloetta’s largest Top-selling brands customers Red Band distributors Red Band The Jelly Bean Factory The Jelly Bean Factory Lonka Continental Läkerol Source: Datamonitor Nutisal Lekkerland, Sweets (Belgium), Edeka and Tosuta (Canada) Rewe and Spiwag (Switzerland) Cloetta’s position and organization Cloetta’s sales Cloetta is primarily active with the wine gum brand Red Band and the International Markets consist primarily of sales to countries where premium brand The Jelly Bean Factory. In addition, Lonka and Nutisal Cloetta does not have its own sales and marketing organization, a total are sold in Germany. Through its strong heritage in wine gum products, of more than 50 markets. Sales to International Markets are split into Cloetta Germany has built a sustainable position with a candy portfolio four regions, Americas, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Europe covering different segments in the market. The Red Band standing, (including Africa). resealable pouch product line is clearly seen as a differentiator by both The main markets are Switzerland, the Baltics, Canada, USA, the German consumer and trade buyers. Middle East and Hong Kong/Singapore. In these markets Cloetta focuses on three categories, candy, chocolate (indulgent) and pastilles Organization which includes six strategic Cloetta brands including The Jelly Bean Cloetta has its own small organization in Bocholt, Germany with 8 Factory and Red Band plus some strong regional Cloetta brands. employees. The office takes care of customer contact and the brands and also has direct contact with all the large customers, which are sup­ Organization plied directly out of the Bocholt logistics centre. To ensure full country All markets within International Markets are serviced by external coverage, Cloetta Germany works with 6 different agents and over 60 distributors managed out of regional hubs, which Cloetta has in APAC, sales representatives representing Cloetta. the Baltics and Switzerland. A new hub for Middle East is being estab­ lished in Dubai. All other distributors are managed by local Cloetta staff in Oosterhout, The Netherlands. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Supp ly c h a i n 37 Supply chain Cloetta has eight factories in Sweden, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland. The company produced a total of approximately 102,000 tonnes of candy, chocolate, chewing gum, pastilles and nuts in 2018. Cloetta’s supply chain is responsible for three factories were closed and production Occupational safety production, purchasing, planning, logistics, was insourced from third-party suppliers. Employee safety is fundamental to Cloetta quality, technology and safety. During 2018, Moving a production line is a complex pro­ and the top priority in every production facili­ the top priorities have been to implement and cess that requires extensive documentation, ty. The focus for Cloetta is on a programme drive the Lean 2020 programme to increase careful planning, knowledge transfer, tech­ to improve the safety culture so as to alter the efficiencies, initiate the implementation of nical adaptations and fine-tuning. A physical attitudes and behaviour of employees. Cloetta a new organisation, insource volumes from relocation of machinery is often required. also works with continuous injury and risk Candyking and drive a culture of safety. In total, the restructuring programme meant reduction programmes based on real safety that 40 per cent of the total volume of the data that is translated into specific safety pro­ New production line Group was transferred in some way. jects with a focus on employee involvement. Following an explosion and a fire, which de­ Two factories were part of the acquisition Cloetta will continue to transform its safety stroyed one production line in the factory in of Lonka in 2015, of which the one in Dieren, culture and performance by increasing safety Turnhout, Belgium in 2017, Cloetta acquired The Netherlands was closed and transferred awareness and encouraging good safety be­ and installed a new starch moulding line in in 2016. haviour from everyone in the organization. the factory. The line started production dur­ In 2017, Cloetta sold its Italian business In 2018, the Lost Time Injury Rate ing the second quarter of 2018 and during the including the four factories. Most of the pro­ (LTIR), which is absence due to accidents, second half of the year the new line reached duction in the Italian factories was intended increased to 6.2 compared with 5.5 during its target production capacity. for the Italian market, the products produced 2017. The 2018 target of 4.6 was not on behalf of Cloetta are still being made in the achieved. In the focus areas of machine Production rationalizations Italian factories but now under a manufactur­ isolation, hazardous chemical management, and transfers ing contract. fork lift trucks and ATEX (EU Directive on Between 2012 and 2014 Cloetta implemented explosive atmospheres containing gases or a factory restructuring programme in which dust, which in Cloetta’s case is relevant due to 102 thousand 1,645 Lean tonnes produced 2018 8 FACTORY EMPLOYEES 2020 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 38 Supp ly c h a i n Changes in the production structure 2012–2018 2012 2018 Gävle Aura Ljungsbro Alingsås Sneek Roosendaal Turnhout Levice Gordona Cremona San Pietro in Casale Ljungsbro Silvi Marina Helsingborg 2016 Sneek Dublin Roosendaal Ljungsbro Turnhout Helsingborg Levice Dublin Sneek Dieren Roosendaal Turnhout Levice Gordona Cremona San Pietro in Casale Silvi Marina Closed factory Acquired factory Sold factory dust from flour, for example), accidents fell by Management systems Quality and product safety 33 per cent, down to 4 in 2018 from 6 in 2017. Cloetta has a central management system to Cloetta places rigorous demands on quality However accidents due to slips, trips and falls ensure standardized working methods in its and product safety. First class raw mate­ increased to 5, compared with 3 during 2017. operations. Each production unit has a locally rials and correct treatment and processing In 2019, Cloetta will continue to work adapted management system that is linked to methods are essential for manufacturing towards risk reduction in ATEX and machine the central system. Central policies, goals and high-quality confectionery. isolation while increasing its focus on engag­ procedures are broken down and implement­ Continuous efforts are made to ensure ing front line leaders and operators to address ed at a factory level. that products meet the requirements and unsafe acts and conditions that increase daily The management systems cover occu­ expectations of consumers and retailers. work risks. pational health and safety, quality, product safety and the environment. These systems Quality and safety of raw materials are based on international standards (BRC Suppliers are selected, evaluated and Global Standard for Food Safety, ISO 14001 approved against a defined set of criteria. Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) and OHSAS 18001), recurring risk assess­ The performance of suppliers is monitored (LTIR is absence due to accidents (for more ments and continuous improvements. through a risk-based supplier audit pro­ than 24 hours) per 1,000,000 hours worked.) One important aspect of this working gramme carried out by an audit team, and Number method is a systematized meeting structure through a risk-based control plan that checks 10 for monitoring of results against targets, to that raw material is delivered in conformance Goal detect both positive and negative deviations. with the specifications and EU regulation 8 2018 Goals and results are visualized, for example requirements. on displays in the factories, to provide knowl­ Cloetta has also established a Food 6 edge about the current situation, which helps Safety & Fraud Team to ensure timely to raise awareness and engagement among knowledge of emerging risks coming from 4 the employees. Action can be taken immedi­ the supply chain. ately in the event of deviations and system­ 2 atic follow-up creates scope for proactive Production improvements. Management of food safety in production Read more about Cloetta’s environmen­ is based on the HACCP method (Hazard 0 2017 2018 tal work on pages 44–45. Analysis Critical Control Points) whereby the Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Supp ly c h a i n 39 risks of chemical, biological, microbiological, Cloetta has established a detailed process Planning and logistics and physical contaminants are identified and which enables rapid recall of a product from Effective production planning leads to lower managed to ensure that safe products reach the market if needed. capital being tied up in the form of inventories the consumers. of both raw materials and finished products, at All of Cloetta’s factories are certified Consumer and customer feedback the same time as it increases the service level. according to the BRC ‘Global Standard for Feedback from individual consumers is Delivery reliability is one of the most critical Food Safety,’ an international standard that extremely valuable in Cloetta’s pursuit of parameters for the retail trade. Cloetta has outlines requirements for managing product continuous improvement. a shared planning system for all factories, safety, integrity, legality and quality, and the Each market has a Consumer Service which covers the whole range of planning operational controls in the food industry. unit that receives, evaluates and responds from material deliveries from suppliers To support and facilitate compliance to consumer and customer feedback and to distributors to the markets. The system with BRC and EU regulations, Cloetta has complaints. provides input to financial planning to ensure also developed its own Good Manufacturing In the event of quality defects, Consumer alignment of all functions in the Group. Practice (GMP) Manual, aligned and updated Service contacts the relevant factory where Cloetta works continuously to optimize with the best reference standards in the food an investigation can be initiated to identify its flows and working methods, both internal­ industry, which will be implemented in all the root cause and take the necessary action ly and externally, together with customers factories. Internal independent audits are to eliminate the issue and prevent re-occur­ and suppliers. conducted by trained auditors to monitor ef­ rence. fective implementation; each factory receives Most of the complaints are related to Purchasing a score and improvement plans along with a the mix of products in the bags and damaged Cloetta’s largest cost items in production, ac­ new target score to be achieved (continuous packaging. counting for around 59 per cent of production improvement). costs, are raw materials and packaging. Complaints, feedback per million sold Cloetta collaborates closely with its consumer units Products largest raw material suppliers, for exam­ For each product there is a quality specifica­ Number Goal 2018 ple through automated order and delivery 10 tion describing the required flavour, aroma, 7.6 processes that are adapted to raw material appearance, consistency and package. consumption in each factory. A central sensory panel ensures training 8 Cloetta’s range includes products that are and alignment across the Cloetta sites to en­ produced by other manufacturers. External sure qualified tasters are in place to monitor 6 production is outsourced to manufacturers the organoleptic performance of our products only after approval from Cloetta, according and their conformity. 4 to the same high quality standards that apply The Cloetta traceability system enables to production in Cloetta’s own factories. tracing of all raw material lots from the 2 External manufacturers are evaluated and suppliers through all stages of manufacturing tested regularly. and product shipping to the customers, and 0 vice versa. 2017 2018 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 40 Supp ly c h a i n From Lean 2020 to the Perfect Factory through Cloetta’s Leading Performance Programme The Lean 2020 programme has been successful during the last couple of years and has increased reliability and flexibility, improved resource efficiency per line, reduced waste and decreased inventory levels. In 2019 Cloetta will take the next step towards creating the Perfect Factory. Cloetta’s vision for the Perfect Factory • Team-centric, activity-based staffing. • Stable processes operated with up• Digitalized information visualisation to-date standard work instructions. from every line. Real-time metrics and • Engaged, cross-trained employees, Use of statistical process control to timely dialogues that correct gaps relentlessly driving improvement using ensure predictability and to identify between current and target perforLean tools. and correct deviations. mance. • Reliable equipment that is proactively • Engaged, visible site leadership team maintained based on defined standthat reinforces the desired culture with ards, and repaired efficiently when frequent performance dialogues and down. improvement events. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Supp ly c h a i n 41 Employee safety A safe working environment is a fundamental right for each employee. Being and feeling safe at work is essential in order to develop and perform well in the workplace. Flexibility Engaged employees A production line is often used for several Good communication about processes different products. Rapid changeovers and and goals creates engaged employees who cleaning are vital for high machine capacity understand the business and how their work utilization. Flexibility also means that each contributes to the Group’s overall results. employee is able to work on more than one line. Success factors for production High and consistent quality Cost-efficiency The goal is to always deliver safe products Cloetta’s sales are based on large volumes. with the right flavour, appearance and Cost efficiency is necessary in order to stay consistency according to their respective competitive. specifications. Delivery reliability Good production planning is essential for effective production and low warehousing costs, but also for delivery reliability to the customers. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 42 Supp ly c h a i n Factories Production at eight factories Ljungsbro Helsingborg Sneek Dublin Roosendaal Turnhout Levice Production by factory in 2018, tonnes Helsingborg, Sweden, 1,634 tonnes q Dublin, Ireland, 2,417 tonnes q Sneek, the Netherlands, 6,574 tonnes q t Levice, Slovakia, 28,154 tonnes Roosendaal 2, the Netherlands, 7,856 tonnes u Total Turnhout, Belgium, 13,449 tonnes u 102,000 tonnes Roosendaal 1, the Netherlands, 17,756 tonnes p p Ljungsbro, Sweden, 24,125 tonnes 1) Spoorstraat 2) Borchwerf Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Supp ly c h a i n 43 Levice, Slovakia Ljungsbro, Sweden Roosendaal (Spoorstraat), the Netherlands Production volume 2018: 28,154 tonnes Production volume 2018: 24,125 tonnes Production volume 2018: 17,756 tonnes Number of plant employees: Approx. 750 Number of plant employees: Approx. 320 Number of plant employees: Approx. 180 Number of machine lines: 1 2 production lines, Number of machine lines: 12 production lines Number of machine lines: 5  production lines, 35 packaging lines with in-line packing, 3 separate packaging lines and 10 packaging lines Largest brands: Malaco, Red Band, 1 chocolate production centre Largest brands: Red Band, Malaco, Venco, Lakrisal Läkerol, Chewits, Venco, Läkerol Dents, Mynthon Largest brands: Kexchoklad, Ahlgrens bilar, Center, Manufacturing methods: Starch moulding, coating Manufacturing methods: Starch moulding, Polly, Plopp, Sportlunch, Juleskum, Tupla and compression of pastilles extrusion, coating, hard and soft-boiled candy Manufacturing methods: Chocolate moulding, Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and toffee, chocolate enrobing starch moulding, coating and wafer production Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and IFS Food and ISO 14001 Turnhout, Belgium Roosendaal (Borchwerf), the Netherlands Sneek, the Netherlands Production volume 2018: 13,449 tonnes Production volume 2018: 7,856 tonnes Production volume 2018: 6,574 tonnes Number of plant employees: Approx. 125 Number of plant employees: Approx. 80 Number of plant employees: Approx. 100 Number of machine lines: 2  production lines, Number of machine lines: 7 production lines, Number of machine lines: 5  production lines, 4 packaging lines 14 packaging lines 14 packaging lines Largest brands: Malaco, Red Band Largest brands: Lonka, Red Band Largest brands: Sportlife, Jenkki, XyliFresh, King Manufacturing methods: Starch moulding Manufacturing methods: Toffee, fudge and nougat Manufacturing methods: Chewing gum, coating, Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety manufacturing hard-boiled candy and lozenge manufacturing and ISO 14001 Certifications: IFS, GMP and BRC Global Standard Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food for Food Safety Safety, IFS and ISO 14001 Dublin, Ireland Helsingborg, Sweden Production volume 2018: 2,417 tonnes Production volume 2018: 1,634 tonnes Number of plant employees: Approx. 60 Number of plant employees: Approx. 30 Number of machine lines: 1 production line, Number of machine lines: 6  production lines, 10 packaging lines 4 packaging lines Largest brands: The Jelly Bean Factory Largest brands: Nutisal, Parrots Manufacturing methods: Starch moulding and Manufacturing methods: Dry roasting, frying and coating coating of nuts Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and ISO 14001 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 44 Supp ly c h a i n Increased resource efficiency Cloetta manages its negative impact on the environment by reducing energy consumption and using resources more effectively during manufacturing, in packaging and during transportation. Improved resource effectiveness Cloetta’s goal is to reduce energy consump­ In 2019 Cloetta will work to remove Cloetta uses resources responsibly by tion by 2020 and CO2 emissions in relation metallised films and also plans to start intro­ focusing on the energy effectiveness of its to produced volume by 5 per cent and the ducing recycled material into packaging. production facilities and reducing the com­ amount of waste in relation to produced vol­ pany’s carbon dioxide emissions and waste ume by 25 per cent compared to 2014 levels. Energy efficiency generated from its factories. During 2018 Cloetta conducted energy audits Cloetta considers the environmental Sustainable packaging at all eight factories. The audit result includes impact of both its products and packaging, To reduce the environmental impact of pack­ details about consumption for specific appli­ throughout their entire life cycle, from the aging, and use resources more effectively, cations as well as energy balance for the facto­ raw materials used, manufacturing and Cloetta has defined a programme to develop ry and forms the basis for defining actions for transportation to recycling of packaging. more sustainable packaging solutions with more effective energy usage at each factory. Cloetta also applies the principle of caution; improved environmental performance. Despite the cold winter and extreme hot acting responsibly, even though we do not By no later than 2025 Cloetta’s packaging and long summer in 2018, which required have the full scientific knowledge concerning will be 100 per cent recyclable/recoverable. extra energy for heating as well as cooling, the adverse effects. The definition used for determining that energy efficiency measures resulted in a total All the factories have systematic environ­ a form of plastic packaging is recyclable is increase in energy consumption of 5 per cent mental work ongoing including action plans either that it has been manufactured from while production volumes increased by 6 per and follow-up within a number of different one single type of material, or in cases where cent. In 2018 energy consumption in relation areas. Cloetta’s management system is based a laminate is composed of at least 80 per cent to the amount produced decreased from 1.85 on BRC, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. polythene(PE) and/or polypropene(PP) MWh/tonne to 1.83 MWh/tonne. However, Material local environmental aspects, goals plastic, that it does not contain polyvinyl the amount of carbon dioxide in relation to and activities are defined within the man­ chloride (PVC), polyvinylidene chloride the produced amount increased from 0.25 kg agement system. Cloetta has set Group-wide (PVDc), fibres, polyethylene terephthalate CO2/kg to 0.30 kgCO2/kg. goals for 2020 regarding energy, climate, (PET), aluminium or more than 10 per cent of sewage and COD. Processes and instructions any other polymer material. Cloetta focused for data collection are in place and will be on removing metallised films from plastic updated in 2019 to ensure good quality of laminates during 2018, and a total of 70 per collected data. Data is reported monthly and cent of plastic packaging is now recyclable. consolidated at a Group level. TARGETS 5% 5% 25% 100% recyclable/ energy CO2 waste recoverable reduction reduction by reduction packaging by 2020 2020 by 2020 material by 2025 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Supp ly c h a i n 45 Environmental key Sources of energy GWh performance indicators 2018 2017 1 2016 1 2015 2014 Total energy consumption, GWh 188 179 180 215 216 Gas 63 u t Electricity 82 Energy consumption per produced tonne, MWh 1.83 1.85 1.80 1.85 1.88 CO 2e (Scope 1 + 2) per produced kilo, kg 3 0.30 0.25 0.27 0.35 0.34 Waste per produced tonne, kg 2 64 67 64 67 66 Total Recycled waste, % 2 88 82 81 81 80 188 GWh Wastewater per produced tonne, m 3 , 2 1.7 1.7 1.5 2.9 2.9 COD* per produced tonne, kg 2 15.6 14.2 15.0 17.6 16.6 District heating 10 u 1) The sold Italian operations have been excluded from the 2016 and 2017 figures. Roosendaal Borchwerf is included as of 2016. For this reason, the Group’s targets have been adjusted slightly. p Steam 33 2) T he factories in Dublin, Helsingborg and Roosendaal Borchwerf are included as of 2016. 3) The figures for 2016 and 2017 have been adjusted. Direct Scope 1 emissions related to Energy consumption Carbon dioxide emissions combustion of oil, gas and LPG increased by MWh/prod. tonne Goal CO2e (Scope 1+2) per prod kilo, kg 2020 Goal 3 per cent, from 11,700 tonnes CO2e to 12,079 2.0 0.35 2020 tonnes CO2e compared to last year, which 0.30 corresponds well with the increased produc­ 1.5 tion volumes. Indirect Scope 2 emissions 0.25 from usage of electricity and district heating 0.20 increased by 55 per cent, from 12,392 tonnes 1.0 CO2e to 19,206 tonnes CO2e. The increase in 0.15 CO2e is due to the fact that emission factors 0.10 have been updated and also that a smaller 0.5 portion of renewable electricity has been 0.05 purchased compared to the previous year. 0.0 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Transportation The figures for 2016 and 2017 have been adjusted. In order to reduce its climate impact from transportation and to optimise freight costs, Cloetta endeavours to have high fill rates and Waste Recycled waste uses stackable crates and transportation with kg/prod. tonne % Goal larger load capacity. To the greatest extent 80 2020 100 possible, a combination of trains, ships and 70 lorries are used to achieve a transportation 80 solution with the best possible environmen­ 60 tal performance. In 2018, 6 per cent more 50 60 products were transported and the total CO2 40 emissions (Scope 3) due to transportation 40 from the factories to the customers’ central 30 depots increased by 5 per cent, indicating an 20 improved efficiency. This equates to 38 kg of 20 10 CO2e per transported tonne of product. 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Recycling All eight factories sort their waste. During the year, focus has been on improving the rate Wastewater COD* of recycling of waste from production. As a m3/prod. tonne kg/prod. tonne result, 88 per cent of waste was recycled in 3.0 20 2018, compared with 82 per cent the previous year. 2.5 15 2.0 Sewage Within the framework of the factory manage­ 1.5 10 ment systems, initiatives are underway to re­ duce the amount of sewage as well as improve 1.0 the quality of sewage. In 2018, the quantity 5 of water per tonne of produced product that 0.5 was released into sewers was 1.7 m3, which corresponds to the previous year’s amount. 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 COD, a measurement of the quality of sewage, *COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), is a measure increased during 2018 to 16 kg oxygen per of the amount of oxygen consumed in complete tonne of produced product. chemical decomposition of organic compounds in water. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 46 Supp ly c h a i n Raw material Raw materials and packaging account for around 59 per cent of total production costs. In terms of value, the most significant raw materials are sugar, cocoa, nuts, glucose syrup and polyols. The prices of Cloetta’s most important raw predictability in prices and financial out­ tive trading of agricultural commodities has materials are set on the international Euro­ comes, since cost changes affect Cloetta’s increased dramatically, which has contribut­ pean commodities exchanges, either directly, purchasing costs with a certain delay. In this ed to greater price volatility. as is the case for cocoa, or indirectly such as way, Cloetta can most often avoid temporary with glucose syrup, whose price is influenced price swings in the commodities market. Suppliers by the price of wheat and corn. This means Cloetta uses several suppliers for the majority that Cloetta’s purchasing costs for these items Agricultural policy of its raw materials, but significant consoli­ are dependent on market pricing. Aside from The prices of many of Cloetta’s raw materials dations have taken place among the suppliers the production volume, the total cost for raw are affected by agro-political decisions and this has sometimes made it difficult to materials is also affected by factory efficiency. regarding subsidies, trade barriers and such. find alternative suppliers. The ten largest Cloetta has a central purchasing unit The EU’s new agricultural policy reform, suppliers of raw materials and packaging that can carry out more effective purchasing, which ended the system of sugar quotas, was account for around 27 per cent (35) of the both by consolidating and by maximizing implemented in 2017. total purchasing volume. local purchasing opportunities. As a rule, the The prices of agricultural commodities Suppliers to Cloetta are evaluated and central purchasing unit pre-purchases the are naturally also affected by supply and approved before they are permitted to deliver most important raw materials so that they demand, i.e. the size of the harvest and to the factories. Read more on page 48. are accessible for a period equal to six to nine consumption of food products in relation to months of production. This also creates production capacity. In recent years, specula­ SUGAR COCOA MILK NUTS Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Supp ly c h a i n 47 Cost trend Sugar Sugar prices continued to decline in 2018 due to the abolition of the European sugar quota system in 2017. European sugar prices are now more closely aligned with the devel­ opment of global market prices for sugar, although import duties to Europe remain unchanged. Cocoa The price of cocoa derivatives increased dur­ ing 2018 as a result of uncertainty regarding the rainy season and speculation. The cocoa price is often subject to sharp fluctuations that are partly explained by the fact that the Breakdown of raw material and packaging costs cocoa exchange is comparatively small and therefore of interest for speculation. The price of cocoa is naturally also dependent on Others 22% u t 24% Packaging the level of supply, i.e. the harvest and trends in demand. Nuts Nut prices are affected mainly by supply/ Milk powder/ demand, the harvest (weather conditions) milk products 5% u and exchange rates, since most nut prices Gelatine 6% u are quoted in US dollars. The cost of nuts, t 13% Sugar particularly cashews, decreased somewhat Polyols (sweetener) 6% u during 2018 while the cost of almonds was higher than in 2017. p 9% Cocoa Glucose syrup 7% p Milk powder p8% Nuts and seeds After a price decrease in 2017, prices in­ creased in 2018 due to low availability of Sugar Cocoa beans fresh milk and higher demand for fresh Cost trend Cost trend milk powder that was balanced by EU EUR/Tonne EUR/Tonne stock management. 800 3,500 Other raw materials and packaging The price of wheat and corn has a powerful 700 3,000 influence on the price of glucose syrup. The supply of and demand for glucose were 600 2,500 unbalanced during 2018, leading to price movements. The price of polyols (sweetener) 500 2,000 is less affected by grain prices. The price of Xylitol rose substantially during 2018 due to 400 1,500 a lower supply. Purchase costs for packaging materials, 300 1,000 especially paper-based packaging material, 2011 2015 2018 2011 2015 2018 such as corrugated material, increased during Source: Data Commodity Source: Data Commodity 2018. Milk powder Cashew nut Corrugated Cost trend Cost trend Cost trend EUR/Tonne EUR/Tonne EUR/Tonne 3,500 10,000 800 3,000 8,000 700 2,500 2,000 6,000 600 1,500 1,000 4,000 500 2011 2015 2018 2011 2015 2018 2011 2015 2018 Source: Data Commodity Source: Data Commodity Source: Data Commodity Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 48 Supp ly c h a i n Responsible sourcing Cloetta manages risks in its supply chain by integrating and controlling compliance with environmental, social and food safety-related requirements in its sourcing process. Supplier controls are integrated into the sourcing process Cloetta has processes in place to approve and control the compliance with requirements placed on suppliers. These requirements are defined in the BRC Global Standards for Food Safety and in the company’s Code of Conduct, and they are integrated into the sourcing process. Compliance with these requirements and fulfilment of Cloetta’s expectations are pre-requi­ sites for the approval of any new suppliers. All new suppliers are assessed in terms of their food safety, product quality, environmental considerations, working conditions and human rights. Cloetta carries out a risk analysis based on country-specific and sector-specific circumstances to be able to identify high-risk suppliers. This informs the prioritisation of supplier food safety audits. New suppliers with operations in a high-risk country must also be able to verify that they fulfil Cloetta’s environmental and social requirements. If any supplier does not fulfil Cloetta’s expectations and requirements, no business relationship is initiated. In 2018, the food safety, product quality, environmental considerations, working conditions and human rights aspects of all (85) new suppliers were assessed. Of these, 32 suppliers had operations in a high-risk country and 22 audits were carried out by Cloetta’s auditors. Sustainability programme for prioritized raw materials Many of the raw materials that are used in Cloetta’s products originate in countries where the risk of deviation from our Code of Conduct is higher. Cloetta’s sustainability programme for prioritized raw materials is based on third-party certified raw materials. Cloetta purchases certified raw materials and cooperates with raw material suppliers so as to improve traceability, work to a common set of requirements and carry out training that can contribute to positive change in countries where the raw materials are grown. Cloetta’s sustainability programme includes cocoa, palm oil and shea butter. TARGETS Goal 100% of suppliers approved according Sustainability to Cloetta’s programmes include Code of Conduct cocoa, palm oil and shea butter Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Supp ly c h a i n 49 UTZ certified cocoa Source: UTZ impact report 2016 Cocoa is cultivated by Through UTZ the cocoa farmers around 5 million farmreceive • Training in new farming methods. ers and employs some • S upport in buying better plants, 40 million people, close which leads to a higher yield. to 70 per cent of these • U TZ certified cocoa farmers are found in West produce more than growers not Africa, primarily Ghana affiliated with UTZ. COCOA and Ivory Coast. Since 2014 Cloetta has been buying cocoa Sourcing of cocoa Low productivity solely from UTZ certified farmers. By buying West Africa accounts for around 70 per cent for the cocoa farmers cocoa from UTZ certified farmers, Cloetta of the total global harvest of cocoa beans. The West African cocoa farmers face a creates a platform for securing a supply of Local intermediaries then distribute the raw number of economic, social and environmen­ high quality cocoa to its factories, while cer­ materials to international cocoa wholesalers, tal challenges, one of the most significant tification is aimed at creating the conditions after which the cocoa is sent to Europe. Every of these is low productivity on the farms. for sustainable production of cocoa and year, Cloetta buys approximately 3,000 Limited knowledge about how to grow high contributing to long-term positive change for tonnes of cocoa in the form of cocoa liquor, quality cocoa efficiently is a root cause of the the cocoa farmers. cocoa butter and cocoa powder from suppli­ farmers’ low productivity. The farmers are ers in Europe. also struggling with ageing cocoa trees and declining soil fertility while often lacking the means to finance investments in new plants, fertilizers, etc. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 50 Supp ly c h a i n Certified palm oil 8 Around In certain regions, cultivation 85% of palm oil has caused and continues to cause destrucprinciples that farmers tion of rain forest. must respect of all palm oil in By respecting eight key prin1. Transparency. the world comes from ciples, it is possible to reduce 2. C ompliance with laws and Malaysia and the negative impacts of palm oil regulations. cultivation on the environment Indonesia. 3. C ommitment to long-term economic and financial viability. PALM OIL and communities. 4. U se of best farming practices. 5. E nvironmental responsibility and conservation of natural resources and biodiversity. 6. R esponsible consideration of employees, and of communities and individuals affected by palm oil production. 7. R esponsible development of new plantations. 8. C ommitment to continuous improvement. Palm oil tion must not be permitted in primary forest, that Cloetta will receive information about A number of Cloetta’s products contain palm peatlands, areas with protected forest or which mills the palm oil comes from. RSPO oil. However, Cloetta does not buy pure palm areas where slash and burn farming is used in certification of Cloetta’s factories is planned oil, but oils and fats that contain derivatives plantation operation. To improve tracea­ for 2019 to ensure traceability all the way to of palm oil. Suppliers must comply with bility, Cloetta has started the transition to the finished product. Cloetta’s requirement that palm oil extrac­ RSPO segregated palm oil, which means Sustainable shea butter – empowering women in rural West Africa Women organized in groups More than 100,000 women engaged. SHEA BUTTER In 2017 Cloetta decided to partner up with which means the women cannot influence the Another important benefit for the women AAK (a supplier in oils and fats solutions) re­ prices. is the possibility of obtaining pre-financing. garding sustainable shea butter. In a number One prerequisite for the programme is At the beginning of the season, AAK exten­ of West African countries, AAK has set up a that AAK helps the women to organize sion officers visit the producer groups to sustainability programme for direct sourcing them­selves into producer groups, normally discuss the women’s outlook for the season. of shea kernels aimed at empowering women consisting of women from the local village. Part of the volume is then pre-financed and in rural areas. Since July 2018 Cloetta has By organizing the women into producer the women are paid this money at a time of only sourced segregated and traceable shea groups, AAK can build a direct buying the year when they have little or no other butter covered by the AAK direct sourcing relationship with the women. AAK then source of income. It is also a guarantee that programme. trains the women in business management AAK will return and buy all their shea ker­ and in good post-harvest practices. The main nels. The pre-financing is interest-free – it is The programme setup advantage for the women is a higher return, as an advance payment, not a loan. From Tamale (Ghana), AAK runs a pro­ they are paid the same price that AAK would The programme has been running gramme office for sustainable shea kernels. otherwise have paid to the intermediaries. It since 2009 in Burkina Faso and since 2015 The basic principle of the programme is to is also a guaranteed outlet for all of their shea in Ghana. More than 100,000 women are establish a direct relationship with the rural kernels. The advantage for AAK and Cloetta engaged in the programme, which has had a West African women. Traditionally, the sup­ is a more secure, transparent and sustainable major impact on the lives of the many women ply chain contains a series of intermediaries, supply chain with increased opportunities to and their families. impact the quality of the shea kernels. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 E m p loy e e s 51 Employees Cloetta is driven by a conviction that value is created by its employees, and that the ability to attract, retain and develop the best and most competent people is crucial for the company’s success. It is also very important that the safety of Cloetta’s employees is continuously improved. Cloetta has four core values that guide how its people work and act, both within and outside the company. These core values are Focus, Passion, Teamplay and Pride. Focus Passion Teamplay Pride is about doing the fundamentals is about “going the extra mile”, is about mutual responsibility, is about being proud of our com­ with self-confidence, ambition being positive and having fun. doing your part and supporting pany, our brands, our products and a “will do” attitude. each other. and our personal contribution. Cloetta – a great place • Build Cloetta’s Image bination with analysis of the various tests and • Fuel a winning culture interview material. to work • Develop our organization and Cloetta has commenced work on building Cloetta works determinedly to create an our people a common communication platform for Em­ attractive workplace for all employees and • Build the HR platform to support managers ployer Branding, which consists of a common promote the development of a high-perform­ and the organization career portal, a common recruitment tool and ing organization by continuously developing integration with LinkedIn and other social and training its staff, upholding an inspiring media to reach the identified target groups. corporate culture and building a clear corpo­ Build Cloetta’s image An important aspect of building Cloetta’s rate identity. Employer branding image internally is a thorough, harmonised Cloetta is driven by a conviction that Cloetta strives to be an attractive employer in induction programme. During 2019, existing value is created by its employees, and that the the markets where the company is active and programmes will be brought together into ability to attract, retain and develop the best thereby attract and retain valuable employees. one stronger, a common programme, which and most competent people is crucial for the All recruitment is supported by centrally will be called “Cloetta Tasting”. These are company’s success. developed tools that contain both skills tests important components in the continued work and self-assessment tests. For all positions, to build “One Cloetta”. Human Resources strategy selection is based on a job description with Cloetta’s Human Resources strategy is built a specific set of competencies against which on four main pillars: candidate performance is measured, in com­ Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 52 E m p loy e e s Fuel a winning culture lower result compared to the previous year project form and uses cross-functional team­ when the Trust Index was 75 per cent. The work in day-to-day activities are important Continuously working with the core values is drop was primarily seen amongst the field components of Cloetta’s skills development. an important part of creating a shared culture sales force in Finland where the merger of All skills development is designed to support within Cloetta. Presentations and workshops Cloetta and Candyking had recently entailed Cloetta’s strategies, be business-oriented are held on various occasions, for example significant organizational and employment and promote the individual’s professional during induction programmes and different changes. The Netherlands, Denmark and interests and needs. types of conferences. Sweden continue to have a high Trust index. Cloetta’s main focus areas are to develop In 2018, Cloetta Holland was also voted the right people for the right jobs and to con­ Employee survey the third most attractive employer of all con­ tinuously clarify and improve roles, responsi­ – Great Place to Work sumer goods companies in the Netherlands. bilities and working methods throughout the To create a winning culture, it is essential that organization. In recent years there has been there is a genuine interest in understanding Diversity a major initiative, primarily in production, to how the employees perceive their place of One vital part of a good working environment work according to Lean. work, what they appreciate and what they find lacking, or what they are simply dissatisfied is that no one should be subject to discrim­ with. ination or sexual harassment. Cloetta aims Framework for remuneration The best workplaces are built through to be a workplace where diversity and the One major factor in how employees perceive day-to-day relationships. From the employ­ different qualities, knowledge and skills of all the attractiveness of their workplace is the ees’ perspective, a good workplace is one employees are included regardless of gender, feeling that they are fairly paid and that there where people: religion, ethnic background, age, race or is a well-designed salary structure in the • Trust the people they work for sexual orientation. Questions about whether company. • Have pride in what they do anyone feels that they have been harassed Over several years Cloetta has made • Enjoy working with their colleagues or discriminated against are included in the comparisons with other companies to employee survey “Great Place to Work”. ensure a clear framework and strategy for Cloetta’s goal is that the Great Place to Work its remuneration and salary structure. All Trust Index at Cloetta will be in line with or Expertise positions at Cloetta have been evaluated and exceed the previous year’s level. During the Cloetta is committed to continuously plotted on a matrix where comparable jobs year Cloetta conducted a recurring employee renewing and utilizing the Group’s collective are ranked similarly regardless of company survey “Great Place to Work” within its com­ expertise. Competent employees that are or function. This has then been supplemented mercial units. For the first time in Sweden, given scope to realize their full potential with a salary structure that is benchmarked Norway, Denmark and the UK, teams of create the conditions for Cloetta to maintain against other consumer goods companies in in-store candy merchandisers participated – its position as an attractive and innovative each country. The results provide an excellent employees that had joined Cloetta since the partner, not only for its employees but also for basis for upcoming salary reviews, where the acquisition of Karamellkungen/Candyking. customers, suppliers and business partners. existing salary level and the year’s perfor­ The response rate was 80 per cent and the A learning-driven organization that works in mance are key parameters. Trust Index result was 73 per cent, a slightly Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 E m p loy e e s 53 Anchored Innovative Supportive Strategic Bonding Analytical Trusted Visionary Leadership Leadership Decisive Perceptive Committed People Focused Leadership Leadership Leadership Communicative Courageous dimensions Coaching Structured Entreprenural Leadership Leadership Organized Result-oriented Coordinating Inspiring Quality driven Adaptable Develop our organization Cloetta’s vision and goals. Linking Cloetta’s driving. The policy and knowledge about Leadership Dimensions with Management safe driving naturally apply to all employees and our people Drives has provided the company with a who drive to and from work for example. The Leadership common language and tool that can be used policy was launched in January 2019. As a leader, it is vital that you dare to trust in in areas such as people development, conflict both your own leadership and in others. It is management and team-building activities. Safety first – also essential to understand each other and new safety standard in all factories why different individuals act differently in Health and a safe working In production, employee safety is always the similar situations. environment top priority and all of the factories perform For some time Cloetta has worked with Efforts to improve and develop the working continuous risk assessments to minimize the the leadership tool Management Drives, environment are a natural aspect of opera­ risk for accidents. All incidents and injuries which is based on the use of an analytic tool tional development and Cloetta’s goal is to are reported and followed up. The Lean that, among other things, identifies what create a good physical working environment method is used to prevent and reduce produc­ drives each employee, what energizes them and a healthy working climate where each in­ tion-related occupational injuries. Managers and what drains them of energy. By using this dividual can feel secure and pursue personal are responsible for preventing occupational leadership tool, both managers and employ­ development. illnesses and accidents through monitoring ees are made aware of their own profiles and During the last few years the “Cloetta and active measures. Cloetta has developed a thereby which working methods suit them Energy” programme has been rolled out in tool to help managers to detect early signals best. Two years ago, the company further certain parts of the organization – a health that may indicate potential illness and longdeveloped its leadership tool into leadership promotion programme utilizing different term sickness absence. training Cloetta’s Leadership Dimensions. activities that include lectures and training In 2017, a new safety standard was drawn with a focus on exercise, diet and sleep as key up for immediate implementation in all fac­ Cloetta’s Leadership Dimensions components for achieving a healthy work/life tories, an effort that has also remained a high Each dimension is briefly described with the balance. This programme will continue as priority in 2018. All incidents and accidents help of several competencies and behaviours an overarching programme for the whole of are reported and followed up. that are tied together with Management Cloetta in 2019. With effect from 2018, the metric used for Drives. By combining the concepts in Man­ In 2018, work commenced to develop occupational accidents is Lost Time Injury agement Drives with Cloetta’s Leadership a policy and expertise in the area of Safe Rate (LTIR), that is the number of accidents Dimensions, the company has created a set driving. In the Nordic countries in particular, resulting in absence. LTIR is defined as the of concepts that show what type of leaders Cloetta has a large number of salespeople number of occupational accidents (measured and employees Cloetta wants to have. Good and merchandisers who drive long journeys as 24 hours of absence) for each million hours leadership is essential in inspiring maximum as part of their work, and the programme per year worked by a group of employees or motivation and performance in the various focuses on developing a safe approach to daily contractors. teams and plays a vital role in realizing Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 54 E m p loy e e s Relationship between the company Build the HR platform to Employee journey and its employees 2019 will see the launch of Cloetta’s support managers and Cloetta strives to uphold a relationship of “Employee Journey”. This is a way to clarify mutual respect and trust between the com­ the organization the strategic focus areas as well as Cloetta as pany and its employees. This also steers the New HR organization “One Cloetta” an employer. company’s way of working with the European In 2018, the organizational structure of the Works Council, local company councils and HR function changed as Cloetta transitioned Number of employees trade union organizations. from a local, decentralised HR organization The average number of employees in 2018 Cloetta complies with the applicable laws to bringing everything into one common HR was 2,458 (2,467). Of the average number of and regulations in the countries where the function. The objective of this change is to employees, a collective labour agreement was Group is active and respects local norms and harmonise the way of working and make it applicable for 78 per cent of the employees. values. In addition, the Group’s principles are more efficient, and thereby be able to support In production there are certain periods consistent with the relevant International local resources while using shared expertise with a higher workload, such as Easter and Labour Organization (ILO) conventions. and resources in a better, more effective way. Christmas, when extra staff is hired. Other Cloetta encourages a good balance be­ The shared activities that have already com­ areas of operation also use temporary and tween professional and personal life. It is im­ menced and those that will be built up during extra staff. 11.8 per cent of the employees portant to help both men and women combine the coming years are an important part of the (headcount per year end) were temporary the demands of their jobs with responsibility journey towards “One Cloetta”. workers. for home and family. The Group therefore During 2018, the main focus has been on supports flexible work arrangements such as procuring and implementing a new digital flex-time and part-time hours, when possible. support system for HR processes. An impor­ Cloetta’s whistleblower service gives all of tant part of this work has been a review and Cloetta’s employees the opportunity to report harmonisation of these main processes. The concerns, either anonymously or via a manag­ system will be rolled out during 2019 and er, about conduct that does not align with the will entail significant improvements in work company’s values or ethical principles. Read methods for HR, employees and managers at more on page 149. Cloetta. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 E m p loy e e s 55 Goals and facts Zero accidents < 4.6 Great Place Improve vision Lost Time FACTORY Injury Rate to Work SAFETY by 2018 Trust index PROGRAMMES SAFETY Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) (LTIR is absence due to accidents (for more than 24 hours) per 1,000,000 hours worked.) Number Gender distribution, all employees 10 31 December 2018 Goal 8 2018 42% 58% 6 6% 36% 39% 19% 4 Part-time Full-time Full-time Part-time employees employees employees employees 2 0 2017 2018 Age distribution % Gender distribution, Gender distribution, 100 Styrelse Group Management Team Board of Directors 31 December 2018 80 Koncernle 31 December 2018 17% Anställda 60 83% 57% 43% 40 20 0 under 30 30–50 over 50 Employees Group Management Team Board of Directors Number of employees by category and region as per 31 December 2018 The Employees Slovakia Sweden Netherlands Finland UK Belgium Denmark Ireland Norway Germany Italy Other Total Total number of employees Women 490 464 159 288 166 25 64 27 32 8 1 3 1,727 Men 255 373 300 52 62 93 49 51 28 5 2 1 1,271 Total number of permanent employees Women 432 390 129 282 160 19 63 24 30 8 1 3 1,541 Men 208 320 256 52 59 80 48 44 27 5 2 1 1,102 Total number of temporary employees Women 58 74 30 6 6 6 1 3 2 – – – 186 Men 47 53 44 – 3 13 1 7 1 – – – 169 See full-time employee data in Note 5. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 56 Share and shareholders Share and shareholders Cloetta’s class B shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 16 February 2009. However, Cloetta was originally introduced on the stock exchange in 1994 and has been listed in a number of different owner constellations since then. Cloetta’s shares are part of the OMX Stockholm Mid Cap index, and also the Nordic and Swedish industry sector index for Food Producers, Food & Beverage and Consumer Goods. Six reasons to invest in Cloetta Strong local brands Clear strategy Attractive to deliver growth non-cyclical market 1 2 3 Cloetta has an extensive portfolio of In order to drive growth, the most im­ The confectionery market is relatively strong local brands that are well estab­ portant daily activities include broad­ insensitive to economic fluctuations lished in the minds of the consumers. ening distribution, updating packaging, and shows stable growth that is pri­ The brands have been cherished for promotional and advertising activities, marily driven by population trends and generations and consumers have a line extensions and launching of seasonal price increases. Historically, annual personal relationship with the brands products. In addition to these, strategic market growth has been between one they have grown up with. activities such as innovation, geographical and two per cent. roll-outs, brand extensions and brand re-launches are also given priority. Acqui­ sitions are also part of the growth strategy. Focus on continued Strong market positions Attractive cash flow margin expansion and distribution generation and dividend 4 5 6 Cloetta’s profitability has improved In its core markets, Cloetta has strong Cloetta’s business has a very strong over the past few years. In order to sales and marketing organizations that cash-generating capacity. Low and push towards Cloetta’s financial target have excellent relations with the retail stable capital expenditure combined to reach an EBIT margin, adjusted of trade. Cloetta’s wide portfolio of marketwith effective management of working 14 per cent, there will be a continued leading products creates economies of capital generate robust cash flows and focus on cost-effectiveness, growth and scale, and its brands are often highly thereby allow for share dividends in profitability. important to the retail trade. accordance with the goal to distribute 40 to 60 per cent of profit after tax. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Share and shareholders 57 Shareholders1 est bid price was SEK 22.80 on 26 October Articles of Association contain any restric­ At 31 December 2018 Cloetta AB (publ) had 2018. The share price on 31 December 2018 tions regarding the right to dividends for 23,956 (20,125) shareholders, an increase of was SEK 24.30 (last price paid). During shareholders outside Sweden. Aside from any 19 (24) per cent since the previous year-end. the period from 1 January to 31 December limitations related to banking or clearing ac­ Of the shareholders, 1,147 were financial 2018, Cloetta’s share price decreased by 18.2 tivities in the affected jurisdictions, payments and institutional investors and 22,809 were per cent, while Nasdaq OMX Stockholm PI to foreign shareholders are carried out in the private investors. Financial and institutional decreased by 7.7 per cent. same manner as to shareholders in Sweden. investors held 90.0 per cent of the votes and A dividend of SEK 433m was transferred to 88.2 per cent of the share capital. There were The share’s beta the shareholders in 2018. The ambition is for 802 foreign shareholders who held 42.3 per and standard deviation 3 the cash flow to be used for dividends, but that cent of the votes and 49.8 per cent of the share The price volatility of an individual share it should also provide financial flexibility for capital. The 15 largest shareholders account­ compared to the market as a whole is known complementary acquisitions. For 2018 the ed for 71.1 per cent of the votes and 66.0 per as its beta. A beta of greater than 1 indicates Board proposes an ordinary dividend of cent of the share capital. At 31 December that the share price is more volatile than the SEK 1.00 (0.75) per share, which is equal 2018, AB Malfors Promotor was Cloetta’s market average. The Cloetta share’s beta in to 60 per cent of the profit for the period. largest shareholder with a holding represent­ 2018 was 0.68 (0.69), which means that the The dividend is resolved on by the Annual ing 37.8 per cent of the votes and 26.7 per Cloetta share was less volatile than the aver­ General Meeting (AGM) and disbursement is cent of the share capital in the company. The age on Nasdaq Stockholm. The Cloetta share handled by Euroclear Sweden AB. The right second largest shareholder was Wellington had a standard deviation of 1.6 per cent (1.9) to a dividend is granted to those persons who Management, with 8.4 per cent of the votes in 2018. Standard deviation is a measure of are listed as shareholders in the share register and 10.0 per cent of the share capital, and the share’s variability from its average value maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on the the third largest shareholder was Franklin for the measurement period, i.e. how volatile record date. Templeton with 7.3 per cent of the votes and the share was during the year. 8.6 per cent of the share capital. Articles of Association Share capital and capital structure Cloetta’s Articles of Association contain Share price and trading 2 Cloetta’s share capital at 31 December 2018 a Central Securities Depository (CSD) Between 1 January to 31 December 2018, amounted to SEK 1,443,096,495. The total provision and its shares are affiliated with 139,778,861 Cloetta shares were traded number of shares is 288,619,299, divided Euroclear Sweden AB, which means that on Nasdaq Stockholm for a total value of between 5,735,249 class A shares and Euroclear Sweden AB administers the SEK 4,021m, equal to around 49 per cent of 282,884,050 class B shares, equal to a quota company’s share register and registers the the total number of class B shares at the end value per share of SEK 5. According to the shares to owners. Each A share grants ten of the period. Trading on Nasdaq Stockholm Articles of Association, the share capital shall votes and each B share one vote in sharehold­ accounted for 48.7 per cent, and other amount to not less than SEK 400,000,000 er meetings. All shares grant equal entitle­ markets where the Cloetta share was traded and not more than SEK 1,600,000,000, ment to the company’s profits and an equal include Cboe Global Markets (38.7 per cent), divided between no fewer than 80,000,000 share in any surplus arising from liquidation. LSE Group (5.9 per cent), Liquidnet (2.5 per shares and no more than 320,000,000 Should the company issue new shares of cent), Aquis (2.2 per cent), ITG (1.3 per cent), shares. class A and class B through a cash or set-off UBS (0.5 per cent), Nomura Group (0.2 per issue, holders of class A and class B shares cent) and Sigma-X (0.04 per cent). The high­ Dividend policy have the right to subscribe for new shares of est quoted bid price during the period from 1 Cloetta’s long-term goal is a dividend payout the same class in proportion to the number January to 31 December 2018 was of 40–60 per cent of profit after tax. Neither of shares already held on the record date. If SEK 34.00 on 30 January 2018 and the low­ the Swedish Companies Act nor Cloetta’s the issue includes shares of only class B, all 1 Source: Euroclear och Monitor 2 Source: Nasdaq Stockholm and Fidessa 3 Source: SIX Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 58 Share and shareholders holders of class A and class B shares have the Supervisory Authority of every transaction Shareholder categories, % of votes right to subscribe for new class B shares in conducted related to changes in their hold­ 31 December 2018 proportion to the number of shares already ings of Cloetta shares once a total amount Legal entities q qPrivate investors held on the record date. Corresponding rules of EUR 5,000 has been reached within a 90% 10% of apportionment are applied in the event calendar year, according to the regulation of of a bonus issue or issue of convertibles and the European Parliament and of the Council subscription warrants. The transference of a on Market Abuse. Listed companies are class A share to a person who is not previously required to record a logbook of individuals a holder of class A shares in the company is who are employed or contracted by the com­ subject to a pre-emption procedure, except pany and have access to insider information when the transfer is made through division relating to the company. These can include of joint property, inheritance, testament or insiders, and also other individuals who have Source: Euroclear gift to the person who is the closest heir to the obtained inside information. Cloetta records Marketplaces, % bequeather. After receiving a written request a logbook for each financial report or press 1 January – 31 December 2018 from a holder of class A shares, the company release containing information that could q Others 2.0% shall convert the class A shares specified in affect the share price. The Board adopted a Aquis 2.2% q Nasdaq OMX Liquidnet 2.5% q the request to class B shares. new, stricter insider policy in 2017. q 48.7% LSE Group 5.9% q Shareholder agreement Silent periods Oy Karl Fazer Ab, Conclo Ab, Oy Cacava Ab Cloetta maintains a silent period of at least Cboe Global and certain private individuals affiliated with 30 days prior to the publication of its quarter­ Markets Oy Karl Fazer Ab have in relation to Hjalmar ly financial reports. During this period, repre­ 38.7% u Svenfelt Foundation (which owns shares in sentatives of the Group will not meet with Cloetta through AB Malfors Promotor), pre­ financial media, analysts or investors. viously undertaken to refrain from acquiring, Source: Fidessa directly or indirectly, shares in Cloetta during Trading categories, % a 10-year period. The 10-year period started 1 January – 31 December 2018 on the first date of trading for Cloetta’s class B Auction 5.9% q Lit shares on Nasdaq OMX First North on 8 De­ q 49.6% Dark 7.2% q cember 2008, and ended in December 2018. LIT, i.e. buy and sell orders are public. Traditional exchange trading. SI Off-book, stock trades that are executed away from the Individuals with an insider position exchange and are registered later. 18.0% u Persons discharging managerial responsibil­ SI, Systematic Internalisers, outside regulated markets or trading platforms. ities for Cloetta and persons or legal entities Dark, buyers and sellers trade shares anonymously, closely associated with them are obliged to without public transparency. Not registered on any public exchange. Off-book notify Cloetta and the Swedish Financial Auction, auction trading process on an exchange. 19.3% u Source: Fidessa Investor relations 2018 Cloetta meets regularly with investors and analysts. In 2018, Cloetta had more than 130 individual investor meetings in which the CEO, CFO or IR took part. At least twice a year, trips are made to Europe and the USA to meet investors and shareholders. In addition, Cloetta regularly attends major investor club meetings, lunches and evening meetings organized by banks and the Swedish Shareholders Association (Aktiespararna). JANUARY SEB Nordic Seminar, Copenhagen Interim report Q4 NOVEMBER Investor Road Show, Stockholm, London, Paris and New York JAN DEC V FE OCTOBER NO B MARCH Interim report Q3 2017 Annual report OCT MAR APRIL SEPTEMBER SEP APR Annual General Meeting Interim report Q1 Investor Road Show, Helsinki Investor Road show, Carnegie Mid Cap Seminar AU G AY Stockholm and London M JUL JUN MAY Investor Road show, New York and Boston JULY JUNE Interim report Q2 ABG Nordic Opportunities Seminar, Frankfurt Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Share and shareholders 59 15 largest shareholders at 31 December 2018 Shareholder countries, % share of capital 31 December 2018 % of % of share Total no. of No. of A No. of B Finland 2.4% qq Other countries 4.1% votes capital shares shares shares Luxembourg 3.9% q AB Malfors Promotor 37.8 26.7 77,044,804 5,729,569 71,315,235 Wellington Management 8.4 10.0 28,720,678 – 28,720,678 Franklin Templeton 7.3 8.6 24,903,807 – 24,903,807 UK Columbia Threadneedle 2.5 2.9 8,479,462 – 8,479,462 11.1% u Dimensional Fund Advisors 2.3 2.7 7,758,614 – 7,758,614 t Sweden Norges Bank 2.2 2.6 7,586,583 – 7,586,583 50.2% Vanguard 1.6 1.9 5,602,327 – 5,602,327 Ulla Håkanson 1.5 1.7 5,000,000 – 5,000,000 USA 28.3% p Source: Euroclear AXA 1.5 1.7 4,974,712 – 4,974,712 Florida Retirement System Trust Fund 1.3 1.5 4,274,621 – 4,274,621 Shareholder countries, % of votes Försäkringsbolaget PRI 1.2 1.4 4,012,045 – 4,012,045 31 December 2018 Carnegie fonder 1.0 1.2 3,491,494 – 3,491,494 Finland 2.1% q q Other countries 3.5% Luxembourg 3.3% q Evli Fonder 0.9 1.1 3,183,266 – 3,183,266 UK 9.4% q Olof Svenfelt 0.8 0.9 2,700,030 30 2,700,000 Black Rock 0.8 0.9 2,670,252 – 2,670,252 Total, 15 largest shareholders 71.1 66.0 190,402,695 5,729,599 184,673,096 Other shareholders 28.9 34.0 98,216,604 5,650 98,210,954 Total 100 100 288,619,299 5,735,249 282,884,050 USA tSweden 24.0% u 57.7% Source: M onitor by Modular Finance AB. Data collated and processed from Euroclear, Morningstar, Finansinspektionen and others. Source: Euroclear Trustee-registered accounts/shareholders are not included in this list. Current holdings for the 15 largest shareholders can be found at www.cloetta.com Number of shareholders 31 December Size categories at 31 December 2018 Number No. of 25,000 Lorem ipsum sharehold% of share Total no. of No. of A No. of B ers % of votes capital shares shares shares 20,000 1–500 17,781 0.6 0.8 2,240,618 2,704 2,237,914 501–1 000 2,453 0.6 0.6 2,053,930 500 2,053,430 15,000 1 001–5 000 2,658 1.9 2.2 6,395,144 2,332 6,392,812 5 001–10 000 439 1.0 1.2 3,314,621 – 3,314,621 10,000 10 001–15 000 136 0.5 0.6 1,751,359 – 1,751,359 15 001–20 000 91 0.5 0.6 1,701,546 – 1,701,546 5,000 20 001 – 398 94.9 94.0 271,162,081 5,729,713 265,432,368 Total 23,956 100 100 288,619,299 5,735,249 282,884,050 0 Source: Euroclear 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Source: Euroclear Shareholders by country at 31 December 2018 Shareholder categories at 31 December 2018 No. of % of No. of share% of share Total no. of No. of A No. of B share­ % of share% of share holders votes capital shares shares shares holders holders % of votes capital Sweden 23,154 57.7 50.2 144,756,493 5,735,249 139,021,244 Private investors 22,809 95.2 10.0 11.8 USA 58 24.0 28.3 81,683,680 – 81,683,680 Of which, Swedish 22,675 94.7 9.9 11.7 UK 73 9.4 11.1 31,929,170 – 31,929,170 residents Luxembourg 21 3.3 3.9 11,110,579 – 11,110,579 Legal entities 1,147 4.8 90.0 88.2 Finland 156 2.1 2.4 6,993,811 – 6,993,811 Of which, Swedish 479 2.0 47.8 38.4 residents Other 494 3.5 4.1 12,145,566 – 12,145,566 countries Total 23,956 100 100 100 Total 23,956 100 100 288,619,299 5,735,249 282,884,050 Of which, Swedish 23,154 96.7 57.7 50.1 residents Source: Euroclear Source: Euroclear Development of the share Increase in Total share Increase in no. Total no. of Year Event share capital capital of shares shares 1998 Opening share capital, par value of the share is SEK 100 – 100,000 – 1,000 2008 Non-cash issue in connection with demerger of Cloetta Fazer 99,900,000 100,000,000 999,000 1,000,000 2008 Share split, quota value of the share changed from SEK 100 to SEK 4 – 100,000,000 23,119,196 24,119,196 2008 Bonus issue, quota value of the share changed from SEK 4 to SEK 5 20,595,980 120,595,980 – 24,119,196 2011 – 2012 Conversion of convertible debenture loan 2,836,395 123,432,375 567,279 24,686,475 2012 Issue in kind 825,934,620 949,366,995 165,186,924 189,873,399 2012 Rights issue 493,729,500 1,443,096,495 98,745,900 288,619,299 Source: Euroclear Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 60 Share and shareholders Incentive schemes The table below represents the main characteristics of the share-based long-term incentive plans that have been approved by the AGM. For more information about the incentive plans, see page 81, and Note 25 on pages 120–121. LTI 2018 LTI 2017 LTI 2016 LTI 2015 LTI 2014 AGM approval date 15 April 2018 4 April 2017 12 April 2016 23 April 2015 29 April 2014 Maximum number of B shares to be allocated 1,201,602 1,221,698 1,524,100 2,000,000 1,773,840 as percentage of total shares 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.6 as percentage of voting rights 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 Number of employees offered the opportunity to participate 54 70 73 74 66 Number of participants at inception date 44 49 49 46 49 Estimated number of B shares to be allocated, subject to possible recalculation 932,980 351,279 120,000 as percentage of total shares 0.3 0.1 0.0 as percentage of voting rights 0.3 0.1 0.0 Number of participants at reporting date 40 36 33 Vesting date 25 April 2018 8 May 2017 Realized performance target, % 59.9 39.4 Actual number of matching shares granted on vesting date 100,542 151,053 Actual number of performance shares granted on vesting date 237,940 210,976 Total number of B shares granted on vesting date 338,482 362,029 as percentage of total shares 0.1 0.1 as percentage of voting rights 0.1 0.1 Number of participants at vesting date 29 36 Share price performance No. of shares traded, thousands 40 Closing price, SEK 80,000 35 70,000 30 60,000 25 50,000 20 40,000 15 30,000 10 20,000 IR-Contact 5 10,000 Jacob Broberg 0 Corporate Communications & Investor Relations 0 Phone: +46 70 190 00 33 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 E-mail: jacob.broberg@cloetta.com Cloetta B OMX Stockholm_PI No. of shares traded, thousands per month Source: SIX Twitter: JacobBroberg Analysts Share data The following analysts regularly monitor Cloetta’s development: Carnegie: Mikael Löfdahl, mikael.lofdahl@carnegie.se Marketplace Nasdaq Stockholm Danske Bank: Mikael Holm, Date of listing 16 February 2009 mikael.holm@danskebank.se Segment Mid cap Handelsbanken: Nicklas Skogman, Sector Food Producers, Food & Beverage nisk03@handelsbanken.se and Consumer Goods Nordea: Stefan Stjernholm, Ticker symbol CLA B stefan.stjernholm@nordea.com ISIN code SE0002626861 SEB: Nicklas Fhärm, Currency SEK nicklas.fharm@seb.se Standard trading unit 1 share No. of shares in issue 288,619,299 Highest price paid in 2018 SEK 34.00 (30 January 2018) Lowest price paid in 2018 SEK 22.80 (26 October 2018) Last price paid 2018 SEK 24.30 Share price growth in 2018 –18.2 per cent The share’s beta against SIXGX 0.68 (0.69) The share’s standard deviation 1.6 (1.9) NASDAQ STOCKHOLM Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Share and shareholders 61 Frequently asked questions to Cloetta Why don’t you sell product X or Y anymore, and the impact of cost trends in raw materials. Some­ a certain extent also carbonated beverages. The do you have any plans to launch product Z? times we also adjust prices in conjunction with inidiscussion should primarily focus on consumpIf we no longer sell a product, this is unfortunately tiatives such as new product launches or changes tion of these “sugar traps”. Cloetta’s products are often due to insufficient demand for the product in in packages. among the most honest, since all consumers are question. In certain cases, it could also be because aware that they contain sugar. Furthermore, for the product’s profitability has been too low or even Do you plan to make additional acquisitions, those seeking an alternative to products with sugar, negative. The launch of new product types can and if so, in which countries? Cloetta offers options such as nuts, chewing gum sometimes be difficult if we lack a brand that can We aim to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with xylitol and pastilles. Additionally, we are develcarry them, and at the same time the necessary with our current product portfolio. This means that oping candy with lower sugar and no sugar. marketing investments can be so high that the we acquire brand-driven companies within the products would not be profitable. same categories, preferably in countries where we How big is the risk that various sugar taxes will are already active. We may also acquire brands be introduced, and how will that affect you? How will you meet your margin target? within our categories but in countries that are close In general, we have to count on the possibility that Profitable growth and increased cost efficiency to our main markets. different countries will both introduce and abolish will contribute to higher earnings. Additionally, the sugar and confectionery taxes from time to time. integration of Candyking will create substantial Will you use your strong cash flow for When different taxes are introduced it naturally synergies and we are currently also implementing acquisitions, to reduce debt or to pay dividends affects our sales, but only to a fairly minor extent the Perfect Factory programme in the supply chain, to shareholders? since our products are of a type that consumers which will help to boost profitability. In 2018 we reached our target net debt/EBITDA want, and can afford, to treat themselves despite ratio of 2.5x and we therefore deem that we have price increases. When will you meet your 14 per cent margin the capacity for both acquisitions and share target for EBIT margin, adjusted? dividends. The dividend payout ratio should be Why do you use palm oil in your products? During 2018 we have continued once again to 40 to 60 per cent of net profit. However, we see no As of 2018, we have eliminated palm oil from the strengthen our margin. Our target EBIT margin, reason to reduce the net debt/EBITDA ratio to a majority of our products with the exception of adjusted remains the same, but we have never level much lower than 2.5x. certain chocolate and fudge products and certain set a specific timeline for reaching the target. products from the recently acquired Candyking. How is Cloetta affected by the ongoing debates In those products where there is no satisfactory What is your pricing strategy? about sugar, health and childhood obesity? alternative to palm oil, mainly chocolate, we have We adjust our prices based mainly on fluctuations The major challenge in this context is hidden sugar, started the transition towards RSPO-segregated in raw material costs and exchange rates. This i.e. the sugar hidden in everyday food products palm oil. means that over time, Cloetta will hopefully avoid like breakfast cereals, yoghurt, bread, etc., and to Share price performance during 2018 Closing price, SEK Cloetta B share No. of shares traded, thousands per week No. of shares, thousands 6,000 34 30 5,000 4,000 26 3,000 22 18 2,000 14 1,000 10 0 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC Source: SIX 11 June 16 January 9 March 16 April Cloetta amended 7 November Katarina Tell Annual report Annual and extended current Cloetta awarded appointed published General loan agreement and best corporate web President Meeting launched commercial site in Sweden Cloetta Sweden paper programme and Michiel 18 May 19 September Havermans ap15 March 20 March Frans Rydén Cloetta awarded pointed Senior Oskari Vidman Thomas appointed CFO “Listed company Vice President appointed Chief Biesterfeldt of the Year” International Pick & Mix appointed Markets and UK Officer Chief Marketing 26 January Officer 24 April 13 July 26 October Year-end report Q1 report Q2 report Q3 report Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 62 F i n a n c i a l p e r fo r m a n c e Financial performance Net sales and profit Condensed consolidated profit and loss account Net sales Net sales for the year increased by SEK 434m SEKm 2018 2017 to SEK 6,218m (5,784) compared to last year. Net sales 6,218 5,784 Organic growth was –2.8 per cent, structural Cost of goods sold –3,934 –3,678 growth 6.5 per cent and exchange rate differ­ Gross profit 2,284 2,106 ences 3.8 per cent. Sales of branded packaged products grew by 1.5 per cent. Pick & mix Other income 4 6 sales declined by 12.8 per cent. Sales of branded packaged goods account Selling expenses –1,025 –972 for 72 per cent of total sales, and pick & mix General and administrative expenses –603 –613 accounts for 28 per cent of total sales. Divided Operating profit 660 527 by category, candy accounts for 58 per cent (58) of sales and chocolate accounts for 18 Net financial items –98 –84 per cent (17). Pastilles account for 12 per cent (12), chewing gum for 6 per cent (7), nuts for Profit before tax 562 443 4 per cent (4) and other products for 2 per Income tax –79 –206 cent (2). Profit from continuing operations 483 237 Sales in seven main markets Loss from discontinued operation, net of tax – –334 Cloetta has seven main markets, of which Profit/loss for the year 483 –97 Sweden is the largest with around 31 per cent (34) of the Group’s sales. The second largest market is Finland with 21 per cent (21). The Netherlands accounts for 14 per cent (14), Denmark for 9 per cent (7), the UK for 7 per cent (5), Norway for 6 per cent (6) and Net sales Operating profit, adjusted Germany for 5 per cent (5). SEKm SEKm 2,000 250 Sales of branded packaged products grew in Sweden, Finland, Denmark, The Netherlands and Germany, but declined in 200 1,500 Norway and the UK. Sales of pick & mix grew in Denmark and the UK, but declined in other 150 markets. 1,000 100 500 50 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 n 2017 n 2018 n 2017 n 2018 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 F i n a n c i a l p e r fo r m a n c e 63 Other markets Gross profit Items affecting comparability In addition to the main markets, Cloetta’s Gross profit amounted to SEK 2,284m Operating profit for the year includes items products are sold through distributors in (2,106), which is equal to a gross margin affecting comparability of SEK –17m (–77) some 50 additional markets. Other markets of 36.7 per cent (36.4). The improvement which mainly includes a negative impact accounted for 7 per cent (8) of the Group’s in gross profit is due to higher production related to the integration of Candyking sales. In 2018, sales declined somewhat. volumes, growth in branded packaged and a positive impact of remeasurement of products and a positive retranslation effect the contingent earn-out consideration for Pricing strategies from foreign exchange rates, partly offset Candyking. In Cloetta’s main markets the grocery trade by higher production costs. In addition, the is consolidated with few, very large retail improvement in gross profit is also driven by Employees chains. In total, Cloetta’s ten largest custom­ structural growth from Candyking (January The average number of employees was 2,458 ers accounted for around 46 per cent (42) of – April). (2,467). The decrease is attributable to the the Group’s sales. impact of the Candyking integration. Concentration of the grocery retail Operating profit trade exerts strong price pressure on all of its Operating profit amounted to SEK 660m Research and development suppliers. To a large extent, Cloetta has han­ (527). Operating profit, adjusted for items Costs for research and development (R&D) dled this through efficiency improvements. affecting comparability, amounted to were charged to operating profit in an amount To offset changes in raw material costs and SEK 677m (604). of SEK 22m (37) and are primarily attribut­ exchange rates, Cloetta’s strategy is to pass able to the development of new product and these on by adjusting its prices. brand varieties as well as packaging solutions within the framework of the existing product range. No expenses for research and develop­ ment have been capitalized. Net sales – change Cloetta’s net sales by country 6,500 SEKm International Markets 7% q 217 6,218 UK 7% q qSweden 31% 375 6,000 Germany 5% u Exchange rate changes 5,784 Nordic Other countries –158 5,500 The Netherlands 14% u 33% 67% Organic growth Structural changes 5,000 Norway 6% u 4,500 p Finland 21% Denmark 9% p 4,000 2017 2018 Total operating expenses – change Operating expenses, including cost of goods sold and excluding impairment losses excluding impairment losses SEKm Other 14% q Raw materials, 6,000 packaging material Transportation 4% q Amortization/ and finished goods 179 21 8 50 20 5,562 depreciation 4% u t 48% 5,500 Energy Advertising, 105 –84 promotion, selling u Advertising, promotion, Transportation Maintenance 5,263 Other and marketing Personnel 6% Raw materials, packaging 5,000 Personnel expenses u selling and marketing 24% material and finished goods 4,500 4,000 2017 2018 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 64 F i n a n c i a l p e r fo r m a n c e Total operating expenses, excluding impairment losses Cost of goods sold Administrative expenses, Distribution and excluding impairment losses 11% q warehousing 6% q t Cost of goods sold 71% Manufacturing costs 35% u t Raw materials and packaging 59% Selling expenses 18% u Quarterly data 2018 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2017 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Net sales, SEKm 6,218 1,646 1,538 1,472 1,562 5,784 1,643 1,505 1,414 1,222 Operating profit, SEKm 660 159 180 155 166 527 171 169 90 97 Operating profit, adjusted, SEKm 677 174 194 145 164 604 206 169 115 114 Operating profit margin, % 10.6 9.7 11.7 10.5 10.6 9.1 10.4 11.2 6.4 7.9 Operating profit margin, adjusted, % 10.9 10.6 12.6 9.9 10.5 10.4 12.5 11.2 8.1 9.3 Seasonal variations of products in Sweden in connection with the the Swedish krona against the euro during Cloetta’s sales and operating profit are holiday season. the year. Other financial items amounted to subject to some seasonal variations. Sales in SEK –51m (–34) of which SEK –7m relates the first and second quarters are affected by Net financial items to the full amortization of the capitalized the Easter holiday, depending on the quarter Net financial items for the year amounted to transaction costs due to the amendment and which it occurs. In 2018, Easter was in the SEK –98m (–84). Interest expenses related to extension of the facility agreement and the first quarter and in 2017 in the second quar­ external borrowings were SEK –31m (–33), launch of commercial papers. Of the total net ter. In the fourth quarter, sales are usually exchange differences on borrowings and cash financial items, SEK –63m (–47) is non-cash higher than in the first three quarters of the and cash equivalents were SEK –16m (–17) in nature. year, which is mainly attributable to the sale which mainly related to the development of Net financial items Sensitivity analysis The effects on profit before tax of changes in SEKm 2018 2017 selected key factors are shown below. These Exchange differences in borrowings and cash and cash equivalents in are estimated effects which could occur with foreign currencies –16 –17 an isolated change in each variable and should Other financial income 5 3 be interpreted with caution. The calcula­ Unrealized losses on single currency interest rate swaps –2 – Unrealized gains on single currency interest rate swaps – 4 tions are hypothetical and should neither be Interest expenses on third-party borrowings and realized losses on single considered as an indicator of either of these currency interest rate swaps –31 –33 factors being more or less likely to change, nor Interest expenses, third-party pensions –10 –11 the size of the magnitude of the change. Real Interest expenses, contingent earn-out liabilities –25 –15 changes and their effects may be larger or Other financial expenses –19 –15 smaller than presented below. In addition, it Total –98 –84 is likely that the real changes will affect other items, and that actions by Cloetta and others, as a result of the changes, may thereby affect other items. Profit for the year SEK 1.69 (–0.34) and diluted earnings per Profit Profit from continuing operations was share of SEK 1.68 (–0.34). Sensitivity analysis Change before tax SEK 483m (237). Income tax for the period Currency risk was SEK –79m (–206). The effective tax rate Key ratios If the Swedish krona –/+ 10% –/+ SEK 50m from continuing operations for the year was weakens/strengthens 14.1 per cent (46.5). The reason for the higher % 2018 2017 against the euro Interest rate risk effective tax rate in 2017 was the recognition Gross margin 36.7 36.4 Interest rate +/1% SEK –5m/ of a valuation allowance on deferred tax Operating profit SEK 1m assets in Slovakia. The effective tax rate for margin 10.6 9.1 Commodity price risk 2018 was low, mainly due to changes in enact­ Operating profit Average raw +/– 10% –/+ SEK 150m margin, adjusted 10.9 10.4 material prices ed tax rates in several countries resulting in Return on capital a remeasurement of deferred taxes based on Cloetta’s development is affected by multiple employed 9.5 8.2 lower enacted tax rates as from 2019. Profit Return on equity 12.2 6.2 factors, which include those accounted for for the year was SEK 483m (–97), which in the section Risks and risk management on equates to basic earnings per share of For definitions, see page 156. pages 69–72. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 F i n a n c i a l p e r fo r m a n c e 65 Financial position Condensed consolidated balance sheet Exchange differences related to tangible assets recognized in foreign subsidiaries SEKm 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 amounting to SEK 38m (32) during the year. ASSETS Non-current assets Current assets Intangible assets 5,626 5,490 Current assets amounted to SEK 2,161m Property, plant and equipment 1,354 1,338 (2,393). This change is due to somewhat Deferred tax asset 16 20 larger inventories of SEK 20m, lower trade Other financial assets 11 11 receivables of SEK –43m, and reduced cash Total non-current assets 7,007 6,859 and cash equivalents of SEK –208m. Current assets Equity and liabilities Inventories 765 745 Equity Trade and other receivables 838 881 Consolidated equity at 31 December 2018 Current income tax assets 6 8 amounted to SEK 3,968m (3,818), which Derivative financial instruments 1 0 equates to SEK 13.7 (13.2) per share. On the Cash and cash equivalents 551 759 balance sheet date the share capital amounted Total current assets 2,161 2,393 to SEK 1,443m (1,443). The equity/assets TOTAL ASSETS 9,168 9,252 ratio on the same date was 43.3 per cent (41.3). EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Liabilities Equity 3,968 3,818 Non-current liabilities, consisting mainly of loans from credit institutions, amounted to Non-current liabilities SEK 3,261m (2,937), which is an increase of Long-term borrowings 2,076 1,715 SEK 324m compared to the previous year. Deferred tax liability 754 703 Long-term borrowings totalled SEK 2,076m Derivative financial instruments 3 2 (1,715) and consisted of SEK 2,078m (1,719) Other non-current liabilities – 138 in gross loans from credit institutions and Provisions for pensions and other long-term employee benefits 419 374 SEK –2m (–4) in capitalized transaction Provisions 9 5 costs. The deferred tax liability increased by Total non-current liabilities 3,261 2,937 SEK 51m to SEK 754m. Pension provisions increased by SEK 45m to SEK 419m. Other Current liabilities non-current liabilities amounted to SEK 0m Short-term borrowings 500 999 (138). In the previous year, other nonDerivative financial instruments 61 71 current liabilities consisted of contingent Trade and other payables 1,342 1,394 considerations related to the acquisition of Provisions 23 3 Candyking. Current income tax liabilities 13 30 Total short-term borrowings amounted Total current liabilities 1,939 2,497 to SEK 500m (999) and consisted of com­ TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,168 9,252 mercial papers as per 31 December 2018 and of gross loans from credit institutions of SEK 1,000m, capitalized transaction costs of SEK –3m and accrued interest on borrowings from credit institutions of SEK 2m as per Assets goodwill and trademarks at 31 December 31 December 2017. Total assets at 31 December 2018 amounted 2018. Goodwill and trademarks are tested at to SEK 9,168m (9, 252), which is a decrease of least yearly for impairment. Cloetta recorded Borrowings SEK 84m compared to the previous year. an impairment loss of SEK 0 m (167) during In July 2016 Cloetta entered into a term and 2018. The impairment loss during 2017 refers revolving facilities agreement with a group of Non-current assets to SEK 159m for goodwill relating to the four banks, in total amounting to the equiva­ Intangible assets totalled SEK 5,626m Italian operations sold in 2017. lent of SEK 3,700m. The facilities have been (5,490). The change consists mainly of Property, plant and equipment amounted used to refinance existing bank loans and exchange differences related to intangible to SEK 1,354m (1,338). The year’s invest­ to redeem the senior secured notes. In June assets recognized in foreign subsidiaries of ments amounted to SEK 161m (136). The 2018, Cloetta entered into an amendment SEK 152m (81). Investments for the year year’s investments in property, plant and and restatement of the term and revolving amounted to SEK 23m (21) and amortization equipment referred primarily to continuous facilities agreement, in combination with the to SEK –45m (–45). efficiency-enhancing and replacement launch of a commercial paper programme. Of total intangible assets, 97 per cent investments on the existing production lines. The amendments to the term and revolving (97) or SEK 5,460m (5,306) pertained to Depreciation amounted to SEK –184m (–201). facilities agreement comprised a EUR 50m Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 66 F i n a n c i a l p e r fo r m a n c e Equity/assets ratio Equity at 31 December at 31 December Net debt/EBITDA % SEKm SEKm 50 5,000 3,500 3,000 40 4,000 2,500 3.97 30 3,000 2,000 1,500 20 2,000 3.03 1,000 10 1,000 2.44 500 2.39 2.31 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 nn Net debt, SEKm Net debt/EBITDA, x reduction (equivalent to SEK 519m) in the ing loans in SEK and 0.8 per cent (1.0) for The combined effective interest rate multi-currency loan and a SEK 200m reduc­ the outstanding loans in EUR. Interest on for loans from credit institutions and the tion in the single-currency term loan. the commercial paper amounted to 0.22 per commercial paper was 0.86 per cent (0.94) The facilities agreement bears variable cent. The supplementary charge on the bank for the year. interest at a rate based on STIBOR, plus an overdraft facility was 1.0 per cent. Further, applicable fixed margin for loans in SEK, and an additional 35 per cent (35) of the fixed Change in capital employed variable interest at a rate based on EURIBOR applicable margin on the unutilized amounts Capital employed during the year increased plus an applicable fixed margin for loans in of the credit revolving loans is paid as a com­ from SEK 6,979m to SEK 7,027m, i.e. EUR. The applicable margin at 31 December mitment fee. SEK 48m. 2018 was 0.9 per cent (1.0) for the outstand­ Net debt Net debt Interest-bearing liabilities exceeded cash and SEKm 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 cash equivalents and other interest-bearing assets by SEK 2,091m (2,035). The net debt/ Gross non-current loans from credit institutions 2,078 1,719 equity ratio on the balance sheet date was Gross current loans from credit institutions – 1,000 52.7 per cent (53.3). Commercial papers 500 – Derivative financial instruments (current and non-current) 63 73 Interest payable 1 2 Gross debt 2,642 2,794 Cash and cash equivalents –551 –759 Net debt 2,091 2,035 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 F i n a n c i a l p e r fo r m a n c e 67 Cash flow from operating activities Comments on 350 SEKm the cash flow statement 300 250 200 150 100 50 Condensed consolidated cash flow statement 0 SEKm 2018 2017 –50 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 792 532 n 2017 n 2018 Cash flow from changes in working capital –164 180 Cash flow from operating activities 628 712 Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from acquisition of subsidiaries – –249 SEKm Cash flow from divestment of subsidiaries – 378 1,000 Cash flow from investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets –184 –157 800 Cash flow from other investing activities 0 6 Cash flow from investing activities –184 –22 600 Cash flow from operating and investing activities 444 690 400 Cash flow from financing activities –665 –238 200 Cash flow for the period –221 452 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 759 298 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Cash flow for the period –221 452 Foreign exchange differences 13 9 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 551 759 Cash flow from investing activities SEKm 0 Operating activities Financing activities Cash flow from operating activities before Cash flow from financing activities was changes in working capital was SEK 792m SEK –665m (–238). Cash flow from financing –100 (532). The increase compared to the prior activities was related to the dividend distri­ year is mainly the result of the higher operat­ bution of SEK –433m (–216), the repayments ing result and lower utilizations of provisions. related to the amendment and restatement –200 The cash flow from changes in working of the facilities agreement of SEK –719m capital was SEK –164m (180). (0) which were partly offset by the proceeds –300 coming from the launch and roll-forward of Working capital commercial papers of SEK 500m (0). Other Cash flow from changes in working capital cash flow from financing activities amounted –400 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 was SEK –164m (180). The cash flow from to SEK –13m (–22). changes in working capital was negatively im­ pacted by the decrease in payables amounting Cash and cash equivalents to SEK –213m (140) and an increase in inven­ The net cash flow was SEK –221m (452), tories of SEK –1m (–40) partly offset by the which together with exchange differences Cash flow from financing activities decrease in receivables of SEK 50m (80). decreased cash and cash equivalents by SEKm 0 SEK 208m to SEK 551m, compared to Investing activities SEK 759m in the previous year. In addition, –100 Cash flow from investing activities was Cloetta had unutilized overdraft facilities to­ –200 SEK –184m (–22), of which SEK –184m taling SEK 1,227m (1,179). Cloetta’s working –300 (–157) is attributable to investments in capital requirement is exposed to seasonal property, plant and equipment and intangible variations, partly resulting from a build-up –400 assets. The acquisition of Candyking Holding of inventories in preparation for increased –500 AB and its subsidiaries was included at a net sales ahead of the Christmas holiday. This amount of SEK –249m and SEK 378m was means that the working capital requirement –600 related to the divestment of Cloetta Italia is normally highest during the autumn and –700 s.r.l. in 2017. Other cash flows from investing lowest at year-end. –800 activities amounted to SEK 0m (6). 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 68 F i n a n c i a l p e r fo r m a n c e Future outlook During 2018, profits and margins once again In terms of growth, the target is to increase The Board proposes an ordinary dividend improved after 2017, which had been a year sales organically at least in line with market of SEK 1.00 per share (0.75), corresponding of major change for Cloetta including the growth. Historically, annual growth in the to around 60 per cent of profit for the year. In acquisition of Candyking and divestment of markets has been one to two per cent. In 2017, the ordinary dividend was 54 per cent Cloetta Italy. Improved profitability was driv­ 2018, Cloetta’s organic growth was –2.8 per of profit for the year excluding the impact of en by increased sales of branded packaged cent. Sales of branded packaged products the impairment loss discontinued operation products, higher production volumes and grew by 1.5 per cent. Pick & mix sales de­ including income tax effects and other items cost efficiencies. Despite the increased sales clined by 12.8 per cent. affecting comparability. The ambition is to of branded packaged products, there was a Another of the Group’s long-term targets continue using future cash flows for payment decline in organic growth due to decreased is to keep the net debt/EBITDA ratio at of dividends while at the same time providing pick & mix sales. around 2.5x. At 31 December 2018 the net financial flexibility for complementary acqui­ debt/EBITDA ratio was 2.31x (2.39). sitions. The long-term target of a payout ratio Goal attainment of 40 to 60 per cent of profit after tax remains The Group’s target is an EBIT margin, Profitable growth unchanged. adjusted of at least 14 per cent. In 2018, the The strategy and financial targets for Cloetta EBIT margin, adjusted improved to 10.9 stand firm. The focus in 2019 will be on Financial outlook per cent (10.4). The improvement is due to profitable organic growth, investments and As in earlier years, Cloetta is not issuing any growth in branded packaged products, good efficiencies in the production network and financial forecast for 2019. cost control and higher production volumes. cost savings throughout the organization. Environmental impact and environmental management Cloetta works to reduce its environmental factories in five countries. The two Swedish cludes action plans and monitoring in a num­ impact through systematic environmen­ factories in Ljungsbro and Helsingborg are ber of areas. Environmental management is tal management. Cloetta’s greatest direct subject to reporting requirements according an integral part of Cloetta’s operations and environmental impact comes from water and to the Swedish Environmental Code. These environmental aspects are taken into account energy consumption, wastewater emissions, permits apply until further notice. There when making decisions. Frequent evaluation waste and transportation. Over the entire are no injunctions in respect of the Swedish and follow-up of measures increase aware­ life cycle of the products, the most significant Environmental Code. ness about the effects of operations on the environmental impact arises during raw The manufacturing units outside Sweden environment. material and packaging production. Cloetta adapt their operations, apply for the neces­ The Group’s environmental policy and complies with the statutory environmental sary permits and report to the authorities in environmental management are described in requirements and the Group is not involved in accordance with local legislation. more detail on pages 44–45 and 148–152. any environmental disputes. At 31 December All of Cloetta’s factories conduct sys­ 2018, Cloetta conducted operations at eight tematic environmental management that in­ Sustainability Report Pursuant to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, chapter 6, §11, Cloetta AB (publ) has chosen to prepare the statutory sustainability report as a separate report from the annual report with contents specified on the inside front cover page. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 R i s ks a n d r i s k m a n ag e m e n t 69 Risks and risk management Uncertainty about future events is a natural part of all business activities. Future events can have a positive impact on operations through opportunities to create increased value, or a negative impact through risks that may have an adverse effect on Cloetta’s business and results. Risks can arise as a result of events or Identification of risks are minimized through proactive measures. decisions that are beyond Cloetta’s control, The identification of risks and proactive Alternatively, risks can be transferred for but they can also be an effect of incorrect risk measures to limit them, or prevent them from example through insurance or agreements. management within Cloetta or among its materializing and having a negative impact on However, certain risks are impossible to suppliers or customers. operations, is of fundamental importance eliminate or transfer. These are often an for operations and is a central part of every active part of business operations. Organization for risk management manager’s responsibility at Cloetta. Cloetta Cloetta’s Board of Directors has a respon­ works continuously to assess and evaluate Risk overview sibility to the shareholders to handle the the risks to which the Group is, and can A number of risk areas have been identified company’s risk management. Decisions be, exposed. All events that could affect through Cloetta’s risk management process. regarding risks associated with business de­ confidence in Cloetta or disturb operations A selection of these, and a brief descrip­ velopment and long-term strategic planning must be monitored and minimized. This tion of how each risk area is handled, is pre­ are prepared and discussed by the Group takes place through business intelligence and sented on the following pages. The Group’s Management Team and decisions are made dialogue with various stakeholders, amongst financial risk management is also described by the Board of Directors. other things. in more detail in Note 29, on pages 122–124. The Group Management Team contin­ Pages 82 and 83 contain a description ually reports to the Board of Directors on Risk management of the internal control processes and risk as­ risk areas such as the Group’s financial status Effective handling of risks is an integral sessment aimed at preventing misstatements and compliance with the Group’s finance part of Cloetta’s management and control. in the financial reporting. policy. Operational risk management that Rapid distribution of relevant information Management of risks in the working takes place at all levels of the organization is is ensured via the company’s management environment is described on page 37–38. regulated by Cloetta’s Code of Conduct and a structures and processes. Where possible, number of other central policies. risks are eliminated and undesired events Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 70 R i s ks a n d r i s k m a n ag e m e n t Industry and market-related risks Cloetta works continuously to assess and evaluate the risks to which the Group is, and can be, exposed. Critical external risks are handled both strategically through business and product development, and operationally through day-to-day purchasing, sales and marketing activities. Risks Management Probability Impact Financial crises can have a negative impact on consumption Historically, the confectionery market has been comparatively mildly patterns. This can affect operations if Cloetta’s customers suffer affected by market downturns among consumers as well as trade Market climate from lower profitability, which leads to price pressure. conflicts. This applies broadly across Cloetta’s products, which most people can afford to buy. To support the customers’ business and promote sound pricing development, Cloetta cooperates with its customers on in-store sales activities and other measures. The confectionery market is highly competitive and includes Cloetta competes in the market through active pricing, product innoseveral major players. Furthermore, grocery retailers offer private vation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, marketing and labels that compete with certain Cloetta products. This compethe ability to predict and satisfy customer preferences. tition can limit Cloetta’s ability to increase prices to compensate It is important that Cloetta’s products are perceived as providing the for higher raw material costs. consumers with greater added value than the cheaper alternatives. Cloetta may also need to increase its investments in marketing Cloetta strives for effective marketing and to offer the best pick & Competition and product development in order to maintain or expand its mix concepts in terms of the customer and consumer experience. market shares. Furthermore, an integrated production chain enables Cloetta to be Cloetta is a significant pick & mix player, which by its nature is a cost-effective in pick & mix. market that often consists of multi-year contracts that must be continuously renewed. Competition from other players, including the grocery retail chains, can cause Cloetta to lose major contracts. The European grocery and service trade has undergone a Cloetta’s strong brands and market position, together with a strong process of consolidation leading to the establishment of large, sales force and close cooperation with the trade, contribute to its abilsophisticated players with substantial purchasing power. These ity to maintain good relations with the retail trade. Cloetta also works major players are not necessarily dependent on individual brands actively with new sales channels. and can hold back price increases and demand higher investCloetta has a relatively wide and diversified customer base. In 2018 Retail trade ment in marketing initiatives. They can also take over shelf space, Cloetta’s ten largest customers accounted for around 46 (42) per cent development that is currently used for Cloetta’s products, for their own brands. of the Group’s total sales. E-commerce is challenging the current retail structure and over Cloetta is working actively with retailers with E-commerce helping time, will most likely change the retail landscape substantially. them to learn how to sell impulse confectionery products online. The introduction of self-scanning services in stores might impact By supporting retailers in learning how to sell products in self-scansales of Cloetta’s products since they are often placed next to ning areas, Cloetta is able to keep up with sales in the checkout area. regular store checkouts. Changes in consumer behaviour give rise to both opportunities Health trends have not affected confectionery sales to a great extent, and risks. Health trends and the debate on health, weight and since confectionery is often eaten as a small luxury in everyday life. sugar can have a negative impact on confectionery consumption. Cloetta works continuously to satisfy consumer preferences. In Consumer The health trend has also spurred a growing interest in natural addition, Cloetta offers both sugar-free products and products with trends raw materials. less sugar, as well as products that promote dental health. In the longHealth In the wake of rapid globalization, individual consumers are more term, Cloetta’s goal is for all products to be free from artificial colours Social aware of how their consumption patterns affect the environment and additives (NAFNAC). responsibility and social/ethical conditions around the world. Consumers want Cloetta strives to include the Code of Conduct in all agreements as to know more about product origins, manufacturing methods and far as possible. Cloetta’s goal is to be open and, through cooperation raw materials. Information indicating that Cloetta, or Cloetta’s with other confectionery producers and via various organizations, to suppliers, do not take adequate environmental or social responsiidentify problem areas and contribute to improvements. bility could damage Cloetta’s brand. Cloetta conducts operations through companies in a number Cloetta continuously assesses legal issues in order to predict and of countries. New laws, taxes or rules in various markets may prepare its operations for possible changes. The introduction of conlead to limitations in operations or bring about new and higher fectionery taxes and fat taxes often has a short-term impact on sales. Laws and taxes demands. There is a risk that Cloetta’s interpretation of the Provisions for legal disputes, tax disputes, etc., are based on an applicable tax laws, tax treaties and regulations in the different estimation of the costs, with the support of legal advice and based on countries is not entirely correct or that such rules will change, the information available. possibly with retroactive effect. Price development for raw materials is steered mainly by supply Cloetta continuously monitors the development of raw material prices and demand, and is beyond Cloetta’s control. The prices of sugar and all purchasing is carried out through a central purchasing funcand many of the other raw materials purchased by Cloetta can tion. To ensure access and price levels, Cloetta normally enters into Raw material also be affected by agro-political decisions in the EU regarding supplier contracts that cover the need for raw materials for a period of prices quotas, support, subsidies and trade barriers, and also by rising 6–9 months ahead. If the average raw material prices had been 10 per living standards and the activity of financial investors on the cent higher/lower at 31 December 2018, profit before tax for the year commodities exchanges. would have been around SEK 150m lower/higher. Cloetta’s policy is to compensate for higher raw material costs by raising prices to its customers. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 R i s ks a n d r i s k m a n ag e m e n t 71 Operational risks Operational risks can often be influenced, which is why they are normally regulated by policies, guidelines and instructions. Operational risks are part of Cloetta’s day-to-day work and are managed by the operating units. Operational risks include those related to the brand, relocation of production, insurable risks and environmental, health and safety-related risks. Risks Management Probability Impact Demand for Cloetta’s well-known brands is driven by consumCloetta has a proactive approach by implementing a Code of Business ethics and ers’ association of these brands with positive values. If Cloetta Conduct, ethical guidelines and routines. brand risks or any of the Group’s partners takes any measures that conflict with the values represented by the brands, the Cloetta brands could be damaged. Cloetta uses several raw materials that originate from countries As far as possible, Cloetta endeavours to include supplier with an increased risk of social, ethical and human rights violacodes of conduct in all agreements. tions. Further, extreme weather conditions caused by climate Cloetta has evaluated all raw material groups and prioritized change could negatively affect supply and political instability them based on climate, social and human rights related risks can have a negative impact on costs. and Cloetta’s ability to address these risks. Cloetta purchases UTZ-certified cocoa for its entire range of chocolate products. Most products, aside from parts of the chocolate and fudge Sustainability risks in range, are free from palm oil (parts of the range from the rethe supply chain cently acquired Candyking are not yet free from palm oil). During the year, Cloetta started to buy segregated palm oil in accordance with RSPO principles for the entire range of chocolate and fudge products. Certification of Cloetta’s factories according to this standard will take place in 2019. During 2018 Cloetta changed to sustainable and traceable shea butter. Cloetta is a member of Bonsucro, which is a multi-stakeholder initiative that works to achieve a sustainable sugarcane industry. Handling of food products places high demands on traceability, Cloetta works with first-class raw materials and in accordance hygiene and safety. In a worst-case scenario, inadequate conwith international quality standards. Analyses through chemical Product safety risks trol can lead to contamination or allergic reactions. Deficiencies and physical tests are performed on both raw materials and in the handling of food products can lead to lower confidence in finished products. Issues of importance for product safety are Cloetta and the Group’s brands. gathered in special policies and there are plans for information or product recalls in the event of deficiencies. Assets such as factories and production equipment can be Cloetta has an insurance programme for property and liability Insurable risks seriously damaged, for example in the event of a fire or power risks, and works systematically to reduce the risk of incidents outage. Product recalls can incur substantial costs, resulting and to have robust contingency plans in place to limit the from both direct costs and damage to Cloetta’s reputation. effects of any incidents. To optimize efficiency, Cloetta continuously monitors capacity Cloetta has an experienced and efficient organization with Relocation of utilization in production. Moving production from one factory well-established routines for handling relocation of production production lines to another is a complex process that can result in disruptions lines. and delays in production, which can in turn lead to delivery problems. To a large extent, Cloetta’s future is dependent on its capacity Cloetta endeavours to continue to be an attractive employer. to recruit, retain and develop competent senior executives and Employee development and follow-up plans, together with Access to the right other key staff. market-based and competitive compensation, contribute to expertise Cloetta’s ability to recruit and retain employees. Cloetta occasionally reorganizes and streamlines its operations, which in the short term may have an impact on its Cloetta has a strong and experienced organization that is well performance. equipped to handle organizational changes. Environmental risks arise mainly through water and energy Cloetta sets environmental requirements for its production, Environmental risks consumption, wastewater emissions, raw material and packagregularly monitors the company’s impact on the environment ing waste, production waste and transportation. and carries out systematic measures to reduce its environmental impact. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 72 R i s ks a n d r i s k m a n ag e m e n t Financial risks The primary financial risks are composed of foreign exchange, financing, interest rate and credit risks. Financial risks are managed by the Group’s central finance function according to the guidelines in the financing policy established by Cloetta’s Board of Directors. Financial risk management primarily aims to identify the Group’s risk exposure and, with a certain degree of foresight, to attain predictability in the financial outcome and minimize possible unfavourable effects on the Group’s financial results in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. Consolidating and controlling these risks centrally enables the Group to minimize the level of risk while at the same time reduce the cost of measures such as currency hedging. Financial risk management is described in detail in Note 29, on pages 122–124. Risks Management Probability Impact Exchange rate fluctuations affect Cloetta’s financial results The objective of Cloetta’s foreign exchange management is to partly in connection with buying and selling in different curminimize the effects of exchange rate fluctuations by utilizing rencies (transaction exposure), and partly through translation incoming currency for payments in the same currency. If the of the profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of foreign Swedish krona had weakened/strengthened by 10 per cent Foreign exchange risks subsidiaries to Swedish kronor (translation exposure). Cloetta’s against the euro, the year’s profit before tax would have been presentation currency is the Swedish krona, while many around SEK 50m higher/lower. subsidiaries have the euro as their functional currency, thus The Group hedges parts of its translation exposure through translation exposure is significant. Aside from SEK and EUR, borrowing in EUR. In addition, the Group has forward foreign Cloetta also has exposure to DKK, NOK, GBP and USD. currency contracts in USD. Refinancing risk refers to the risk that it will not be possible In 2018 Cloetta met its financial target related to a net debt/ to obtain financing or that financing can only be obtained at a EBITDA ratio of 2.5x. In 2018 the Group also amended and significantly higher cost. extended its current term and revolving facilities agreement Refinancing risks with four banks. Additionally, a commercial paper programme was launched. This means that Cloetta now has a favourable situation for accessing financing for potential acquisitions, for example. Cloetta is exposed to interest rate risks in interest-bearing curThe Group continuously analyses its exposure to interest rate rent and non-current liabilities. Although some of the Group’s risk and performs regular simulations of interest rate movebank loans are hedged via interest rate swaps, there is still ments. Interest rate risk is reduced by hedging a share of future exposure to interest rate risk for the parts that are not hedged interest payments through interest rate swaps. Interest rate risks or when hedges expire. In 2018, if the interest rate had been 1 percentage point higher with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been approximately SEK 5m lower. If the interest rate had been 1 percentage point lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been approximately SEK 1m higher. Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty to Cloetta will Credit risk in trade receivables is relatively limited in that the be unable to meet its obligations and thereby cause a loss. Group’s customer base is diverse and consists mainly of large Financial transactions also give rise to credit risks in relation to customers, and that distribution takes place primarily through financial and commercial counterparties. the major grocery retail chains. The customers are subject to Credit risks credit assessments in accordance with the credit policy, and the receivables balance is monitored continuously. The Group’s counterparties in financial transactions are banks and credit institutions with good credit ratings (between AA– and A-2). The Group has a number of assets and liabilities that have been Assets and liabilities are tested for impairment yearly or when valued with the help of various experts. These include goodwill there is an indication that such testing may be necessary. Read Valuation risks and trademarks on the asset side and the pension liability and more in Note 12, Intangible assets on pages 107–108 and Note tax liabilities on the liability side. 33, Critical accounting estimates and judgements on pages 127–128. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 L e tt e r f r o m t h e C h a i r m a n 73 Letter from the Chairman In 2018 the integration of Candyking and the related synergies have been in focus while branded packaged products returned to growth, contributing to increased profitability. Within the important pick & mix area more needs to be done to improve profitability. Corporate governance shareholders increased for the seventh year in creates systematic order a row. It is encouraging that so many people The Board’s most important responsibility is want to invest in Cloetta shares. The Board to ensure that the company is run as efficient­ intends to deliver on this entrusted confi­ ly as possible on behalf of the shareholders, dence so that all shareholders may continue and that the company complies with any laws to have confidence in Cloetta. and regulations required by law-makers, authorities and stock exchanges. Corporate Cloetta stands strong governance aims to create systematic order Following the extensive structural changes for both the Board and Group Management resulting from the acquisition of Candyking Team. A distinctive structure and clear rules and the divestment of Cloetta Italy in 2017, and processes ensure that management and Cloetta has been able to work more with de­ employee focus remains on developing the veloping and building a strong foundation for business and strengthening the company. the future during the course of 2018. Clari­ fied focus areas and new ways of working have The work of the Board contributed to the growth of the company in Lilian Fossum Biner During the year, the Board has focused on packaged branded products and a simultane­ Chairman of the Board how the integration of Candyking has pro­ ous increase in profitability. gressed, as well as on how the focus areas in For the third year running we have met “Dtheuring Cloetta’s strategy have developed and have our net debt/EBITDA target. Our stable cash been implemented. flow and improved profitability mean that year, Following the acquisition of Candyking we can propose an increase in dividends to in 2017, pick & mix now constitutes around a SEK 1 per share. This shows that Cloetta quarter of Cloetta’s sales, but profitability stands strong. Cloetta’s ambition is to has not yet reached the desired level. Conse­ quently, in addition to following up the work continue paying dividends that correspond to 40–60 per cent of profits while simultaneous­ the Board has focused related to integrating Candyking and the syn­ ly allowing us to make acquisitions. ergies this creates, the Board has focused on I would like to greatly thank the President on how the improvements that the company is working and CEO, the Group Management Team and on within pick & mix. all employees for their great work during the Furthermore, the Board has worked year to develop and improve Cloetta. I would together with the President and CEO and the Group Management Team to follow up also like to thank my colleagues on the Board of Directors for their superb work during inte­g ­ration of Candyking has and develop the focus areas that are aimed at the year. improving growth and profitability. progressed. ” More and new shareholders Stockholm, March 2019 During 2018 Cloetta has gained 4,000 new shareholders and by the end of the year we had almost 24,000 owners of company Lilian Fossum Biner shares. This means that the number of Chairman of the Board Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 74 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t Corporate governance report The purpose of corporate governance is to ensure that the company is managed as effectively as possible in the interests of its shareholders, and that Cloetta complies with all applicable rules. Corporate governance is also aimed at creating order and establishing systems for both the Board and the Group Management Team. Well-defined structures, rules and processes allow the Board to ensure that the Group Management Team and employees focus on developing the business thereby creating shareholder value. Cloetta AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited at 31 December 2018 was 288,619,299 of (the Swedish Official Gazette) and on the company, with corporate identification which 282,884,050 were class B shares and company’s website. At the same time, infor­ number 556308-8144. The company’s class 5,735,249 were class A shares. Each class B mation confirming that notification has taken B shares are traded on the Mid Cap list of share corresponds to one vote and each class place must be published in Dagens Industri. Nasdaq Stockholm. The company is domi­ A share to ten votes, although all shares carry Every shareholder has the right to request ciled in Ljungsbro, Linköping, and its head equal entitlement to the company’s assets that a matter be taken up at the AGM and office is in Stockholm. and profits. The number of shareholders at in such case must submit a written request 31 December 2018 was 23,956 (compared to to the Board. In order to be taken up at the Framework for corporate 20,125 at 31 December 2017). On 31 Decem­ AGM, the request must be submitted to the governance ber 2018 AB Malfors Promotor was Cloetta’s Board no later than seven weeks prior to the Cloetta’s corporate governance is regulated largest shareholder, with a holding corre­ AGM. In accordance with Chapter 7, 32 §, by external steering instruments that include sponding to 37.8 per cent of the votes and 26.7 of the Swedish Companies Act, at a general the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish per cent of the share capital in the company. meeting of shareholders all shareholders have Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s For more information about Cloetta’s shares the right to pose questions to the company Rules for Issuers and the Swedish Corporate and shareholders, see section “Share and about the matters that are taken up at the Governance Code, as well as internal steering shareholders” on pages 56–61. meeting and the financial situation of the instruments such as the Articles of Associ­ ation, instructions, policies and guidelines. company and the Group. 2 General meeting The Swedish Corporate Governance Code is of shareholders available at www.bolagsstyrning.se, where Attendance at AGMs/EGMs a description of the Swedish model for cor­ Votes, % The general meeting of shareholders is 100 porate governance is also provided. During Cloetta’s highest decision-making body. At the year, Cloetta complied with Nasdaq a general meeting, all shareholders have the 80 Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers and good stock opportunity to exert an influence over the 69.4 market practice. company by exercising the votes attached to 63.9 59.6 59.4 60.0 60 their respective shareholdings. The powers Application of the Swedish and duties of the general meeting are regu­ 158 199 275 203 237 Corporate Governance Code lated by the Swedish Companies Act and the 40 In 2018 Cloetta complied with the Code. Articles of Association, amongst others. Cloetta’s financial year runs from 1 Jan­ 20 uary to 31 December. The Annual General 1 Share and shareholders Meeting (AGM) must be held within a period 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The class B shares of Cloetta AB (publ) of six months after the end of the financial ● No. of people have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since year. The date and location of the AGM must (shareholders, proxies, assistants and guests) 16 February 2009 and have been traded on be communicated on the company’s website the Mid Cap list since 2 July 2012. However, no later than the date of publication of the 2018 AGM Cloetta was originally introduced on the third quarter report. Notice of the AGM must The most recent AGM was held on 16 April stock exchange in 1994 and has been listed be given no earlier than six weeks and no later 2018 in Stockholm. The AGM was attended in a number of different owner constel­ than four weeks prior to the AGM through by 237 individuals representing 60 per cent lations since then. The number of shares publication in “Postoch Inrikes Tidningar” of the votes in the company. The President Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t 75 Governance structure 1 Shareholders Vote at the general meeting Information General meeting 2 of shareholders 7 Auditor3 Elects the auditor Appoints the nomiProposes the Board, auditor and nomination committee nation committee ahead of next AGM 3 Nomination committee1 Elects the Board of Directors 5 Audit committee Board of Directors2 4 The members of the Board are appointed by the AGM. Employee representatives Information and deputy representatives are appointed by the employee organizations. The members of the audit and remuneration committees are appointed by the Board. 5 Remuneration committee Goals, strategies, policies, steering instruments, core values, remuneration External steering instruments Reports, structure Important external steering instruments that provide 8 internal control the framework for corporate governance are: • The Swedish Companies Act • The Swedish Annual Accounts Act • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers 1 T he nomination committee prepares proposals • T he Swedish Code of Corporate Governance for decision that are presented to the AGM. The AGM decides on principles for appointment of the 6 President and CEO Internal steering instruments nomination committee. Important binding internal control documents 2 T he Board installs the committees and appoints include: their members. • The Articles of Association 3 T he auditor is responsible, on behalf of the • The Board’s work plan shareholders, for auditing Cloetta’s annual report, • I nstructions for the President and CEO, the audit accounts and the administration of the Board of The Group committee, the remuneration committee and Directors and the President and CEO. Reports to 6 Management Team financial reporting the Board of Directors and the shareholders. • Policies and CEO, a majority of the Board members, Mikael Norman. Alan McLean Raleigh was • Re-election of KPMG AB as the company’s the company’s independent auditor, the elected as a new Board member. The AGM auditor to serve for the period until the end chairman of the nomination committee, and elected Lilian Fossum Biner as the Chair­ of the next AGM; the Group’s CFO and SVP Corporate Com­ man of the Board. Former Board member • Rules for the nomination committee; munications and Investor Relations were also Adriaan Nühn resigned in conjunction with present at the AGM. The AGM approved the the AGM. Aside from the members elected • Guidelines for remuneration of the Group proposals of the Board and the nomination by the AGM, the employee organizations Management Team; committee regarding: PTK and LIVS each appointed an employee representative and a deputy representative • T he implementation of a share-based long• Adoption of the balance sheet and the profit to the Board; term incentive plan. and loss account; • Board fees were set at SEK 620,000 for The complete minutes from the AGM can be • A ppropriation of the earnings of the com­ the Board Chairman and SEK 285,000 for viewed at www.cloetta.com. pany through a dividend of SEK 0.75 per each of the other Board members elected share and an extra dividend of SEK 0.75 per by the AGM. Fees for work on the Board 2019 AGM share, in total SEK 1.50 per share; committees were set at SEK 100,000 for The 2019 AGM will be held on Monday, 4 each member of the audit committee, April 2019, at 3:00 p.m. at Stockholm Water­ • Discharge from liability for the Board of SEK 150,000 for the Chairman of the audit front Congress Centre, Nils Ericsons Plan 4, Directors and President and CEO; committee, SEK 100,000 for each member in Stockholm. The Notice of the Annual • T hat the number of Board members elected of the remuneration committee and General Meeting was published in February by the AGM shall be seven, with no deputies; SEK 150,000 for the Chairman of the remu­ 2019 and contained the Board’s proposals. neration committee; • Re-election of sitting Board members Lilian For more information, see section on “Annual Fossum Biner, Camilla Svenfelt, Mikael • Fees for the auditor are to be paid according General Meeting” on page 161 and Svenfelt, Lottie Knutson, Mikael Aru and to approved account; www.cloetta.com. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 76 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t Meetings of the nomination committee For information about the Board members’ 3 Nomination committee During 2018, the nomination committee held assignments outside the Group and holdings Work of the nomination committee two meetings ahead of the 2019 AGM. of shares in Cloetta, see pages 84–85 and The task of the nomination committee is to No fees have been paid for the work of the cloetta.com. prepare recommendations to be put before committee. the AGM for decisions regarding election of Diversity policy Board members and the Board Chairman, Through the nomination committee, Cloetta 4 Board of Directors fees for the Board of Directors, potential applies rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate remuneration for committee work, election of Work of the Board Governance Code as its diversity policy to a chairman of the AGM, election of auditors, The primary task of the Board is to serve propose election of directors to the Board. auditing fees and rules for the nomination the interests of the company and the share­ According to this rule, the board composition committee. The Board Chairman presents an holders, appoint the President and CEO and must be set with regard to appropriateness annual evaluation of the Board’s performance ensure that the company complies with all to the company’s operations and phase of during the year to the nomination committee, applicable laws, the Articles of Association development, and must collectively exhibit which provides a basis for the nomination and the Swedish Corporate Governance diversity and breadth of competence, expe­ committee’s work together with the provi­ Code. The Board is also responsible for mak­ rience and background among the directors sions of the Swedish Corporate Governance ing sure that the Group is suitably structured elected by the Annual General Meeting. An Code and Cloetta’s own company-specific so that the Board can optimally exercise its equal balance between the genders is strived requirements. The nomination committee’s governance over the subsidiaries and that the for. The objective of the diversity policy is recommendations for election of Board company’s financial accounting, financial to underline the importance of appropriate members, Board fees and auditors are pre­ management and financial circumstances in diversity within the Board with regard to sented in the notice to attend the AGM and general can be controlled satisfactorily. At gender, age, nationality and experience, pro­ at www.cloetta.com. least once a year the Board shall meet with fessional background and business expertise. the company’s auditor without the presence The nomination committee has confirmed Composition of the nomination of the Group Management Team, and shall that the Board of Cloetta has an almost equal committee continuously and at least once a year evaluate gender balance and an appropriate composi­ In accordance with the decision of the AGM, the performance of the President and CEO. tion in general. Cloetta’s nomination committee shall consist of at least four and at most six members. Of Composition of the Board Independence of the Board these, one shall be a representative of the According to the Articles of Association, In accordance with the Swedish Corporate Board and three shall be members appointed Cloetta’s Board of Directors shall consist of at Governance Code, the majority of the Board by the three largest shareholders in terms of least three and at most ten members that are members elected by the AGM shall be inde­ voting power. The members appointed may elected annually at the AGM for a period until pendent in relation to the company and its themselves appoint one additional member. the next AGM has been held. The AGM on 16 Group Management Team and at least two April 2018 resolved that the Board shall have of these shall also be independent in relation Independence of the nomination seven members appointed by the AGM. On to the company’s major shareholders. Of the committee 16 April 2018, the AGM elected the following Board’s seven members, all are independent The majority of the nomination committee’s Board members to serve for the period until in relation to the company and its Group members shall be independent in relation the end of the next AGM, to be held on 4 April Management Team and five are independent to the company and its Group Management 2019: Lilian Fossum Biner (Chairman), in relation to the company’s major share­ Team, and at least one of these shall also be Lottie Knutson, Mikael Norman, Mikael Aru, holders. independent in relation to the company’s Mikael Svenfelt, Camilla Svenfelt and Alan largest shareholder in terms of voting power. McLean Raleigh. In addition, the employee The Board’s instructions and policies Of the appointed members, all four are in­ organization LIVS appointed one employee On a yearly basis, the Board reviews and dependent in relation to the company and its representative to the Board, Lena Grönedal, adopts a work plan for its own activities and Group Management Team and three are inde­ and one deputy representative, Shahram those of the Board’s audit and remuneration pendent in relation to the company’s largest Nikpour Badr. The employee organization committees. The Board also adopts in­ shareholder in terms of voting power. PTK appointed one employee represent­ structions for the President and CEO and ative to the Board, Mikael Ström, and one instructions for financial reporting. Among Shareholder proposals deputy representative, Christina Lönnborn. other things, these regulate the segregation All shareholders have the right to contact the All Board members have attended Nasdaq’s of duties between the Board of Directors, the nomination committee to propose candidates stock market training course for boards and Board Chairman, the President and CEO and for election to the Board. Proposals shall be management. The average age of the Board the auditor, quorum, conflict of interest, the sent to the chairman of the nomination com­ members elected by the AGM was 55 at yearwork of the committees, internal and external mittee by e-mail to nominationcommittee@ end 2018, and three of the seven are women. reporting, routines for notice to attend cloetta.com. general meetings, Board meetings and minutes. In addition, the Board has issued Nomination committee ahead of the 2019 AGM and adopted a Code of Conduct and policies Share of votes at for corporate communications and IR, Member Appointed by Independent1 31 Dec. 2018, % finance, HR, insiders, insurance, internal Olof Svenfelt, Chairman AB Malfors Promotor No 37.8% control, IT security, mergers and acquisi­ Isabelle De Gavoty Axa IM Yes 1.5% tions, fraud and whistleblowing, trade Johan Törnqvist Ulla Håkanson Yes 1.5% controls, anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Lilian Fossum Biner The Board of Cloetta AB Yes 0% 1) I ndependent from the company and its Group Management Team/from the company’s largest shareholder in terms of voting power Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t 77 measures that can be taken to improve the ef­ Instructions and policies ficiency of board work, and whether the Board Organization for has a well-balanced mix of competencies. The sustainability work evaluation provides valuable input for the nomination committee ahead of the AGM. In The Board reviews and adopts the following 2018, one of the board members has conduct­ instructions and policies on a yearly basis: The overall strategies for Cloetta’s corporate ed interviews on behalf of the Chairman with • Work plan for the Board responsibility work have been adopted by the • Instructions for the President and CEO all Board members, including the employee Group Management Team and are controlled • Instructions for financial reporting representatives. The results of the evaluation and monitored through business planning • Work plan and instructions for the audit have been reported to and discussed by both processes at several levels of the company. committee The ultimate responsibility for corporate • Work plan and instructions for the the Board and the nomination committee. responsibility matters lies with Cloetta’s remuneration committee President and CEO. • Code of Conduct Board meetings Cloetta’s sustainability work is overseen by • Corporate Communications and IR policy In 2018 the Board held nine scheduled the Corporate Responsibility Director, who • Finance policy • HR policy meetings, of which one was a statutory functions as a spokesperson for issues related meeting. The President and CEO, the CFO to corporate responsibility and is responsible • Insider policy for identifying prioritized areas, acting as the • Insurance policy and the Senior Vice President Corporate stakeholders’ link to the management teams • Policy for internal control Communications & IR, who is also the Board and supporting the implementation of Cloet• IT security policy • Mergers and acquisitions policy Secretary, take part in the Board’s meetings. ta’s corporate responsibility strategy. Environmental and occupational health and safety • Fraud and whistleblower policy. Other members of the Group Management managers are in place at all of the factories. (Anonymous reporting of violation of laws, Team participate as needed as rapporteurs the Code of Conduct or other rules at Cloetta) for special items of business. • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy committee’s three members, all are inde­ • Trade control policy 5 Board committees pendent in relation to the company and its Group Management Team, and two are inde­ Audit committee pendent in relation to the company’s major In 2018 the Board audit committee consisted shareholders. The work of the audit commit­ Evaluation of Board performance of members Mikael Norman (chairman), tee is regulated by special instructions that The performance of the Board is evaluated Camilla Svenfelt and Mikael Aru. The have been adopted by the Board as part of its yearly in order to continuously improve the majority of the committee’s members shall be work plan. The audit committee is respon­ Board’s working methods and efficiency. The independent in relation to the company and sible for ensuring the quality of the financial Board Chairman is responsible for carrying its Group Management Team, and at least one reporting and the effectiveness of the com­ out the evaluation and presenting the results of these shall also be independent in relation pany’s internal control and risk management to the nomination committee. The purpose to the company’s major shareholders. At least regarding financial reporting. In brief, the of the evaluation is to gather the Board mem­ one member shall be independent and have audit committee, without affecting the other bers’ views on the Board’s performance, the accounting or auditing expertise. Of the audit tasks and responsibilities of the Board, shall Board meetings in 2018 JANUARY Scheduled meeting; Year-end report, matters ahead of AGM, report from the auditor, incentive scheme, Sweden review, HR organization and strategy. DECEMBER Scheduled meeting; Budget/business plans for the coming year and bonus targets. JAN DEC V FE OCTOBER NO B MARCH Scheduled meeting; Interim report for the Scheduled meeting; Annual Report, MAR period January to September and Sweden review. OCT notice to attend the AGM, refinancing. APRIL SEP APR Scheduled meeting; Statutory meeting: decision on authorized signatories, adoption of instrucSEPTEMBER tions and policies, election of the remuneration Scheduled meeting; Business strategy, committee and audit committee, appointment Brand and marketing review and International AU G AY of a Board representative to the nomination Market review. M JUL committee, decision on dates and locations for JUN the upcoming scheduled Board meetings, the AGM and reporting dates. IT-security strategy. Scheduled meeting; Interim report for the period January to March and Supply Chain review. MAY JULY Scheduled meeting; Business strategy, pick & mix Scheduled meeting; Interim report for the period review and site visit to the Jelly Bean Factory in Dublin, January to June. Ireland. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 78 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t meet regularly with the company’s auditors neration committee shall meet at least twice and CEO regularly informs the Board and to remain informed about the focus and scope every financial year. In 2018 the committee Chairman about the financial position and of the audit. The company’s auditor shall be held six meetings. development of the company and the Group. invited to participate in the meetings of the Henri de Sauvage-Nolting has been President audit committee. The audit committee shall Board Chairman and CEO of Cloetta since 15 February 2017, meet at least four times every financial year. The Board Chairman shall be elected by the and in addition to the President and CEO, At least once a year, the committee shall meet general meeting of shareholders, and on the Group Management Team consisted of without the presence of any member of the 16 April 2018 the AGM elected Lilian Fossum the five regional presidents, the President Group Management Team. All meetings of Biner as the Chairman of the Board. The Operations (which includes purchasing and the audit committee are documented. The Chairman shall supervise the work of the production) and the five heads of the central audit committee shall inform the Board about Board and ensure that the Board discharges staff functions Finance/IT, Marketing, HR, the matters dealt with by the committee. In its duties, and has special responsibility for Corporate Communications & IR and Pick 2018 the committee held four meetings. ensuring that the work of the Board is well & mix. For information about the President organized and effectively executed and for and CEO and other members of the Group Remuneration committee monitoring the Group’s development. The Management Team, see pages 86–87. The remuneration committee shall have no Chairman oversees the effective implementa­ The Group Management Team conducts more than four members who are appointed tion of the Board’s decisions and is respon­ management meetings at regular intervals by the Board on a yearly basis. One of the sible for ensuring that the work of the Board and held nine meetings in 2018. The meetings members shall be the chairman of the com­ is evaluated yearly and that the nomination are focused on the Group’s strategic and mittee. The Board’s remuneration committee committee is informed about the results of operational development and financial per­ consists of members Mikael Svenfelt (chair­ this evaluation. formance. In addition to these meetings, the man), Lottie Knutson and Lilian Fossum members of the Group Management Team Biner. The majority of the committee’s mem­ work in close daily cooperation regarding 6 President and bers shall be independent in relation to the Group Management Team various matters. company and its Group Management Team. Of the remuneration committee’s members, The President and CEO is appointed by the 7 Auditor all are independent in relation to the company Board and supervises operations according to and its Group Management Team. The work the instructions adopted by the Board, and is The auditor is elected by the AGM for exami­ of the remuneration committee is regulated responsible for the day-to-day management nation of the company’s annual accounts and by special instructions that are adopted by of the company and the Group in accordance accounting records and the administration the Board as part of its work plan. The main with the Swedish Companies Act. In addition, of the Board of Directors and the President tasks of the remuneration committee are the President and CEO, together with the and CEO. The auditor’s reporting to the to prepare recommendations to the Board Chairman, decides which matters are to be shareholders takes place at the AGM through for decisions on remuneration principles, dealt with at Board meetings. The Board the presentation of the auditor’s report. The remuneration levels and other terms of em­ regularly evaluates the President and CEO’s AGM on 16 April 2018 re-elected the certified ployment for the Group Management Team, duties and performance. The President auditing firm KPMG AB as the company’s in­ to monitor and evaluate programmes for and CEO is responsible for ensuring that dependent auditor to serve during the period variable remuneration completed during the the Board members are supplied with the until the end of the next AGM. Authorized year and ongoing programmes for the Group necessary information and decision data Public Accountant Tomas Forslund is the Management Team as adopted by the AGM and presents reports and proposals at Board Auditor in Charge. and to monitor the current remuneration meetings regarding issues dealt with by the structures and levels in the Group. The remu­ Group Management Team. The President Organization President and CEO Finance/IT HR Corporate Communications & IR Marketing Pick & mix The Netherlands/ Operations Sweden Denmark/Norway Finland International/UK Germany Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t 79 financial information is regularly provided in 8 Financial reporting the form of: Press releases 2018 The Board of Directors is responsible for • Interim reports ensuring that the company’s organization is • The annual report structured in such a way that the company’s • Press releases about important news that financial circumstances can be controlled January is deemed to have a potential impact on the satisfactorily and that external financial • Katarina Tell appointed President Cloetta share price information, such as interim reports and Sweden annual reports to the market, is prepared in • Presentations for financial analysts, inves­ • Michiel Havermans appointed Senior Vice accordance with the legal requirements, rele­ tors and the media on the date of publication President Cloetta International vant accounting standards and other require­ of the year-end and interim reports • Interim report Q4, October – December ments applicable to listed companies. The • Meetings with financial analysts and 2017 tasks of the Board are to oversee the Group’s investors February financial development, assure the quality of • Proposal by the Nomination Committee the Group’s financial reporting and internal Awards for financial regarding the Board of Directors of control and regularly monitor and evaluate communication Cloetta AB operations. The task of the audit committee Web ranking by Comprend March is to support the Board in assuring the quality Cloetta was named the best website in • Annual report 2017 published of the company’s financial reporting. How­ Comprend’s Web ranking survey among the • Notice of the Annual General Meeting ever, the audit committee deals not only with 100 largest listed Swedish companies. the Group’s financial reports and significant • Oskari Vidman appointed Chief Pick & Mix Officer. accounting matters, but also matters related Listed Company of the Year to internal control, compliance, material In the autumn of 2018, for the fourth time, • Thomas Biesterfeldt appointed Chief uncertainty in reported values, events after Cloetta was the overall winner in the Listed Marketing Officer (CMO). the balance sheet date, changes in estimates Company of the Year. The annual Listed April and judgments and other conditions affecting Company of the Year competition, which • Annual General Meeting. the quality of the financial reports. is arranged by Kanton in association with • Interim report Q1, January – March 2018. The President and CEO ensures that the the head sponsor Aktiespararna and others, May financial accounting in the group companies is aimed at promoting exemplary financial • Frans Rydén appointed Chief Financial is carried out in compliance with legal communication among listed companies and Officer (CFO) requirements and that financial management consists of three sub-competitions in which June is conducted in a satisfactory manner. Cloetta the annual reports, interim reports and IR • Cloetta amendeds and extended current AB’s President and CEO is a member of the websites of all companies with a primary loan agreement and launched commercial boards of all operating subsidiaries. Every listing on Nasdaq Stockholm are reviewed. paper programme month, the Group prepares a closing of the July books that is submitted to the Board and the Additional information • Interim report Q2, April – June 2018 Group Management Team. For each upcom­ At www.cloetta.com, the following informa­ September ing financial year, a profit statement, balance tion can be found: The Articles of Associa­ • Cloetta awarded “Listed Company of the sheet and investment budget are prepared for tion, the Code of Conduct, information from Year” the Group and are adopted at the scheduled previous AGMs and corporate governance Board meeting in December. External reports from previous years. • Nomination committee appointed ahead of 2019 Annual General Meeting of Cloetta AB (publ) October • Interim report Q3, July – September 2018 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 80 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t Remuneration of the Group Management Team Guidelines for remuneration of The short-term variable compensation structure is as follows: Group Management Team Short-term variable compensation The current guidelines for remuneration as a percentage of base salary of Group Management Team were adopted Target level Maximum level by the AGM on 16 April 2018. The total President and CEO 2018 50% 100% remuneration shall be market-based and Other Group Management Team 2018, average 35% 70% competitive, and shall be proportionate to the individual’s responsibilities and powers. President and CEO 2017 50% 100% In addition to base salary, remuneration of Other Group Management Team 2017, average 35% 70% the President and CEO, other members of the Group Management Team and other execu­ tives reporting directly to the President and Share-based long-term Other benefits CEO can include: variable compensation Other benefits consists mainly of sign-on fees, Share-based long-term variable compensa­ severance pay and company car benefits. Short-term variable compensation tion consists of the share-based long-term Short-term variable compensation is linked incentive plans, which are resolved on yearly Pension benefits to specific business targets and is derived by the AGM. It is aimed at increasing value Pension benefits vary depending on the from the annual business plan approved by for the Group’s shareholders by promoting agreements and practices in the country the Board of Directors. The short-term and upholding the senior management’s where the individual is employed. Defined variable compensation is delivered through commitment to the Group’s development, and contribution plans are strived for, which a cash-based bonus programme. Short-term thereby aligning the interests of the share­ means that pension benefits most often con­ variable compensation is based on three holders with those of the Group Management sist of defined contribution plans for which operating targets: Team and other key employees in order to annual premiums are paid as a percentage of • Net sales growth ensure maximum long-term value creation. pension-qualifying salary up to the age of re­ • Operating profit The targets for share-based long-term varia­ tirement. In almost all cases, variable salary • Cash flow ble compensation are the compound annual and benefits are not pension-qualifying. The growth rate and operating profit. retirement age is not less than 60 years and not more than 67 years. Total variable remuneration of the Group Management Team incl. the President and CEO Remuneration of the Group Management Team SEK Thousand % incl. the President and CEO 20,000 80 2018 Pension benefits 14% u t Base salary 56% 15,000 60 Other benefits 12% u Share-based long-term 10,000 40 variable compensation 2% u Short-term variable compensation 16% u 5,000 20 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 nn Short-term and share-based long-term variable compensation Percentage of base salary Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t 81 The Board has the right to deviate from Share-based long-term incentive plan structures and remuneration levels in the these principles in individual cases where for senior executives company. Pursuant to paragraph 9.1, points there is special reason to do so. On 16 April 2018, the Annual General Meet­ 2 and 3, of the Swedish Code of Corporate ing approved the Board’s proposal for a shareGovernance, the Board hereby presents the Termination benefits based long-term incentive plan, similar to following report on the results of the remu­ Upon termination of employment on the part previous years. The plan aligns the interests neration committee’s evaluation: of the company, the notice period shall be no of the shareholders with those of the Group The variable compensation that is pay­ longer than 12 months. Any termination ben­ Management Team and other key employees able according to the guidelines is linked to efits may not exceed one fixed annual salary. in order to ensure maximum long-term value both the individual’s responsibility for results Due to employment contracts entered into creation. and the Group’s profitability targets, which by Leaf prior to Cloetta’s acquisition of the A personal shareholding in Cloetta is contributes to value growth for the company’s company, there are contracts with members required for all participants. See page 60 and shareholders. of the Group Management Team granting Notes 25, 30 and 31 for more information Market surveys are conducted regularly termination benefits exceeding 12 monthly about share-based payment. with respect to salary statistics, remuner­ base salaries. ation structures and levels for variable The Board of Directors’ report on remuneration. In the opinion of the remu­ President and CEO the remuneration committee’s evalneration committee, Cloetta’s remuneration The retirement age is 65 years. The pension uation of remuneration of the Group structures and remuneration levels have terms consist of a defined contribution plan Management Team allowed Cloetta to recruit and retain the right for which annual premiums are paid up to The Board of Directors has established a personnel to the Group Management Team. the age of retirement in an amount corre­ remuneration committee consisting of three Remuneration of the President and CEO sponding to 30 per cent of pension-qualifying members who prepare recommendations for for the financial year 2018 has been deter­ salary, consisting of base salary. Variable decision by the Board regarding remunera­ mined by the Board. Remuneration of other compensation and other benefits are not tion principles, remuneration levels and other members of the Group Management Team pension-qualifying. terms of employment for the Group Manage­ and of other senior executives has been The President and CEO has a notice ment Team. The recommendations have in­ determined by the President and CEO. Since period of six months. Upon termination on cluded the proportional distribution between the 2018 AGM, the remuneration commit­ the part of the company, the notice period is base salary and variable compensation and tee has met on five occasions. The proposed 12 months. the size of any salary increases. Furthermore, guidelines for remuneration of the Group the remuneration committee has discussed Management Team in 2019 that will be Remuneration in 2018 pension terms and termination benefits. presented by the Board to the AGM on 4 April In 2018, the total remuneration of the Group The remuneration committee is also en­ 2019 for approval, are identical to the current Management Team including the President trusted with the task of monitoring and evalu­ guidelines. and CEO amounted to SEK 57,198 thousand ating programmes for variable remuneration (42,877) including pension benefits, and of the Group Management Team, application SEK 49,326 thousand (35,920) excluding of the guidelines for remuneration adopted pension benefits. by the AGM and the current remuneration Remuneration cost incurred for the Group Management Team Short-term variable Share-based compensation incurred long-term 2018 Base in the year, expected to variable Other Pension SEK 000s salary be paid in the next year compensation benefits Sub-total benefits Total Henri de Sauvage-Nolting, President and CEO 4,541 2,271 1,182 102 8,096 1,362 9,458 Other Group Management Team1 27,490 6,606 122 7,012 41,230 6,510 47,740 Total 32,031 8,877 1,304 7,114 49,326 7,872 57,198 Of which, in the Parent Company 11,210 3,231 –1,141 1,214 14,513 3,052 17,566 Short-term variable Share-based compensation incurred long-term 2017 Base in the year, expected to variable Other Pension SEK 000s salary be paid in the next year compensation benefits Sub-total benefits Total Henri de Sauvage-Nolting, President and CEO 2 3,886 – 704 69 4,659 1,113 5,772 Danko Maras, Interim President and CEO/CFO) 3 378 – 143 41 562 114 676 Other Group Management Team 4 22,322 – 3,825 4,552 30,699 5,730 36,429 Total 26,586 – 4,672 4,662 35,920 6,957 42,877 Of which, in the Parent Company 13,221 – 3,050 1,327 17,598 3,752 21,349 1) O ther Group Management Team comprised 11 persons for the period 1 January 2018 to 28 February 2018, 12 persons for the period 1 March 2018 to 15 July 2018, 11 persons for the period 16 July 2018 to 14 August 2018, 10 persons for the period 15 August 2018 to 11 November 2018. From 12 November 2018 the other Group Management Team consisted of 11 persons. 2) Took up duties on 15 February 2017. 3) Took up duties as interim President and CEO from 1 September 2016 until 14 February 2017. 4) O  ther Group Management Team comprised 8 people for the period 1 January 2017 to 14 February 2017, 9 people for the period 15 February to 28 April 2017, 10 people for the period 29 April 2017 to 30 September 2017 and 11 people for the period 30 September 2017 to 29 November 2017. From 30 November 2017, the other Group Management Team consisted of 10 people. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 82 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t Internal control over financial reporting Cloetta’s internal control over financial re­ guidelines and principles built on Cloetta’s Central and local financial reporting porting is based on the framework published core values that govern financial reporting. risks are assessed with respect to account by the Committee of Sponsoring Organiza­ • T he management’s conduct and working balance assertions such as existence, com­ tions of the Treadway Commission (COSO methods based on a clearly defined working pleteness, rights and obligations, valuation framework). The key objectives of Cloetta’s process described in documents such as: and allocation, presentation and disclosure internal control environment for financial Rules of procedure for the Board of assertions and financial impact. The internal reporting are that it is appropriately struc­ Directors control environment is designed to mitigate tured and effective, provides reliable reports Instructions for the President and CEO risks identified to a level considered accept­ and complies with any applicable laws and Instructions for financial reporting able by management. regulations. Finance policy Certain specific risks, for example risks The Board of Directors has defined pol­ Rules of procedure for and instructions related to taxes and legal matters and other icies regarding processes, roles and respon­ to the audit committee financial risks, are reviewed proactively on sibilities that are vital for financial reporting • Rules for representations, commitments a periodic basis. Risks and risk management and the internal control environment of the and disbursements to third parties clearly are reported on separately in more detail in company. defined in the Group’s authorization frame­ the annual report, on pages 69–72. Tax, legal work and other financial risks are reflected based Roles and responsibilities • Processes for leading and developing em­ on management’s best estimate and judge­ The Board of Directors is responsible for es­ ployees in the organization and the atten­ ment, and in accordance with the applicable tablishing fundamental rules and guidelines tion dedicated to these matters by Cloetta’s accounting standards in the consolidated for internal control. The audit committee Board of Directors financial statements. assists the Board of Directors with its over­ sight of the performance of the company’s risk Financial reporting competencies management function and internal control The Group Management Team and local Fraud risk insofar as these affect the company’s quality management teams ensure that the company Cloetta’s Group Management Team, local and integrity of financial reporting. The has employees with the right competency in management teams and the central finance Board of Directors and the audit committee all key (financial) positions and that there are team are responsible for addressing the risk interact directly with the external auditors. procedures in place to ensure that employees of fraud and for carrying out a continuous Where the Board of Directors is respon­ in key (financial) positions have the requisite assessment of the risk for fraud with respect sible for establishing fundamental rules and knowledge and skills. to the prevailing attitudes, incentives and guidelines, the President and CEO is respon­ opportunities to commit fraud. The Board of sible for the design effectiveness, implementa­ Human Resources (HR) Directors issued a fraud and whistleblower tion and supervision of monitoring of the in­ The guidelines and processes for manage­ policy aimed at preventing dishonest and/or ternal control environment within the Group. ment of human resources play a fundamental fraudulent activity and to establish proce­ The CFO is responsible for the design and role in Cloetta’s system of internal control dures for reporting fraudulent activities to operating effectiveness of the internal control and help ensure the effectiveness of internal Cloetta’s management and/or audit commit­ environment within the Group. At a local control. Key processes include compensation tee. level, the design and operating effectiveness and benefits, HR development, recruitment, In addition to the fraud and whistle­ of the internal control environment is the allocation of resources, performance man­ blower policy, Cloetta has adopted an responsibility of each of the area Presidents agement and routines for feedback to the anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. and local and regional finance teams. employees. The purpose of the policy is to prevent bribery and corruption by any employee or Control environment Risk assessment third party acting on behalf of Cloetta. The foundation for Cloetta’s internal control Central and local risk assessments are pre­ The trade control policy summarizes environment is the company’s corporate pared and monitored periodically. In these potentially applicable sanctions and export culture and behaviour, amongst others, which assessments the likelihood that risks could control rules, and compliance procedures are reflected in: occur and the potential impact they may have to be followed by all Cloetta employees. The • Performing our business with integrity and are assessed. Furthermore, the velocity purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines ethical values. Cloetta’s Code of Conduct, at which a risk could occur is considered. to ensure compliance with all local trade fraud and whistle blower policy, anti-bribery Business risks as well as financial reporting control laws and regulations including coun­ and anti-corruption policy and trade and other risks are considered in the risk tries through which shipments or financial control policy form the platform for a set of assessments. transactions flow. Basis for risk assessment Existence, reported Completeness, all transRights and obligations, Valuation and allocation, Presentation and assets and liabilities exist actions during the reporting assets are the rights of all items in the financial redisclosure, items in on the reporting date. period are recorded and the organization and the porting are reported in comthe financial reports reported. liabilities are its obligations pliance with IFRS valuation are properly described, as of a given date. principles and are correctly sorted and classified. calculated and summarized and appropriately recorded. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t 83 Process for financial reporting Monthly Collection of information Controls Processing and consolidation Reporting Local units report monthly accordThe Group’s reporting system Any corrections are implemented in Reporting of operational and ing to an established timeframe contains embedded controls. In dialogue with the affected parties. financial information to the Board of in compliance with the applicable addition, the central finance team Reconciliation occurs. Directors and the Group Managelaws, regulations and accounting carries out analytical controls as ment Team. practices and the Group’s accountwell controls of completeness and ing manual. reasonability. Quarterly Audit committee External reporting The auditor attends every quarterly meeting. Possible actions are carried Cloetta publicly discloses its interim and year-end reports through press out in respect of the audit report. releases and publication on the company’s website. Monitoring and improvement carried out by the Board of Directors, the Control activities Cloetta continuously strengthens its internal audit committee, the President and CEO, Control activities are the policies and control environment by evaluating the design the Group Management Team, the central procedures that help ensure that manage­ and operating effectiveness of the environ­ finance and treasury team and the Group’s ment’s directives are carried out and that ment. During the year, procedures are per­ various subsidiaries. Every month, financial the necessary actions are taken to address formed to verify the design and operating reports are reviewed against budget and risks that may hinder the achievement of the effectiveness in specific areas. These proce­ established targets, and the results of selfcompany’s objectives. Control activities oc­ dures are performed on a central and a assessments in the Group’s companies are cur throughout the organization, at all levels local level and are intended to address any reported. This review includes follow-up of and in all functions. They include a range of weaknesses or inefficiencies in the internal observations that are reported by Cloetta’s activities as diverse as approvals, authoriza­ control environment. Internal control auditor. tions, verifications, reconciliations, reviews of deficiencies detected through the ongoing The company’s financial situation is operating performance, security of assets and monitoring activities or separate evaluations discussed at each Board of Directors meeting. segregation of duties. are reported upstream and corrective actions The Board’s audit committee has important Control activities are embedded in are taken to ensure continuous improvement monitoring and control duties with regard to Cloetta’s business processes and play a key of the internal control environment. On a loans, investments, financial management, role in ensuring effective internal control in quarterly basis the follow up and status of any financial reporting and internal control. The the company. Local management is respon­ weaknesses identified by internal procedures audit committee and Board of Directors sible for having all required control activ­ or external audits are reported and discussed review and formally approve interim reports ities in place and maintained within their with the persons involved and members of and the annual report prior to publication. In organizations. The CFO is responsible for Cloetta’s Group Management Team. addition, the audit committee receives regu­ ensuring that control activities are designed lar reports from the independent auditor. and operating effectively and are maintained Reporting routines at the central level. The control environment An effective system for internal control Communication is based on a balanced mix of preventive and requires sufficient, up-to-date and reliable Internal communication detective controls and of automated and information both of a financial and non-finan­ Effective communication ensures the infor­ manual controls. In addition to a standard set cial nature. As far as possible, management mation flows in the organization. Separate of automated controls embedded in Cloetta’s reporting is directly linked to the financial communication channels are used to com­ central ERP system, local management reporting and to the consolidation tool. municate internally, based on what is most teams are encouraged to have as many Local management teams report their effective. automated controls as possible, especially financial results periodically and in ac­ for routine transactions. Nevertheless, there cordance with the Group’s accounting and External communication are also manual control activities in place to reporting policies. This reporting is the basis It is also important to maintain communica­ verify that the automated controls function as for Cloetta’s internal and external reporting tion about relevant policies with external par­ intended and for non-routine transactions. and serves as a basis for legal and business ties such as customers, suppliers, regulators Continuous reviews are performed by the reviews. The business reviews are carried and shareholders. Group Management Team and local manage­ out according to a structure in which sales, External communication is carried out in ment teams to safeguard proper and accurate earnings, cash flow and other key ratios accordance with legal requirements and the financial reporting. These reviews are and trends of importance to the Group are Corporate Communications and IR policy. incorporated into the business processes and compiled and form a basis for analysis and are an important part of Cloetta’s monitoring actions by the management and controllers Evaluation of the need for a controls. The local management teams are at different levels. Other important and separate internal audit function responsible for ensuring compliance with rel­ group-wide components of internal control There is currently no internal audit function evant laws and regulations in their respective and reporting routines include the annual at Cloetta. The Board of Directors has areas of responsibility. All identified financial business planning process and the monthly reviewed this matter and determined that the reporting risks are covered by one or more and quarterly forecasts. existing structures for monitoring and evalu­ control activities. To ensure the efficiency of internal ation provide a satisfactory basis for control. control over financial reporting, reviews are For certain special audit activities, external resources are used. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 84 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t Board of Directors Lilian Fossum Biner Mikael Aru Lottie Knutson Position: Chairman of the Board Position: Board member Position: Board member Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Elected: 2016 Elected: 2017 Elected: 2015 Born: 1962 Born: 1953 Born: 1964 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Education: B.Sc. Business Administration, Education: M.Sc. Stockholm School of Education: Journalism at Stockholm University, Linköping University, Sweden. Economics, Sweden. Sweden, Diplôme de Culture Francaise, Other assignments: Board Chairman of Paulig Other assignments: Board member of Nobia, L’Université Paris IV, France. Group Ltd, Fuchs Gewurze Gruppe AG, CCS LE Lundbergföretagen, a-connect and Givaudan. Healthcare Nordic AB and AB Axel Granlund. Other assignments: Member of the board of Previous assignments: VP and CFO of Axel Board member of Stenströms Skjortfabrik, Dr Per Stena Line, STS Alpresor, Swedavia and Scandic Johnson, Senior VP and HR Director at Electrolux. Håkanssons Stiftelse and Gorthon Stiftelsen. Hotels. Active as a writer and advisor in the areas Independence: Previous assignments: CEO of Procordia Food of leadership, change and crisis management and In relation to major shareholders: Yes Sweden, as well as leading positions at Kraft Foods tourism. In relation to the company and management: Yes and Nestlé. Previous assignments: Director of CommunicaShareholding Direct: 30,000 class B shares Independence: tions at Fritidsresor Group for the Nordic countries, Related parties: – In relation to major shareholders: Yes at SAS Group’s communications department, In relation to the company and management: Yes journalist at the Swedish newspaper Svenska Shareholding: Direct: 2,855 class B shares Dagbladet and communications consultant at JKL Related parties: – and others. Independence: In relation to major shareholders: Yes In relation to the company and management: Yes Shareholding: Direct: 1,200 class B shares Related parties: – Alan McLean Raleigh Mikael Norman Camilla Svenfelt Position: Board member Position: Board member Board member Elected: 2018 Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Born: 1959 Elected: 2015 Elected: 2016 Nationality: British Born: 1958 Born: 1981 Education: B.Sc. (Hons) Production Engineering Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish and Production Management, University of Education: Bachelor of Laws, Stockholm Education: B.A. Stockholm University, Sweden. Strathclyde, Scotland. University, Sweden. Other assignments: Board member of AB Malfors Other assignments: Board Chairman of Other assignments: Member of the Board of Promotor and a deputy board member of the Robinson plc. Byggmax Group AB, Bravida Holding AB, Bonava Hjalmar Svenfelt Foundation. Accountant at AB Previous assignments: Executive Vice President, AB and Swedavia AB. Chairman of the audit comMalfors Promotor. Personal Care Supply Chain, Unilever. mittee of Byggmax Group AB, Bravida Holding AB, Previous assignments: – Independence: Bonava AB and Swedavia AB. Independence: In relation to major shareholders: Yes Previous assignments: CFO at Nobia, Group In relation to major shareholders: No In relation to the company and management: Yes Controller at Electrolux, Tax lawyer at Price WaterIn relation to the company and management: Yes Shareholding: Direct: – house and judge at the Administrative Court and Shareholding: D irect: 60 class A shares and Related parties: – Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. 466,485 class B shares Independence: Related parties: 55,095 class B In relation to major shareholders: Yes shares In relation to the company and management: Yes Shareholding: Direct: 5,000 class B shares Related parties: – Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t 85 Mikael Svenfelt Lena Grönedal Mikael Ström Position: Board member Position: Employee board member, LIVS Employee board member, PTK Ledarna Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Elected: 2008 Elected: 2016 Elected: 2008 Born: 1962 Born: 1961 Born: 1966 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Position at Cloetta: Factory Operative, Cloetta Position at Cloetta: Department Manager, Education: Marketing and Business Economics, Sverige AB Cloetta Sverige AB Tibbleskolan and Law studies, Folkuniversitetet, Shareholding: Direct: – Shareholding: Direct: 32,243 class B shares Sweden. Related parties: – Related parties: – Other assignments: CEO and Board member of AB Malfors Promotor. Previous assignments: Senior positions in Nicator group, Dell Financial Services, GE Capital Equipment Finance AB and Rollox AB. Board Chairman of Fjärilshuset Haga Trädgård AB. Board member of Fjärilshuset Haga Trädgård Café AB. Independence In relation to major shareholders: No In relation to the company and management: Yes Shareholding: D irect: 25 class A shares and 42,535 class B shares Related parties: 5,729,569 class A shares and 72,315,235 class B shares Shahram Nikpour Badr Christina Lönnborn Deputy employee board member, LIVS. Deputy employee board member, PTK Unionen Elected: 2013 Elected: 2016 Born: 1963 Born: 1962 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Position at Cloetta: Factory Operative, Position at Cloetta: Business developer, Cloetta Sverige AB Cloetta Sverige AB Shareholding: Direct: – Shareholding: Direct: – Related parties: – Related parties: – Composition of the Board Fees2 Attendance 4 Year Board Audit Remuneration Elected by the AGM1 Nationality elected Born in Board fees Committee fees Independent3 meetings committee committee Chairman Lilian Fossum Biner Swedish 2016 1962 620,000 100,000 Yes/Yes 9/9 5/5 Member Camilla Svenfelt Swedish 2016 1981 285,000 100,000 Yes/No 9/9 5/5 Mikael Aru Swedish 2017 1953 285,000 100,000 Yes/Yes 9/9 5/5 Lottie Knutson Swedish 2015 1964 285,000 100,000 Yes/Yes 9/9 5/5 Mikael Norman Swedish 2015 1958 285,000 150,000 Yes/Yes 9/9 5/5 Alan McLean Raleigh British 2018 1959 285,000 – Yes/Yes 9/9 Mikael Svenfelt Swedish 2008 1966 285,000 150,000 Yes/No 9/9 5/5 1) Education and other assignments are shown on pages 84–85. 2) T he fees refer to set amounts during the period from the AGM on 16 April 2018 until the AGM on 4 April 2019. Board fees shall be paid in the amount of SEK 620,000 to the Board Chairman and SEK 285,000 to each other board member elected by the AGM. Fees for committee work will be paid in the amount of SEK 100,000 to members of the audit committee (unchanged) and in the amount of 150,000 to the chair of the audit committee (previously SEK 100,000), and members of the remuneration committee shall receive SEK 100,000 (unchanged). For further details, see Note 6. 3) Independent in relation to the company and its Group Management Team/in relation to the largest shareholder. 4) A ttendance refers to meetings during the period from the statutory meeting following the AGM on 16 April 2018 until the publication of this annual report in March 2019. Shareholding stated as at 31 January 2019 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 86 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t Group Management Team Henri de Sauvage-Nolting Frans Rydén Jacob Broberg President and CEO Position: Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Position: Senior Vice President Corporate since 15 February 2017. since 12 November 2018. Communications and Investor Relations Employed by Cloetta since 15 February 2017. Employed by Cloetta since 12 November 2018. since 16 February 2012. Employed by LEAF Born: 1962 Born: 1972 since 2010. Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Swedish Born: 1964 Education: M.Sc., Chemistry, Amsterdam UniverEducation: B.Sc. Business Administration, Nationality: Swedish sity, the Netherlands. M.Sc., Chemical Engineering, Stockholm University, Master of Laws, Stockholm Education: B.A., Political Science and Economics, Technical University of Twente, the Netherlands. University. Lund University, Sweden. Post Doc in Business Administration, University of Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Leuven, Belgium. Previous assignments/positions: Various Previous positions: SVP Corporate CommunicaOther assignments: Board member of Agra finance positions at Mondelez including Chief tions at LEAF, 2010–2012, Vice President Corporate Industrier, Norway Financial Officer for India, CFO for Indonesia, Communications at TeliaSonera, 2008–2010, Senior Previous positions: Executive Vice President of Finance Director Asia-Pacific, Regional Manager Vice President Corporate Affairs and CommuniArla in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Between Financial Planning and Analysis, and Area Manager cation at V&S Vin & Sprit AB, 2005–2008, Vice 1989 and 2013 held positions in sales, marketing Internal controls. Recently Vice President Finance President Media Relations at Electrolux, 2001–2005, and production at Unilever in the Nordics, the at Arla Foods. and Vice President Corporate Communications at Netherlands, UK and China. Last position at Shareholding: Direct: 12,909 B shares Länsförsäkringar, 2000–2001. Various positions, Unilever was as CEO of the Nordics. Related parties: – including Head of Media Relations and Information Shareholding: Direct: 55,058 class B shares for Moderata Samlingspartiet, 1989–2000. Related parties: – Shareholding: Direct: 84,159 class B shares Related parties: – Regina Ekström Thomas Biesterfeldt Ewald Frenay Position: Senior Vice President Human Resources Position: Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) Position: Pesident Cloetta Middle Region since 1 January 2015. since 1 May, 2018. since 16 February 2012. Employed by LEAF since 2004. Employed by Cloetta since 1 May 2018. Employed by LEAF since 2000. Born: 1963 Born: 1980 Born: 1963 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: German Nationality: Dutch Education: B.Sc. Business Administration and Education: MBA (Major Marketing) at Hamburg Education: M.Sc. Economics, Erasmus University Economics, Lund University, Sweden. University of Applied Sciences. Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Previous positions: SVP Human Resources Previous positions: Marketing Director at L´Oreal Previous assignments/positions: Interim Scandinavia at Cloetta/LEAF, 2004–2014, SVP Paris in the Nordics (based in Denmark). Prior President Cloetta Italy 2016–2017. Various Human Resources Nordic at Findus, 2000– Marketing and Group product manager at L´Oreal positions at Leaf 2000-2012 including President 2004, HR Manager Sweden/Nordic at Nestlé , Paris in Germany and Sweden. Middle at Leaf and Chief Marketing Officer. 1995–2000, Trainee, Product Manager, Human Shareholding: Direct: 6,414 class B shares Member of Leaf Executive Committee, 2008–2012. Resources Manager, Marketing Manager at Mars Related parties: – 2008–2012 Vice President Segment ConfectionSweden and UK, 1987–1995. ery, 2004 –2005, Marketing Director of RBV Leaf Shareholding: Direct: 35,472 class B shares The Netherlands 2000 –2004. Several marketing Related parties: – and sales positions at Mars Inc. Shareholding: Direct: 25,019 class B shares Related parties: – Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C o r p o r at e g ov e r n a n c e r e p o r t 87 Michiel Havermans Marcel Mensink Christian Boas Linde Position: Senior Vice President Cloetta Position: President Operations Position: President Cloetta Denmark and Norway International since 1 March 2018. since 1 October 2017. since 1 January 2018. Employed by Cloetta since 1 March 2018. Employed by Cloetta since 2017. Employed by Cloetta since 2013. Born: 1973 Born: 1971 Born: 1968 Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Danish Education: M.Sc. Economics, Erasmus University, Education: MBA University of Canterbury United Education: M.Sc. Economics, University of Aarhus, Rotterdam. Kingdom, B.Sc. Food Technology van Hall Institute, Denmark. the Netherlands. Other assignments: – Other assignments: Board member of Crispy Other assignments: – Previous positions: Regional Director sales and Foods International A/S, Nakskov Mills Foods A/S Previous positions: Supply Director, Mars Supply marketing for Europe, Middle East and Americas and Anne Linde ApS. Petcare Europe. Several leading positions at Mars at United Dutch Breweries (UDB). Export Director, in various business units, including Petcare, Food Previous assignments/positions: Country Country Manager UK and Managing Director and Chocolate. Supply Director Mars Care & Treats Director for Mars Danmark A/S, 2008–2013, Vietnam and the Philippines at Perfetti van Melle. Europe. Plant director Mars Food UK, several various commercial positions in PepsiCo, Shareholding: Direct: 5,477 class B shares different operational roles at Mars Chocolate. 2002–2008, HJ Heinz UK, 1999–2002, and Arla Related parties: – Shareholding: D irect: 10,738 class B shares Foods, 1993–1996. Related parties: – Shareholding: Direct: 5,550 class B shares Related parties: – Ville Perho Katarina Tell Oskari Vidman Position: President Cloetta Finland Position: President Cloetta Sweden, Position: Chief Pick & Mix Officer since 20 July 2015. since 1 July 2018. since 1 April 2018. Employed by LEAF since 2004. Employed by Cloetta since 28 May, 2018. Employed by Cloetta since 2015. Born: 1979 Born: 1970 Born: 1976 Nationality: Finnish Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Finnish Education: M.Sc. Turku School of Economics, Education: Bachelor in Marketing and AdminisEducation: Masters in Marketing and Economics, Finland. tration, Lund University, Masters in Food Nutrition, University of Vasa, Finland. Other assignments: Co-owner and Board Umeå University. Other assignments: – member of Varastoaura Oy. Other assignments: Board member of Previous positions: Sales Director Cloetta Previous positions: Sales Director Cloetta Finland Livsmedelsföretagen and Frozen Cocktails Finland, October 2015–31 March 2018. Various 2010–2015, Category Development Manager LEAF International AB. sales and marketing roles at British American 2004–2010, Global Account Manager Lidl at LEAF 2007–2009. Previous positions: General Manager Findus, Tobacco in the Nordic countries including General Shareholding: Direct: 26,443 class B shares Sweden. Managing Director Heinz Northern and Manager Norway and Finland. Related parties: – Eastern Europe, Retail Sales Manager Heinz Shareholding: Direct: 12,554 class B shares Sweden and Business Development Manager Findus. Related parties: – Shareholding: Direct: 11,903 class B shares Related parties: – Shareholding stated as at 31 January 2019 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 88 Financial reports Financial reports Contents Group Parent Company Consolidated profit and loss account 89 Parent Company profit and loss account 130 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 90 Parent Company balance sheet 131 Consolidated balance sheet 91 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 132 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 92 Parent Company cash flow statement 133 Consolidated cash flow statement 93 Notes to the consolidated Notes to the Parent Company financial statements financial statements Note 1 General information and accounting and valuation 94 Note P1 Accounting and valuation policies 134 policies of the Group of the Parent Company Note 2 Breakdown of income 102 Note P2 Breakdown of income 134 Note 3 Amortization of intangible assets, depreciation of 103 Note P3 Personnel expenses and number of employees 135 property, plant and equipment and other changes in value of non-current assets Note P4 Audit fees 135 Note 4 Expenses by type 103 Note P5 Net financial items 135 Note 5 Personnel expenses and number of employees 103 Note P6 Income taxes 136 Note 6 Remuneration of the Board 104 Note P7 Deferred and current income tax 136 Note 7 Items affecting comparability 104 Note P8 Shareholdings in group companies 136 Note 8 Net financial items 105 Note P9 Cash and cash equivalents 138 Note 9 Income taxes 105 Note P10 Equity 138 Note 10 Discontinued operation 106 Note 11 Audit fees 106 Note P11 Borrowings 138 Note 12 Intangible assets 107 Note P12 Derivative financial instruments 139 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 109 Note P13 Accrued expenses and deferred income 139 Note 14 Tax assets and liabilities 110 Note P14 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 139 Note 15 Non-current financial assets 111 Note P15 Related party transactions 139 Note 16 Inventories 111 Note 17 Trade and other receivables 111 Note 18 Cash and cash equivalents 112 Note 19 Assets held for sale 113 Note 20 Equity 113 Note 21 Earnings per share 114 Note 22 Borrowings 114 Proposed appropriation of earnings 140 Note 23 Derivative financial instruments 116 Auditor’s report 141 Note 24 Contingent considerations 118 Ten-year overview 144 Note 25 Pensions and other long-term employee benefits 118 Note 26 Provisions 121 Key ratios 145 Note 27 Trade and other payables 122 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures 146 Note 28 Business combinations 122 Definitions 156 Note 29 Financial risks and financial risk management 122 Note 30 Financial instruments 124 – measurement categories and fair value Note 31 Related party transactions 127 Note 32 Operating leases 127 Note 33 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 127 Note 34 Changes in accounting policies 128 Note 35 Events after the balance sheet date 129 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 89 Consolidated profit and loss account SEKm Note 2018 2017 Net sales 2, 7 6,218 5,784 Cost of goods sold 4, 7 –3,934 –3,678 Gross profit 2,284 2,106 Other income 2 4 6 Selling expenses 4, 7 –1,025 –972 General and administrative expenses 4, 7 –603 –613 Operating profit 660 527 Exchange differences on borrowings and cash and cash equivalents in foreign currencies 8 –16 –17 Other financial income 8 5 7 Other financial expenses 8 –87 –74 Net financial items –98 –84 Profit before tax 562 443 Income tax 9 –79 –206 Profit from continuing operations 483 237 Loss from discontinued operation, net of tax 10 – –334 Profit/loss for the year 483 –97 Profit/loss for the year attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company Continuing operations 483 237 Discontinued operation – –334 Total 483 –97 Earnings per share from continuing operations, SEK Basic1 21 1.69 0.83 Diluted 1 21 1.68 0.83 Earnings per share from discontinued operation, SEK Basic1 21 – –1.17 Diluted 1 21 – –1.17 Earnings per share, SEK Basic1 21 1.69 –0.34 Diluted 1 21 1.68 –0.34 Number of shares at end of period 21 288,619,299 288,619,299 Average number of shares (basic)1 21 286,492,413 286,320,464 Average number of shares (diluted)1 21 286,650,070 286,492,178 1) C loetta entered into forward contracts to repurchase own shares to fulfill its future obligation to deliver the shares to the participants of the long-term share-based incentive plan. The table in Note 23 presents the movements in the contracts since 1 January 2017. The outstanding contracts at reporting date consist of one contract for 1,991,906 shares at a share price of SEK 29.3886. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 90 Financial reports Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEKm 2018 2017 Profit/loss for the year 483 –97 Other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans –41 –36 Income tax on other comprehensive income that subsequently will not be reclassified to profit or loss for the period 9 8 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss for the period –32 –28 Currency translation differences 176 88 Currency translation differences on discontinued operation reclassified through profit and loss – –102 Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation –58 –33 Income tax on other comprehensive income that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss for the period, when specific conditions are met 12 7 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss for the period 130 –40 Total other comprehensive income 98 –68 Total comprehensive income, net of tax 581 –165 Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company 581 –165 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 91 Consolidated balance sheet SEKm Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 12 5,626 5,490 Property, plant and equipment 13 1,354 1,338 Deferred tax asset 14 16 20 Other financial assets 15 11 11 Total non-current assets 7,007 6,859 Current assets Inventories 16 765 745 Trade and other receivables 17 838 881 Current income tax assets 14 6 8 Derivative financial instruments 23 1 0 Cash and cash equivalents 18 551 759 Total current assets 2,161 2,393 TOTAL ASSETS 9,168 9,252 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 20 1,443 1,443 Other paid-in capital 20 4,124 4,124 Translation difference reserve 20 630 454 Retained earnings including profit for the year 20 –2,229 –2,203 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 3,968 3,818 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 22 2,076 1,715 Deferred tax liability 14 754 703 Derivative financial instruments 23 3 2 Other non-current liabilities 24 – 138 Provisions for pensions and other long-term employee benefits 25 419 374 Provisions 26 9 5 Total non-current liabilities 3,261 2,937 Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 22 500 999 Derivative financial instruments 23 61 71 Trade and other payables 27 1,342 1,394 Provisions 26 23 3 Current income tax liabilities 14 13 30 Total current liabilities 1,939 2,497 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,168 9,252 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 92 Financial reports Consolidated statement of changes in equity Foreign Other currency transRetained SEKm Share capital paid-in capital lation reserve earnings Total equity Balance at 1 January 2017 1,443 4,124 366 –1,734 4,199 Comprehensive income Loss for the year – – – –97 –97 Other comprehensive income – – 88 –156 –68 Total comprehensive income for 2017 – – 88 –253 –165 Transactions with owners New forward contract to repurchase own shares – – – –11 –11 Share-based payments – – – 11 11 Dividend 1 – – – –216 –216 Total transactions with owners – – – –216 –216 Balance at 31 December 2017 1,443 4,124 454 –2,203 3,818 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – 483 483 Other comprehensive income – – 176 –78 98 Total comprehensive income for 2018 – – 176 405 581 Transactions with owners Share-based payments – – – 2 2 Dividend 1 – – – –433 –433 Total transactions with owners – – – –431 –431 Balance at 31 December 2018 1,443 4,124 630 –2,229 3,968 1) The dividend paid comprised an ordinary dividend of SEK 0.75 (0.75) per share and a special dividend of SEK 0.75 (–) per share. Total equity is attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 93 Consolidated cash flow statement SEKm Note 2018 2017 Operating profit from continuing operations 660 527 Operating loss from discontinued operation – –444 Operating profit 660 83 Adjustments for non-cash items Amortization/depreciation of assets 3 230 247 Impairment of assets and remeasurements of assets held for sale 3, 19 – 409 Provisions for pensions –8 –11 Other provisions and contingent earn-out considerations 2 –84 Interest received 1 1 Interest paid –36 –36 Proceeds on derivative financial instruments –4 –8 Income tax paid –53 –69 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 792 532 Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in inventories –1 –40 Change in trade and other receivables 50 80 Change in trade and other payables –213 140 Cash flow from operating activities 628 712 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries 24, 28 – –249 Divestments of subsidiaries – 378 Investments in property, plant and equipment 13 –161 –136 Investments in intangible assets 12 –23 –21 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 0 6 Cash flow from investing activities –184 –22 Cash flow from operating and investing activities 444 690 Financing activities Proceeds from loans 22 163 325 Proceeds from commercial papers 22 999 – Transaction costs paid 22 –4 – Repayment of loans 22 –879 –347 Repayment of commercial papers 22 –500 – Dividends paid –433 –216 Other cash flow from financing activities –11 – Cash flow from financing activities –665 –238 Cash flow for the year –221 452 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 18 759 298 Cash flow for the year –221 452 Exchange difference 13 9 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 551 759 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 94 Financial reports Notes to the consolidated financial statements Divestments General information and accounting Note 1 On 5 September 2017 Cloetta Holland B.V. (a 100 per cent direct parand valuation policies of the Group ticipation entity of Cloetta AB (publ)) sold Cloetta Italia S.r.l. to Katjes International GmbH. General information See Notes 10, 19 and P8 for more information. Cloetta AB (publ), corporate identification number 556308-8144, is a Swedish-registered limited liability company domiciled in Linköping, Compliance with legislation and accounting standards Sweden. The company’s head office is in Stockholm with the address The consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance Solna Business Park, Englundavägen 7D, SE-171 06 Solna, Sweden. with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) established by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and Financial year the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee The consolidated financial statements for the financial year from 1 (IFRIC), which have been endorsed by the European Commission for January to 31 December 2018 include the accounts of the Parent Comapplication in the EU, with some supplementary requirements from Note 1 pany and its subsidiaries (collectively the “Group” and individually the the Annual Accounts Act. The applied standards and interpretations Note 2 “group companies”). are those that were in force and had been endorsed by the EU as at Note 3 The annual report and consolidated financial statements were 1 January 2018. Furthermore, the Swedish Financial Reporting Note 4 approved for publication by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2019. Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules Note 5 The profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of the Group and the for Groups, has been applied. Note 6 Parent Company will be put before the Annual General Meeting on Note 7 4 April 2019 for adoption. Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures Note 8 Note 9 On 8 December 2015 the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority Note 10 Disclosures regarding changes in group structure (FSA) (“Finansinspektionen”) announced its intention to follow the Note 11 Acquisition of E out instrument AB ESMA (European Securities and Markets Authority) guidelines on Note 12 On 13 February 2017 Cloetta Sverige AB (a 100 per cent direct particAlternative Performance Measures (APMs). These guidelines are Note 13 ipation entity of Cloetta AB (publ)) acquired 100 per cent of the shares applicable to financial statements published after 3 July 2016. In Note 14 of the dormant Swedish company E out instrument AB. accordance with these guidelines, additional information on the use of Note 15 APMs, including explanations of use and reconciliation of the APMs Note 16 Acquisition of Candyking Holding AB to the most directly reconcilable measures in the financial statements, Note 17 On 28 April 2017 E out instrument AB (a 100 per cent indirect particihas been included in these financial statements. APMs presented in Note 18 pation entity of Cloetta AB (publ)) acquired 100 per cent of the shares these financial statements should not be considered a substitute for Note 19 of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries. measures of performance in accordance with IFRS and may not be Note 20 See Note 28 for further information. comparable to similarly titled measures by other companies. Note 21 Note 22 Mergers Activities Note 23 • On 1 March 2017 Locawo B.V., Lonka Sales B.V. and Confiserie The activities of the Group mainly comprise: Note 24 Lonka Suikerwerkfabriek B.V. were merged into Cloetta Holland B.V. • Sales, marketing and production of branded candy, chocolate, pasNote 25 • On 26 April 2017 Chocoladeen suikerwerkenfabriek Donkers B.V. tilles, chewing gum and nuts, and Note 26 was merged into Cloetta Holland B.V. • Trading in candy, chocolate, pastilles, chewing gum and nuts. Note 27 • On 4 October 2017 Candyking Holding AB was merged into E out The countries of the European Union and Norway form the most Note 28 instrument AB. important markets. Note 29 • On 1 March 2018 Lilla Fiket AB was merged into Candyking Note 30 Sverige AB. Basis of presentation Note 31 • On 1 May 2018 Candyking Finland Oy and Karkkikatu Oy were Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost, with the exNote 32 Note 33 merged into Cloetta Suomi Oy. ception of certain financial assets and liabilities that are stated at fair Note 34 • On 1 May 2018 Candyking Danmark A/S was merged into Cloetta value according to the accounting policies described below. Note 35 Danmark ApS. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are rounded to the nearest • On 1 May 2018 Candyking Norge AS was merged into Cloetta million Swedish krona. Norge AS. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to use certain critical accounting estimates and Liquidations and dissolutions assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, • On 8 February 2017 FTF Sweets USA Inc. was dissolved. income and expenses. The estimates and assumptions are based on • On 16 March 2017 Traditional Sweets B.V. and Chocoladepast experience and a number of other factors that are considered reaen suikerwerkfabriek Marandi B.V. were liquidated. sonable under the given circumstances. The results of these estimates • On 11 April 2017 Cloetta GGS Holding Ltd. was dissolved. and assumptions are used to make judgements about the carrying • On 23 May 2017 Cloetta USA Inc. was dissolved. value of assets and liabilities that cannot be readily determined from Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 95 other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates and All incorporated and acquired companies are wholly owned diassumptions. The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an rectly or indirectly by Cloetta AB (publ) and are consolidated without ongoing basis. Changes in estimates are reported in the period of the non-controlling interests from the date on which control is transferred. change, if the change affects that period only. Changes in estimates are reported in the period of the change and in future periods, if the change Subsidiaries affects both. The consolidated accounts include financial information for Cloetta Note 33 provides a description of judgements made by the comAB (publ) and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities controlled pany’s management in the application of IFRS that have a significant directly or indirectly by Cloetta AB (publ). The Group controls an impact on the financial statements, and estimates that can lead to entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its material adjustments in the financial statements within the next year. involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns Unless otherwise stated below, the following accounting standards through its power over the entity. All subsidiaries are consolidated for the Group have been consistently applied in periods presented in without non-controlling interest from the date on which control is the consolidated financial statements. The accounting standards for transferred to Cloetta AB (publ). the Group have been consistently applied in reporting and consolidaThe Group applies the acquisition method to account for business tion of the Parent Company and the subsidiaries. combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities Segment reporting incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests An operating segment is an identified part of a group that engages in issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration for which discrete financial information is available. An operating arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a segment’s results are reviewed regularly by the entity’s chief operating business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the decision-maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. If the segment and assess its short and long-term financial performance. the business combination is realized in stages, the acquisition date fair Note 1 Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is Note 2 internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through the profit and Note 3 President and CEO, who is responsible for allocating resources and asloss account. Note 4 sessing the performance of the operating segments, has been identified Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is Note 5 as the chief operating decision-maker that makes strategic decisions. recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Any subsequent change Note 6 Within the Cloetta Group three regions have been identified as to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be Note 7 the Group’s operating segments. The vast majority of sales take place a liability is recognized in accordance with IAS 32 in the case of the Note 8 in the markets for “Munchy Moments”, i.e. cold snacks between main forward purchase of shares, or IFRS 9 either in the profit and loss acNote 9 meals, in Western Europe. It is the Group’s goal to realize production count or as a change to other comprehensive income only if it is an asset Note 10 efficiency through homogeneous production processes in the different which is classified as available for sale. Contingent consideration that is Note 11 production facilities throughout the Group, regardless of their location. classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is Note 12 The Group has sales mainly in the “Munchy Moments” segment, with accounted for within equity. Note 13 comparable markets and customers. The Group has an integrated Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of Note 14 distribution network and supply chain organization. The identified opthe consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling Note 15 erating segments are deemed to have similar economic characteristics. interests in the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Note 16 As a result of these consistencies between the different regions, If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the Note 17 for financial statement reporting purposes, the operating segments subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognized in the profit and loss Note 18 are aggregated into one reportable segment. For information about account. Note 19 the Group’s sales and earnings development and financial position, see Group companies are deconsolidated from the date that control Note 20 the consolidated profit and loss accounts, balance sheet and cash flow ceases. When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in Note 21 statement. the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, Note 22 Note 23 with the change in carrying amount recognized in the profit and loss Note 24 Classification account. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes Note 25 Non-current assets comprise amounts expected to be recovered or of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, Note 26 paid after more than twelve months from the balance sheet date, while joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously Note 27 current assets comprise amounts expected to be recovered or paid recognized in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are Note 28 within twelve months of the balance sheet date. Non-current liabilities accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets Note 29 comprise amounts which the Group, at the end of the reporting period, or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognized in Note 30 has an unconditional right to choose to pay later than 12 months after other comprehensive income are reclassified to the profit and loss Note 31 the end of the reporting period. If the Group has no such right at the account. Note 32 end of the reporting period, or if the liability is expected to be settled Note P8 provides an overview of all subsidiaries consolidated in Note 33 within the normal operating cycle, the liability is reported as current the consolidated financial statements of Cloetta AB (publ). Note 34 liability. Note 35 Transactions eliminated on consolidation Basis of consolidation Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on Group structure transactions between group companies are eliminated. Profits and The company was originally founded in 1862. On 16 February 2012, losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are recognized Cloetta AB (publ) acquired Leaf Holland B.V. (currently known as in assets are also eliminated. Cloetta Holland B.V.) from Yllop Holding S.A. The acquisition has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition for consolidation purposes, where Cloetta Holland B.V. is the accounting acquirer and Cloetta AB (publ) is the legal acquirer. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 96 Financial reports Foreign currency • A ll resulting exchange differences are recognized in other compreFunctional and presentation currency hensive income. Items included in the financial information of each of our entities are When a foreign operation is disposed of, unrealized exchange measured using the functional currency of that entity, which is the differences accumulated in currency translation adjustments after currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity 1 January 2006 (first-time adoption of IFRS) are recognized in profit operates. The functional currency of foreign entities is generally local or loss as part of the gain or loss on the sale. Goodwill and fair value currency. The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated kronor (SEK), which is also the presentation currency of the Parent as assets and liabilities in the functional currency of the attributable Company. foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. The consolidated financial statements are presented in SEK. The functional currency of the majority of the subsidiaries is the euro Basis of accounting (EUR). The assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at With the exception of the changes explained in Note 34, the Group has the date of the financial statements. Income and expenses are translatconsistently applied the following accounting policies to all periods ed at the average exchange rate for the year. presented in these consolidated financial statements. Set out below is an index of the significant accounting policies, the Transactions and balances details of which are available on the pages that follow: Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional curI Net sales rency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions II Cost of goods sold or the date of valuation where items are remeasured. Foreign exchange III Other income gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and IV Selling expenses from the translation at the year-end exchange rates of monetary assets V General and administrative expenses and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognized in the VI Employee remuneration profit and loss account. VII Net financial items Note 1 Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and VIII Income tax Note 2 cash and cash equivalents are presented in the profit and loss account IX Dividend distribution Note 3 within exchange differences on borrowings and cash and cash equivaX Items affecting comparability Note 4 Note 5 lents in foreign currencies. XI Intangible assets Note 6 The Group applies hedge accounting. At the inception of the transXII Property, plant and equipment Note 7 action, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruXIII Deferred tax Note 8 ments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and XIV Financial assets Note 9 strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also XV Impairment of non-current non-financial assets Note 10 documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing XVI Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Note 11 basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions XVII Inventories Note 12 are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of XVIII Current income tax Note 13 hedged items. XIX Cash and cash equivalents Note 14 A monetary item held by a subsidiary, that is a receivable from or a XX Offsetting financial instruments Note 15 payable to a foreign operation, for which settlement is neither planned XXI Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Note 16 nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, is in substance a part of XXII Equity Note 17 the entity’s net investment in that foreign operation. Foreign currency XXIII Other non-current liabilities Note 18 differences are initially recognized in other comprehensive income and XXIV Provisions Note 19 reclassified from equity to the profit and loss account on disposal of the XXV Employee benefits Note 20 net investment. On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative XXVI Borrowings Note 21 amount of the exchange differences relating to the foreign operation, XXVII Borrowing costs Note 22 XXVIII Trade payables recognized in other comprehensive income, is reclassified from equity Note 23 to the profit and loss account on the same line where the gain or loss of XXIX Operating leases Note 24 the disposal is accounted for. The balance sheet, profit and loss account and cash flow statement Note 25 Upon consolidation, exchange differences arising from the transinclude references to the notes. Note 26 lation of the borrowings and other currency instruments designated as Note 27 hedges of such investments and the net investment in foreign operaRecognition of revenue and expenses Note 28 tions are recognized in other comprehensive income. I Net sales Note 29 All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the Net sales are designated as income from the supply of goods, less Note 30 Note 31 profit and loss account within operating profit. discounts and similar, excluding sales taxes and after elimination of Note 32 intra-group sales. Net sales also include royalty income. Note 33 Financial statements of foreign operations Note 34 The profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of all group companies For the packaged business net sales are recognized as follows: Note 35 that have a functional currency other than the presentation currency • Sales of goods are recognized when a group company has delivered are translated into the presentation currency as follows: products to the customer, the risks and rewards of the ownership of • A ssets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated the products have been substantially transferred to the customer and at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; the collectability of the related receivables is reasonably assured; • Income and expenses for each profit and loss account are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable For pick & mix sales the following performance obligations have been approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the identified in the contracts with customers: transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated • Sales of goods; at the rate on the dates of the transactions; and • Leases of fixtures; • Merchandising services. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 97 For pick & mix sales net sales are recognized as follows: Termination benefits • Sales of goods are recognized when a group company has delivered A provision is recognized on the termination of employees as a result of products to the customer, the risks and rewards of the ownership of either an entity’s decision to terminate employment before the normal the products have been substantially transferred to the customer and retirement date or an employee’s decision to accept an offer of benefits the collectability of the related receivables is reasonably assured; in exchange for the termination of employment. When the criteria • L eases of fixtures and merchandising services are recognized in the for recognition of a provision for termination benefits are met, the amount to which Cloetta has a right to invoice. Since delivery of both expenses are recognized either in cost of goods sold, selling expenses goods and merchandising services normally takes place weekly, this or general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. output method best reflects that the measure of progress of the leases of fixtures and the merchandising services as performance obligaShare-based long-term incentive plans tions are satisfied at the same time as the goods are delivered. The cost of the share-based long-term incentive plans, which represent the grant date fair value of the shares expected to be vested multiplied Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as by the shares vested and any social security expenses, is recognized a reduction in net sales based on amounts estimated as being due to in personnel expenses, which are included either in cost of goods sold, customers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on selling expenses or general and administrative expenses in the profit historical utilization and redemption rates. and loss account. The costs of the share-based long-term incentive plans are recognized pro rata over the vesting period of each plan. II Cost of goods sold Cost of goods sold represents the direct and indirect expenses attributVII Net financial items able to sales revenue, including raw materials and consumables, cost of Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are work contracted out and other external expenses, personnel expenses translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate at the rein respect of production employees, depreciation costs, impairment porting date. Any resulting exchange differences are recognized in net losses and losses on disposal relating to buildings and machinery and financial items. Gains and losses related to the effective portion of the Note 1 other operating expenses that are attributable to the production of net investment hedge are recognized in other comprehensive income Note 2 products. Cost of goods sold is recognized in the profit and loss account and are not recognized in net financial items. Note 3 when incurred. Interest income and interest expenses on third-party borrowings Note 4 are recognized in the profit and loss account when incurred using the Note 5 III Other income effective interest method. Note 6 Government grants and subsidies, other than those related to investUnrealized interest on contingent considerations is recognized in Note 7 ments in property, plant and equipment, are recorded at fair value as other financial expenses at amortized costs. Interest income and exNote 8 other income in the profit and loss account in the period in which the penses on cash and cash equivalents and banking costs are recognized Note 9 related costs are recorded, income is received, or subsidized deficits are in the profit and loss account when incurred, in other financial income Note 10 recorded. Grants and subsidies are recognized as income when there and expenses at amortized cost. Note 11 is reasonable assurance that all the conditions will be satisfied and it is Realized and unrealized gains and losses on single currency Note 12 probable that these will be received. interest rate swaps are recognized in other financial income and other Note 13 Gains on disposal of assets are determined by comparing the financial expenses at fair market value. Note 14 proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount and are recognized Note 15 in other income in the profit and loss account when incurred. VIII Income tax Note 16 The income tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred Note 17 IV Selling expenses tax and is recognized in the profit and loss account. Corporate income Note 18 Selling expenses comprise the cost of brand support through direct tax is calculated on profit before tax in the profit and loss account, Note 19 taking into account non-deductible expenses, non-taxable profits and Note 20 and indirect advertising, promotional activities, the cost of supporting Note 21 sales and marketing efforts and amortization and impairment losses of losses and/or temporary differences arising from applicable local tax Note 22 related intangible assets. The company promotes its products through laws and other factors that affect the tax rate, e.g. changes in valuation Note 23 advertising, consumer incentives and trade promotions. Selling exallowances, adjustments in tax positions and changes in tax law, such Note 24 penses are recognized in the profit and loss account when incurred. as changes in enacted or substantively enacted tax rates. Note 25 The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax Note 26 V General and administrative expenses laws enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in the Note 27 General and administrative expenses include the costs of general countries where the company’s subsidiaries and associates operate and Note 28 management, human resources, finance and administration, informagenerate taxable profits. Note 29 tion technology, and other back office services as well as amortization Note 30 of related intangible assets. General and administrative expenses are IX Dividend distribution Note 31 recognized in the profit and loss account when incurred. Dividends paid to the company’s shareholders are recognized as a Note 32 liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which Note 33 VI Employee remuneration the dividends are resolved on by the company’s shareholders. Dividend Note 34 Regular payments payments are recognized in equity as part of retained earnings. Note 35 Salaries, wages and social security costs are charged to the personnel expenses, which are included either in cost of goods sold, selling X Items affecting comparability expenses or general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss Items affecting comparability are those significant items that are account over the period when the related services are rendered, and in separately disclosed in the notes to the financial statements by virtue accordance with employment contracts and obligations. of their size or incidence, in order to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. Items affecting comparability are recognized in the profit and loss account. Their classification in the profit and loss account depends on the nature of the items affecting comparability. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 98 Financial reports Principles of valuation of assets and liabilities Right of free electricity General The indefinite right of free electricity acquired is capitalized at acquiIf not specifically otherwise stated, assets and liabilities are initially sition cost. In view of the indefinite nature of the right, the right is not recognized at the amounts at which they were acquired or incurred. amortized, but is subject to impairment testing at least annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. XI Intangible assets Trademarks Research and development expenses Acquired trademarks are measured at historical cost. In view of the Expenses for research are recognized in the cost of goods sold, selling history of Cloetta’s trademark portfolio, combined with Cloetta’s expenses and general and administrative expenses in the profit and commitment to continue supporting these trademarks with advertisloss account as incurred, depending on the nature of the asset. Exing and promotion resources and continuous product development, the penses incurred on development projects are recognized as intangible useful lives of Cloetta’s trademarks are considered to be indefinite in assets when it is probable that a project will generate economic benefits nature. Trademarks with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but in the future, in view of its commercial and technological feasibility, are subject to impairment testing at least annually or whenever events and the costs can be reliably measured. Otherwise the expenses on or circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. development projects are recognized in the cost of goods sold, selling expenses or general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss Goodwill account as incurred, depending on the nature of the asset. Subsequent Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the to initial recognition, development expenditure is measured at cost excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in the less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment net fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities assumed by losses. The capitalized development expenditure is amortized over its the acquiree, and the fair value of any non-controlling interest in the expected useful life on a straight-line basis, with the useful lives reacquiree. viewed annually. Development expenses previously recognized in the For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a profit and loss account are not recognized as an asset in a subsequent Note 1 business combination is allocated to each of the cash generating units period. Capitalized development expenses are subject to impairment Note 2 (CGUs), or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the testing at least annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate Note 3 synergies of the combination. Each CGU or group of CGUs to which a risk of impairment. Note 4 the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group Note 5 at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Other intangible assets Note 6 A CGU is the lowest level to which an asset that generates cash flows Other intangible assets are capitalized at historical cost and amortized Note 7 independently from other assets can be allocated. A group of CGUs is based on their useful lives, with the useful lives reviewed annually. Note 8 Note 9 not larger than an operating segment. Expenses previously recognized in the profit and loss account are not Note 10 Goodwill impairment tests are undertaken annually or more recognized as an asset in a subsequent period. Other intangible assets Note 11 frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potenare subject to impairment testing at least annually, or whenever events Note 12 tial impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the or circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. Note 13 recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value For determining whether an impairment charge in respect of any Note 14 less cost of disposal. Any impairment is recognized immediately as an intangible asset applies, see Note 12. Note 15 expense and is not subsequently reversed. Note 16 XII Property, plant and equipment Note 17 Software Items of property, plant and equipment are valued at historical cost Note 18 Where computer software is not an integral part or a related item of less depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes direct Note 19 computer hardware and not integral to the operation of an item of costs (materials, direct labour and work contracted out) and directly Note 20 property, plant and equipment, the software is treated as a separate attributable overhead costs including interest expenses. Depreciation Note 21 intangible asset. is accounted for using the straight-line method on the basis of the Note 22 Acquired software licenses are capitalized at historical cost and estimated economic useful life. Government grants are deducted from Note 23 amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of the historical cost or the construction costs of the assets to which they Note 24 3 to 5 years. relate. Note 25 Capitalized costs for internally generated software include The estimated economic useful lives of property, plant and equipNote 26 external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing ment is specified as follows: Note 27 or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs for emNote 28 ployees who are directly associated with, and who devote substantial Land Indefinite Note 29 Buildings 20 50 years time to, the project. Capitalization of these costs ceases no later than Note 30 Machinery and equipment 3 55 years the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for PP&E under construction n/a Note 31 its intended purpose. These costs are amortized over their expected Note 32 useful lives on a straight-line basis, with the useful lives reviewed anThe residual values and useful lives of the assets are reviewed, and Note 33 nually. Other software related costs that do not meet the above criteria adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. Note 34 for capitalization are recognized either in cost of goods sold, selling An asset’s carrying amount is immediately written down to its Note 35 expenses or the general and administrative expenses in the profit recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its and loss account when incurred. Development expenses previously estimated recoverable amount. recognized in the profit and loss account are not recognized as an asset Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing the in a subsequent period. proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount and are recognized Software under construction is not amortized until the software is in the profit and loss account. The classification in the profit and loss substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Software under account depends on the nature of the gains or losses on disposal. construction is subject to impairment testing at least annually or Subsequent expenditure is included in the carrying amount of an whenever events or circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. asset or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is Amortization of software is recognized in cost of goods sold and probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be reliably measured. All Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 99 other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the profit and loss financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus, for an item not account when incurred. The classification in the profit and loss account at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL), transaction costs that depends on the nature of the property, plant and equipment. are directly attributable to its acquisition or issue. A trade receivable Subsidies and grants related to investments in property, plant and without a significant financing component is initially measured at the equipment are deducted from the related asset and are reflected in the transaction price. profit and loss account as part of the depreciation charge. The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is recognized in rights to the cash flows from the asset are realized, expire, or the cost of goods sold, selling expenses and general and administrative company has relinquished the right to receive the contractual cash expenses in the profit and loss account depending on the nature of the flows in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards asset. of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in such transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is XIII Deferred tax recognized as a separate asset or liability. The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognized in the profit and loss account, except to the extent Financial assets – Policy applicable from 1 January 2018 that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized in other comeither amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income prehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. (FVOCI) – debt investment, FVOCI – equity investment or FVTDeferred income tax is recognized on temporary differences arisPL. Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial ing between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying recognition unless the Group changes its business model for managing amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred financial assets, in which case all affected financial assets are reclassitax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognified on the first day of the first reporting period following the change in tion of goodwill. Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises the business model. from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of Note 1 than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects the following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: Note 2 neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is • it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to Note 3 determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or subcollect contractual cash flows; and Note 4 stantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply • its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that Note 5 when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount Note 6 income tax liability is settled. outstanding. Note 7 Deferred income tax assets are recognized for unused tax losses, Note 8 unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences, only to the The Group’s recognised financial assets, that are not derivatives, Note 9 extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available consist mainly of trade receivables and cash & cash equivalents, and Note 10 against which they can be used. to a minor extent of other receivables and accrued income. All these Note 11 Deferred income tax assets are recognized on deductible temponon-derivative financial assets meet the above criteria and are recogNote 12 rary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates nised at amortised cost. Note 13 and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the tempoThe Group does not presently own any financial assets recognised Note 14 rary difference will reverse in the future, and there is sufficient taxable at FVOCI – neither debt or equity investments. All financial assets not Note 15 profit available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. classified as measured at amortised cost or FVOCI as described above Note 16 Deferred income tax liabilities arise on taxable temporary differare measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets, Note 17 ences arising from investments in subsidiaries, with the exception of see Note 23. Note 18 deferred income tax liabilities where the timing of the reversal of the Note 19 temporary difference is controlled by the Group, and it is probable that Financial assets – Subsequent measurement and Note 20 the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. gains and losses: Policy applicable from 1 January 2018 Note 21 For the unrecognized deductible temporary differences, unused – F inancial assets at These assets are subsequently measured at fair Note 22 FVTPL value. Net gains and losses, including any interest tax credits and tax losses carried forward, it is not yet probable that Note 23 or dividend income, are recognized in profit or loss. these may be utilized against future taxable profits or set off against Note 24 However, see Note 23 for derivatives designated as other tax liabilities within the same tax group or tax jurisdiction. hedging instruments. Note 25 Note 26 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is – F inancial assets at These assets are subsequently measured at amorNote 27 a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current amortized costs tized cost using the effective interest method. The amortized cost is reduced by impairment losses. Note 28 tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses Note 29 relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Any Note 30 the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an gain or loss on derecognition is recognized in profit Note 31 intention to settle the balances on a net basis. or loss. Note 32 The positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations where Note 33 the applicable tax rules are subject to interpretation are periodically Impairment of financial assets – Note 34 evaluated. Provisions are established where appropriate on the basis of Policy applicable from 1 January 2018 Note 35 amounts expected to be paid to the respective tax authorities. Trade and other receivables are initially recognized at fair value Deferred taxes are not discounted. and are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less provisions for impairment. Loss allowances for XIV Financial assets trade receivables are always measured at an amount equal to lifetime Recognition and initial measurement expected credit losses (ECLs). Lifetime ECLs are the ECLs that result Trade receivables and debt securities issued are initially recognised from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial when they are originated. All other financial assets and financial instrument. Apart from trade and other receivables, the only financial liabilities are initially recognised when the Group becomes a party to assets to which the impairment principles apply are cash & cash equivthe contractual provisions of the instrument. A financial asset (unless alents. These amounts are invested in banks with high credit ratings it is a trade receivable without a significant financing component) or and ECLs are deemed to be negligible. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 100 Financial reports Financial assets – Policy applicable before 1 January 2018 Net investment hedge The Group initially recognizes loans and receivables on the date when Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective they arise. All other financial assets, including assets designated as at portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss account, are recognized initially on accumulated in the translation reserve. The gain or loss relating to the the trade date, which is the date on which the Group becomes a party to ineffective portion is recognized in the profit and loss account within the contractual provisions of the instrument. exchange differences on borrowings and cash and cash equivalents in Loans, receivables and deposits are non-derivative financial assets foreign currencies. When the hedged net investment is disposed of, the with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to the profit market. They are included in current assets, except for those with and loss account as part of the gain or loss on disposal and recognized maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which in the profit and loss account on the same line where the gain or loss of are classified as non-current assets. Loans and receivables are carried the disposal is accounted for. The Group has met the requirement for at amortized cost using the effective interest method. applying net investment hedge accounting. At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is The fair values of various derivative financial instruments are objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is disclosed in Note 23. Movements in the hedging reserve in other comimpaired. prehensive income are shown in the statement of other comprehensive Trade and other receivables are initially recognized at fair value income. The fair value of a derivative is classified as a non-current asset and are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effecor liability for the part which exceeds 12 months, and as a current asset tive interest method less provisions for impairment. A provision for or liability for the part that will expire within 12 months. impairment of trade and other receivables is established when there is The fair value adjustment on interest rate swaps is recognized in objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts unrealized gains or losses on single currency interest rate swaps in net due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial items in the profit and loss account. The fair value adjustfinancial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter ment on the forward foreign currency contracts is recognized in the bankruptcy or financial reorganization, and default or delinquency in profit and loss account. The classification in the profit and loss account Note 1 payments (more than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that depends on the nature of the hedged item. Note 2 the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the The contractual payments on single currency interest rate swaps Note 3 Note 4 difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value are recognized in the realized gains or losses on single currency interNote 5 of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective est rate swaps in the net financial items in the profit and loss account. Note 6 interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the Note 7 use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognized The forward contracts to repurchase own shares are settled via shares Note 8 in the profit and loss account within net sales. for cash. Interest on the forward contracts to repurchase own shares is Note 9 Receivables subject to receivable purchase agreements are accrued over the contract period and settled in cash on the settlement Note 10 derecognized at the moment of receipt of the receivable. The supplier date. Note 11 discount fee related to the earlier receipt of receivables subject to Note 12 receivable purchase agreements is recognized as other financial exXVII Inventories Note 13 penses in the profit and loss account. Raw materials are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Note 14 Cost is determined using the FIFO method. Note 15 XV Impairment of non-current non-financial assets Inventories of semi-finished and finished products are stated Note 16 Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortization at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Costs represent the cash Note 17 but are tested annually for impairment. On the balance sheet date, the equivalent of the expenditure necessarily incurred to bring the goods Note 18 Group also assesses whether there are indications of impairment of acquired to the condition and location for their intended use. Costs in Note 19 assets that are subject to amortization or depreciation. If such indicarespect of work in progress and finished goods include the applicable Note 20 tions exist, an impairment test is performed. For the purpose of testing materials and labour costs, other direct costs, a representative share Note 21 impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are of the fixed manufacturing overhead costs based on normal operating Note 22 separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). An asset is capacity, and variable manufacturing overhead costs based on actual Note 23 subject to impairment if its carrying value is higher than its recoverable production during the period. Note 24 value, where the recoverable value is the higher of an asset’s fair value Net realizable value represents the estimated selling price in the Note 25 less cost of disposal and its value in use. Impairment costs are recogordinary course of business less directly attributable, applicable variaNote 26 nized immediately in the profit and loss account. The classification in ble selling expenses and less costs of completion of inventory. Note 27 the profit and loss account depends on the nature of the impaired asset. The write-downs, additions and releases related to the provision Note 28 Non-financial assets other than goodwill that are subject to an for obsolete inventory are recognized in cost of goods sold in the profit Note 29 impairment loss are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment and loss account. Note 30 Note 31 at each reporting date. If it is established that a previously recognized Note 32 impairment no longer applies or has decreased, the increased carrying XVIII Current income tax Note 33 amount of the asset in question is not set higher than what the carrying The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax Note 34 amount would have been if the impairment had not been recognized. laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the Note 35 countries where the company and its subsidiaries operate and generate XVI Derivative financial instruments taxable income. and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivative XIX Cash and cash equivalents contract is entered into, and they are subsequently remeasured at Cash and cash equivalents represent cash in hand and cash at banks. their fair value. The method of recognizing gains or losses depends on Current account overdrafts at banks are included under borrowings whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, under the heading current liabilities. the nature of the item being hedged. The forward contracts to repurchase own shares, interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts are not designated as hedging instruments. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 101 XX Offsetting financial instruments reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and The Group has a Multicurrency Functionality with Credit Facility for the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to Global Cash Pool (Global Cash Pool agreement) with Nordea Bank passage of time is recognized as other financial expenses, third parties AB (publ), a Notional Group Account with Svenska Handelsbanken in the profit and loss account. AB (publ) and a multicurrency zero-balancing cash pool with Danske If the expenditure to settle an obligation is expected to be reBank A/S. If the following criteria are met, the cash and cash equivacovered from a third party, the recovery is carried as an asset in the lents of participating group companies and the current account overbalance sheet if it is virtually certain to be received upon settlement of drafts at Nordea Bank AB (publ), Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) the obligation. and Danske Bank A/S are offset and presented in the balance sheet as a net amount: XXV Employee benefits • T here is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts; Pension obligations and The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined ben• T here is an intention to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and efit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation settle the liability simultaneously. at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuXXI Assets held for sale and discontinued operations aries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the An asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale if its carrying defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, rather future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate than through continuing use. Assets are classified as held for sale when bonds for all countries in the Eurozone. For the Swedish plans, the they are available for immediate sale, in their present condition, subdiscount rate is based on mortgage bonds. For the Norwegian pension ject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets, plans, the market yield of covered bonds is used. The rates of these and the sale is considered highly probable. Assets held for sale are no bonds are used as equivalent to high-quality corporate bond rates in longer amortized or depreciated from the time they are classified as countries where there is no deep market in such bonds. Note 1 such. Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans also include Note 2 carrying amount or fair value less cost of disposal. the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset Note 3 Operations that represent a separate major line of business or ceiling, if any, excluding interest. Remeasurements are recognized in Note 4 geographical area of operations, or are a subsidiary acquired exclusiveother comprehensive income when incurred. All other expenses relatNote 5 ly with a view to resale and have either been disposed of or classified as ed to defined benefit plans are recognized in the profit and loss account Note 6 held for sale, are presented as discontinued operations in the profit and when incurred, either in cost of goods sold, selling expenses or general Note 7 loss account. and administrative expenses. Note 8 The interest on defined benefit obligations is recognized in net Note 9 XXII Equity financial items in the profit and loss account when incurred. Note 10 Ordinary shares are classified as share capital. Incremental costs diThe defined benefit schemes in industry sector pension funds, Note 11 rectly attributable to the purchase, sale and/or issue of new shares are which are held by pension funds that are not able to provide compaNote 12 shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. ny-specific or reliable information, are accounted for as though they Note 13 are defined contribution schemes. In the event of a deficit in these Note 14 XXIII Other non-current liabilities pension funds, the company has no obligation to provide supplementaNote 15 Contingent considerations ry contributions, other than higher future contributions. Note 16 The fair value of the contingent considerations is calculated using the The contributions are recognized as personnel costs, which are Note 17 income approach and is linked to the performance of the acquired included either in cost of goods sold, selling expenses or general and Note 18 companies. As part of accounting for business combinations, continadministrative expenses in the profit and loss account. Prepaid contriNote 19 gent considerations are initially recognized. Contingent considerations butions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a Note 20 are discounted using the effective interest method. If the fair value reduction in the future payments is available to the Group. Note 21 Note 22 of contingent considerations deviates from the carrying amount, the Note 23 difference is recognized in general and administrative expenses in the Termination benefits Note 24 profit and loss account. Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated Note 25 If the contingent consideration will be settled within 12 months before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts Note 26 from the balance sheet date, the contingent consideration is presented voluntary redundancy in exchange for special compensation. A Note 27 as part of trade and other payables. provision is recognized on the termination of employees as a result of Note 28 either an entity’s decision to terminate employment before the normal Note 29 XXIV Provisions retirement date or an employee’s decision to accept an offer of benefits Note 30 Provisions are recognized for legally enforceable or constructive in exchange for the termination of employment. The expenses related Note 31 obligations existing on the balance sheet date, when it is probable that to this provision are recognized in personnel expenses, which are Note 32 an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the included either in cost of goods sold, selling expenses or general and Note 33 amount has been reliably estimated. administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. Note 34 Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood Note 35 that an outflow will be required for settlement is determined by considShare-based payments ering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even Share-based long-term incentive plans if the likelihood of an outflow, with respect to any item included in the The incentive plans qualify as equity-settled share-based payments. same class of obligations, is small. The expenses for the plans will amount to the grant date fair value per The initial recognition, subsequent additions and releases to a proshare right times the number of share rights vested, including any acvision are recognized in the profit and loss account. The classification celerated vesting. The expenses are recognized as personnel expenses, in the profit and loss account depends on the nature of the provision. which are included either in cost of goods sold, selling expenses and Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditure general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that The total expense depends on the number of share rights vested, but Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 102 Financial reports any changes in the price of the Cloetta share after the grant date do not XXIX Operating leases impact the total expense. In some jurisdictions, social security expensLease contracts for which a significant part of the risks and rewards es have to be paid. The total expense for social security contributions incidental to ownership of the assets does not lie with the Group are will be based on the vesting date fair value of the Cloetta share and is recognized as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases accrued on the balance sheet until vesting of the shares. Social security are recognized in the cost of goods sold, selling expenses and in the expenses recognized in the profit and loss account will therefore vary general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account on with changes in the share price. a straight-line basis over the term of the contract, taking into account reimbursements received from the lessor. Forward contracts to repurchase own shares At inception of the forward contract to repurchase own shares, the agreed consideration to be paid at the termination date, net of any tax effects, is recognized as a deduction from equity and as a financial Note 2 Breakdown of income liability. The interest costs directly attributable to the forward contract are recognized in the net financial expenses in the profit and loss See Notes 1 (I) and (III) for the accounting policy. account when incurred. At the termination date, the agreed considerSee Note 34 for a description of the effect of initially applying IFRS 15 ation will be paid and the financial liability will be derecognized as its on the revenue from contracts with customers. contractual obligation is discharged and cancelled. Disaggregation of revenue from contracts XXVI Borrowings with customers Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, being the amount Cloetta generates revenues from the transfer of goods and services at a received taking into account any premium or discount, and less transpoint in time and over time in the following major sales categories and action costs. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost. performance obligations. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the Note 1 redemption value is recognized in the profit and loss account over the SEKm 2018 2017 Note 2 period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Note 3 Net sales Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group Branded packaged business 4,499 4,256 Note 4 Note 5 has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least Pick & mix 1,719 1,528 Note 6 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are classified Total 6,218 5,784 Note 7 as non-current liabilities. Note 8 A financial liability is derecognized when its contractual obligaThe breakdown of net sales by categories is as follows: Note 9 tions are discharged, cancelled or expired. Note 10 Transaction costs paid on the establishment of credit facilities are Total income Of which pick & mix Note 11 recognized to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facilSEKm 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note 12 ity will be utilized. In such case, the transaction costs are recognized Net sales Note 13 when the utilization occurs. If it is probable that some or all of the Sales of goods Note 14 facility will be utilized, the transaction costs are reported as deferred Candy 3,623 3,339 1,277 1,135 Note 15 expense and netted against current borrowings and amortized over the Chocolate 1,098 1,010 361 301 Note 16 contract period the facility relates to, using the effective interest rate Pastilles 748 706 – – Note 17 method. Chewing gum 403 385 – – Note 18 Nuts 231 244 81 92 Note 19 XXVII Borrowing costs Other 115 100 – – Note 20 General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquiNote 21 Total 6,218 5,784 1,719 1,528 sition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets Note 22 that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their Note 23 Other income intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such Note 24 Other 4 6 – – time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Note 25 All other borrowing costs are recognized in other financial expenses in Total 6,222 5,790 1,719 1,528 Note 26 the profit and loss account in the period in which they are incurred. Note 27 The breakdown of net sales by country is as follows: Note 28 XXVIII Trade payables % 2018 2017 Note 29 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have Note 30 Sweden 31 34 been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Note 31 Finland 21 21 Note 32 Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due The Netherlands 14 14 Note 33 within one year or less. If payment is expected to be settled later than Denmark 9 7 Note 34 12 months after the balance sheet date, the payable is presented as UK 7 5 Note 35 non-current liabilities. Norway 6 6 Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and are Germany 5 5 subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest Other countries 7 8 method. Total 100 100 No individual customer accounts for more than 10 per cent of Cloetta’s total net sales. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 103 Amortization of intangible assets, depreciation Note 5 Personnel expenses and number of employees Note 3 of property, plant and equipment and other changes in value of non-current assets See Note 1 (VI) for the accounting policy. See Notes 1 (II), (IV), (V), (XI), (XII) and (XV) for the accounting policy. Personnel expenses are specified as follows: SEKm 2018 2017 SEKm 2018 2017 Salaries and remuneration Group Management Team Software 34 33 – Sweden 26 25 Other intangibles 12 11 – Other 23 11 Land and buildings 16 16 Of which, short-term variable compensation Machinery and equipment 168 169 – Sweden 5 – Total amortization/depreciation 230 229 – Other 4 – Amortization/depreciation has been allocated by function as follows: Pension costs Group Management Team Cost of goods sold 136 137 – Defined contribution plans 8 7 Selling expenses 12 11 Total salaries, remuneration and pension costs 57 43 General and administrative expenses 82 81 Group Management Team Total amortization/depreciation 230 229 Salaries and remuneration, other employees Impairment – Sweden 273 245 Intangible assets – 9 – Other 609 529 Total impairment – 9 Note 1 Pension costs, other employees Note 2 Note 3 The impairment losses on intangible assets in 2017 have been charged – Defined contribution plans 67 62 Note 4 to general and administrative expenses. – Defined benefit plans 8 8 Note 5 Total salaries, remuneration and 957 844 Note 6 pension costs other employees Note 7 Note 8 Note 4 Expenses by type Total salaries, remuneration and pension costs, all employees 1,014 887 Note 9 Social security expenses, all employees 230 199 Note 10 SEKm 2018 2017 Other personnel costs, all employees 87 66 Note 11 Note 12 Raw materials and consumables used including Total personnel expenses 1,331 1,152 Note 13 change in inventory of finished goods and work in progress 2,680 2,575 Note 14 Personnel expenses (See Note 5) 1,331 1,152 The average number of employees is as follows: Note 15 Depreciation, amortization Note 16 and impairment charges (See Note 3) 230 238 2018 2017 Note 17 Transportation expenses 200 179 Average number of employees Note 18 Operating lease payments 88 88 – Group Management Team 12 10 Note 19 Advertising, promotion, selling and marketing 397 347 – Other employees 2,446 2,457 Note 20 Energy expenses 110 90 Of whom, women Note 21 Maintenance expenses 113 105 – Group Management Team 2 2 Note 22 Other operating expenses 413 489 – Other employees 1,317 1,317 Note 23 Total operating expenses 5,562 5,263 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 The costs recognized relating to research and development amount to Note 27 SEK 22m (37). Note 28 Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 Note 33 Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 104 Financial reports Note 6 Remuneration of the Board The average number of employees by country is as follows: 2018 2017 Paid fees 2018 Board Committee (SEK 000s) fees fees Total Average number of employees: Sweden 614 610 Board Chairman Slovakia 736 744 Lilian Fossum Biner 620 100 720 The Netherlands 423 415 Finland 193 168 Board members UK 127 128 Mikael Aru 285 67 352 Belgium 119 124 Lottie Knutson 285 100 385 Denmark 92 104 Alan McLean Raleigh1 190 – 190 Ireland 76 83 Mikael Norman 285 133 418 Norway 59 67 Adriaan Nühn 2 95 – 95 Germany 9 8 Camilla Svenfelt 285 100 385 Italy 7 10 Mikael Svenfelt 285 133 418 Other 3 6 Total 2,330 633 2,963 Total 2,458 2,467 Of whom, women: Sweden 323 315 Paid fees 2017 Board Committee Slovakia 489 502 (SEK 000s) fees fees Total The Netherlands 133 129 Note 1 Board Chairman Finland 154 132 Note 2 Lilian Fossum Biner 620 84 704 UK 85 86 Note 3 Belgium 23 24 Note 4 Board members Denmark 45 52 Note 5 Mikael Aru 3 190 – 190 Ireland 28 34 Note 6 Lottie Knutson 285 67 352 Norway 28 31 Note 7 Mikael Norman 285 100 385 Germany 4 3 Note 8 Adriaan Nühn 285 117 402 Italy 4 6 Note 9 Hans Porat4 95 67 162 Other 3 5 Note 10 Camilla Svenfelt 285 67 352 Total 1,319 1,319 Mikael Svenfelt 285 84 369 Note 11 Note 12 Total 2,330 586 2,916 Note 13 Note 14 The specification of the gender distribution is as follows: 1) Elected as per 16 April 2018. Note 15 2) Resigned on 16 April 2018. % 2018 2017 3) Elected as per 4 April 2017. Note 16 Percentage of women 4) Resigned on 4 April 2017. Note 17 Board of Directors 43 43 Note 18 Group Management Team 13 20 Note 19 Other employees 54 54 Note 20 Note 21 Note 7 Items affecting comparability Note 22 See pages 80–81 for further details on remuneration of the Group Note 23 Management Team. See Note 1 (X) for the accounting policy. Note 24 Note 25 SEKm 2018 2017 Note 26 Acquisitions, integration and factory restructurings –38 –55 Note 27 of which: impairment losses other non-current Note 28 assets – –9 Note 29 Remeasurements of contingent considerations 21 –2 Note 30 Other items affecting comparability 0 –20 Note 31 Total –17 –77 Note 32 Note 33 Corresponding line in the consolidated Note 34 profit and loss account: Note 35 Net sales 0 – Cost of goods sold 3 –39 Other income 4 4 Selling expenses –1 –6 General and administrative expenses –23 –36 Total –17 –77 See Note 12 for further details on the impairment loss in 2017. See page 146–147 for alternative performance measures. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 105 Note 8 Net financial items Note 9 Income taxes See Note 1 (VII) and (XVI) for the accounting policy. See Note 1 (VIII) for the accounting policy. SEKm 2018 2017 SEKm 2018 2017 Exchange differences in borrowings and cash and cash equivalents in foreign currencies –16 –17 Current income tax 33 70 Deferred income tax 46 136 Other financial income, third parties 5 3 Total 79 206 Other financial income at amortized cost 5 3 The year’s income tax expense corresponds to an effective tax rate of, % 14.1 46.5 Unrealized gains on single currency interest rate swaps – 4 Other financial income at fair market value – 4 The difference between the effective tax rate and the applicable tax rate in Sweden is attributable to the following items: Total other financial income 5 7 SEKm 2018 2017 Interest expenses, third-party borrowings –27 –26 Profit before tax 562 443 Interest expenses, third-party pensions –10 –11 Interest expenses, contingent earn-out liabilities –25 –15 Tax calculated at applicable tax rate for the Parent Company –124 –97 Amortization of capitalized transaction costs –8 –4 International rate differences –1 2 Other financial expenses, third parties –11 –11 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes –14 –15 Other financial expenses at amortized cost –81 –67 Adjustments recognized in the period for tax of Note 1 prior periods 9 –1 Note 2 Unrealized losses on single currency Effect of (substantially) enacted tax rate changes 57 0 Note 3 interest rate swaps –2 – Note 4 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax Realized losses on single currency asset is recognized in the current year – –8 Note 5 interest rate swaps –4 –7 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax Note 6 Other financial expenses at fair market value –6 –7 asset was recognized in previous years –12 0 Note 7 Other 6 –87 Note 8 Total other financial expenses –87 –74 Income tax –79 –206 Note 9 Net financial items –98 –84 Note 10 Reported effective tax rate, % 14.1 46.5 Note 11 Tax rate of Parent Company, % 22.0 22.0 Note 12 Note 13 The applicable tax rate for the Parent Company is based on the enacted Note 14 tax rate, which is the Swedish corporate income tax rate. Note 15 The reported effective tax rate is based on the relative proportion Note 16 of the group companies’ contribution to profit before tax and the appliNote 17 cable tax regulations in the countries concerned. Note 18 Note 19 Note 20 Note 21 Note 22 Note 23 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 Note 27 Note 28 Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 Note 33 Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 106 Financial reports The following assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale in Note 10 Discontinued operation relation to the discontinued operation at 5 September 2017: SEKm 5 Sep 2017 See Notes 1 (XXI) for the accounting policy. Intangible assets 99 Property, plant and equipment 165 On 5 September 2017 Cloetta Holland B.V. sold 100 per cent of the Deferred tax asset 7 shares in Cloetta Italia S.r.l. to Katjes International GmbH. Other financial assets 1 Cloetta Italia S.r.l. is accounted for as discontinued operation. Inventories 176 Cloetta has recognized an impairment loss of SEK 159m on intangible Other current assets 197 assets and an impairment loss of SEK 238m on property, plant and Cash and cash equivalents 18 equipment as a result of a write-down of the carrying value of the assets Total assets disposed 663 subject to the disposal to their lower fair value less cost of disposal in 2017. The impairment loss is recognized in loss from discontinued operation, net of tax. The disposal was completed via a transfer of Borrowings 64 Deferred tax liability 11 the shares of Cloetta Italia S.r.l. Assets and liabilities that have been Provisions for pensions and other long-term employee retained in the Cloetta Group were transferred within the group before benefits 61 the transfer of the shares took place. Provisions 3 Other current liabilities 194 SEKm 2018 20171 Total liabilities disposed 333 Net sales – 316 Cost of goods sold Carrying amount of net assets held for sale 330 Impairment loss – –238 Note 1 Other cost of goods sold – –181 Note 2 Total cost of goods sold – –419 Disposal consideration received 330 Note 3 Gross profit – –103 Minus: Carrying amount of net assets disposed –330 Note 4 Note 5 Result on disposal, before income tax – Note 6 Selling expenses – –102 Income tax on result on disposal – Note 7 General and administrative expenses Result on disposal, net of tax – Note 8 Impairment loss – –159 Note 8 Other general and administrative expenses – –80 Note 10 Total general and administrative expenses – –239 Note 11 Operating loss – –444 Note 12 Note 11 Audit fees Note 13 Other financial income – 0 Note 14 Other financial expenses – –1 SEKm 2018 2017 Note 15 Net financial items – –1 Note 16 Fee for auditing services 5 7 Note 17 Loss before tax and reclassification of curNote 18 rency translation differences on discontinued Fee for other services Note 19 operation – –445 KPMG Note 20 Income tax – 9 – Tax advice 0 0 Note 21 – Audit-related advice 0 1 Loss from discontinued operation before Note 22 reclassification of currency translation differ– Other 1 0 ence on discontinued operation, net of tax – –436 Total other services 1 1 Note 23 Note 24 Total audit fees 6 8 Currency translation differences on discontinued Note 25 operation reclassified from other comprehensive Note 26 income – 102 Auditing services refer to the audit of the consolidated financial Note 27 Loss from discontinued operation, net of tax – –334 statements, the Parent Company’s statutory financial statements, the Note 28 statutory financial statements of its subsidiaries, the accounts and the Note 29 1) Loss from discontinued operation comprises the period from 1 January 2017 company’s administration by the Board of Directors and the President Note 30 until the disposal date of 5 September 2017. and CEO. Note 31 KPMG was elected as the auditor of the Group for both financial Note 32 The following table presents the cash flow from discontinued operation, years 2017 and 2018. Note 33 being part of the consolidated cash flow statement on page 93: Note 34 SEKm 2018 2017 Note 35 Cash flow from operating activities – –40 Cash flow from investing activities – 361 Cash flow from financing activities – – Cash flow from discontinued operation – 321 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 107 Note 12 Intangible assets See Notes 1 (XI) and (XV) for the accounting policy. SEKm Other Historical cost Trademarks Goodwill Software intangibles Total 1 January 2017 Acquisition or production costs 3,682 2,402 281 76 6,441 Accumulated amortization and impairments –505 –354 –195 –33 –1,087 Book value at 1 January 2017 3,177 2,048 86 43 5,354 Movements in 2017 Additions – – 20 1 21 Disposals – – –2 0 –2 Amortization continuing operations – – –33 –11 –44 Amortization discontinued operation – – –1 – –1 Impairments continuing operations –8 – – –1 –9 Impairments discontinued operation –159 – – – –159 Acquisitions through business combinations 90 172 1 86 349 Divestments through discontinued operation –94 – –3 –3 –100 Exchange differences 39 41 2 –1 81 Total –132 213 –16 71 136 Note 1 31 December 2017 Note 2 Acquisition or production costs 3,098 2,484 276 184 6,042 Note 3 Accumulated amortization and impairments –53 –223 –206 –70 –552 Note 4 Book value at 31 December 2017 3,045 2,261 70 114 5,490 Note 5 Note 6 Movements in 2018 Note 7 Additions – – 23 – 23 Note 8 Amortization – – –34 –12 –46 Note 9 Acquisitions through business combinations – 6 – – 6 Note 10 Exchange differences 62 86 4 1 153 Note 11 Total 62 92 –7 –11 136 Note 12 Note 13 31 December 2018 Note 14 Acquisition or production costs 3,160 2,586 291 158 6,195 Note 15 Accumulated amortization and impairments –53 –233 –228 –55 –569 Note 16 Book value at 31 December 2018 3,107 2,353 63 103 5,626 Note 17 Note 18 5 years Note 19 Estimated economic useful life Indefinite Indefinite 3–5 years indefinite Note 20 Note 21 Note 22 The carrying amount of software includes an amount of SEK 10m (4) The most important assumptions in the calculations are the Note 23 for software under construction. terminal growth rate and the pre-tax discount rate. EBITDA is a key Note 24 The other intangibles consist mainly of capitalized customer lists assumption when establishing the financial budgets. These assumpNote 25 and benefits related to the right to free electricity. tions reflect, and do not differ from, prior experience and external Note 26 information sources. EBITDA is determined in the annual budget Note 27 Impairment testing of goodwill and trademarks process. The terminal growth rate is determined by assuming that the Note 28 Goodwill and trademarks do not generate cash inflows that are largely business will grow in line with consumer prices/inflation based on Note 29 Note 30 independent of those from other assets. These are therefore allocatcentral bank forecasts or similar unless otherwise stated. Discount Note 31 ed to the cash-generating unit (CGU) or group of CGUs expected to rates have been determined by applying the capital asset pricing model. Note 32 benefit most from these assets. A CGU is the lowest level to which an The terminal growth rate is in line with the Group’s long-term goal for Note 33 asset that generates cash flows independently from other assets can be organic growth and the management’s judgement. Note 34 allocated. A group of CGUs is not larger that an operating segment. These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU Note 35 The estimated recoverable amount of all CGUs and groups of and group of CGUs in the impairment analysis. The budgeted figures CGUs has been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These are based on past performance and management’s expectations for calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgmarket development. The weighted average growth rates used are conets approved by management covering a three-year period, taking into sistent with the forecasts used in the Group. The discount rates used account asset specific risks. Cash flows beyond the three-year period are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant industry are extrapolated using a terminal growth rate. and the risk particularly associated with the asset for which the estimates of the future cash flows have not been adjusted. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 108 Financial reports For impairment testing, the following assumptions have been used: Goodwill Terminal growth rate Pre-tax discount rate Goodwill is allocated to a CGU or group of CGUs not larger than an operating segment. The allocation has been made to the groups of % 2018 2017 2018 2017 CGUs that correspond to the operating segments that are expected to Scandinavia/Sweden 2.0 2.0 6.7 6.9 benefit most, which are the commercial organizations of Scandinavia, Finland 2.0 2.0 6.9 6.8 Finland and Middle. The goodwill acquired related to the acquisition Middle/ of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries has been allocated to the The Netherlands 2.0 2.0 6.9 7.1 CGU Scandinavia. Group 2.0 2.0 6.8 6.9 The following summary specifies the allocation of goodwill to the different groups of cash-generating units: SEKm Scandinavia Finland Middle Total 1 January 2017 756 983 309 2,048 Business combinations 171 – – 171 Adjustment purchase price allocation 1 – – 1 Exchange rate differences 9 25 7 41 31 December 2017 937 1,008 316 2,261 Business combinations 6 – – 6 Exchange rate differences 36 39 11 86 Note 1 31 December 2018 979 1,047 327 2,353 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 Trademarks are sold by group companies in other countries, the trademark owner Note 5 For trademarks, the related CGUs are the commercial organizations charges royalty fees to the selling party. Note 6 of the countries that own the respective trademarks. The products The trademark for the acquired brands Candyking, Karamell­ Note 7 Note 8 are mainly sold in the countries owning the trademarks. If products kungen and Parrots have been allocated to the CGU Sweden. Note 9 Note 10 The following summary specifies the allocation of trademarks to the different cash-generating units: Note 11 Note 12 Corporate SEKm Sweden Finland The Netherlands Italy assets Total Note 13 Note 14 1 January 2017 1,455 496 914 252 60 3,177 Note 15 Business combinations 90 – – – – 90 Note 16 Impairments – – – –159 – –159 Note 17 Divestments through discontinued operation – – – –99 – –99 Note 18 Exchange rate differences – 13 16 6 1 36 Note 19 31 December 2017 1,545 509 930 – 61 3,045 Note 20 Note 21 Note 22 Exchange rate differences – 21 39 – 2 62 Note 23 31 December 2018 1,545 530 969 – 63 3,107 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 The key assumptions underlying the cash flow projections for the period er fair value less cost of disposal, required an impairment for the CGU Note 27 covered by recent forecasts are included in the table below Italy in respect to trademarks. The Company recorded an impairment Note 28 Key assumption used in Basis for determining value charge on trademarks of SEK 0m (159) related to the CGU Italy. Note 29 value-in-use calculation assigned to key assumption Note 30 EBITDA External market studies on growth of Corporate assets Note 31 market, historical growth rates in the Group-wide assets and liabilities, including the right of free electricity Note 32 period before the recession, etc. and software under construction that cannot be directly allocated on Note 33 a reasonable and consistent basis to the CGUs or groups of CGUs are Note 34 Impairment of goodwill and trademarks classified as corporate assets. A group impairment analysis has been Note 35 In the assessment of possible impairment-triggering events related to performed in which the carrying amount of the total group of CGUs, the sale of Cloetta Italia S.r.l., the Company determined that the writeincluding the portion of the carrying amount representing the Group’s down of the carrying value of the assets subject to disposal to their lowcorporate assets, is compared with the total recoverable amount. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 109 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment See Notes 1 (XII) and (XV) for the accounting policy. SEKm Land and Machinery and Assets under Historical cost buildings equipment construction Total 1 January 2017 Acquisition or production costs 1,005 3,485 17 4,507 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –414 –2,393 – –2,807 Book value at 1 January 2017 591 1,092 17 1,700 Movements in 2017 Additions 3 38 95 136 Disposals – –6 – –6 Transfers 12 73 –85 – Depreciation continuing operations –16 –169 – –185 Depreciation discontinued operation –2 –14 – –16 Impairments discontinued operation –108 –130 – –238 Acquisitions through business combinations – 80 – 80 Divestments through discontinued operation –71 –94 – –165 Exchange differences 8 24 0 32 Note 1 Total –174 –198 10 –362 Note 2 Note 3 31 December 2017 Note 4 Acquisition or production costs 754 3,426 27 4,207 Note 5 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –337 –2,532 – –2,869 Note 6 Book value at 31 December 2017 417 894 27 1,338 Note 7 Note 8 Note 9 Movements in 2018 Note 10 Additions – 27 134 161 Note 11 Transfers 10 107 –117 – Note 12 Depreciation –16 –168 – –184 Note 13 Exchange differences 13 26 –1 38 Note 14 Total 7 –7 16 16 Note 15 Note 16 31 December 2018 Note 17 Acquisition or production costs 790 3,640 43 4,473 Note 18 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –366 –2,753 – –3,119 Note 19 Book value at 31 December 2018 424 887 43 1,354 Note 20 Note 21 Estimated economic useful life Buildings: 20–50 years 3–55 years N/A Note 22 Land: Indefinite Note 23 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 The impairment losses on property, plant and equipment in 2017 The breakdown of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by country, is as follows: Note 27 have been charged to loss from discontinued operation, net of tax Note 28 (see Notes 3 and 10). 31 Dec 31 Dec Note 29 At 31 December 2018, the Group had contractual commitments SEKm 2018 2017 Note 30 for purchases of machinery and equipment for an amount of SEK 30m Sweden 2,757 2,739 Note 31 (22). Finland 1,603 1,535 Note 32 The estimated economic useful lives of machinery and equipment The Netherlands 1,567 1,520 Note 33 can be further specified as follows: Other countries 1,053 1,034 Note 34 Total 6,980 6,828 Note 35 Estimated economic useful life Production lines 5–35 years Packaging lines 5–25 years Production equipment 5–55 years IT hardware 3–5 years Fixtures 5 years Furniture 5–10 years Production vehicles 7–15 years Vehicles 5 years Other 5–10 years Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 110 Financial reports Note 14 Tax assets and liabilities See Notes 1 (VIII) and (XIII) for the accounting policy. Deferred tax assets and liabilities refer, among other things, to the tax effect of the difference between the tax base of the defined asset or liability and its carrying amount and the recognized tax losses carried forward. Movements of deferred tax assets and liabilities per category are specified as follows: Tax losses Property Provisions Other current carried Unused plant & Intangible (incl. assets SEKm forward tax credits equipment assets pensions) and liabilities Total 1 January 2017 174 28 –147 –609 45 –23 –532 Acquisitions through business combinations 15 – 3 –38 0 0 –20 Divestments through discontinued operation –12 – 46 –5 –3 –23 3 Profit and loss account (charge)/credit for the year –70 –28 –8 –6 –13 –7 –132 Adjustments recognized in the period for tax of prior periods –2 – 0 0 0 0 –2 Effect of rate changes –6 – 4 1 –1 0 –2 Exchange differences/ Other 1 0 –1 –5 6 1 2 Note 1 31 December 2017 100 – –103 –662 34 –52 –683 Note 2 Profit and loss account (charge)/credit Note 3 for the year –40 – –5 4 0 –64 –105 Note 4 Adjustments recognized in the period Note 5 for tax of prior periods –19 – 1 27 0 0 9 Note 6 Effect of rate changes –1 – 7 53 –2 0 57 Note 7 Exchange differences/Other 4 – –3 –23 9 –3 –16 Note 8 31 December 2018 44 – –103 –601 41 –119 –738 Note 9 Note 10 Note 11 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are broken down as follows: The expiration dates for the tax losses carried forward range from two Note 12 31 Dec 31 Dec years to unlimited. Note 13 SEKm 2018 2017 Note 14 Deferred tax assets 16 20 Deferred tax liabilities Note 15 Deferred tax liabilities –754 –703 The deferred tax liability is recognized to account for the taxable temNote 16 porary differences between the tax bases of intangible assets, property, Note 17 Total –738 –683 plant and equipment, work in progress, inventories, receivables and Note 18 provisions and their carrying amounts. Note 19 Deferred tax assets are expected to be realized as follows: Note 20 Note 21 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2018 2017 SEKm 2018 2017 Note 22 Note 23 Deferred tax asset to be realized Deferred tax liability to be recovered Note 24 after more than 12 months 14 19 after more than 12 months 760 680 Note 25 Deferred tax asset to be realized Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 2 1 within 12 months –6 23 Note 26 Note 27 Total 16 20 Total 754 703 Note 28 Note 29 The composition of deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differCurrent income tax Note 30 ences, unused tax credits and tax losses carried forward is as follows: 31 Dec 31 Dec Note 31 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 SEKm 2018 2017 Note 32 Not Not Current income tax assets 6 8 Note 33 SEKm Recognized recognized Recognized recognized Current income tax liabilities –13 –30 Note 34 Note 35 Deductible tempoTotal –7 –22 rary differences 107 – 64 – Unused tax credits – – – 18 See also Note 33 for further details regarding accounting estimates Tax losses carried forward 45 51 100 107 and judgments in respect to the ongoing tax audits. Total 152 51 164 125 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 111 Note 15 Non-current financial assets Note 16 Inventories See Notes 1 (XIV) and (XV) for the accounting policy. See Notes 1 (XVII) for the accounting policy. Inventories for own use and resale 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2018 2017 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2018 2017 Deposits 1 1 Funded pension schemes in a net asset position 2 3 Raw materials and consumables 250 263 Other financial assets 8 7 Work in progress 58 61 Finished goods and goods for resale 457 421 Total 11 11 Total 765 745 The fair values of non-current financial assets approximate their Movements in the provision for obsolete inventory are as follows: carrying amounts. None of the different classes of non-current financial assets SEKm 2018 2017 contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the At 1 January 12 17 reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned Provision for impairment of inventories 6 9 above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. Inventories written off during the year as obsolete –2 –3 See Note 25 for further details on the funded pension schemes in a Unused amounts reversed –3 –4 net asset position. Acquisitions through business combinations 6 0 Divestments through discontinued operation – –6 Exchange differences 1 –1 Note 1 At 31 December 20 12 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 Note 5 Note 17 Trade and other receivables Note 6 Note 7 See Notes 1 (XIV) for the accounting policy. Note 8 Movements in the loss allowance for trade receivables are as follows: Note 9 Note 10 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2018 2017 Note 11 SEKm 2018 2017 At 1 January 2 24 Note 12 Trade debtors 746 740 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 1 1 Note 13 Loss allowances for trade receivables –1 –2 Trade receivables written off during the year as Note 14 Trade receivables net 745 738 uncollectible –1 0 Note 15 Unused amounts reversed 0 0 Note 16 Other receivables 47 94 Acquisitions through business combinations – 1 Note 17 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 46 49 Divestments through discontinued operation – –23 Note 18 Exchange differences –1 –1 Total 838 881 Note 19 At 31 December 1 2 Note 20 Note 21 Candyking Denmark A/S entered into receivable purchase agree­Note 22 Note 23 ments with Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken for one (two) Danish Note 24 customer(s). As a result, per year-end, Candyking Denmark A/S Note 25 received an amount of DKK 5m (33), equivalent to SEK 6m (44) in Note 26 advance before the due date. Candyking Denmark A/S pays a discount Note 27 fee for the early receipt based on 3m CIBOR with a zero-floor clause. Note 28 The individual trade receivables for which provisions were made Note 29 relate to uncollectible receivables that are not covered by credit insurNote 30 ance. Note 31 Note 32 The age analysis of the trade receivables including loss allowances is as follows: Note 33 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Note 34 Note 35 Weighted Weighted average loss Gross carryLoss allowNet carrying average loss Gross carryLoss allowNet carrying SEKm rate ing amount ance amount rate ing amount ance amount Current (not past due) 0% 614 – 614 0% 652 – 652 Up to 60 days past due 0% 117 0 117 0% 67 0 67 60 to 90 days past due 0% 6 0 6 0% 3 – 3 Over 90 days past due 11% 9 –1 8 11% 18 –2 16 Total 746 –1 745 740 –2 738 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 112 Financial reports The other receivables and prepaid expenses and accrued income do not The carrying amounts of trade receivables contain impaired assets. are denominated in the following currencies: As of 31 December 2018, trade receivables of SEK 132m (86) were 31 Dec 31 Dec past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of customers for SEKm 2018 2017 whom there is no recent history of default. Euro 275 263 Loss allowances are made based on individual customer loss Swedish krona 251 260 assessments. Based on historical experience and current expectations Danish krone 121 59 for the future, no material credit losses on other trade receivables are British pound 68 85 expected. The above table shows the loss allowance recognized based Norwegian krone 18 53 on the individual assessments. Credit losses on other receivables and US dollar 3 4 accrued income are expected to be immaterial. Other currencies 9 14 The carrying amounts are assumed to approximate the fair values Total 745 738 of trade receivables and other receivables. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of each class of The breakdown of prepaid expenses and accrued income is as follows: receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as 31 Dec 31 Dec security. SEKm 2018 2017 Prepaid IT expenses 9 8 Prepaid rents, insurance and lease charges 9 11 Prepaid personnel-related expenses 2 1 Prepaid marketing expenses 1 1 Other prepaid expenses 18 15 Other accrued income 7 13 Note 1 Total 46 49 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 Note 5 Note 18 Cash and cash equivalents Note 6 Note 7 See Notes 1 (XIX) and (XX) for the accounting policy. The Global Cash Pool agreement, the NGA and the MZBCP Note 8 enable Cloetta AB (publ) and its subsidiaries to use the funds available The item cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated cash flow Note 9 as deposited in the bank in one or more currencies for the purpose of statement and consolidated balance sheet consists of the following: Note 10 efficient liquidity management and daily payments in the ordinary Note 11 31 Dec 31 Dec course of business. The Global Cash Pool agreement, the NGA and the SEKm 2018 2017 Note 12 MZBCP provide the possibility to make withdrawals from accounts Note 13 Cash and cash equivalents 551 759 held by the bank in different currencies and in different countries Note 14 Total 551 759 without the necessary funds being available in the respective currency, Note 15 provided that the corresponding funds are available considering the Note 16 balances on all accounts in the Global Cash Pool agreement, the NGA Note 17 All cash and cash equivalents are available on demand. and the MZBCP, and any amounts available for this purpose pursuant Note 18 As of the date of the acquisition of Candyking Holding AB and its to any credit facility and/or intraday revolving facility agreed upon Note 19 subsidiaries, the applicable multicurrency functionality with credit separately. The Global Cash Pool agreement, the NGA and MZBCP Note 20 facility for global cash pool (Global Cash Pool agreement) with Nordea are based on, and connect accounts in, local account structures in difNote 21 Bank AB (publ) is applicable to the Group. Svenska Handelsbanken ferent countries in which group companies participate as sub-account Note 22 AB (publ) provided the Group with a Notional Group Account (NGA). holders. The Global Cash Pool agreement, the NGA and the MZBCP Note 23 In 2018 Danske Bank A/S provided the Group with a Multicurrency are not connected to each other. Note 24 Zero Balancing Cash Pool (MZBCP). Note 25 The following table shows the carrying amounts of recognized offsetting of financial assets and liabilities relating to the Notional Group Account Note 26 Note 27 Gross amounts Net amount Related financial Note 28 2018 of financial Set-off in the presented in the instruments that Note 29 SEKm instruments balance sheet balance sheet are not offset Net amount Note 30 Cash and cash equivalents 1,093 –655 438 113 551 Note 31 Total assets 1,093 –655 438 113 551 Note 32 Note 33 Loans from credit institutions 655 –655 – 2,078 2,078 Note 34 Note 35 Total liabilities 655 –655 – 2,078 2,078 Gross amounts Net amount Related financial 2017 of financial Set-off in the presented in the instruments that SEKm instruments balance sheet balance sheet are not offset Net amount Cash and cash equivalents 1,294 –614 680 79 759 Total assets 1,294 –614 680 79 759 Loans from credit institutions 614 –614 – 2,719 2,719 Total liabilities 614 –614 – 2,719 2,719 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 113 Group equity Note 19 Assets held for sale Share capital The number of shares authorized, issued and fully paid up at 31 See Note 1 (XXI) for the accounting policy. December 2018 was 288,619,299 (288,619,299). A conversion of class A shares to class B shares was carried out in 2017 as a result of the The assets held for sale, as at 1 January 2017, of SEK 9m were divested undertakings with Malfors Promotor. As a result, the number of shares through the discontinued operation in 2017. consists of 5,735,249 (5,735,249) class A shares and 282,884,050 See Note 30 for a total overview of the Group’s assets and liabilities (282,884,050) class B shares. All shares grant equal entitlement to that are measured at fair value. The remeasurement of the fair value is participate in the company’s assets and profits. The quota value (par recognized in the cost of goods sold in the profit and loss account. value) of the share is SEK 5.00. Should the company issue new shares of class A and class B through a cash or set-off issue, holders of class A and class B shares have the right to subscribe for new shares of the same class in proportion to the number of shares already held on the reNote 20 Equity cord date. If the issue includes shares of only class B, all holders of class A and class B shares have the right to subscribe for new class B shares See Notes 1 (XXII) and (XXV) for the accounting policy. in proportion to the number of shares already held on the record date. The corresponding rules of apportionment are applied in the event Capital management of a bonus issue or issue of convertibles and subscription warrants. The Board’s financial objective is to maintain a strong financial The transference of a class A share to a person who is not previously position that contributes to maintaining investor, creditor and market a holder of class A shares in the company is subject to a pre-emption confidence and to providing a platform for ongoing development of procedure, except when the transfer is made through division of joint the business. Capital consists of total equity. The Board of Directors property, inheritance, testament or gift to the person who is the closest proposes the dividend to the shareholders. heir to the bequeather. See page 58 for further details. Note 1 The company’s long-term intention is a dividend pay-out of Neither Cloetta AB (publ) nor any of its subsidiaries has held any Note 2 between 40 and 60 per cent of profit after tax. Both in 2018 and 2017, shares in Cloetta during the year. Note 3 the ambition was to continue using future cash flows to repay debt, to Note 4 pay dividends and to maximize financial flexibility for complementary Foreign currency translation reserve Note 5 acquisitions. Reserves consist of all exchange gains and losses arising on translation Note 6 The Group’s objective when managing capital is to safeguard of the financial statements of foreign operations that present their Note 7 the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide financial statements in a currency other than that used by the Group. Note 8 returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to This includes foreign currency differences on monetary items that are Note 9 maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. The a receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, for which settleNote 10 Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is ment is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future. As Note 11 calculated as net debt divided by total assets. a result of the divestment of Cloetta Italia S.r.l. currency translation Note 12 gains on discontinued operation have been reclassified through profit Note 13 Dividend per share and loss in 2017 in an amount of SEK 102m. Note 14 The Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 16 April 2018 and Note 15 4 April 2017 approved the following dividend: Retained earnings Note 16 2018 2017 Retained earnings comprise the sum of profit for the year and retained Note 17 earnings from previous years. Note 18 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 0.75 0.75 Note 19 Special dividend per share, SEK 0.75 – Changes in equity Note 20 Total dividend, SEKm 433 216 Note 21 Ordinary dividend as a percentage of profit For disclosures about changes in equity in the Group, see the consoliNote 22 for the previous year, excluding the impact of dated statements of changes in equity on page 92. impairment loss 53 53 Note 23 Payment date April 2018 April 2017 Note 24 Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation Note 25 After the reporting date, the following dividend was proposed by the (Net investment hedge) Note 26 Board of Directors. The dividend has not been recognized as liability in The Group applies hedge accounting for the investment in trademarks Note 27 the balance sheet in Cloetta Ireland Ltd., Cloetta Suomi Oy, Cloetta Holland B.V. and Note 28 Cloetta Slovakia s.r.o. See Note 1 (XVI) for further details on the 2018 2017 Note 29 applied hedge accounting. Note 30 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 1.00 0.75 Note 31 Special dividend per share, SEK – 0.75 Share-based payments Note 32 Total dividend, SEKm 289 433 See Note 25 for further details about share-based payments. Note 33 The Board of Directors proposes that the total earnings in the Parent Note 34 Note 35 Company at the disposal of the AGM amounting to SEK 2,015m (2,445) are to be distributed to the shareholders in the amount of SEK 289m (433) and to be carried forward to new account in the amount of SEK 1,726m (2,012). Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 114 Financial reports Note 21 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of year attributable to owners of the Parent Company by the weighted the Parent Company by the weighted average number of shares outaverage number of shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share are standing adjusted for the dilutive effect of potential shares. The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding: 2018 2017 Profit from continuing operations 483 237 Loss from discontinued operation – –334 Profit/loss for the year, attributable to ordinary shareholders (in SEKm) (basic and diluted) 483 –97 Number of issued ordinary shares at 1 January 288,619,299 288,619,299 Effect of forward contract to repurchase own shares -2,126,886 –2,298,835 Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year before dilution 286,492,413 286,320,464 Effect of share-based payments 157,657 171,714 Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year after dilution 286,650,070 286,492,178 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations, SEK 1.69 0.83 Note 1 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, SEK 1.68 0.83 Note 2 Note 3 Basic earnings per share from discontinued operation, SEK – –1.17 Note 4 Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operation, SEK – –1.17 Note 5 Note 6 Basic earnings per share, SEK 1.69 –0.34 Note 7 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 1.68 –0.34 Note 8 Note 9 Cloetta has entered into forward contracts to repurchase own shares in order to fulfil its future obligation to deliver the shares to the participants Note 10 in its long-term share-based incentive plan. See Note 23 for a table that presents movements in the contracts since 1 January 2017. Note 11 Note 12 Note 13 Note 14 Note 22 Borrowings Note 15 Note 16 See Notes 1 (XXVI) and (XXVII) for accounting policies. Note 17 Note 18 31 Dec 2018 Remaining term Remaining term Remaining term Remaining term Note 19 SEKm < 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years > 5 years Total Note 20 Note 21 Loans from credit institutions – 1,278 800 – 2,078 Note 22 Capitalized transaction costs –1 –1 –1 – –3 Note 23 Commercial papers 500 – – – 500 Note 24 Accrued interest 1 – – – 1 Note 25 Total 500 1,277 799 – 2,576 Note 26 Note 27 Note 28 31 Dec 2017 Remaining term Remaining term Remaining term Remaining term Note 29 SEKm < 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years > 5 years Total Note 30 Loans from credit institutions 1,000 1,719 – – 2,719 Note 31 Capitalized transaction costs –3 –4 – – –7 Note 32 Accrued interest 2 – – – 2 Note 33 Finance lease liabilities 0 – – – 0 Note 34 Note 35 Total 999 1,715 – – 2,714 See note 29 for the Group’s contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities, including interest payments. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 115 The following table shows the reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities Long-term Short-term SEKm borrowings borrowings Total 1 January 2017 2,666 2 2,668 Changes from financing cash flows Proceeds from loans – 325 325 Repayment of loans – –347 –347 Total changes from financing cash flows – –22 –22 Other changes Business combinations – 22 22 Amortization of capitalized transaction costs 7 –3 4 Interest expenses, third-party borrowings 21 4 25 Interest paid –21 –4 –25 Reclassification between long-term and short-term borrowings –1,000 1,000 – Exchange differences on borrowings 42 0 42 Total other changes –951 1,019 68 31 December 2017 1,715 999 2,714 Changes from financing cash flows Proceeds from loans – 163 163 Transaction costs paid –4 – –4 Repayment of loans –519 –360 –879 Note 1 Proceeds from commercial papers – 999 999 Note 2 Repayment of commercial papers – –500 –500 Note 3 Total changes from financing cash flows –523 302 –221 Note 4 Note 5 Other changes Note 6 Amortization of capitalized transaction costs 5 3 8 Note 7 Interest expenses, third-party borrowings 23 1 24 Note 8 Interest paid –23 –1 –24 Note 9 Reclassification between long-term and short-term borrowings 800 –800 – Note 10 Exchange differences on borrowings 78 –4 74 Note 11 Total other changes 883 –801 82 Note 12 Note 13 31 December 2018 2,076 500 2,576 Note 14 Note 15 Note 16 The carrying amounts and fair value of non-current borrowings Loans from credit institutions are as follows: Note 17 On 22 July 2016, Cloetta entered into a term and revolving facilities Note 18 Fair value Carrying amount agreement with a group of four banks, Danske Bank A/S, DNB Sweden Note 19 AB, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) and Svenska Handels31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Note 20 SEKm 2018 2017 2018 2017 banken AB (publ), in SEK and EUR, amounting in total to the equivNote 21 alent of SEK 3,700m. The term and revolving facilities agreement is Note 22 Loans from credit institutions 2,078 2,719 2,078 2,719 unsecured in nature. Note 23 Commercial papers 500 – 500 – In June 2018, Cloetta entered into an amendment and restateNote 24 Finance lease ment of the term and revolving facilities agreement, in combination Note 25 liabilities – 0 – 0 with the launch of a commercial paper programme. The amendments Note 26 Total 2,578 2,719 2,578 2,719 to the term and revolving facilities agreement comprised a EUR 50m Note 27 reduction (equivalent to SEK 519m) in the multicurrency loan and a Note 28 SEK 200m reduction in the single-currency term loan. The amendNote 29 The fair value of loans from credit institutions is equal to their carment included an extension of the tenor from three to four years with Note 30 rying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant, and the the possibility of an extension for up to a further two years for the Note 31 credit risk has not changed since the loan agreement was signed. multicurrency loan, an extension of the tenor from one to five years for Note 32 The Group’s borrowings are all exposed to interest rate changes the single-currency term loan, and an extension of the tenor under the Note 33 and changes in the applicable margin on a quarterly basis. multicurrency credit revolving loan from five to six years. Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 116 Financial reports The Group credit facility at reporting date relates to: Outstanding amount Interest percentage Applicable margin SEKm 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Variable Variable EURIBOR EURIBOR + fixed + fixed applicable Multicurrency term loan of nominal EUR 125m 1,278 1,719 applicable margin margin 0.80% 1.00% Variable STIBOR Variable STIBOR + fixed applicable + fixed applicable Single-currency term loan of nominal SEK 800m 800 1,000 margin margin 0.90% 1.00% Fixed margin per Commercial papers of nominal SEK 500m 500 – issued paper – 0.22% – Variable STIBOR Variable STIBOR + fixed applicable + fixed applicable Multicurrency credit revolving loan of EUR 105m – – margin margin 1.00% 1.20% Variable EURIBOR Credit revolving loan of EUR 15m – – – + 1% 1.00% 1.00% Total Group credit facility 2,578 2,719 Capitalized transaction costs –3 –7 Finance lease liabilities – 0 Accrued interest 1 2 Total Borrowings 2,576 2,714 Note 1 Note 2 35 per cent (35) of the fixed applicable margin on the unutilized amounts of the credit revolving loans is paid as a commitment fee. Note 3 Note 4 All borrowings are denominated in euros, with the exception of the single-currency term loan of SEK 800m (1,000) and the commercial Note 5 papers of SEK 500m (0). Note 6 The effective interest rate for the loans from credit institutions and the senior secured notes was 0.86 per cent (0.94). Note 7 Note 8 Note 9 Note 10 Note 23 Derivative financial instruments Note 11 Note 12 See Note 1 (XVI) for the accounting policy. Forward contracts to repurchase own shares Note 13 Following the introduction of share-based long-term incentive Note 14 plans, Cloetta entered into forward contracts in order to repurchase 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Note 15 own shares to fulfil its future obligation to deliver the shares to the Note 16 SEKm Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities participants in its share-based long-term incentive plans. The forward Note 17 contracts to repurchase own shares are measured at cost. Non-current Note 18 Interest rate swaps – 3 – 2 Note 19 Total non-current – 3 – 2 Note 20 Current Note 21 Forward contract Note 22 to repurchase own Note 23 shares – 59 – 70 Note 24 Interest rate swaps – 2 – 1 Note 25 Forward foreign Note 26 currency contracts 1 – 0 – Note 27 Total current 1 61 0 71 Note 28 Total 1 64 0 73 Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 Note 33 Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 117 The following table shows the movements in the contracts since 1 January 2017 Number of shares Date Contract 1 Contract 2 Contract 3 Contract 4 Contract 5 Contract 6 Balance at 1 Jan 2017 1,200,000 430,000 709,730 – – – Shares granted to participants LTI'14 (settlement of forward contract to repurchase own shares) 8 May 2017 –362,029 – – – – – Repurchased own shares 8 May 2017 –3,932 – – – – – Roll-forward to new forward contract to repurchase own shares 15 Jun 2017 –834,039 – –709,730 1,543,769 – – Roll-forward to new forward contract to repurchase own shares 14 Jul 2017 – – – –1,543,769 1,543,769 – New forward contract to repurchase own shares 14 Jul 2017 – – – – 348,793 – Balance at 31 Dec 2017 – 430,000 – – 1,892,562 – Shares granted to participants LTI'15 (settlement of forward contract to repurchase own shares) 29 May 2018 – – – – –338,482 – Roll-forward to new forward contract to repurchase own shares 29 May 2018 – –430,000 – – –1,554,080 1,984,080 New forward contract to repurchase own shares 29 May 2018 – – – – – 7,826 Balance at 31 Dec 2018 – – – – – 1,991,906 Price, SEK 23.00000 26.40000 28.50000 36.10000 30.97320 29.38860 See Note 25 for more details about the share-based long-term incentive plan. Note 1 Note 2 Interest rate swaps Note 3 The Group has entered into several interest rate swap contracts to partially cover the interest rate risk on loans denominated in both Note 4 SEK and EUR. Note 5 Note 6 The following table shows the combined notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swaps Note 7 Notional principal amounts Fixed interest currency rates Duration Note 8 Note 9 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Note 10 STIBOR Interest rate swaps SEKm 800 450 0.4630% 0.4630% Q1 2019–Q4 2021 Q1 2018–Q4 2021 Note 11 STIBOR Interest rate swaps SEKm – 200 – 0.4630% – Q3 2018–Q4 2021 Note 12 STIBOR Interest rate swaps SEKm – 150 – 0.4630% – Q1 2019–Q4 2021 Note 13 STIBOR Interest rate swaps SEKm – 200 – 0.0300% – Q1 2018–Q2 2018 Note 14 EURIBOR Interest rate swaps EURm 50 50 0.1560% 0.1560% Q1 2019–Q2 2020 Q1 2018–Q2 2020 Note 15 EURIBOR Interest rate swaps EURm 25 25 0.1560% 0.1560% Q1 2019–Q4 2019 Q1 2018–Q4 2019 Note 16 EURIBOR Interest rate swaps EURm 35 15 0.3375% 0.1560% Q3 2020–Q3 2022 Q1 2018–Q4 2018 Note 17 Note 18 All interest rate swaps include zero-floors on the floating leg. Note 19 Note 20 Foreign currency exchange contracts Note 21 The Group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the currency risk for purchases in US dollars (USD) with a maturity of Note 22 less than one year from the reporting date. Note 23 Note 24 The following table shows the notional principal amounts, weighted average exchange rates and remaining periods Note 25 Weighted average exchange Note 26 Notional principal amounts rates Expiry date Note 27 Note 28 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note 29 SEK–USD USD 4.0m USD 5.8m 8.7103 8.1814 2019 2018 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 Note 33 Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 118 Financial reports For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions Note 24 Contingent considerations to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further See Note 1 (XXIII) for the accounting policy. payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The Group has a number of defined benefit pension plans in SweContingent considerations consist of the contingent earn-out considden, the Netherlands, Belgium, Finland, Germany and Norway that eration related to the acquisition of Candyking Holding AB and its refer to pension and other long-term benefit schemes. subsidiaries. For one defined benefit pension plan, the Group accounts as though The remeasurement movements recognized in the profit and loss this were a defined contribution scheme since sufficient information is account are the result of remeasurements of the sales volume perfornot available to enable the Group to account for the plan as a defined mance of the combined pick & mix business in confectionery and natbenefit plan. Cloetta applies the same accounting policies as other parural snacks in the Nordic countries, the UK and Poland during 2018. ticipating employers. Sufficient information is not available, since asset On 28 April 2017 a contingent earn-out consideration arising from the administration of the fund is not designed to allocate the total assets of acquisition of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries was issued the fund to the participating companies. In the event of a deficit in this to the former bondholders of Candyking Holding AB in exchange for pension fund, the Group has no obligation to provide further contribucorporate bonds in Candyking Holding AB. The contingent earn-out tions other than higher future contributions. consideration was initially recognized in an amount of SEK 128m. Monthly premiums are average premiums expressed as a percentAt the end of the year the undiscounted contingent earn-out consideraage of the pension calculations basis and should, as a minimum, cover tion amounted to SEK 146m (discounted: SEK 142m). the cost of the fund. The minimum pension premium is determined At reporting date the contingent earn-out consideration is presented as in accordance with the actuarial and business note of the fund. In the part of the current liabilities. See Note 27. event of liquidation of the fund, an amount that is sufficient to cover defined benefits will be secured. In the event of a deficit in the fund at Movements in contingent considerations are specified as follows: the moment of liquidation, the defined benefits will be proportionally Note 1 reduced taking into consideration Article 134 of the Dutch Pension Note 2 SEKm 2018 2017 Act. Contributions to the plan for the next annual year are expected to Note 3 At 1 January 138 – amount to SEK 35m (34). These are split into employer contributions Note 4 Note 5 Business combinations – 128 of SEK 23m (23) and employee contributions of SEK 12m (11). At yearNote 6 Remeasurements recognized in profit and loss end 2018, the coverage of the pension fund was 112.5 per cent (111.7). – ( Un)realized remeasurement on contingent Note 7 considerations recognized in general and Note 8 administrative expenses –21 –5 At 31 December 2018, the main defined benefit plans Note 9 –U  nrealized interest on contingent considerain the Group were: Note 10 tions recognized in other financial expenses 25 15 Sweden ITP2 plan: Note 11 At 31 December 142 138 The ITP2 plan covers employees born before 1979. Benefits provided Note 12 in the old defined benefit plan include a final pay-based retirement Note 13 pension. This plan is an unfunded defined benefit plan. of which remaining term < 1 year 142 – Note 14 The ITP plan benefit formula provides pension benefits as a perof which remaining term 1–5 years – 138 Note 15 centage of salary. Benefits are reduced proportionally if the expected Fair value 142 138 Note 16 years of service within the plan, are less than 30 years, irrespective of Note 17 employer. ITP plan benefits vested with former employers are indexed Note 18 according to the consumer price index. Note 19 Pensions and other long-term Note 20 Note 25 employee benefits Finland Leaf/Merijal plan: Note 21 This plan is an insured voluntary final salary pension plan. It was Note 22 See Notes 1 (VI) and (XXV) for the accounting policy. established on 31 December 2005 when the liabilities and assets of Note 23 Note 24 Merijal Pension Foundation and Leaf Pension Foundation were transNote 25 Group companies use various post-employment schemes, including ferred to Pohjola Life Insurance Company. Note 26 both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. Note 27 A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Norway Note 28 Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity. The Group has no The Norwegian subsidiary has one plan, which is insured in a life Note 29 legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions even if insurance company. This funded plan, together with the national Note 30 the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits pension scheme, provides an old-age pension of a maximum of 66 per Note 31 relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. Defined cent of final salary. The plan includes a widow(er)’s pension equal to 60 Note 32 benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will per cent of the old age pension and children’s pension equal to 50 per Note 33 receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such cent of the old age pension. Members who become disabled will receive Note 34 as age, years of service and compensation. a disability pension linked to the old age pension they would have Note 35 The defined benefit schemes in industry sector pension funds, received with their present salary. which are held by pension funds that are not able to provide company-specific or reliable information, are accounted for as though they were defined contribution schemes. In the event of a deficit in these pension funds, the company has no obligation to provide supplementary contributions, other than higher future contributions. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 119 The total pensions and other long-term employee benefits The amounts recognized in the balance sheet are determined as follows: are determined as follows: 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2018 2017 SEKm 2018 2017 Funded pension schemes in a net asset position 2 3 Funded pension schemes in a net asset position 2 3 Asset in the balance sheet 2 3 Obligations for: Present value of funded obligations 77 76 Pension benefits –419 –374 Fair value of plan assets –67 –66 Other long-term employee benefits (for jubilee payments) ('OLEB') 0 0 Deficit of funded plans 10 10 Present value of unfunded obligations 407 361 Total –417 –371 Liability in the balance sheet 417 371 Movements in the combined net defined benefit obligations and other long-term employee benefits over the year are as follows: Present value of Fair value of SEKm obligation plan assets Total 1 January 2017 478 –82 396 Current Service cost 9 –2 7 Interest expense/(income) 13 –1 12 Remeasurements: Note 1 – Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense/(income) – 6 6 Note 2 – (Gains)/losses from change in demographic assumptions 15 – 15 Note 3 – (Gains)/losses from change in financial assumptions 29 – 29 Note 4 – Experience (gains)/losses –14 – –14 Note 5 Total remeasurements 30 6 36 Note 6 Note 7 Exchange differences 0 –1 –1 Note 8 Employer contributions 0 –18 –18 Note 9 Payments from plans: Note 10 – Benefit payments –21 21 – Note 11 – Settlements –11 11 – Note 12 Divestments –61 – –61 Note 13 31 December 2017 437 –66 371 Note 14 Note 15 Current Service cost 7 – 7 Note 16 Interest expense/(income) 11 –1 10 Note 17 Remeasurements: Note 18 – (Gains)/losses from change in demographic assumptions 1 – 1 Note 19 – (Gains)/losses from change in financial assumptions 38 – 38 Note 19 – Experience (gains)/losses 2 – 2 Note 21 Total remeasurements 41 – 41 Note 22 Note 23 Exchange differences 4 –1 3 Note 24 Employer contributions – –15 –15 Note 25 Payments from plans: Note 26 – Benefit payments –16 16 – Note 27 31 December 2018 484 –67 417 Note 28 Note 29 The Group expects to pay SEK 16m (16) in contributions to its defined benefit plans in 2019. Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 Note 33 Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 120 Financial reports The defined benefit obligation and plan assets by country are composed as follows: Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets Defined benefit obligation SEKm 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Sweden 402 355 –15 –16 387 339 Norway 11 9 –13 –11 –2 –2 Finland 34 37 –27 –29 7 8 Other countries 37 36 –12 –10 25 26 Total 484 437 –67 –66 417 371 The sensitivity of the combined net defined benefit obligations and The significant actuarial assumptions are as follows: other long-term employee benefits to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is as follows: 31 Dec 31 Dec Weighted average percentage 2018 2017 Impact on defined benefit obligation Discount rate 2.34 2.50 Change in Increase in Decrease in Expected rate of future salary increases 1.93 2.07 assumptions assumptions assumptions Expected rate of future increase for benefits in Discount rate 1%-point –18% 23% payment 2.29 1.59 Salary growth rate 1%-point 5% –5% Expected long-term inflation rate 1.85 1.73 Pension growth rate 1%-point 16% –15% Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial Increase by 1 year Decrease by 1 year advice in accordance with published statistics and experience in each in assumption in assumption Note 1 Note 2 territory. Life expectancy 4.04% –4.64% Note 3 These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for Note 4 a pensioner retiring, at the age of 67 for men in Norway, at the age of 62 The sensitivity analyses above are based on a change in one assumpNote 5 for women in Norway and at the age of 65 in other countries tion while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this Note 6 is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be 2018 Note 7 correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit Note 8 Year Sweden Others obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method has Note 9 Retiring at the end of the reporting period been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognized in the Note 10 statement of financial position. – Male 22 21 Note 11 Plan assets for both 2017 and 2018 are 100 per cent comprised of – Female 25 24 Note 12 insurance contracts. Retiring 20 years after the end of the reporting Note 13 period Note 14 – Male 43 36 Note 15 – Female 45 41 Note 16 Note 17 At 31 December 2018 the weighted average duration of the defined Note 18 benefit obligation was 20.11 years (19.53 years). Note 19 Note 20 Note 21 The expected maturity analysis for undiscounted combined net defined benefit obligations and other long-term employee benefits is as follows: Note 22 SEKm Less than 3 years Between 3–7 years Between 7–15 years Over 15 years Total Note 23 Defined benefit obligation by expected maturity 0 3 95 386 484 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 Note 27 Total pension costs amounting to SEK 17m (19) are included in costs of In order for so-called matching share rights to entitle the particiNote 28 goods sold, selling expenses, general and administrative expenses and pant to class B shares in Cloetta, continued employment with Cloetta Note 29 financial income and expenses, and in 2017 in loss from discontinued is required and the personal shareholding in Cloetta must be continuNote 30 operation, net of tax in the profit and loss acount. ously maintained. For each invested share one matching share will be Note 31 granted if the above requirements are fulfilled. Note 32 Share-based payments In addition, allocation of class B shares on the basis of performance Note 33 Share-based long-term incentive plan share rights requires the attainment of two performance targets, one Note 34 The AGM approved the Board’s proposals for a share-based long-term of which is related to Cloetta’s EBIT and the other to Cloetta’s net sales Note 35 incentive plan to align the interests of the shareholders on the one value in each of 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. The share-based hand, and the Group Management Team and other key employees on long-term incentive plans of 2014 and 2015 were vested in 2017 and the other hand in order to ensure maximum long-term value creation. 2018, respectively. To participate in the plan, a personal shareholding in Cloetta is reWith respect to the share-based long-term incentive plan of 2016, quired. Following a three-year vesting period, the participants will be the target levels set by the Board for the two performance targets were allocated class B shares in Cloetta free of charge, provided that certain not met. The performance targets were related to growth in Cloetta’s conditions are fulfilled. compounded sales value during the period 2016 to 2018 and EBITA level during 2018. As a result, Cloetta will transfer, free of charge, no Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 121 more than 120,000 shares to participants holding matching share Movements in the number of shares for the share-based long-term rights and no shares to participants holding performance share rights. incentive plans are as follows: Total costs related to the non-vested share-based long-term incenNumber of shares in tive plans are expected to amount to SEK 49m (59) during the total thousands vesting period. The total costs for the share-based long-term incentive 2018 2017 plans recognized in 2018 are SEK 2m (13). At 1 January 1,617 1,828 See page 60 for further details on the main characteristics of the Granted for new plans 1,024 880 share-based long-term incentive plans. Vested plans –338 –362 The forward contracts to repurchase own shares amount to Released –899 –729 SEK 59m (70). At 31 December 1,404 1,617 Note 26 Provisions See Note 1 (XXIV) for the accounting policy. Movements in provisions, excluding pension benefits and other long-term employee benefits, are specified as follows: SEKm Reorganization Sales returns Other Total 1 January 2017 7 47 32 86 Additions 6 – 0 6 Note 1 Utilizations –9 –46 –17 –72 Note 2 Unused amounts reversed –1 – –7 –8 Note 3 Divestments through discontinued operation – –1 –2 –3 Note 4 Exchange differences 0 – –1 –1 Note 5 31 December 2017 3 – 5 8 Note 6 Analysis of total provisions Note 7 Non-current 5 Note 8 Current 3 Note 9 Total 8 Note 10 Note 11 Note 12 SEKm Reorganization Sales returns Other Total Note 13 Note 14 1 January 2018 3 – 5 8 Note 15 Additions 27 – – 27 Note 16 Utilizations –4 – – –4 Note 17 Unused amounts reversed 0 – 0 0 Note 18 Exchange differences 0 – 1 1 Note 19 31 December 2018 26 – 6 32 Note 19 Analysis of total provisions Note 21 Non-current 9 Note 22 Current 23 Note 23 Note 24 Total 32 Note 25 Note 26 See Note 25 for details about pension benefits and other long-term employee benefits. Note 27 Note 28 Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 Note 33 Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 122 Financial reports On 28 April 2017 Cloetta acquired 100 per cent of the shares in CanNote 27 Trade and other payables dyking Holding AB and its fully owned subsidiaries, a leading concept supplier of pick & mix candy in the Nordic countries and the UK. See Note 1 (XXVIII) for the accounting policy. The acquisition strengthens Cloetta’s position within pick & mix and creates substantial synergies. 31 Dec 31 Dec The purchase price amounted to SEK 325m on a cash and debt SEKm 2018 2017 free basis, adjusted for transaction adjustments for net debt and workTrade payables 544 720 ing capital of SEK -62m, with a potential additional purchase price of a Other taxes and social security expenses 160 177 maximum of SEK 225m based on Cloetta’s and Candyking’s combined Pension liabilities 8 7 sold volume of pick & mix in both confectionery and natural snacks in Contingent considerations 142 – the Nordic countries, the UK and Poland during 2018. The seller of Other liabilities 19 27 the shares was Candyking’s former CEO, Dani Evanoff. The majority Accruals and deferred income 469 463 of the purchase price, as well as the potential additional purchase Total 1,342 1,394 price, has been allocated to the previous holders of Candyking’s SEK 750m bond loan. In connection with the closing of the acquisition, Candyking’s bonds have been delisted from Nasdaq Stockholm. At the Accruals and deferred income are specified as follows: time of delisting of the bonds, an earn-out instrument was issued to 31 Dec 31 Dec the previous bondholders and the previous shareholders that entitles SEKm 2018 2017 them to the future potential additional purchase price. The instrument Accrued personnel-related expenses 156 142 is registered at Euroclear in order to facilitate the distribution of any Accrued customer bonuses and discounts 157 145 additional purchase price to the instrument-holders. Other accrued expenses and deferred income 156 176 The total goodwill of SEK 178m is not expected to be deductible Total 469 463 for tax purposes. The acquired receivables contain trade receivables Note 1 of SEK 128m which have been collected in full. The total transaction Note 2 cost related to the acquisition amounted to SEK 14m and is fully recogNote 3 nized in the profit and loss account for the period concerned as ‘general Note 4 Note 5 and administrative expenses’. Due to the short-term nature of the Note 28 Business combinations receivables, the fair value approximates the gross contractual amounts. Note 6 Note 7 The contractual cash flows that are not expected to be collected are Note 8 Acquisition of Candyking Holding AB immaterial. Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries contributed Note 9 SEK 1,082m to Cloetta’s consolidated net sales from the acquisition Note 10 SEKm date to 28 April 2018. The accounting for the business combination has Note 11 been finalized. The goodwill acquired is allocated to CGU ScandinaConsideration transferred Note 12 via. Purchase price 325 Note 13 See Note 1 for details about changes in the group structure. Transaction adjustment –62 Note 14 Contingent consideration 128 Note 15 Note 16 Consideration transferred 391 Note 17 Acquisition Candyking bond and other debt –391 Note 29 Financial risks and financial risk management Note 18 Net consideration 0 Note 19 Note 20 Recognized amounts of identifiable assets and liabilities assumed: Through its activities, the Group is exposed it to a variety of financial Note 21 Non-current assets 277 risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, Note 22 Intangible assets (excl. goodwill) 177 cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity Note 23 Property, plant and equipment 78 risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the Note 24 Other non-current assets 22 unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential Note 25 adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Note 26 Current assets 253 Financial risks are managed by the Group treasury department Note 27 Inventories 88 under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The Group treasury Note 28 Trade and other receivables 151 department identifies, evaluates and, if applicable, hedges financial Note 29 Cash and cash equivalents 14 risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. The Board Note 30 of Directors provides written principles for overall risk management, Note 31 Non-current liabilities –41 as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exNote 32 Deferred tax liabilities –41 change risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial inNote 33 struments and non-derivative financial instruments and investment of Note 34 Current liabilities –667 excess liquidity. The primary market and financial risks are described Note 35 Bond and other debt –391 in detail on the next page. Other borrowings –23 Trade payables –136 Taxes and social security premiums –50 Other current liabilities –67 Total identifiable net assets –178 Goodwill 178 Net consideration 0 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 123 Market risk Interest rate risk Currency risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on the interest-bearing The Group is primarily active in the European Union and Norway. non-current and current liabilities. The Group’s currency risk mainly relates to positions and future The Group is exposed to the consequences of variable interest transactions in euros (EUR), Danish kroner (DKK), Norwegian krorates on liabilities. In relation to fixed interest liabilities, it is exposed ner (NOK), US dollars (USD) and British pounds (GBP). to market values, which is not a significant risk for the Group. The Group has major investments in foreign operations whose net If the interest rate had been 1 percentage point higher with all assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have Based on a risk analysis, the Group’s Boards of Directors has been approximately SEK 5m (7) lower. If the interest rate had been decided to hedge the euro-related currency risk by drawing part of the 1 percentage point lower with all other variables held constant, profit credit facility in euros. This hedge covers part of the currency risk in before tax for the year would have been approximately SEK 1m (–6) euros. Hedge accounting (hedges of net investments in foreign operahigher. The analysis considers the effects of interest rate swaps and the tions) is applied. This has resulted in a reduction in the volatility of net impact of negative interest rates. financial items caused by revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities as of the date of initial application of hedge accounting. The Group’s Credit risk investment in trademarks in Cloetta Ireland Ltd, Cloetta Suomi Oy, The Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk. Cloetta Holland B.V. and Cloetta Slovakia s.r.o. is hedged by a net The Group’s customers are subject to a credit policy. Sales are subject euro-denominated loan (carrying amount: EUR 155m (149)) which to payment conditions which vary per customer. mitigates the foreign currency translation risk on these trademarks. A loss allowance for trade receivables is established when there is The fair value of the loan was EUR 155m (149). The loan is designated objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts as a net investment hedge. The effectiveness of the hedge is tested and due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant documented on a monthly basis. No ineffectiveness has been recogfinancial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter nized from the net investment hedge. bankruptcy or financial reorganization, and default or delinquency in Note 1 To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commerpayments (more than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that Note 2 cial transactions and recognized assets and liabilities, the Group uses the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the allowance is the Note 3 forward contracts. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commerdifference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value Note 4 cial transactions or recognized assets or liabilities are denominated of estimated future cash flows, discounted by the original effective Note 5 in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. The Group interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the Note 6 entered into forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the currency use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognized in Note 7 risk of the USD with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting the profit and loss account within general and administrative expenses. Note 8 date. See Note 23 for the details of the forward foreign currency When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the Note 9 contracts. allowance account for trade receivables. Note 10 In the financial year 2018, if the Swedish krona had weakened/ Credit terms for customers are determined individually in the Note 11 strengthened by 10 per cent against the euro with all other variables different markets. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade Note 12 held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been approxireceivables are limited, due to the size and diversity of the Group’s Note 13 mately SEK 50m (27) lower/higher, as a result of the foreign exchange customer base. A large part of the trade debtors for international marNote 14 gains/losses on translation of all euro-denominated trading in Europe kets, Ireland, the UK, Germany and the Netherlands and smaller trade Note 15 and foreign exchange losses/gains on translation of euro-denominated debtors in Finland are insured via credit risk insurances. In addition, Note 16 borrowings. receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result Note 17 The currency risk attached to the transactions in the other currenthat the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Group’s Note 18 cies is not significant as the amounts involved are not significant to the historical experience of collecting receivables is that credit risk is Note 19 total Group. considered to be low across all markets. Note 19 Note 21 Note 22 The Group uses several banks (range of most used banks varies between AAand A-3 rating) and has a revolving facility available Note 23 Note 24 Cash balances Credit revolving loan Other loans Note 25 SEKm Rating (S&P) 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Note 26 Note 27 Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) AA423 676 – – –520 –680 Note 28 Nordea A-1+ 49 48 – – – – Note 29 Danske Bank A/S A 44 – – – –520 –680 Note 30 Ulster Bank Ltd. A-2 20 10 – – – – Note 31 Tatra Banka A-2 9 6 – – – – Note 32 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) A+ 0 – – – –520 –680 Note 33 DNB Sweden AB A+ – – – – –520 –680 Note 34 Other banks 7 19 – – – – Note 35 Total 551 759 – – –2,078 –2,719 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 124 Financial reports Liquidity risk balance sheet ratio targets and, if applicable, external regulatory or Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the legal requirements for example, currency restrictions. Group and is aggregated by the Group Treasury department. The The Notional Group Account (NGA) includes both the Parent Group Treasury department monitors the sources and the amounts Company and several operating entities. Surplus cash held by operatof the company’s cash flows, dividend, obligation, loans, actual cash ing entities included in the NGA is available to the Group’s Treasury position and rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to department and is used for the Group’s internal and external financing ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs, while maintainactivities. Surplus cash held by operating entities not included in the ing sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities NGA is transferred to the Group’s Treasury department and is also (Note 22) at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing used for the Group’s internal and external financing activities. limits or covenants on any of its borrowing facilities, and the impact The table below analyzes the Group’s financial liabilities into relesuch restrictions had or are expected to have on its ability to meet its vant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance cash obligations. Such forecasting takes into consideration the Group’s sheet date to the contractual maturity date. debt financing plans, covenant compliance, compliance with internal 31 Dec 2018 SEKm Term < 1 year Term 1–2 years Term 2–3 years Term 3–4 years Term 4-5 years Term >5 years Total Loans from credit institutions 17 1,290 805 – – – 2,112 Commercial papers 505 – – – – – 505 Derivative financial liabilities 63 4 4 – – – 71 Trade and other payables, excluding other taxes and social security payables 1,185 – – – – – 1,185 Note 1 Total 1,770 1,294 809 – – – 3,873 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 31 Dec 2017 SEKm Term < 1 year Term 1–2 years Term 2–3 years Term 3–4 years Term 4–5 years Term >5 years Total Note 5 Note 6 Loans from credit institutions 1,024 1,728 – – – – 2,752 Note 7 Finance lease liabilities 0 – – – – – 0 Note 8 Derivative financial liabilities 74 5 4 4 – – 87 Note 9 Other non-current liabilities – 170 – – – – 170 Note 10 Trade and other payables, Note 11 excluding other taxes and social security payables 1,217 – – – – – 1,217 Note 12 Total 2,315 1,903 4 4 – – 4,226 Note 13 Note 14 Note 15 Capital risk management ments. Cloetta actively monitors these covenants and other ratios on Note 16 The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the a monthly basis. The term and revolving facilities agreement, which is Note 17 Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and thereby provide unsecured in nature, includes one covenant, relating to the net debt/ Note 18 Note 19 returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to EBITDA ratio. The covenant was not affected by the amendment and Note 20 maintain an optimal capital structure as a means to reduce the cost restatement of the term and revolving facilities agreement in June Note 21 of capital. The Group’s priority in monitoring capital is to maintain 2018. Throughout 2017 and 2018, the Group was in compliance with Note 22 compliance with the covenants in the applicable credit facilities agreethe covenant requirements. Note 23 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 Note 30 Financial instruments – measurement categories and fair value Note 27 Note 28 Share-based long-term incentive plan Fair value measurement Note 29 The AGMs approved the Board’s proposal relating to a share-based The only items recognized at fair value after initial recognition are: Note 30 long-term incentive plan. • T he interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts cateNote 31 Under the share-based long-term incentive plans, the entity regorized at level 2 of the fair value hierarchy in all periods presented; Note 32 ceives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments • T he contingent earn-out consideration related to the acquisition of Note 33 (shares) of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries initially categorized at Note 34 in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognized as an expense. level 3, as well as; Note 35 The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair • A ssets held for sale, in cases where the fair value less cost of disposal value of the shares granted: is lower than the carrying amount. • i ncluding any market performance conditions (for example, an entity’s share price); and • i ncluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining as an employee of the entity over a specified time period). See Note 25 for more information. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 125 On 28 April 2017, the contingent earn-out consideration arising The fair value measurements by level according to the fair value from the acquisition of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries was measurement hierarchy are as follows: recognized in an amount of SEK 128m. The fair values of the financial • Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost are approximately liabilities (level 1); equal to their carrying amounts, with the exception of the forward • Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are contract to repurchase own shares which has a fair value of SEK 11m observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indi(liability) while the carrying amount is SEK 59m (liability). For rectly (derived from prices) (level 2); measurement purposes, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities • Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable maris estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the ket data (unobservable inputs) (level 3). current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments. The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy: Fair value Other financial 31 Dec 2018 Mandatory Financial assets liabilities at SEKm at FVTPL at amortized cost carrying value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets •F  orward foreign currency contracts 1 – – 1 – 1 – 1 •T  rade and other receivables, excluding other taxes and social security receivables and prepaid expenses and accrued income – 756 – 756 Note 1 •C  ash and cash equivalents – 551 – 551 Note 2 Total assets 1 1,307 – 1,308 – 1 – 1 Note 3 Note 4 Financial liabilities Note 5 •L  oans from credit institutions – – 2,078 2,078 Note 6 • Commercial papers – – 500 500 Note 7 •F  orward contract to repurchase own shares – – 59 59 – 11 – 11 Note 8 • Interest rate swaps 5 – – 5 – 5 – 5 Note 9 • Trade and other receivables, excluding other taxes and social security receivables and prepaid Note 10 expenses and accrued income – – 1,040 1,040 Note 11 • C ontingent consideration 142 – – 142 – – 142 142 Note 12 Total liabilities 147 – 3,677 3,824 – 16 142 158 Note 13 Note 14 Note 15 Note 16 Fair value Note 17 Other financial 31 Dec 2017 Loans and liabilities at Note 18 SEKm FVTPL receivables carrying value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note 19 Note 19 Financial assets Note 21 •F  orward foreign currency contracts 0 – – 0 – 0 – 0 Note 22 •T  rade and other receivables, excluding other Note 23 taxes and social security receivables and prepaid expenses and accrued income – 795 – 795 Note 24 •C  ash and cash equivalents – 759 – 759 Note 25 Total assets 0 1,554 – 1,554 – – – – Note 26 Note 27 Financial liabilities Note 28 • Loans from credit institutions – – 2,719 2,719 Note 29 • Forward contract to repurchase own shares – – 70 70 – 2 – 2 Note 30 • Interest rate swaps 3 – – 3 – 3 – 3 Note 31 • Forward foreign currency contracts – – – – – – – – Note 32 • Trade and other receivables, excluding other Note 33 taxes and social security receivables and prepaid Note 34 expenses and accrued income – – 1,217 1,217 Note 35 • C ontingent consideration 138 – – 138 – – 138 138 Total liabilities 141 – 4,006 4,147 – 5 138 143 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 126 Financial reports The assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 December 2018 requirements of the Group. These instruments are therefore included and 31 December 2017 respectively are reflected in ‘derivative financial at level 2. The fair value measurement of the contingent consideration instruments’, ‘other non-current liabilities’ and ‘other current liabilirequires use of significant unobservable inputs and was thereby initialties. ly categorized at level 3. There are no financial instruments categorized at level 3 of the fair The valuation techniques and inputs used to value financial instruvalue hierarchy other than the contingent earn-out consideration relatments are: ed to the acquisition of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries. See • Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments; Note 24 for movements in the contingent earn-out consideration. • T he fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value On 28 April 2017, the contingent earn-out consideration arising of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves; from the acquisition of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries • T he fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated was recognized in an amount of SEK 128m. At 31 December 2018 using the difference between the exchange rate on the balance sheet the undiscounted contingent earn-out consideration amounted to date with the contractually agreed upon exchange rate; SEK 146m (discounted: SEK 142m). No transfers between fair value • T he fair value of the asset held for sale is based on valuations by hierarchy levels have occurred during the financial year or the prior external independent valuators; financial year. • Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an acdetermine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. tive market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined The assets measured at fair value are identified as a non-recurring using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximize the fair value measurement and are related to the assets held for sale. The use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as assets are valued at fair value less cost of disposal in the event that the possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required fair value less costs of disposal is below the carrying amount. See Note to determine the fair value of an instrument are observable, the 19 for the movements in the assets held for sale. instrument is included in level 2. The valuation of these instruments is The contingent considerations are measured at fair value using the based on quoted market prices (price-component), but the underlying expected financial performance. Note 1 contract amounts (quantity-component) are based on the specific Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 The valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used, Note 5 can be specified as follows: Note 6 Inter-relationship between Note 7 significant unobservable inputs Note 8 Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs and fair value measurement Note 9 Contingent considerations Note 10 – Contingent earn-out The fair value of the contingent earn-out considTotal sold volume of pick & mix in The estimated fair value would Note 11 eration is calculated based on the pick & mix sold confectionery and natural snacks increase (decrease) if: Note 12 volume of the Cloetta Group for 2018 in comparison in the Nordic countries, the UK – Total sold volume of pick & mix Note 13 with the sold volume target and the minimum sold and Poland during 2018. in confectionery and natural Note 14 volume as defined in the purchase agreement besnacks in the Nordic countries, Note 15 tween Cloetta and the previous shareholder and the the UK and Poland during 2018 agent of the bondholders. The expected payment is were higher (lower). Note 16 discounted using the cost of equity. Note 17 Derivative financial instruments Note 18 – Interest rate swaps The valuation of the interest rate swaps is calculated Not applicable Not applicable Note 19 as the present value of the estimated future cash Note 20 flows based on observable yield curves. Note 21 – Forward foreign currency The valuation of the forward foreign currency conNot applicable Not applicable Note 22 contracts tract is calculated as the difference between future Note 23 cash flows in foreign currencies converted at the Note 24 spot rate at reporting date and the future cash flows Note 25 in foreign currencies converted at the contractual Note 26 agreed-upon exchange rates. Note 27 – Forward contracts to The valuation of the forward contract to repurchase Not applicable Not applicable Note 28 repurchase own shares own shares is calculated as the agreed-upon price for repurchasing own shares multiplied by the numNote 29 ber of shares to be repurchased on maturity date of Note 30 the contract. Note 31 Note 32 See Note 24 for the effect of the measurements regarding contingent consideration liabilities in the profit and loss account and for movements in Note 33 contingent consideration liabilities. Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 127 Note 31 Related party transactions Note 33 Critical accounting estimates and judgements All group companies mentioned in Note P8 are considered to be related In preparing the financial statements, the Group Management Team parties. Transactions between group companies are eliminated upon makes estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of consolidation. assets and liabilities, net sales and expenses, and disclosures of conIn the context of this financial report, and aside from the subsiditingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The estimates aries of Cloetta AB (publ), the Board of Directors, Group Management and assumptions that are associated with a significant risk of causing Team and key employees that have significant influence over the Group a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and AB Malfors Promotor and its subsidiaries are regarded as related in the next financial year, as well as critical judgments in applying parties. In 2017 and 2018 no transactions other than dividend paythe Group’s accounting policies are discussed below. The accounting ments occurred between Cloetta AB (publ) including its subsidiaries estimates and judgments are believed to be reasonable under the and AB Malfors Promotor including its subsidiaries. circumstances. The Group Management Team and audit committee have Transactions with the Board of Directors, discussed the development, selection and disclosures regarding the Group Management Team and key employees Group’s critical accounting principles and estimates. The estimates For information about salaries and remuneration of the Board of and judgments made in the application of the Group’s accounting poliDirectors and Group Management Team, see pages 80–81 and Note cies are described below. 6. The Group has no receivables on the Board of Directors, Group Management Team and key employees. In 2017 and 2018 share-based Impairment testing of intangible assets long-term incentive plans were approved by the AGM. Total costs For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are allocated to CGUs excluding social security charges related to the share-based long-term when it is not possible to assess impairment on an individual asset incentive plans that were recognized amount to SEK 2m (11), of which basis. The recoverable amount of an asset is compared to the carrying Note 1 SEK 0m (5) is related to the Group Management Team. The release amount to determine if an asset is impaired. An asset’s recoverable Note 2 in costs in 2018 for the Group Management Team is related to Group amount is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less cost of Note 3 Management Team members leaving Cloetta before the vesting date of disposal. The value in use is the present value of the future cash flows to Note 4 the plans and due to releases for performance shares for other Group be generated by an asset from its continuing use in the business. Note 5 Management Team members. Other liabilities to the Group ManageUsing management’s best estimates in determination of the Note 6 ment Team and key employees consist of customary personnel-related terminal growth rates, pre-tax discount rates and future cash flows, the Note 7 liabilities. No other transactions other than dividend payment and estimated recoverable amounts of the group of CGUs in Scandinavia Note 8 employee and Board remuneration occurred between Cloetta AB and Middle and the CGUs in Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands Note 9 (publ) including its subsidiaries and the Board of Directors, Group exceed the carrying amounts. Note 10 Management Team and key employees. The carrying amount of the intangible assets at the end of reportNote 11 ing period was SEK 5,626m (5,490). Note 12 Note 13 Accounting for income taxes Note 14 Note 32 Operating leases As part of the process of preparing the financial statements, the Group Note 15 is required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in Note 16 See Note 1 (XXIX) for the accounting policy. which the Group operates. There are many transactions and calcuNote 17 lations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during Note 18 Recognized expenses for operating leases amount to: the ordinary course of business. The Group recognizes liabilities for Note 19 SEKm 2018 2017 anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional Note 19 taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters differs Note 21 Lease payments 106 100 from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences impact Note 22 Note 23 Future annual payment obligations for leased the current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period Note 24 assets in the Group are broken down as follows: in which such determination is made. Note 25 Within one year 80 55 Temporary differences between tax and financial reporting give Note 26 Between one and five years 114 115 rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in the Note 27 More than 5 years 8 – balance sheet. The Group must also assess the likelihood that deferred Note 28 Total 202 170 tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. A deferred tax Note 29 asset is not recognized if, and to the extent that it is probable that all or Note 30 some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Note 31 The operating lease commitments mainly consist of the lease of buildNote 32 ings and warehouses with an average contract term of approximately Provisions Note 33 five years and of car lease contracts with an average contract term of By their nature, provisions are dependent on estimates and assessNote 34 four years. All operating leases relate to minimum lease payments unments of whether the criteria for recognition have been met, including Note 35 der non-cancellable operating lease agreements. There are no subleasestimates of the outcome and the amount of the potential cost of reses, no contingent rents, no renewal or purchase options and escalation olution. Provisions are recognized as an expense in the profit and loss clauses nor any restrictions imposed by leasing arrangements. account when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the In December 2015 a decision was made to close the factory in Dieramount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. en, the Netherlands, and the factory was closed in 2017. On 31 December 2017 the operational lease agreement for the building terminated. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 128 Financial reports Provisions for litigation, tax disputes, etc. for a total amount of SEK 32m (8), are based on an estimate of the costs, taking into account Note 34 Changes in accounting policies legal advice and the information currently available. In addition, provisions for termination benefits and exit costs involve management’s New and amended standards and interpretations judgment in estimating the expected cash outflows for severance payadopted by the Group ments and site closures or other exit costs. Should the actual outcome The Group has adopted IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018. A differ from the assumptions and estimates, revisions to the estimated number of amended standards are effective from 1 January 2018 but provisions would be required, which could impact the Group’s financial they do not have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements. position and results from operations. Initial application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 has the following effect: • Documentation requirements for hedge accounting applied; Accounting for pensions and • A llocation and presentation of revenue to the different performance other post-employment benefits obligations identified in the pick & mix sales. Pension benefits represent obligations that will be settled in the future and require assumptions to project the benefit obligations and fair IFRS 9, ‘Financial Instruments’, published in July 2014, replaces the values of plan assets. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments, Recognition and to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s Measurement. IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and expected service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investderecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, and introducment and funding decisions made by the Group. For calculation of the es new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for fipresent value of the pension obligation and the net cost, actuarial asnancial assets. The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure sumptions are made about demographic variables (such as mortality) requirements and changes in presentation. The Group has reviewed and financial variables (such as future increases in salaries). Changes its financial assets and liabilities and assessed the potential impact on in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected its consolidated financial statements resulting from the application of benefit obligations, funding requirements and periodic costs incurred. IFRS 9. Based on these assessments, Cloetta concluded that its current Note 1 It should be noted that when discount rates decline or rates of future hedge relationships qualify as continuing hedges upon the adoption of Note 2 salary increase, the pension benefit obligations will increase. For deIFRS 9 and has updated its hedge documentation in accordance with Note 3 tails about the key assumptions and policies, see Note 25. The carrying IFRS 9. This does not have an impact on the company’s balance sheet Note 4 amount at the end of the reporting period was SEK 419m (374). or profit and loss account, nor does it have a material impact on other Note 5 Note 6 areas of Cloetta’s consolidated financial statements. Note 7 Capitalization of development costs Note 8 Costs incurred on development projects are recognized as intangible IFRS 15, ’Revenue from contracts with customers’, establishes a Note 9 assets when it is probable that a project will be successful in view of comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and Note 10 its commercial and technological feasibility. The Group Management when revenue is recognized. This standard replaces IAS 18 covering Note 11 Team’s judgement is required in determining when the Group should contracts for goods and services, IAS 11 covering construction conNote 12 start capitalizing development costs. In general, the Group Managetracts and IFRIC 13 covering customer loyalty programmes. Cloetta Note 13 ment Team has determined that commercial and technological feaapplied this standard using the full retrospective approach. This Note 14 sibility, in general, is probable when the Group decides to pre-launch means that any cumulative impact of the adoption is to be recognized Note 15 a product and the costs can be reliably measured. However, since the in the retained earnings as of 1 January 2017 and that the comparable Note 16 development costs incurred by the Group after the pre-launch of a information is to be restated insofar as it is impacted. In this context Note 17 product are considered insignificant, the Group expenses all developit should be noted that the impact of the adoption on the balance sheet Note 18 ment costs in the period when the expenditure is incurred. Conseand profit and loss account is not material. The details of the changes Note 19 quently, based on management’s judgement, no development costs and quantitative impact of the changes are set out below. Note 20 have been recognized as intangible assets in the consolidated financial Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control Note 21 statements. of the goods or services. Determining the timing of the transfer of conNote 22 trol – at a point in time or over time – requires judgement. In accordNote 23 Revenue recognition ance with IAS 18 Cloetta only recognized one performance obligation Note 24 Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of the goods related to sale of goods. The adoption of IFRS 15 did not result in any Note 25 or services. Determining the timing of the transfer of control – at a changes in the accounting for packaged business as this only comprises Note 26 point in time or over time – and amounts allocated to performance sale of goods. However, for the pick & mix sales, Cloetta identified the Note 27 obligations requires judgement. For merchandising services, revenue is following performance obligations in the contracts with customers in Note 28 recognized in the amount to which Cloetta has a right to invoice. Since accordance with IFRS 15: Note 29 delivery of goods and merchandising services normally takes place • Sale of goods; Note 30 weekly, this output method best reflects that the measure of progress • Leases of fixtures; Note 31 Note 32 of the merchandising service as a performance obligation is satisfied at • Merchandising services. Note 33 the same time as the goods are delivered. The different performance obligations do not give rise to a different Note 34 timing of recognizing revenue. For the performance obligation merNote 35 chandising services – which is satisfied over time – Cloetta selected an appropriate method for measuring Cloetta’s progress towards complete satisfaction of that performance obligation. For merchandising services the practical expedient (IFRS 15.B16) is applicable, whereas Cloetta recognizes revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice. Since delivery of goods and merchandising services normally takes place weekly, this output method best reflects that the measure of progress of the merchandising service as a performance obligation is satisfied at the same time as the goods are delivered. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 129 Therefore, total revenues within the pick & mix sales only have to The Group has assessed the estimated impact that initial applicabe allocated to the identified performance obligation which impacts the tion of IFRS 16 will have on its consolidated financial statement, presentation of disaggregated revenue, and no line items in the profit as described below. The actual impact of adopting the standard on and loss account and balance sheet are to be restated. See note 2 for the 1 January 2019 may change because: disclosure on the disaggregation of revenue. IFRS 15 does not have an • the new accounting policies are subject to change until the Group impact on the financial statements. IFRS 15 does not have any other presents its first financial statements that include the date of initial significant impact on the Group’s revenue recognition. application. The Group will recognize new assets and liabilities for its leases. New standards and amendments to standards The nature of expenses related to those leases will change because not yet adopted the Group will recognize a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interand interest expenses on lease liabilities. Until 31 December 2018, the pretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January Group recognized lease expenses on a straight-line basis over the term 2018, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated of the lease, and recognized assets and liabilities only to the extent that financial statements. None of these are expected to have any impact on there was a timing difference between actual lease payments and the the consolidated financial statements of the Group, with the exception expenses recognized. of the following set out below: Based on the information currently available, the Group estimates that an additional lease liability of SEK 229m, and a right-of-use asset IFRS 16, ‘Leases’, was issued in January 2016 and supersedes IAS of SEK 229m, will be recognized as at 1 January 2019. The impact 17 Leases. It will result in almost all leases being recognized on the for 2019 is expected to be an improvement in EBITDA of SEK 74m, balance sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance leases an increase of depreciation costs of SEK 71m and increased financial has been removed. Under the new standard, an asset (the right to use expenses of SEK 3m. the leased item) and a lease liability to pay rentals are to be recognized. No significant impact is expected for leases in which the Group is The only exceptions are short-term and low-value leases. The standard a lessor. Note 1 is mandatory for financial years commencing on or after 1 January There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet Note 2 2019. effective that can be expected to have a material impact on the Group. Note 3 The standard will affect the accounting for the Group’s operating Note 4 leases. The Group started the implementation process in 2016 and Note 5 finalized the transition process. Cloetta completed the extraction and Note 6 enrichment of relevant data points per 1 January 2019 for all lease Note 7 contracts. A lease accounting solution has been selected. Cloetta has Note 35 Events after the balance sheet date Note 8 uploaded the relevant data points into the lease accounting solution. Note 9 Based on an impact analysis, Cloetta decided to opt for the modified After the end of the reporting period, no significant events have taken Note 10 retrospective transition approach in which the right-of-use asset will place that could affect the company’s operations. Note 11 equal the lease liability per the transition date. For the calculation of Note 12 the lease liability the discount rates as at 1 January 2019 will be used. Note 13 The leases that will be recorded on Cloetta’s balance sheet as a Note 14 result of IFRS 16 will mainly be for land and buildings (offices and Note 15 warehouses), transport (cars, forklifts and trucks) and other equipment Note 16 (e.g. IT, machinery, equipment, printers and coffee machines). Note 17 Note 18 Note 19 Note 19 Note 21 Note 22 Note 23 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 Note 27 Note 28 Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 Note 33 Note 34 Note 35 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 130 Financial reports Parent Company profit and loss account SEKm Note 2018 2017 Net sales P2 84 107 Gross profit 84 107 General and administrative expenses P3, P4 –93 –129 Operating loss –9 –22 Exchange differences on borrowings and cash P5 4 3 Other financial income P5 24 34 Other financial expenses P5 –17 –14 Net financial items 11 23 Profit before tax 2 1 Income tax P6 –2 0 Profit for the year 0 1 Profit for the year corresponds to comprehensive income for the year. Primary activities Cloetta AB’s primary activities include head office functions such as group-wide management and administration. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 131 Parent Company balance sheet SEKm Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 ASSETS Non-current financial assets Deferred tax asset P7 6 5 Shareholdings in group companies P8 4,884 4,884 Receivables from group companies P15 476 464 Total non-current assets 5,366 5,353 Current assets Receivables from group companies P15 38 50 Prepaid expenses and accrued income – 1 Cash and bank P15 0 – Total current assets 38 51 Total assets 5,404 5,404 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 1,443 1,443 Share premium 2,713 2,713 Retained earnings including profit for the year –698 –267 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company P10 3,458 3,889 Non-current liabilities Borrowings P11 798 – Payables to group companies P15 135 134 Derivative financial instruments P12 3 1 Provisions 1 1 Total non-current liabilities 937 136 Current liabilities Payables to group companies P15 487 356 Borrowings P11 500 999 Trade payables 1 3 Other current liabilities 11 4 Derivative financial instruments P12 1 – Accrued expenses and deferred income P13 9 17 Total current liabilities 1,009 1,379 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 5,404 5,404 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 132 Financial reports Parent Company statement of changes in equity Share premium Retained Total SEKm Share capital reserve earnings equity Balance at 1 January 2017 1,443 2,713 –63 4,093 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – 1 1 Total comprehensive income for 2017 – – 1 1 Transactions with owners Share-based payments – – 11 11 Dividends – – –216 –216 Total transactions with owners – – –205 –205 Balance at 31 December 2017 1,443 2,713 –267 3,889 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – 0 0 Total comprehensive income for 2018 – – 0 0 Transactions with owners Share-based payments – – 2 2 Dividends – – –433 –433 Total transactions with owners – – –431 –431 Balance at 31 December 2018 1,443 2,713 –698 3,458 Profit for the year corresponds to comprehensive income for the year. Total equity is attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 133 Parent Company cash flow statement SEKm Note 2018 2017 Operating loss –9 –22 Adjustments for non-cash items Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses –1 3 Interest paid –10 –11 Income tax paid –1 0 Cash flow from operating activities –21 –30 before changes in working capital Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in operating receivables 27 82 Change in operating liabilities 130 164 Cash flow from operating activities 136 216 Cash flow from operating and investing activities 136 216 Financing activities Repayment of interest-bearing borrowings –700 – Proceeds from borrowings (net of transaction cost) 1,000 – Other 1 – Dividends to shareholders –433 –216 Cash flow from financing activities –132 –216 Cash flow for the year 4 – Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year P9 – – Cash flow for the year 4 – Exchange difference –4 – Cash and cash equivalents at end of year P9 0 – Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 134 Financial reports Notes to the Parent Company financial statement Shareholdings in group companies Accounting and valuation policies of Note P1 Shareholdings in group companies are accounted for at acquisition the Parent Company costs. The transaction costs are included in the carrying amount of shareholdings in group companies. The annual financial statements of the Parent Company are presented in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and Dividends the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2, Anticipated dividends from group companies are recognized in cases Accounting for Legal Entities. The statements issued by the Board with where the Parent Company has full control over the size of the dividend respect to listed companies are also applied. RFR 2 states that in the and has decided on the size of the dividend before the Parent Company Note P1 Note P2 report for the legal entity, the Parent Company shall apply all EU-enpublishes its financial reports. Note P3 dorsed IFRSs and statements as far as possible, within the frameDividends received from group companies are recognized in the Note P4 work of the Annual Accounts Act and with respect to the connection profit and loss account. Note P5 between accounting and taxation. This recommendation defines the Note P6 exceptions and additional disclosures compared to IFRS. These finanEmployee benefits Note P7 cial statements include the financial statements of the Parent Company Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans also include the Note P8 covering the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset Note P9 ceiling, if any, excluding interest. Remeasurements are recognized in Note P10 Changed accounting standards the profit and loss account when incurred. Salary increases are not Note P11 Neither revised IFRSs, nor revised RFR 2 (January 2018) effective taken into account in the calculation of the defined benefit obligation Note P12 from 1 January 2018 have entailed any practical change in accounting and the applied discount rate is established by the Swedish Financial Note P13 standards for the Parent Company. Supervisory Authority. All other expenses related to defined benefit Note P14 plans are recognized in the general and administrative expenses in the Note P15 Differences between the accounting policies of the profit and loss account when incurred. Group and the Parent Company The differences between the accounting principles applied by the Financial guarantees Group and the Parent Company are described below. For reporting of financial guarantee contracts on behalf of group companies, the Parent Company applies a voluntary exemption that is Classification and presentation permitted by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The voluntary The profit and loss account and balance sheet of the Parent Company exemption refers to financial guarantees issued on behalf of group are presented in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. companies. The Parent Company recognizes financial guarantee The differences compared to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statecontracts as provisions in the balance sheet when it is probable that an ments, refer mainly to financial income and expenses, equity and the outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. The costs presentation of provisions as a separate item in the balance sheet. are recognized in the general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are expensed when incurred and recognized in the other financial expenses in the profit and loss account. Note P2 Breakdown of income Group contributions The net sales of SEK 84m (107) refer to intra-group services. Group contributions received are recognized in other financial income in the profit and loss account. Group contributions paid to group The breakdown of net sales by market is as follows: companies are reported by the Parent Company as an investment in shareholdings in group companies in the balance sheet. SEKm 2018 2017 Sweden 44 46 The Netherlands 11 22 Italy – 8 Finland 7 9 Other 22 22 Total 84 107 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 135 Note P3 Personnel expenses and number of employees Note P4 Audit fees Personnel expenses are specified as follows: SEKm 2018 2017 SEKm 2018 2017 Salaries and remuneration Fee for auditing services 3 3 Group Management Team – Sweden 17 14 Fee for other services – Tax advice – 0 Note P1 Of which, short-term variable compensation – Audit-related advice – 1 Note P2 – Sweden 2 0 – Other 0 0 Note P3 Total other services 0 1 Note P4 Other employees Note P5 Total audit fees 3 4 – Sweden – 0 Note P6 Note P7 Total salaries and remuneration 17 14 Auditing services refer to the auditing of the Parent Company’s Note P8 statutory financial statements, the Parent Company’s administration Note P9 Pension costs by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO, and the audit of Note P10 Group Management Team remuneration of Group Management Team. Note P11 – Defined contribution plans 3 4 For both financial years 2017 and 2018, KPMG was elected as the Note P12 – Defined benefit plans 0 0 auditor of the Group. Note P13 Total pension costs 3 4 Note P14 Social security expenses, all employees 6 9 Note P15 Total pension costs and social security 9 13 Note P5 Net financial items expenses Total personnel expenses 26 27 SEKm 2018 2017 See pages 80–81 for details on remuneration of the Group Management Exchange differences Team. on borrowings and cash 4 3 The company expenses the pension obligation related to the defined benefit pension plans, which are secured through credit insurance Group contributions 14 16 Interest income, group companies 10 15 with, and administered by, Försäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti, Unrealized gains on single currency interest Mutual in the administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. rate swaps – 3 The average number of employees is 4 (6), of which zero (1) are Interest income on financial liabilities women. All employees are employed in Sweden. measured at amortized cost – 0 Other financial income 24 34 The specification of gender distribution in the Board of Directors and Group Management Team is as follows: Interest expenses, third-party borrowings –9 –8 % 2018 2017 Interest expenses, group companies –1 –2 Percentage of women Unrealized losses on single currency interest Board of Directors 43 43 rate swaps –3 – Group Management Team 13 20 Realized losses on single currency interest rate swaps –3 –4 Other interest expenses –1 0 Other financial expenses –17 –14 Net financial items 11 23 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 136 Financial reports Note P6 Income taxes Note P7 Deferred and current income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities refer to the tax effect of the difference SEKm 2018 2017 between the tax base of the defined asset or liability and its carrying Current income tax –2 – amount as recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax for Deferred income tax 0 0 the period was SEK 6m (5) and is considered to be realized after more Total –2 0 than 12 months. The recognized deferred taxes comprise deductible The year’s income tax expense corresponds to temporary differences of SEK 6m (5) and unutilized tax losses carried an effective tax rate of, % 84.8 6.6 forward of SEK 0m (0). There are no unrecognized deferred taxes. SEKm 2018 2017 The difference between the effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate in Sweden is attributable to the following items: Taxable profit from ordinary activities 2 1 Tax calculated at applicable tax rate for the Parent Company 0 0 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes –1 0 Other –1 0 Income tax –2 0 Note P1 Reported effective tax rate, % 84.8 6.6 Note P2 Tax rate in Sweden, % 22.0 22.0 Note P3 Note P4 Note P5 Note P6 Note P7 Note P8 Shareholdings in group companies Note P8 Note P9 Note P10 Cloetta AB (publ) Note P11 Note P12 Note P13 Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Note P14 Development Sverige AB Holland BV Note P15 AB E out Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta instrument Ireland Deutschland Finance Holland BV Holland BV Nutisal AB Slovakia sro Suomi Oy België NV USA Inc. AB Holding Ltd GmbH Holland BV Italien branch Singapore branch Candyking Cloetta Candyking Candyking Danmark Cloetta Poland Ireland Ltd Sverige AB UK Ltd ApS Sp. z o.o. FTF Sweets Cloetta Cloetta Candymix Pickalot AB USA Inc. UK Ltd Norge AS Ireland Ltd Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 137 % of capital Carrying amount SEKm Corp. ID no. Domicile 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cloetta Holland B.V.7 34221053 Amsterdam, the Netherlands 100 100 4,087 4,087 Cloetta België N.V. 0404183756 Turnhout, Belgium 100 100 – – Cloetta Suomi Oy7,9 1933121-3 Turku, Finland 100 100 – – Candyking Finland Oy 3,7,9 0732591-6 Helsinki, Finland – 100 – – Karikkikatu Oy 9 0723577-7 Turku, Finland – 100 – – Cloetta Danmark ApS 7,9 28106866 Brøndby, Denmark 100 100 – – Candyking Danmark A/S 3,7,9 27720390 Randers, Denmark – 100 – – Cloetta Norge AS 7,9 987943033 Høvik, Norway 100 100 – – Candyking Norge AS 3,7,9 979 514 743 Oslo, Norway – 100 – – Cloetta Deutschland GmbH HRB 9561 Bocholt, Germany 100 100 – – Cloetta USA Inc. 4 EIN 46-2706408 Wilmington, United States – – – – Cloetta Finance Holland B.V. 20078943 Amsterdam, the Netherlands 100 100 – – Cloetta Slovakia s.r.o. 35 962 488 Bratislava, Slovakia 100 100 – – Cloetta Nutisal AB 556706-9264 Helsingborg, Sweden 100 100 – – Cloetta Ireland Holding Ltd. 544426 Dublin, Ireland 100 100 – – Cloetta Ireland Ltd. 5 285910 Dublin, Ireland 100 100 – – Candymix Ireland Ltd. 3,7 494493 Dublin, Ireland 100 100 – – Cloetta Sverige AB 2 556674-9155 Malmö, Sweden 100 100 795 795 E out instrument AB 2,3,6,7 559094-9748 Linköping, Sweden 100 100 – – Candyking Sverige AB 3,7,8 556319-6780 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 – – Pickalot AB 3 556730-1857 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 – – Note P1 Lilla Fiket AB 3,7,8 559016-4181 Stockholm, Sweden – 100 – – Note P2 Candyking UK Ltd. 3,7 01726257 Hampshire, United Kingdom 100 100 – – Note P3 Cloetta UK Ltd.7 06775890 Heysham, United Kingdom 100 100 – – Note P4 FTF Sweets USA Inc.1 211476123 Newark, United States – – – – Note P5 Candyking Poland Sp. z o.o. 3 0000347591 Warsaw, Poland 100 100 – – Note P6 Cloetta Development AB 556377-3182 Linköping, Sweden 100 100 2 2 Note P7 Total 4,884 4,884 Note P8 Note P9 1) On 8 February 2017 FTF Sweets USA Inc. was dissolved. The three-year unwinding period ends on 8 February 2020. Note P10 2) On 13 February 2017 Cloetta Sverige AB acquired 100 per cent of the shares of the Swedish company E out instrument AB. Note P11 3) On 28 April 2017 E out instrument AB acquired Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries. Note P12 4) On 23 May 2017 Cloetta USA Inc. was dissolved. The three-year unwinding period ends on 23 May 2020. Note P13 5) On 1 June 2017 Aran Candy Ltd. was renamed to Cloetta Ireland Ltd. 6) On 4 October 2017 Candyking Holding AB was merged into E out instrument AB. Note P14 7) On 1 November 2017 E out instrument AB sold Lilla Fiket AB to Candyking Sverige AB, Candyking Norge AS to Cloetta Norge AS, Candyking Finland Oy to Note P15 Cloetta Suomi Oy and Candyking Danmark A/S to Cloetta Danmark ApS. On 1 November 2017 Candyking UK Ltd. sold Candymix Ireland Ltd. to Cloetta Ireland Ltd and Cloetta Holland B.V. sold Cloetta UK Ltd. to Candyking UK Ltd. 8) On 1 March 2018 Lilla Fiket AB was merged into Candyking Sverige AB. 9) On 1 May 2018 Candyking Finland Oy and Karkkikatu Oy were merged into Cloetta Suomi Oy, Candyking Danmark A/S was merged into Cloetta Danmark ApS and Candyking Norge AS was merged into Cloetta Norge AS. See Note 1 and Note 28 for disclosures on changes in group structure. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 138 Financial reports Note P9 Cash and cash equivalents Note P11 Borrowings A Notional Group Account is in place, which is held by Cloetta Holland The Parent Company’s borrowings consist of loans from credit instiB.V. As a result, no cash is presented for Cloetta AB (publ). tutions for a net amount of SEK 798m (999) and commercial papers of See Note 18 for further details. SEK 500m (0). The following table shows the reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities Note P10 Equity Long-term Short-term SEKm borrowings borrowings Total Share capital 1 January 2017 999 – 999 See Note 20 for a description of the share capital of the Parent Changes from financing cash flows Company. Repayment of loans – – – Other changes from financing Non-restricted equity cash flows – – – Retained earnings Total changes from financing Retained earnings comprise the sum of profit for the year and retained cash flows – – – earnings from previous years. Retained earnings including the share premium reserve represent the amount of non-restricted equity availaOther changes ble for distribution to the shareholders. Reclassification between longterm and short-term borrowings –999 999 – Amortization of capitalized Dividend Note P1 transaction costs 1 – 1 The Annual General Meetings (AGMs) on 16 April 2018 and Note P2 4 April 2017 approved the following dividend: Interest expenses, Note P3 third-party borrowings 6 – 6 2018 2017 Interest paid –7 – –7 Note P4 Note P5 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 0.75 0.75 Total other changes –999 999 0 Note P6 Special dividend per share, SEK 0.75 – Note P7 Total dividend, SEKm 433 216 31 December 2017 – 999 999 Note P8 Ordinary dividend in percentage of profit for the Changes from previous year, excluding the impact of impairfinancing cash flows Note P9 ment loss 54 53 Proceeds from commercial Note P10 Payment date April 2018 April 2017 papers – 999 999 Note P11 Repayment of commercial papers – –500 –500 Note P12 After the reporting date, the following dividend was proposed by the Repayment of loans – –200 –200 Note P13 Board of Directors. The dividend has not been recognized as liability in Other changes from financing Note P14 the balance sheet cash flows –3 1 –2 Note P15 Total changes from 2018 2017 financing cash flows –3 300 297 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 1.00 0.75 Special dividend per share, SEK – 0.75 Other changes Total dividend, SEKm 289 433 Reclassification between longterm and short-term borrowings 799 –799 – Amortization of capitalized The Board of Directors proposes that the total earnings in the Parent transaction costs 1 – 1 Company at the disposal of the AGM of SEK 2,015m (2,445) are to Interest expenses, be distributed to the shareholders in an amount of SEK 289m (433) third-party borrowings 8 1 9 and to be carried forward to new account in an amount of SEK 1,726m Interest paid –7 –1 –8 (2,012). Total other changes 801 –799 2 31 December 2018 798 500 1,298 See Note 22 for the disclosure of the borrowings. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 139 Note P12 Derivative financial instruments Note P15 Related party transactions The derivative financial instruments comprise single currency interest The Parent Company’s holdings of shares and participations in subsidirate swap liabilities amounting to SEK 4m (1) of which SEK 3m (1) is aries are specified in Note P8. non-current in nature. Receivables from and liabilities to subsidiaries are broken down as follows: 31 Dec 31 Dec Note P13 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEKm 2018 2017 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 476 464 Accrued expenses and deferred income amount to SEK 9m (17), of Current interest-free receivables 38 50 which SEK 3m (11) is related to accrued personnel-related expenses Non-current interest-bearing payables –135 –134 and SEK 6m (6) to other accrued expenses and deferred income. Current interest-bearing payables –476 –341 Current interest-free payables –11 –15 Total –108 24 For the Parent Company, SEK 84m (107), equal to 100 per cent (100) Note P14 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities of the year’s net sales, and SEK 48m (54), equal to 52 per cent (42) of the year’s purchases, refer to group companies in the Cloetta Group. The prices of goods and services sold to and purchased from related 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2018 2017 parties are set on market-based terms. At 31 December 2018 the Parent Company’s receivables from Contingent liabilities Note P1 Guarantees on behalf of group companies 801 816 group companies amounted to SEK 514m (514) and liabilities to Note P2 Guarantee for loans from credit institutions for subsidiaries amounted to SEK 622m (490). Transactions with related Note P3 group companies 1,278 1,719 parties are priced on market-based terms. Total costs excluding social Note P4 security charges related to the share-based long-term incentive plan Note P5 Total 2,079 2,535 amounted to SEK 2m (11), of which SEK 0m (5) is related to the Group Note P6 Management Team. Note P7 The company issued a parent company guarantee pursuant to Article The Parent Company has no past experience of credit losses on reNote P8 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in respect of Cloetta Holland B.V. ceivables from group companies and future credit losses are expected Note P9 and Cloetta Finance Holland B.V. This means that Cloetta AB declares to be immaterial. Note P10 and accepts, under reservation of legal repeal of the declaration, joint Note P11 and several liability for the debts resulting from legal acts of Cloetta Note P12 Holland B.V. and Cloetta Finance Holland B.V. As the probability of a Note P13 settlement is remote, an estimate of its financial effect is not practical Note P14 to calculate. The term and revolving facilities agreement is unsecured Note P15 in nature. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 140 Financial reports Proposed appropriation of earnings Earnings in the Parent Company at the diposal of the Annual General Meeting 2018 Share premium reserve, SEK 2,711,620,366 Retained earnings, SEK –697,207,220 Profit for the year, SEK 247,810 Total, SEK 2,014,660,956 The Board of Directors proposes that dividends be paid in a total amount of SEK 288,619,299 equal to SEK 1.00 per share. The Board of Directors proposes that the earnings be disposed of as follows: The earnings are to be disposed as follows: To be distributed to the shareholders, SEK 288,619,299 To be carried forward to new account, SEK 1,726,041,657 Total, SEK 2,014,660,956 The number of shares at 31 December 2018 was 288,619,299. The Board of Directors and the President and CEO give their assurance that the consolidated financial statements and annual report have been prepared in accordance with Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002, on the Application of International Accounting Standards and Generally Accepted Accounting Standards, and give a true and fair view of the financial position and results of operations of the Group and the Parent Company. The administration report for the Group and the Parent Company gives a true and fair view of the business activities, financial position and results of operations of the Group and the Parent Company, and describes the significant risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the Group companies are exposed. The statutory Sustainability Report, comprising those areas in the Cloetta AB (publ) annual report with content specified on page 10 has been approved for publication by the Board of Directors. Stockholm, 12 March 2019 Lilian Fossum Biner Chairman Mikael Aru Lottie Knutson Mikael Norman Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Alan McLean Raleigh Mikael Svenfelt Camilla Svenfelt Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Lena Grönedal Mikael Ström Employee Board member Employee Board member Henri de Sauvage-Nolting President and CEO Our audit report was issued on 12 March 2019. KPMG AB Tomas Forslund Authorised Public Accountant The profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of the Group and the Parent Company are subject to approval by the AGM on 4 April 2019. The information in this report is subject to the disclosure requirements of Cloetta AB (publ) under the provisions in the Swedish Securities Market Act. The information was submitted to the media for publication on 13 March 2019, at 08:00 CET. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 141 Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Cloetta AB (publ), corp. id 556308-8144 Report on the annual accounts Key audit matters and consolidated accounts Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesOpinions sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These Cloetta AB (publ) for the year 2018. The annual accounts and consolmatters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming idated accounts of the company are included on pages 1–4 and 62–140 our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as in this document. a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material Valuation of goodwill and trademarks respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 DecemSee disclosure 12 and accounting principles on page 98 in the annual ber 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then account and consolidated accounts for detailed information and ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated description of the matter. accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position Description of key audit matter of the group as of 31 December 2018 and their financial performance As of 31 December 2018 the group reported goodwill of SEK 2,353m and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International and trademarks of SEK 3,107m. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the The carrying amounts were subject to impairment tests which Annual Accounts Act. include both complexity and elements of management judgements with A corporate governance statement has been prepared. The statutoa significant impact. Impairment tests were performed for all cash ry administration report and the corporate governance statement are generating units and groups of cash generating units. consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidatWhen preparing the impairment tests, management makes judgeed accounts, and the corporate governance statement is in accordance ments on the cash generating units and groups of cash generating units with the Annual Accounts Act. future internal and external developments and plans. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders An example of such judgments include prediction of future cash adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company flows, which among other things requires expectations concerning and the group. future development and market conditions. Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and consolOther important assumptions are the parameters and underlying idated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report assumptions for the determination of the discount rate to be used inthat has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in order to reflect time value of money and particular risks that each cash accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. generating unit and group of cash generating units is exposed to. There is a risk that the assessments made to form the basis of the Basis for opinions estimated recoverable amount may have to be changed, which could We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards directly affect the reported result for the period. on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described Response in the audit in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the We have assessed the impairment tests in order to conclude whether parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics these were performed in accordance with the prescribed method. We for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical have assessed the reasonableness of management assumptions, which responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes have been derived from all available financial information confirmed that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited by the audit committee and the board of directors, concerning future services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have cash flows and the discount rates by evaluating management’s written been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent documentation including future plans. We also interviewed managecompany or its controlled companies within the EU. ment and evaluated previous year’s estimates of future cash flows in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient relation to actual results. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. In order to assess how changes in management assumptions may affect the recoverable amount we evaluated sensitivity analysis of the recoverable amounts for the cash generating units and group of cash generating units. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 142 Financial reports We have involved an internal accounting specialist to assess the As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profesaccounting effects of the impairment tests performed and also to evalusional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the ate the accuracy of the disclosures of goodwill and trademarks in the audit. We also: annual account and consolidated accounts. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, Other Information than the annual accounts design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and and consolidated accounts obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a This document also contains other information than the annual basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misaccounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 5–61 and statement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 141–161. The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are reerror, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, sponsible for this other information. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate assurance conclusion regarding this other information. in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolion the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proceby the Board of Directors and the President and CEO. dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be President and CEO’s, use of the going concern basis of accounting in materially misstated. preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also I based on the work performed concerning this information, we draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whethconclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informaer any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the Group’s ability to this regard. continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report Responsibilities of the Board of Directors to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated and the President and CEO accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our concluthe preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and sions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Acauditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a counts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance company and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Pres• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annuident and CEO are also responsible for such internal control as they al accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair whether due to fraud or error. presentation. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for the • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the finanassessment of the company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a cial information of the entities or business activities within the group going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsiconcern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going ble for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of We remain solely responsible for our opinions. Directors and the President and CEO intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. We must inform the Board of Directors of the planned scope and The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of timing of the audit among other matters. We must also inform of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant oversee the company’s financial reporting process. deficiencies in internal control that we identified. We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that Auditor’s responsibility we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indeOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the pendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an and where applicable, related safeguards. auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misimportant assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore statements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 143 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Auditor’s responsibility Opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member Directors and the President and CEO of Cloetta AB (publ) for the year of the Board of Directors or the President and CEO in any material 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. respect: We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the give rise to liability to the company, or statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of • i n any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Directors and the President and CEO be discharged from liability for Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. the financial year. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to Basis for opinions assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing accordance with the Companies Act. standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarfurther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are antee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted independent of the parent company and the Group in accordance with auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed apfulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirepropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with ments. the Companies Act. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s and the President and CEO profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaaudit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this with a starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considthe examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are ering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of material for the operations and where deviations and violations would operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine the Group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken in general. and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organidischarge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of zation and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection Group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organizaof supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the propostion is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the al is in accordance with the Companies Act. company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring KPMG AB, Box 382, 101 27, Stockholm, was appointed auditor manner. of Cloetta AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on 16 The President and CEO shall manage the ongoing administration April 2018. KPMG AB or auditors operating at KPMG AB have been according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and the company’s auditor since 1997. among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Stockholm, 12 March 2019 KPMG AB Tomas Forslund Authorized Public Accountant Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 144 Financial reports Ten-year overview SEKm 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Profit and loss account in summary Net sales 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 5,486 Cost of goods sold –3,934 –3,678 –3,084 –3,463 –3,325 –3,081 –3,157 –2,911 –3,058 –3,422 Gross profit 2,284 2,106 2,023 2,211 1,988 1,812 1,702 1,747 1,961 2,064 Other operating income 4 6 – 0 5 12 13 1 16 0 Selling expenses –1,025 –972 –806 –949 –892 –850 –888 –915 –992 –1,019 General and administrative expenses –603 –613 –582 –591 –524 –556 –702 –473 –471 –503 Operating profit/loss 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 542 Exchange differences borrowings and cash and cash equivalents in foreign currencies –16 –17 –8 –1 –11 –12 20 –12 –13 –63 Other financial income 5 7 17 6 4 24 5 11 5 3 Other financial expenses –87 –74 –175 –183 –232 –220 –290 –599 –634 –677 Net financial items –98 –84 –166 –178 –239 –208 –265 –600 –642 –737 Profit/loss before tax 562 443 469 493 338 210 –140 –240 –128 –195 Income tax expense –79 –206 –122 –107 –96 54 67 172 –211 22 Profit/loss for the period for continuing operations 483 237 347 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 –173 Result after tax from discontinued operations – –334 –538 – – – – – – – Net profit/loss for the period 483 –97 –191 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 –173 Profit for the period attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company Continuing operations 483 237 347 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 –173 Discontinued operation – –334 –538 – – – – – – – Total 483 –97 –191 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 –173 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Balance sheet in summary Intangible assets 5,626 5,490 5,354 5,948 5,882 5,252 5,099 4,811 4,822 5,383 Property, plant and equipment 1,354 1,338 1,700 1,698 1,667 1,660 1,611 1,318 1,333 1,623 Deferred tax asset 16 20 54 64 84 73 473 447 207 258 Other financial assets 11 11 13 27 105 91 88 261 147 45 Total non-current assets 7,007 6,859 7,121 7,737 7,738 7,076 7,271 6,837 6,509 7,309 Inventories 765 745 780 786 853 798 773 640 566 631 Trade and other receivables 838 881 988 975 1,121 933 951 1,051 1,198 1,313 Current income tax assets 6 8 36 3 3 0 4 2 1 – Derivative financial instruments 1 0 4 1 2 – – – – – Cash and cash equivalents 551 759 298 246 229 167 306 97 220 245 Total current assets 2,161 2,393 2,106 2,011 2,208 1,898 2,034 1,790 1,985 2,189 Assets held for sale – – 9 11 16 15 35 15 – – TOTAL ASSETS 9,168 9,252 9,236 9,759 9,962 8,989 9,340 8,642 8,494 9,498 Equity 3,968 3,818 4,199 4,344 4,048 3,747 3,326 –385 –1,117 –619 Long-term borrowings 2,076 1,715 2,666 2,612 2,993 3,096 2,516 6,077 6,826 7,224 Deferred tax liability 754 703 586 621 483 397 824 728 714 789 Derivative financial instruments 3 2 12 44 56 21 3 0 0 – Other non-current liabilities – 138 – 43 147 2 – – – – Provisions for pensions and other long-term employee benefits 419 374 396 378 505 360 452 250 222 250 Provisions 9 5 22 10 16 7 11 24 29 28 Total non-current liabilities 3,261 2,937 3,682 3,708 4,200 3,883 3,806 7,079 7,791 8,291 Short-term borrowings 500 999 2 344 423 212 747 747 642 680 Derivative financial instruments 61 71 54 35 16 2 21 0 0 0 Trade and other payables 1,342 1,394 1,196 1,216 1,152 967 1,264 1,038 975 1,073 Provisions 23 3 64 57 65 79 79 60 78 66 Current income tax liabilities 13 30 39 55 58 99 97 103 125 7 Total current liabilities 1,939 2,497 1,355 1,707 1,714 1,359 2,208 1,948 1,820 1,826 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,168 9,252 9,236 9,759 9,962 8,989 9,340 8,642 8,494 9,498 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 145 Key ratios SEKm 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011¹ 2010¹ 2009¹ Profit Net sales 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 5,486 Net sales, change % 7.5 13.3 na 6.8 8.6 0.7 4.3 na na na Organic net sales, change, % –2.8 –1.2 na 1.5 1.0 –1.0 –4.1 na na na Gross margin, % 36.7 36.4 39.6 39.0 37.4 37.0 35.0 37.5 39.1 37.6 Depreciation –218 –218 –206 –227 –198 –175 –167 –115 –125 –144 Amortization –12 –11 –5 –4 –3 –2 –1 –8 –18 –10 Impairment loss other non-current – –9 –2 – – – – – – – assets Operating profit (EBIT), adjusted 677 604 695 690 632 585 432 565 686 698 Operating profit margin (EBIT margin), adjusted % 10.9 10.4 13.6 12.2 11.9 12.0 8.9 12.1 13.7 12.7 Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 542 Operating profit/loss margin (EBIT 10.6 9.1 12.4 11.8 10.9 8.5 2.6 7.8 10.3 9.9 margin), % EBITDA, adjusted 907 833 906 921 833 762 600 688 829 852 EBITDA 890 765 848 902 778 595 293 483 657 696 Profit margin, % 9.0 7.7 9.2 8.7 6.4 4.3 –2.9 –5.1 –3.3 –3.6 Financial position Working capital 402 232 572 628 819 763 458 586 649 716 Capital expenditure 184 157 170 161 186 211 269 224 97 107 Net debt 2,091 2,035 2,443 2,818 3,308 3,230 3,056 2,827 3,070 3,812 Capital employed 7,027 6,979 7,329 7,756 8,041 7,438 7,066 6,682 6,575 7,543 Return on capital employed, % 2 9.5 8.2 11.1 8.6 7.5 6.1 1.9 5.7 na na Equity/assets ratio, % 43.3 41.3 45.5 44.5 40.6 41.7 35.6 –4.5 –13.2 –6.5 Net debt/equity ratio, % 52.7 53.3 58.2 64.9 81.7 86.2 91.9 –734.3 –274.8 –615.8 Return on equity, % 12.2 6.2 –4.5 8.9 6.0 7.0 –2.2 na na na Equity per share, SEK 13.7 13.2 14.5 15.1 14.0 13.0 11.5 na na na Net debt/EBITDA, x 2.31 2.39 2.44 3.03 3.97 4.19 4.90 na na na Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 628 712 889 927 500 131 330 492 379 540 Cash flow from investing activities –184 –22 –322 –367 –369 –202 –1,506 –335 –83 –121 Cash flow after investments 444 690 567 560 131 –71 –1,176 157 296 419 Cash conversion, % 3 79.7 83.2 84.5 82.5 77.7 72.3 55.2 67.4 88.3 87.4 Cash flow from operating activities per share, SEK 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 1.7 0.5 1.1 na na na Employees Average number of employees 4 2,458 2,467 2,115 2,583 2,533 2,472 2,579 2,192 2,275 2,309 Share data1 Earnings per share, SEK Basic 5 1.69 –0.34 –0.67 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 na na na Diluted 5 1.68 –0.34 –0.67 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 na na na Earnings per share from continuing operations, SEK Basic 5 1.69 0.83 1.21 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 na na na Diluted 5 1.68 0.83 1.21 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 na na na Earnings per share from discontinued operation, SEK Basic 5 – –1.17 –1.88 na na na na na na na Diluted 5 – –1.17 –1.88 na na na na na na na Ordinary dividend per share, proposed, SEK 1.00 0.75 0.75 0.50 – – – – – – Special dividend per share, proposed, SEK – 0.75 – – – – – – – – Number of shares at end of period 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 262,137,526 na na Average number of shares (basic) 5 286,492,413 286,320,464 286,193,024 286,290,840 286,987,990 288,010,947 276,132,021 262,137,526 na na Average number of shares (diluted) 5 286,650,070 286,492,178 286,447,465 286,561,607 287,092,780 288,026,408 276,132,021 262,137,526 na na Shareprice at year-end, SEK 24.3 29.7 28.7 28.0 22.6 19.4 13.5 14.5 16.6 13.0 Exchange Rates EUR, average 10.2543 9.6362 9.4700 9.3445 9.1051 8.6513 8.6958 9.0228 9.5261 10.6165 EUR, end of period 10.2274 9.8210 9.5804 9.1679 9.3829 8.8630 8.5750 8.9100 8.9700 10.2500 NOK, average 1.0672 1.0324 1.0200 1.0432 1.0882 1.1071 1.1643 1.1577 1.1905 1.2144 NOK, end of period 1.0294 0.9997 1.0548 0.9563 1.0439 1.0592 1.1667 1.1467 1.1493 1.2372 GBP, average 11.5917 10.9909 11.5480 12.8736 11.3118 10.1987 10.7429 10.4057 11.1030 11.9012 GBP, end of period 11.3992 11.0684 11.1673 12.4835 12.0340 10.6501 10.5215 10.6668 10.4109 11.5493 DKK, average 1.3760 1.2956 1.2721 1.2529 1.2215 1.1601 1.1682 1.2112 1.2794 1.4258 DKK, end of period 1.3698 1.3192 1.2888 1.2287 1.2604 1.1882 1.1495 1.1987 1.2035 1.3775 1) T  he key figures per share for the years 2009–2011 are not representative for the current Group due to a completely different equity structure before the merger between Cloetta and Leaf. 2) Return on capital employed for 2016 is calculated pro-forma for continuing operations. 3) The capital expenditure included in the calculation of the cash conversion has been adjusted for the capital expenditure related to discontinued operation in 2017. 4) Average number of employees is presented for continuing operations in 2017. 5) C loetta entered into forward contracts to repurchase own shares to fulfill its future obligation to deliver the shares to the participants of its long-term share-based incentive plan. The table in Note 23 presents the movements in the contracts since 1 January 2017. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 146 Financial reports Reconciliation of alternative performance measures SEKm 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Items affecting comparability Acquisitions, integration and factory restructurings –38 –62 –43 –47 –85 –167 na na na na of which: impairment loss other non-current assets – –9 –2 – – – na na na na Remeasurements of contingent considerations 21 5 –17 33 27 – na na na na Remeasurements of assets held for sale – – – –5 – – na na na na Other items affecting comparability 0 –20 – – 3 – na na na na Items affecting comparability* –17 –77 –60 –19 –55 –167 –307 –205 –172 –156 * Corresponding line in the condensed consolidated profit and loss account: Net Sales 0 – – –4 – – na na na na Cost of goods sold 3 –39 –15 –22 –51 –121 na na na na Other operating income 4 4 – – 3 12 na na na na Selling expenses –1 –6 – –12 –7 –4 na na na na General and administrative expenses –23 –36 –45 19 – –54 na na na na Total –17 –77 –60 –19 –55 –167 –307 –205 –172 –156 Operating profit, adjusted Operating profit 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 542 Minus: Items affecting comparability –17 –77 –60 –19 –55 –167 –307 –205 –172 –156 Operating profit, adjusted 677 604 695 690 632 585 432 565 686 698 Net sales 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 5,486 Operating profit margin, adjusted, % 10.9 10.4 13.6 12.2 11.9 12.0 8.9 12.1 13.7 12.7 EBITDA, adjusted Operating profit 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 542 Minus: Depreciation –218 –218 –206 –227 –198 –175 –167 –115 –125 –144 Minus: Amortization –12 –11 –5 –4 –3 –2 –1 –8 –18 –10 Minus: Impairment loss other non-current assets – –9 –2 – – – – – – – EBITDA 890 765 848 902 778 595 293 483 657 696 Minus: Items affecting comparability (excl. impairment loss goodwill and trademarks and other non-current assets) –17 –68 –58 –19 –55 –167 –307 –205 –172 –156 EBITDA, adjusted 907 833 906 921 833 762 600 688 829 852 Capital employed Total assets 9,168 9,252 9,236 9,759 9,962 8,989 9,340 8,642 8,494 9,498 Minus: Deferred tax liability 754 703 586 621 483 397 824 728 714 789 Minus: Other non-current liabilities – 138 – 43 147 2 – – – – Minus: Non-current provisions 9 5 22 10 16 7 11 24 29 28 Minus: Current provisions 23 3 64 57 65 79 79 60 78 66 Minus: Trade and other payables 1,342 1,394 1,196 1,216 1,152 967 1,264 1,038 975 1,073 Minus: Current income tax liabilities 13 30 39 55 58 99 97 103 125 7 Plus: Interest-bearing other current liabilities – – – –1 – – 1 –7 2 8 Capital employed 7,027 6,979 7,329 7,756 8,041 7,438 7,066 6,682 6,575 7,543 Capital employed comparative period previous year 6,979 5,966 7,756 8,041 7,438 7,066 6,682 6,575 7,543 7,845 Average capital employed 7,003 6,473 7,543 7,899 7,740 7,252 6,874 6,629 7,059 7,694 Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Financial reports 147 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures, continued SEKm 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Return on capital employed1 Operating profit (rolling 12 months) 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 542 Financial income (rolling 12 months) 5 7 17 6 4 24 5 11 5 3 Operating profit plus financial income (rolling 12 months) 665 534 652 677 581 442 130 371 519 545 Average capital employed 7,003 6,473 5,879 7,899 7,740 7,252 6,874 6,629 7,059 7,694 Return on capital employed, % 9.5 8.2 11.1 8.6 7.5 6.1 1.9 5.6 7.4 7.1 Cash conversion EBITDA, adjusted 907 833 906 921 833 762 600 688 829 852 Minus: Capital expenditures 184 140 –140 –161 –186 –211 –269 –224 –97 –107 EBITDA, adjusted less capital expenditures 723 693 766 760 647 551 331 464 732 745 EBITDA, adjusted 907 833 906 921 833 762 600 688 829 852 Cash conversion, % 79.7 83.2 84.5 82.5 77.7 72.3 55.2 67.4 88.3 87.4 Changes in net sales Net sales 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 5,486 Net sales comparative period previous year 5,784 5,107 na 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 5,486 5,256 Net sales, change 434 677 na 361 420 34 201 –361 –467 230 Minus: Structural changes 375 708 na 208 213 na na na na na Minus: Changes in exchange rates 217 30 na 77 158 na na na na na Organic growth –158 –61 na 76 49 na na na na na Structural changes, % 6.5 13.9 na 3.9 4.4 na na na na na Organic growth, % –2.8 –1.2 na 1.4 1.0 –1.0 –4.1 na na na Profit for the period excluding impact of impairment loss discontinued operation including income tax effects and other items affecting comparability Profit/loss for the period 483 –97 –191 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 –173 Minus: Impairment loss discontinued operation including income tax effects – –479 –771 – – – – – – – Minus: Other items affecting comparability 0 –20 177 – – – – – – – Profit for the period excluding 483 402 403 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 –173 impact of impairment loss discontinued operation including income tax effects and other items affecting comparability Average number of shares (basic) 286,492,413 286,320,464 286,193,024 286,290,840 286,987,990 288,010,947 276,132,021 262,137,526 na na Average number of shares (diluted) 286,650,070 286,492,178 286,447,465 286,561,607 287,092,780 288,026,408 276,132,021 262,137,526 na na Earnings per share, basic excluding impact of impairment loss, SEK 1.69 1.40 1.41 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 –0.26 na na Earnings per share, diluted excluding impact of impairment loss, SEK 1.68 1.40 1.41 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 –0.26 na na 1) R  eturn on capital employed for 2017 has been calculated pro-forma for continuing operations. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 148 Lo n g -t e r m s u sta i n a b i l i t y Sustainability Cloetta’s overall goal for the sustainability Integration into the business Sustainability and Cloetta’s work is to create the conditions for longFurther embedding and integrating sustainoverall strategies term value creation. For Cloetta, this means ability into the Group’s business strategy and Cloetta’s sustainability work supports and growing as a company, managing risks and processes, sets the Group up for long-term is firmly grounded in the company’s business identifying opportunities while respecting profitability. strategy: and managing the impact on people and the Responsibility for implementation of the Driving growth environment and fulfilling the expectations sustainability agenda into daily operations Implementing sustainability programmes for of those around Cloetta. lies with each functional leader, for example the prioritized raw material groups and comresponsibility for the employees’ health and municating these programmes on Cloetta’s The Code of Conduct is based development, control of raw materials and packages helps to further strengthen Cloetta’s on our core values first-tier suppliers, manufacturing safe prodbrands among customers and consumers. Cloetta’s Code of Conduct is a fundamental ucts, handling complaints/returns effectively UTZ certified cocoa is one example. part of Cloetta’s strategy and the basis of the and reducing the Group’s environmental underlying conditions the company has when impact. Financing growth doing business. Communicating Cloetta’s In this annual and sustainability report, Efforts to continuously reduce the company’s values regarding integrity and respect for sustainability work is integrated into the environmental impact go hand in hand with people and the environment is important for description of business operations and the lower costs. Lower energy use and waste volthe company to be perceived as responsible outcomes for the year. umes from the factories contribute to greater and trustworthy. This is not only important cost-efficiency. for Cloetta and its employees, but also for Scope investors, customers, consumers and other To manage both the negative and positive imEnabling growth important stakeholders. pact effectively, Cloetta needs to understand Cloetta works determinedly to create an where impact occurs and where in Cloetta’s attractive workplace for all employees and Updating the sustainability agenda value chain the Group can make the greatest promotes the development of a high-performCloetta’s sustainability agenda defines a difference. Cloetta’s responsibility extends ing organization by continuously developing number of goals in priority areas that extend beyond its own operations and ability to and training its staff, designing competitive until 2020. influence the different parts of the value chain remuneration systems, upholding an inspirCloetta’s goals for 2020 can be found varies. By taking a value chain perspective, ing corporate culture and building a clear under each chapter. Cloetta can identify opportunities and risks, corporate identity. Towards the end of 2018, work comand understand limitations as well as how menced to update the Group’s sustainability value can be created for its stakeholders. Governance agenda and define new long-term goals. This During the year, Cloetta has adopted a new will be finalized and presented during 2019. model for the governance of environmental and social matters. A Sustainability board has been set up, consisting of the President and CEO, six other business function leaders and the Director of Sustainability. The SustainStrategic components ability board is responsible for defining the strategy and developing policies for approval by the Group Management Team and the Board of Directors, as well as controlling and Policy and prioritized areas Cloetta’s overall strategy and operational policy. Code of reporting non-financial risks. Three crossConduct. Responsible marketing. Materiality analysis and functional work groups will report to the Cloetta’s sustainability commitment. Sustainability board, and they will be responGoals and KPIs Overall financial targets. Goals and KPIs have been defined for each part of Cloetta’s sustainability commitment. sible for defining implementation plans, proData See entire annual and sustainability report. posing goals and points of view in particular Management systems, proLean 2020, IFRS. Cloetta’s leadership platform. BRC, ISO 14001, matters, as well as identifying risks. Ultimate grammes and certifications OHSAS 18001, UTZ and RSPO. responsibility for sustain­ability lies with External statutes or initiatives UN Global Compact and other relevant ILO conventions. Cloetta’s President and CEO. Environmental EWC (European Works Council). and occupational health and safety managers are in place at all factories. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Lo n g -t e r m s u sta i n a b i l i t y 149 About the report All reports are treated confidentially. Cloetta’s annual and sustainability report is Personal data relating to violation of laws is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standhandled only by key persons or individuals ard’s guidelines for sustainability reporting, in management positions. Two cases were level Core. reported during the year. One involved a The GRI Index provides references person who considered that they had been concerning standard information about the incorrectly assessed by their manager during company and corporate governance as well as a performance appraisal. Follow-up and general instructions about material aspects of dialogue have taken place and the case has Cloetta. Links to references in the GRI Index been closed. One case of suspected fraud has go to the annual and sustainability report, also been reported during the year. The case unless otherwise stated. The management is under investigation, and is not financially reports and financial reports are reviewed by material. a third party, and Cloetta has commissioned KPMG to carry out a limited review and From raw materials assure the sustainability report. to cherished brands The annual and sustainability report Cloetta’s responsibility extends beyond the constitutes Cloetta’s Communication on prodirect responsibility for its own business gress. It thereby describes how Cloetta’s work operations, from raw material to finished supports the ten principles of the UN Global product. Cloetta supports the relevant ILO Compact. The report has been reviewed by conventions and complies with the laws and Cloetta’s Board of Directors. rules in the countries where it conducts operations. The same requirements are placed on Gathering data suppliers, and in order to become an approved Anti-bribery and Data presented in the report is collected supplier to Cloetta, the supplier must under­ anti-corruption policy through various systems, primarily the go an approval process and accept Cloetta’s Group’s accounting systems, the factories’ general supplier requirements. environmental and management systems and a central HR system. Cloetta’s commitment The anti-bribery and anti-corruption Data concerning energy consumption, to product content policy is closely related to Cloetta’s quantity of waste, sewage and carbon dioxide In terms of product content and quality, Code of Conduct, and together they is gathered through direct measurements as Cloetta is subject to a number of national are aimed at ensuring compliance with well as through specifications from suppliers and international laws and rules. However, applicable principles to combat bribery that handle waste and provide heat and Cloetta wishes to take its responsibility and corruption. electricity. Data is reported monthly from the further and is a forerunner in developing The policy applies to all of Cloetta’s factories and consolidated at a Group level. the content of the products. For example, activities in all markets and the princiCloetta uses the global standard GreenCloetta is conducting an internal long-term ples outlined in this document apply to house Gas Protocol for the majority of carbon programme called NAFNAC (No Artificial Cloetta’s relationships with employees, dioxide emissions calculations and for reFlavours, No Artificial Colours), which is customers, consumers, suppliers, porting carbon dioxide data. The conversion aimed at offering a portfolio of products that competitors, official authorities and factors used are provided by the suppliers. contain no artificial flavours or colours. Non Governmental Organizations. Personnel-related data comes from The policy summarizes key features Cloetta’s HR system. Work-related incidents Cloetta’s environmental impact of anti-bribery and corruption control and accidents are reported and followed up Systematic environmental management principles in order to prevent bribery locally by each unit within the Group. Inforprovides a foundation for Cloetta’s efforts to and corruption within Cloetta. It mation is aggregated at Group level. minimize its environmental impact. Cloetta’s explains compliance procedures to environmental work is aimed at complying be followed by all Cloetta employees, Whistleblower service with the applicable laws and rules, engaging along with information about applicaCloetta’s whistleblower service gives all the employees and focusing on continuous ble reporting and record keeping, and Cloetta employees the opportunity to report improvements in the environmental area. penalties for non-compliance with the misconduct and deviations from its Code of Cloetta’s foremost direct environmental policy. It applies to Cloetta, all of its Conduct and the business ethics principles. impact arises through water and energy employees, and all persons engaged to As a first course of action, Cloetta’s employconsumption, wastewater emissions, waste perform work for Cloetta, including ees are encouraged to contact their manager. and transportation. temporary agency personnel, contractor If an employee feels unable to openly disclose personnel, and non-employee agents the information, employees have the opportuacting on its behalf. nity to report their concerns anonymously. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 150 Lo n g -t e r m s u sta i n a b i l i t y Stakeholders and materiality issues The areas that are prioritized in Cloetta’s sustainability agenda have been defined through a materiality analysis. Every year, Cloetta updates the materiality analysis based on the sustainability issues that have been identified in discussions with Cloetta’s stakeholders. Cloetta’s primary stakeholders are customers, The methodology behind Cloetta’s The issues that are of critical importance consumers, employees, shareholders/invesmateriality analysis is aimed at classifying from both a stakeholder and impact perspectors, business partners/suppliers and society. different types of sustainability issues on the tive are those that have the highest priority for These groups are directly critical for Cloetta’s basis of two parameters: Cloetta. It is these environmental and social long-term profitability. In addition, there are • T he stakeholder perspective – i.e. the issues that are defined in Cloetta’s sustain­ a number of other important stakeholders. significance a specific issue has for Cloetta’s ability agenda. These are shown in the illustration below in ability to create value for important stakeThe materiality analysis was updated the outer circle. Cloetta has a continuous, holders. towards the end of 2018 and is the foundation open dialogue above all with the primary • T he impact perspective – i.e. the direct for the updated strategy that will be presented stakeholders based on the expectations and impact a specific issue can have on Cloetta’s in 2019. requirements of each stakeholder group. ability to continue to grow as a long-term profitable company. Cloetta’s stakeholders r me org Union nsu ons aniz Co nizati atio a ns org nts yee s Sup pli try s me plo er us tion Go E m s Ind niza ve ga rn or o m ers Consumers ls/ Non-p Schoo s organiz rofit C u st itie univers ations Lo s al c er co d mm ol eh unity S har lm ge M ed k ho an h ia oc xc St k e Banks/ oc financial st players Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Lo n g -t e r m s u sta i n a b i l i t y 151 Materiality analysis Very important Prioritize Fulfill • S  ocial, environmental and economic challenges • Follow the health-related issues surrounding in developing countries for prioritized raw materials artificial ingredients. (sustainable sourcing). Importance for Cloetta’s stakeholders • L aws, requirements and conventions. • Environmental impact of Cloetta’s operations. • Employee safety and well-being. • Product safety and quality. • Sugar-free alternatives. Administrate Monitor and supervise • Charity. • Combat corruption, bribery and fraud. • Local community engagement. • S ocial, environmental and economic challenges • Tax issues. in countries of origin for other raw materials. • Responsible marketing. • Diversity. Important High Very high Impact on Cloetta Stakeholders’ key sustainability issues Stakeholder Key issues – sustainability Communication and cooperation • P roduct safety and quality. • W ith consumers via annual surveys and via websites • C lear declaration of ingredients. and social media. • E nvironmentally sound packages. • W ith customers through personal customer and sales meetings Customers/ • C loetta takes responsibility for the environment on a tertial basis and via customer surveys, also collaborative Consumers and working conditions. initiatives for eco-friendly transportation. • Ethical issues in general. • Efficient transportation to the retail trade. • Good and stimulating working conditions. • D aily meetings to discuss occupational health and safety • A safe working environment. in the factories. • Health and fitness activities. • A nnual performance reviews with all employees. Employees • Ethical issues in general. • S ystematic skills development activities. • Good financial development for the company. • U p-to-date information provided monthly, e.g. via managers, the intranet and union representatives. • E mployee survey “Great Place to Work” every other year. Shareholders • S ustainable long-term financial value growth. • A nnual report, website, analyst and investor meetings, and investors • Ethical issues in general. interim reports and annual general meeting. • Ethics and business codes in procurement. • C ollaborative projects for sustainability. • P roduct safety. • A nnual supplier evaluations, sponsorship evaluations Suppliers • S ustainable long-term development. and development projects. • R especting human rights. •C  loetta takes responsibility for the environment • C ontinuous contact with the local communities/municipalities and working conditions as far as possible. around Cloetta’s factories with regard to the local environment. •L  aws, regulations and standards. • C ontinuous contact with public authorities in areas related to Local communities, •C  loetta makes a positive contribution to occupational health and safety, environmental and product the public/society development of society, including the local responsibility, schools and universities. environment. • A nnual audits by Certification bodies for ISO and BRC. • C ontinuous contact with key opinion leaders. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 152 Lo n g -t e r m s u sta i n a b i l i t y Strategic priorities for Cloetta’s sustainability work Most SDG* Area Materiality Cloetta’s approach Governance important goals Significant risks reference Cloetta’s responsible Through improved resource • C ode of Conduct. By 2020 Negative impact on management of current efficiency and by remaining a • C loetta’s sustain­ • 5% less energy. the environment. global challenges, in terms step ahead of new regulations, ability board. • 5% reduced CO 2. of climate change, access Cloetta creates the conditions • I SO 14001. • 2 5% less waste. Regulations. Increased resource to resources, chemical for long-term profitability and • Lean 2020. Lower availability/ distribution and plastics, for managing its impact on the • I nternal control By 2025 efficiency higher prices of builds trust in the company. environment and climate. policy. 100% recyclable or reusable packaging. important raw materials. Being able to attract, Cloetta secures its future • C ode of Conduct. Cloetta has a Health and safety develop and retain the supply of skills by being an • H R policy. zero-tolerance in production. right employees is a inclusive and attractive • C loetta’s leadervision for workplace pre-requisite for Cloetta’s employer that prioritises health ship platform. injuries. Challenges to Employee long-term profitability. and safety and employee • C loetta’s sustainasecure the right development well-being, and places sustainbility board. Improvement of competence. and health ability high on its agenda. • Lean 2020. Great Place to Work • Fraud and whistleindex. blower policy. • I nternal control policy. The consumer should feel Product safety and quality are • C ode of Conduct. All products must be Brand-related confident that products are paramount. • C loetta’s sustain­ of high quality and risks resulting in safe and of high quality, and ability board. safe. decreased sales. that Cloetta is transparent Cloetta develops alternatives • C loetta’s product about product content and with natural raw materials and board. All larger brands will Political decisions the impact of raw materials. less sugar, or no sugar, and • R esponsible have an alternative such as sugar Consumer front markets products responsibly marketing. with less sugar or no taxes. and centre and ethically. • Lean 2020. sugar. Risk that the con• B RC. By 2020, Cloetta’s sumer no longer • G ood manufacturproducts will not chooses sugar. ing practice. contain artificial • I nternal control flavourings or policy. colourings. Many of the raw materials By integrating environmental • C ode of Conduct. Sustainability proRespect for human contained in Cloetta’s prodand social requirements into • C loetta’s sustainagramme implementrights. ucts originate in countries the sourcing process, Cloetta bility board. ed for priority raw where there is a higher risk controls that suppliers comply • U TZ and RSPO. materials. Brand-related of deviation from our Code with its requirements. • I nternal control risks resulting in Palm oil will be decreased sales. of Conduct. policy. RSPO-SG certified Cloetta maintains highly eth• Fraud and whistleical standards in its business no later than 2020. Limited access blower policy. Palm oil in glazing to important raw relations. agents has largely materials. Responsible been replaced with Cloetta has a programme sourcing of alternatives. for sourcing of certified raw raw materials materials (palm oil, cocoa and 100% of cocoa and shea), which aims to increase chocolate must be traceability and contribute to UTZ certified. improved social and environmental conditions in places 100% sustainable where the raw materials are shea butter. made. * SDG – UN Sustainable Development Goals Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Lo n g -t e r m s u sta i n a b i l i t y 153 GRI index Organizational Profile (2016) Page 102-1 Name of the organization Inside back cover 102-2 Primary brands, products and/or services 26-29 102-3 Location organization’s headquarters 94 102-4 Location of operations 30–36, 42, 55 102-5 Ownership and legal form 74 102-6 Markets served 30-36 102-7 Scale of the organization Inside front cover, 55, 91 102-8 Information on employees 51–55 102-9 Supply chain 8–9, 48–50, 71 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, No significant changes structure, ownership or supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 44–45, 151 102-12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 148–149, 152, 160 or other initiatives 102-13 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations 160 Strategy and Analysis (2016) 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–3 Ethics and Integrity (2016) 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms 51, 68, 148–150 Governance (2016) 102-18 The governance structure 74–79, 148–149 Stakeholder Engagement (2016) 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 150 102-41 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 55 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 150 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 151 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 25 Reporting profile (2016) 102-45 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements 136 102-46 Defining the report content and the topic boundaries 148–152 102-47 List of material topics 151–152 102-48 Restatements of information From 2018 reporting of LTIR replaces Days between accidents, as LTIR is considered more relevant. CO 2e/prod kg data have been adjusted for 2016 and 2017. 37, 45, 153 102-49 Changes in reporting 153 102-50 Reporting period 1 January–31 December 2018 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 8 March 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Calendar year 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 153 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 153 102-55 GRI content index 153–154 102-56 External assurance 155 Cloetta’s annual and sustainability report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standard’s Contact for guidelines for sustainability reporting, level Core, which is a change compared to last year’s sustainability information reporting according to GRI G4 Core. Cloetta’s sustainability reporting covers all of its operations unless otherwise stated. The most recent sustainability report was presented on 8 March 2018. Åsa Portnoff Sundström The table of contents above contains all standard disclosures and the specific disclosures that Director Sustainability Affairs have been identified as the most relevant in view of Cloetta’s long-term sustainability agenda. E-mail: The specific disclosures and other contents of the sustainability report have been selected asa.portnoffsundstrom@cloetta.com based on Cloetta’s materiality analysis on page 151. The focus of Cloetta’s sustainability work and therefore also the reporting is Employee development and health, Consumers, Increased resource efficiency and Responsible sourcing. KPMG has performed limited assurance procedures on Cloetta’s sustainability report, see page 155. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 154 Lo n g -t e r m s u sta i n a b i l i t y Performance indicators EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND HEALTH Working conditions (2016) Scope/Comments Page GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 37-38, 53–55, 150–152 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 51–54, 75, 77, 148–150, 152 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 77 GRI 405 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and Information about minority groups is not available. 51–55, 84–87 Diversity and breakdown of employees by gender and age Equal opportunity group Own Occupational injuries, lost days, and absenteeism Includes Cloetta/Defined as LTIR, is absence due 5, 51, 53–54 to accidents (for more than 24 hours) per 1,000,000 hours worked. CONSUMER FRONT AND CENTRE Product responsibility (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 24–25, 37–40, 71, 150–152 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 77, 152 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 77 GRI 416 416-1 Evaluation of products and services with regard Refers to Cloetta’s customers/ 37–40 Customer health to consumer health and safety All factories are BRC certified. and safety Own Consumer complaints/returns Refers to Cloetta’s customers 40 INCREASED RESOURCE EFFICIENCY Environment (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 44–45, 68, 71, 148–152 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 44–45, 77, 148–150, 152 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 77 GRI 302 302-1 Energy consumption inside the organization Includes Cloetta/Information on distribution 44–45, 149 Energy renewable/non-renewable is not available. GRI 305 305-1 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, Refers to Cloetta and the supply chain 44–45, 149 Emissions 305-2 by weight (Scope 1, Scope 2) GRI 306 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Refers to Cloetta and the supply chain/Detailed 44–45 Effluents information on treatment method is not available. and Waste 306-2 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal Refers to Cloetta and the supply chain/ 44–45 method No detailed information about disposal method available. Reported in percentage, not weight. Own Recycling of materials Refers to Cloetta and the supply chain 44–45 Own Transportation Refers to transportation within Cloetta’s supply chain/ 44–45 Reported only in kg CO 2 per transported tonne. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF RAW MATERIALS Human rights (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 37–38, 48–50, 71, 148–152 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 48, 77, 148–149, 152 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38,77 GRI 414 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were Refers to Cloetta’s suppliers 48 Supplier social screened using human rights criteria assessment Own Results of sustainability programmes for Refers to Cloetta’s suppliers 48–50 prioritized raw materials ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 148–151 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 74–79, 82–83, 148–149 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 82–83, 149 GRI 201 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Refers to Cloetta and 9, 149 Economic distributed external stakeholders performance ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 76–77, 148-149 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 74–79, 82–83, 148–149 approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 77 GRI 205 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Cloetta’s employees or third party acting on behalf 149 Anti-corruption of Cloetta. Measured through incidents reported to whistleblower service. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Lo n g -t e r m s u sta i n a b i l i t y 155 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Cloetta AB’s Sustainability Report and statement regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report To Cloetta AB (publ), Corp. id. 556308-8144 Introduction accounting standard RevR12, The auditor’s opinion regarding the We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and the President and Statutory Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement and CEO of Cloetta AB to undertake a limited assurance engagement of an examination according to RevR 12 is different and substantially Cloetta AB’s Sustainability Report for the year 2018. Cloetta AB has less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International defined the scope of the Sustainability Report on the inside front cover Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in page of this document, which also constitutes the Statutory Sustain­ Sweden. ability Report as defined on the inside front cover page. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality Responsibilities of the Board of Directors control including documented policies and procedures regarding and the Group Management Team compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and The Board of Directors and the Group Management Team are responapplicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are independent of sible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report including the Cloetta AB in accordance with professional ethics for accountants Statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with applicable criteria in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in and the Annual Accounts Act respectively. The criteria are defined accordance with these requirements. on page 153 in the Sustainability Report, and are part of the Sustain­ The limited assurance procedures performed and the examination ability Reporting Guidelines published by GRI (The Global Reporting according to RevR 12 do not enable us to obtain assurance that we Initiative), that are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has develin an audit. The conclusion based on a limited assurance engagement oped. This responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to and an examination according to RevR 12 does not provide the same the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material level of assurance as a conclusion based on an audit. misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Management Team as described above. We Auditor’s responsibility consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the SustainabilOur responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability ity Report. Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate and to express an opinion regarding the Statutory Sustainability to provide a basis for our conclusions below. Report. Our assignment is limited to the historical information that is presented and does not cover future-oriented information. Conclusions We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance Based on the limited assurance procedures performed, nothing has with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other then audits or reviews come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability of financial information. A limited assurance engagement consists of Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Management of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited Team. assurance procedures. Our examination regarding the Statutory A Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. Sustainability Report has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s Stockholm, 12 March 2019 KPMG AB Tomas Forslund Torbjörn Westman Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 156 D E F INITIONS AN D G LOSSARY Definitions General All amounts in the tables are presented in SEK millions unless otherwise stated. All amounts in brackets () represent comparative figures for the prior year, unless otherwise stated. Margins Definition/calculation Purpose Gross margin Net sales less cost of goods sold as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin measures production profitability. Operating profit margin Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net sales. Operating profit margin is used for measuring the operational (EBIT margin) profitability. Operating profit margin, Operating profit, adjusted for items affecting comparability, Operating profit margin, adjusted excludes the impact of items adjusted as a percentage of net sales. affecting comparability, enabling a comparison of operational profitability. Profit margin Profit/loss before tax expressed as a percentage of net sales. This metric enables the profitability to be compared across locations where corporate taxes differ. Return Definition/calculation Purpose Cash conversion Operating profit, adjusted for items affecting comparability, Cash conversion measures the proportion of profits that are before depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures converted to cash flow. It is used to analyze how much of the as a percentage of operating profit, adjusted for items affecting profit attributable to shareholders is turned into cash that could comparability, before depreciation and amortization. be paid to investors without damaging the business, except for cash flows related to interest and tax. Return on capital employed Operating profit plus financial income as a percentage of Return on capital employed is used to analyse profitability, average capital employed. The average capital employed is based on the amount of capital used. The leverage of the calculated by taking the capital employed per period end and company is the reason that this metric is used next to return the capital employed by period end of the comparative period on equity, because it includes equity, but takes into account in the previous year divided by two. borrowings and other liabilities as well. Return on equity Profit for the period as a percentage of total equity. Return on equity is used to measure profit generation, given the resources attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. Capital structure Definition/calculation Purpose Capital employed Total assets less interest-free liabilities (including deferred tax). Capital employed measures the amount of capital used and serves as input for the return on capital employed. Equity/assets ratio Equity at the end of the period as a percentage of total assets. This ratio is an indicator of the company’s leverage used to The equity/assets ratio represents the amount of assets on finance its activities. which shareholders have a residual claim. Gross debt Gross current and non-current borrowings, credit overdraft Gross debt represents the total debt obligation of the company facilities, derivative financial instruments and interest payable. irrespective of its maturity. Net debt Gross debt less cash and cash equivalents. The net debt is used as an indication of the ability to pay off all debts if these became due simultaneously on the day of calculation, using only available cash and cash equivalents. Net debt/EBITDA Net Debt at the end of the period divided by the EBITDA, The net debt/EBITDA ratio approximates the company’s adjusted, for the last 12 months, taking into consideration the ability to decrease its debt. It represents the number of years it annualisation of EBITDA for acquired or divested companies. would take to pay back debt if net debt and EBITDA were held constant, ignoring the impact from cash flows from interest, tax and capital expenditure. Net debt/equity ratio Net debt at the end of the period divided by equity at the end The net debt/equity ratio measures the extent to which the of the period. company is funded by debt. Because cash and overdraft facilities can be used to pay-off debt at short notice, the leverage takes into account net debt instead of gross debt. Working capital Total inventories and trade and other receivables adjusted for Working capital is used to measure the company's ability, trade and other payables. besides cash and cash equivalents, to meet current operational obligations. Data per share Definition/calculation Purpose Cash flow from operating Cash flow from operating activities in the period divided by The cash flow from operating activities per share measures activities per share the average number of shares. the amount of cash the company generates per share from the revenues it brings irrespective of the capital investments and cash flows related to the financing structure of the company. Earnings per share Profit for the period divided by the average number of shares The earnings per share measures the amount of net profit that adjusted for the effect of forward contracts to repurchase is available for payment to shareholders per share. own shares. Equity per share Equity at the end of the period divided by the number of Equity per share measures the net-asset value backing shares at the end of the period. up each share of the company's equity and determines if a company is increasing shareholder value over time. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 D E F INITIONS AN D G LOSSARY 157 Definitions, continued Other definitions Definition/calculation Purpose EBITDA Operating profit before depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is used to measure the cash flow generated from operating activities, eliminating the impact of financing and accounting decisions. EBITDA, adjusted Operating profit, adjusted for items affecting comparability, EBITDA, adjusted increases the comparability of EBITDA. before depreciation and amortization. Effective tax rate Income tax as a percentage of profit before tax. This metric enables the income tax to be compared across locations where corporate taxes differ. Items affecting comparability Items affecting comparability are those significant items which Items affecting comparability increase the comparability of the are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in Group's financial performance. order to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance. These include items such as restructurings, impact from acquisitions or divestments. Net financial items The total of exchange differences on borrowings and cash and The net financial items reflects the company’s total costs of cash equivalents in foreign currencies, other financial income external financing. and other financial expenses. Net sales, change Net sales as a percentage of net sales in the comparative Net sales, change reflects the company's realized top-line period of the previous year. growth over time. Operating profit (EBIT) Operating profit consists of comprehensive income before net This metric enables the profitability to be compared across financial items and income tax. locations where corporate taxes differ, irrespective of the financing structure of the company. Operating profit (EBIT), Operating profit adjusted for items affecting comparability. Operating profit, adjusted increases the comparability of the adjusted operating profit. Organic growth Net sales, change excluding acquisition-driven growth and Organic growth excludes the impact of changes in group changes in exchanges rates. structure and exchange rates, enabling a comparison of net sales growth over time. Structural changes Net sales, change resulting from changes in group structure. Structural changes measure the contribution of changes in group structure to the net sales growth. Glossary Branded packaged products Products that are mainly sold under brands and are packaged. Brand extension Totally new products developed under an established brand. BRC Global Standards for A leading safety and quality certification programme. Many European and global retailers will only consider business Food Safety with suppliers that have been certified according to the BRC Global Standard. Contract manufacturing Manufacturing of external brands, i.e. insourcing production of products from external parties. GRI Global Reporting Initiative A network-based organization whose founders include the UN. GRI has pioneered the development of a framework for the structure and content of sustainability reporting. ICC International Chamber of Commerce. ILO International Labour Organization, United Nations agency dealing with labour issues. ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 International Organization for Standardization. ISO 9001 addresses quality management and ISO 14001 addresses environmental management. Line extension New packaging, sizes and flavours for an established brand. The Perfect Factory Cloetta’s development project to improve engagement, trustworthiness and resource-efficiency throughout production. OHSAS 18001 International occupational health and safety management system specification. Polyols Sugar alcohols that resemble sugar and are used as sweeteners. Pick & mix Cloetta’s range of candy and natural snacks that are picked by the consumers themselves. Pick & mix concept Cloetta’s complete concept in pick & mix including products, displays and accompanying store and logistic services. UTZ Certified standards for sustainable farming with a number of social and environmental criteria. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 158 C lo e t ta’ s h i sto ry Cloetta’s history filled with legendary brands The Cloetta brothers In 1862 the three Swiss Cloetta brothers, Bernard, Christoffer and Nutin Cloetta, founded the company “Brødrene Cloëtta” for manufacturing chocolate and confectionery in Copenhagen, Denmark. The brothers later moved their manufacturing to Sweden and the company was owned by the Cloetta family until 1917, when the Svenfelt family took over the majority shareholding in Cloetta via the newly formed Svenska Chokladfabriks AB. The Svenfelt family has major ownership interests in Cloetta to this day. 1800s 1900–1910 1920 1930–1940 1950–1960 JU Cloetta’s oldest brands 1900–1913, exploiting The roaring twenties The 1930–40s, 1950–60s, an interest date from the 1800s industrialization The confectionery industry launch of strong brands in the USA and cars Venco is launched in 1878 Electrification and railway grows after the war. The Malaco (Malmö Lakrits The chewing gum Jenkki when Gerrit van Voornveld construction accelerate slogan “Choose right – Compani) is founded in (Yankee) is launched in started manufacturing the pace of industrializachoose Cloetta” is created 1934 during the period beFinland in 1951. liquorice and peppermint tion, a critical enabler for in 1921. In the Netherlands, tween the two world wars. Ahlgrens bilar – the pastilles in a steam factory businesses like the Swedthe pastille brand King is Sportlunch (then called world’s best-selling car, in Amsterdam. Liquorice, ish companies Ahlgrens launched in 1922. In 1928 Mellanmål) is launched in is launched in 1953 with peppermint and jujubes and Cloetta, which are Sisu is launched in Finland, 1937. Kexchoklad is introItalian Bugatti as its inspihave long been known for active in industrial proRed Band in the Netherduced in 1938 and Center ration. their cough suppressing duction of confectionery. lands and Tarragona in in 1941. Plopp is launched The double countline Tupla effects. Läkerol is launched in 1909 Sweden. after WWII in 1949. is launched in Finland in and Guldnougat in 1913. 1960. In Sweden, Polly Läkerol is also launched is launched in 1965 and in Denmark in 1910 and Bridgeblandning in 1966. Norway in 1912. Chewits are launched in the United Kingdom in 1965. The first marshmallow Santas are also sold in the 1960s. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 C lo e t ta’ s h i sto ry 159 Strong brands with long traditions 1960 1941 1976 1909 1920 1951 1984 2007 Year 1934 1937 1965 1981 1878 1913 1928 1949 1922 ® 1998 1938 1953 L 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010– 1970s – 1980s, 1990s – consolidation 2000s – 2010s – Cloetta grows fresh and healthy more chewing gum of the industry new groups formed Cloetta and Leaf are In 1975, the world’s first In 1981 Sportlife is CSM, a Dutch sugar and During the period from merged in 2012. In 2014 chewing gum with xylitol launched as the first food products company, 2000 to 2009, Cloetta is Cloetta acquires Nutisal, is launched by Jenkki in chewing gum in “blister” acquires Red Band in part of the Cloetta Fazer a leading Swedish comFinland. The Mynthon packaging. In the Nether1986. Leaf acquires Ahlgroup. After the de-mergpany that roasts and sells pastille is introduced in lands, the country’s first grens (with Läkerol and er in 2009, the independdry roasted nuts. Finland in 1976. chewing gum with 100 per Ahlgrens bilar) in 1993, ent Cloetta is relisted on In the same year In Sweden, the mixed cent xylitol, Xylifresh, is CSM acquires Malaco NASDAQ OM Stockholm. Cloetta acquires The Jelly candy bag Gott & Blandat launched in 1988. in 1997, Cloetta acquires In 2000 CSM acquires Bean Factory with the is launched in response to Candelia (with Polly and Continental Sweets and main market in the UK. the growing popularity of Bridgeblandning) in 1998 thereby strengthens In 2015 Cloetta pick & mix. and CSM acquires Leaf its position primarily in acquires Lonka, a Dutch in 1999. Cloetta’s share is France and Belgium, but company that produces listed on the Stockholm also in the Netherlands and sells fudge, soft nouStock Exchange in 1994. and the UK. In 2001 CSM gat and chocolate. acquires Socalbe in In 2017, Cloetta Italy (with Dietorelle and acquires Candyking and Dietor). In 2005 CVC and becomes market leader Nordic Capital acquire in pick & mix. The Italian CSM’s confectionery operations are divested. division and changes its name to Leaf. Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 160 M e mb e r s h i p o f o r g a n i z at i o n s Membership of organizations Cloetta is a member of several organizations aimed at contributing to more sustainable cultivation of raw materials and improving the conditions for growers in developing countries. World Cocoa Foundation Round Table on Caobisco (WCF) Sustainable Palm Oil The World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) Caobisco (Chocolate, Biscuit & ConfecThe Round Table on Sustainable Palm manages a range of programmes aimed tionery Industries of the EU) supports Oil (RSPO) is committed to promoting at increasing the cocoa farmers’ incomes International Cocoa Initiatives, for the growth and use of sustainable palm and promoting sustainable cultivation. example through the development of oil worldwide. Examples of initiatives include teacher control and certification systems for training programmes, training in cocoa cocoa production. processing, micro loans for cocoa growers and health-related issues. FN Global Compact UTZ Bonsucro The UN’s Global Compact is a strategic UTZ Certified stands for sustainable With more than 400 members from 32 policy initiative for businesses that are farming and better opportunities for countries that represent all parts of the committed to aligning their operations farmers, their families and our planet. delivery chain, Bonsucro is an organiand strategies with ten universally acThe UTZ programme enables farmers zation that has the resources to realize cepted principles in the areas of human to learn better farming methods and to its vision: “A sugarcane sector that is rights, labour law, the environment and improve their working conditions and continuously improving and verified as anti-corruption. the environment. sustainable”. Global Shea Alliance Industry organizations The GSA is a non-profit organization • Bord Bia, Irish Food Board, • FNLI (The Dutch Food Industry that promotes sustainability in the shea (Irish industry association). Federation). industry. The GSA’s mission is to design, • Chokofa is a Swedish industry • HSH (The Federation of Norwegian develop and propose strategies that proassociation. Commercial and Service Enterprises). vide a foundation for a competitive and • Choprabisco, Belgium. • V BZ (Association of the Dutch Bakery sustainable shea industry worldwide, • DI (Danish Chocolate and and Confectionery Industry), and to support and empower the rural Confectionery Industries). the Netherlands. African women and their communities. • ETL (Finnish Food Industries’ Federation). Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 161 Shareholder information Shareholder contact Registration Jacob Broberg, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Registration to participate in the AGM must be received by the compa+46 70 190 00 33, jacob.broberg@cloetta.com ny no later than Friday, 29 March 2019. or ir@cloetta.com Mail: Cloetta AB “Annual General Meeting” c/o Euroclear Sweden Annual General Meeting Box 191 The Annual General Meeting of Cloetta AB (publ) will be held on SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden Thursday, 4 April 2019, at 3:00 p.m., at Stockholm Waterfront Telephone: +46 70 186 52 22 Congress Centre in Stockholm. Website: www.cloetta.com The Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be published on To order the annual report 28 February 2019 and will be posted on www.cloetta.com. The annual report is available in Swedish and English. The printed annual report can be ordered via the website. It can also be downloaded from www.cloetta.com. Financial calender 2019 Annual General Meeting in Stockholm 4 April 2019 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB 2019 2020 Interim report Q1 Interim report Q2 Interim report Q3 Interim report Q4 26 April 2019 12 July 2019 25 October 2019 29 January 2020 Production: Cloetta in collaboration with Addira Photos: Joakim Folke THANK Printing: åtta45 Translation: Lisa Cockette, Anything English YOU Cloetta A N N UA L A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2018 Cloetta, founded in 1862, is a leading confectionery company in the Nordic region and the Netherlands. In total, Cloetta products are sold in more than 50 countries worldwide. Cloetta owns some of the strongest brands on the market, such as Läkerol, Cloetta, Candyking, Jenkki, Kexchoklad, Malaco, Sportlife and Red Band. Cloetta has eight production units in five countries. Cloetta’s class B shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm. Cloetta AB (publ) • Corp. ID no. 556308-8144 • Solna Business Park, Englundavägen 7D, PO Box 6036, SE-171 06 Solna, Sweden. • Tel +46 8-52 72 88 00 • www.cloetta.com
