COMMUNICATION IN PROGRESS September 2018September 2019 ALGEDRA DUBAI COMMUNICATION IN PROGRESS September 2018September 2019 “I am honored to confirm that ALGEDRA Group is continuously committing to align its operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, Mohab Ayoub Managing Director ALGEDRA ALGEDRA is a company that was established to guarantee its clients satisfaction in the region, today operates in the UAE and the international market with highly qualified experienced and multi-national team. ALGEDRA core values are to develop and maintain strong, trusting relationships with it clients, suppliers and employees. Successfully managing growth and guiding operations with a strong central support team, while constantly pursuing customer satisfaction. ALGEDRA strives to offer the best working environment for its employees, allowing for creativity and individuality, investing in employees through ongoing development and training programs. Educating it employees on the business and encourage personal and professional growth within the company. ALGEDRA’s aim is to uphold the time-tested values of honesty, trust and personal integrity. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS As a participant of United Nations Global Compact ALGEDRA made a public commitment to respect and support Human Rights and comply with international standards. ALGEDRA has implemented internal Code of conduct approved by the company’s Managing Director and Operations Manager to ensure working environment protected from physical, sexual or psychological harassment. Human recourse department lead by Operations Manager is responsible for making sure workers are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. As well as overlooking employees wellbeing. In accordance with company culture any employee may address any concern to the management directly or to Human Recourses department via email, which will be reviewed by senior management and addressed back with solution. ALGEDRA is promoting inclusion and diversity as one of the keys to corporate sustainability by giving equitable access to resources and opportunities for all. It also enables individuals and groups to feel safe, respected, engaged, motivated, and valued, for who they are and for their contributions toward organizational and societal goals. Through the year 2019 ALGEDRA has organized numerous trainings and workshops for the employees for their personal and professional growth, where participants have received Certificates of participation upon completion. Head of Departments are assigned to provide trainings for their team members on a regular basis giving employees possibility to increase their job competence. Algedra supports initiatives to provide possibility for education and has partnered with Universities giving opportunity for students to undergo internship within the company. In April to support World Autism Month ALGEDRA raised awareness for Autism by discussing importance of design for Autism through our channels of communication with stakeholders. As a result no cases of Human right abuse were reported. ALGEDRA’s is planning to continue commitment to respect and support Human Rights and comply with international standards. Labour ALGEDRA is operating According to UAE Labour Law and DMCC Rules and Regulations ensuring protection of human rights. By using adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification in recruitment procedures ALGEDRA verifies the age of applicants to uphold effective abolition of child labor. No individuals younger than 18 years old are employed within a company. Providing all the employees with individual employment contracts stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment and the freedom to leave (including the appropriate procedures stated in the employment contracts). Human recourses department is reviewing and updating recruitment procedures and contracts according to UAE Law and DMCC rules updates on a regular basis ensuring employees human rights are protected and communicating those updates to the employees via internal communication channels in a written form. All employees benefited from renewed private medical insurance. The wellbeing of employees. Management and Head of Each Department are monitoring employees’ wellbeing, and it is their responsibility to manage the work load in appropriate manner to avoid overload and stressful environment. ALGEDRA has implemented weekly planning schedule that is reviewed and amended constantly according to business requirements in order to control appropriate workload of employees. Environment ALGEDRA has system of training and educating employees in a form of safety manuals to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. Production team of ALGEDRA is creating environmentally conscious designs eliminating potential harm to human health and environment according to ISO 9001:2015 standards. Fire precaution and fire alarms trainings for evacuation were conducted in the building for the safety and health insurance. Company is promoting environmental sustainability via all internal and external email communication by encouraging to reduce the printing and go green. To reduce the footprint we initiated minimizing of our printing to the maximum and all the printed paper is collected for re-use where possible. Environment ALGEDRA has system of training and educating employees in a form of safety manuals to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. Production team of ALGEDRA is creating environmentally conscious designs eliminating potential harm to human health and environment according to ISO 9001:2015 standards. Fire precaution and fire alarms trainings for evacuation were conducted in the building for the safety and health insurance. Company is promoting environmental sustainability via all internal and external email communication by encouraging to reduce the printing and go green. To reduce the footprint we initiated minimizing of our printing to the maximum and all the printed paper is collected for re-use where possible. Anti-Corruption As a participant of United Nations Global Compact ALGEDRA made a public commitment to respect and support Anti-Corruption principle and comply with international standards. ALGEDRA has a strict anti-corruption policy, which lies within the company’s values of honesty and integrity and is clearly communicated to the employees through the induction training process. Company is assessing the risk of corruption when doing business and eliminates possibility of corruption by choosing business partners not involved in any corruption actions and sharing same business values that comply with UN international standards. MEASURMENTS OF OUTCOMES Through the year of 2019 since committing to align its operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues ALGEDRA has managed to make first steps toward sustainability and had no cases of Human right abuse, nor Corruption cases reported. Algedra has participated in some event such as national initiative in UAE to spread the awareness in world autism day. As well as in the Fourth International Therapeutic Diet initiative for volunteer with effective role, which was launched in The year of Zayed day by Al Tareq center for Humanities, where Algedra has received the Ambassador of giving certificate from UK Gulf center for studies and business, and the appreciation certificate from Al Tareq center for Humanities. In period of 12 month 48 training were provided through all departments providing employees with possibility for personal and professional growth. 4 students were provided with possibility to undergo internship within the company. All the employees has signed renewed contracts in accordance with UAE labor law and DMCC Rules. In upcoming year ALGEDRA’s is planning to continue commitment to respect and support 10 principles of universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues. For Algedra, being part of United Nation Global Compact is not only to apply the ten principles, but further to invest in our creativity in order to innovate and create new methods that helps the humanity to live in a better environment regardless the level of their lifestyle. COMMUNICATION IN PROGRESS September 2018September 2019
