TRANSFORMING THE WORLD 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T LETTER FROM THE CEO Embracing Our Role in Transforming the World Drove Our Sustainability ABOUT THE COVER Efforts in 2018 In 2016, a Fluor-managed public–private partnership, Connect 202 Partners, was awarded a design–build and maintenance project by the Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT) to complete work on the largest highway project in the state’s history. ADOT’s plans call for the Loop 202 South Mountain Freeway project to deliver 22 miles (35.5 km) of four-lane highway in each direction in the Phoenix metropolitan area. Transforming the world … these words helping our clients reduce their impact on • Increased sustainable employment of mean a lot to Fluor, because that is what the environment. And by living Fluor’s four our craft workforce to 52 percent from 30 Connect 202’s mission was not only to complete the we strive to do every day. Core Values of safety, integrity, teamwork percent through our new Craft Passport. roadway safely, but to do so in a socially, economically and environmentally friendly manner. A series of public outreach and excellence, we work to keep our meetings were held along the corridor to obtain feedback In 2018, Fluor revised its purpose and employees safe and trained for jobs of the • Trained more than 21,000 global and garner public support for the project. vision statements to better articulate what future, and we operate with the highest employees on anti-bribery and sexual we have long believed and why we exist degree of ethical responsibility — focused harassment policies. Connect 202 removed 70 buildings to make room for the as a company. on doing the right thing, every time. new freeway. Rather than hauling all of that scrap metal to a You can read about these accomplishments landfill, the partnership saw an opportunity for reuse: turning We transform the world by building Sustainability is an integral part of and more in detail throughout this report. the scrap steel from the demolished buildings into the 19,000 prosperity and empowering progress. tons (17,237 tonnes) of rebar needed to build 40 bridges along Fluor’s global operations. Highlights As the newly appointed CEO, I am the highway route. By working with local disadvantaged from 2018 include: committed to working sustainably and business partners Endo Steel and Ammex Rebar Placers, FLUOR’S PURPOSE STATEMENT furthering Fluor’s efforts in line with our which partnered with Commercial Metals Company for the We support our clients in designing and • Launched new safety theme and Core Values. I want to thank our more fabrication of the rebar, this process saved 24,000 tons (21,772 building projects that energize the world, associated actions that will help Fluor than 53,000 employees for the passion tonnes) of iron ore; 13,000 tons (11,794 tonnes) of coal; and connect communities, save lives and maintain an integrated and proactive and professionalism they bring to work 1,000 tons (907 tonnes) of limestone. These valuable resources safety culture for all employees, every day and our global clients for would have been used in the mining and processing of virgin keep our nations safe. Together with our iron ore into project steel. clients, partners and other stakeholders, subcontractors and stakeholders. trusting Fluor to share in the mission we are driven by the words of our purpose of transforming the world. In November 2018, Connect 202 Partners was named part statement to create solutions to society’s • Achieved an impressive 60 million of the esteemed Arizona Million Dollar Circle of Excellence challenges and to leave the world a hours without a lost-time incident at (MDCE). The Arizona MDCE recognizes businesses that better place. the Kuwait National Petroleum Company lead the way in supplier diversity in the state of Arizona by Clean Fuels project. spending more than $1 million annually with women and minority business enterprises. Our comprehensive approach means we have greater influence across all stages of • More than 10,000 Fluor volunteers the asset life cycle, from engineering to donated 52,600 hours to the communities CARLOS HERNANDEZ procurement, fabrication, construction, where we operate and live. Chief Executive Officer operations and maintenance ­— ultimately 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 Table of Contents 05 Fluor at a Glance 07 Health, Safety & Environmental 16 Community & Social Services 23 Employees & Workplace 26 Ethics & Compliance 32 Supply Chain 37 Appendix A: Memberships, Awards & Certifications 39 Appendix B: Performance Metrics 40 Appendix C: Sustainable Development Goals 41 Appendix D: About the Report 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 ABOUT US: A global leader in engineering, procurement, develop new pharmaceuticals to help fight listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index fabrication, construction and maintenance, disease. They conduct missions that keep for four consecutive years. For 18 consecutive Fluor works closely with companies and nations safe. And they do it all backed by years, Fluor has been recognized as one of the governments to design, build and maintain the expertise and ingenuity of Fluor. We are World’s Most Admired Companies® by FORTUNE complex capital projects that are essential transforming the world by building prosperity magazine. We’ve partnered with government building blocks of development and progress. and empowering progress. Driven by our agencies to support their missions and build We have the expertise, reach and financial Core Values of safety, integrity, teamwork and out infrastructure around the world. We’ve strength to tackle the world’s toughest excellence, Fluor has long been a leader in the worked hand in hand with leading advanced challenges with an integrated life-cycle global construction industry and is ranked manufacturers and life science innovators. approach designed to deliver projects on No. 153 on the FORTUNE® 500 list. Every day, We’ve managed and provided operations and time; within budget; and with an outstanding we strive to set the standard for safety and maintenance services for some of the world’s health, safety and environmental record. Our sustainability, ethical performance, operational most complex projects for major energy, clients transform the energy that powers excellence and industry innovation, providing chemicals, power and mining companies. industries. They build the highways and clients and partners the confidence that only rail lines that connect communities. They a global leader can deliver. We have been OUR SUSTAINABILIT Y MISSION: Our mission is to conduct business in a socially, economically and environmentally responsible manner to the benefit of current and future generations. Sustainability is integrated in our business practices, and our employees are engaged in delivering the mission. Our strong socially responsible corporate identity allows Fluor to achieve its purpose of building and sustaining the global community and providing value for our stakeholders. T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D COMPANY OVERVIEW Fluor At A Glance For calendar year 2018 Founded in 1912 and headquartered in Irving, Texas, Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) is among the world’s largest publicly traded engineering, procurement, fabrication, construction and maintenance companies. 1912 FOUNDED 53,349 EM PLOYEES 60 COUN T RI E S $19.2 BILLION RE V ENUE $27.7 BIL L ION NE W AWA R D S $40 BI L L I ON BAC K LOG 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 5 COMPANY OVERVIEW Community & Social Services Community & Social Services option B option B Community & Social Services (Data shown are cumulative over 3 years, 2016–2018.) Actual: 737,800 001 Actual: 568,000 Actual: 2,253,000 Actual: 376 001 001 001 Goal: 550,000 Goal: 625,000 08 08 Goal: 1,750,000 08 08 06 06 06 06 Goal: 200 04 04 04 04 Community & Social Services 02 02 02 Community & Social Services 02 Community & Social Services Community & Social Services option B option B 0 option B 0 option B 0 0 STUDENTS RECEIVING YOUTH RECEIVING MEALS PROVIDED HOMES/FACILITIES BUILT/REFURBISHED STEM AWARENESS/TRAINING LIFE SKILLS/LEADERSHIP TRAINING Actual: 129,300 Actual: 38,300 Actual: 41 Goal: 150,000 001 001 001 001 Actual: 148,500 Goal: 35 08 Goal: 30,000 08 08 08 Goal: 75,000 06 06 06 06 04 04 04 04 02 02 02 02 0 0 0 0 INDIVIDUALS RECEIVING TREES, SHRUBS, FLOWERS PLANTED LITTER REMOVED (TONS) VOLUNTEER HOURS PREVENTIVE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 6 HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D H E A LT H , S A F E T Y & E N V I R O N M E N TA L Striving To Inspire And Lead A Culture Of Caring That Prevents Harm And Promotes Well-Being Fluor builds some of the largest, most complex, most awe-inspiring physical structures in the world. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: Every one of them is made possible because we are steadfast in adhering to our first Core Value, which is to take care of the people who work on these projects, specifically through our dedication to leading • Introduced our Safer Together theme and began launching the health, safety and environmental initiatives. Our goal is to continually innovate and evolve our HSE actions that will help us achieve programs so that they not only stand as the preeminent practices in our industry, but they rise to the an integrated safety engagement culture for all Fluor employees, highest standards among all industries. We of course know that this is the right thing to do. We also subcontractors and stakeholders. know that for Fluor and our clients, HSE excellence is key to optimizing productivity, reducing schedule • Issued a new company-wide and budget risk, increasing workforce retention and achieving excellence in every project we deliver. incident protocol with a common, severity-based standard incident response. ENSURING HEALTH AND SAFETY of our safety journey to build upon a IS ALWAYS A TOP COMMITMENT culture of prevention and care that our • KNPC Clean Fuels Program in The work we do across our business groups stakeholders deserve. Kuwait won a Gold Award in HSE is inherently hazardous, with serious We can always do better for the benefit Excellence from the American ongoing potential for harm to human life and limb. Statistics abound that track of our people, our clients and the world Society of Safety Engineers – health and safety performance, and many in which we work and live. We wanted Kuwait Chapter. companies build their HSE programs with to enrich our approach, going beyond mechanisms designed to react to these compliance to inspiring employee and data points. This is not the Fluor way. leadership engagement. While statistics still provide valuable guidance, our goal is Fluor approaches every factor that can not a cycle of measurement and adjustment SCDOT Port Access Road, Charleston, South Carolina, USA impact health and safety with hyperbut rather something much more human. vigilance — but still, to us, that is just the Our vision is to prevent any serious injuries starting point. We’ve long had robust, wellor fatalities on a project site. We aim to Safety is a Fluor Core Value. It drives the actions of every employee at every location, established health and safety policies and build a preventive culture in which care is evident. Thus, in 2018, we launched a every day. Our people deserve it. Our clients demand it. Our performance depends procedures in place — but in 2018, as we scrutinized every aspect of our program, program that we call Safer Together. on it. Because at Fluor, safety is more than something we do — it’s who we are. we decided to embark on the next step It’s the backbone of our business. — The Fluor Safety Pledge 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 0 8 H E A LT H , S A F E T Y & E N V I R O N M E N TA L Site Standardization Keystone Safety Habits Sites across the globe adhere to the same fundamental level of Leaders take ownership of their messages to make clear that care with standardized safety requirements and programs for safety is a personal value rather than an organizational mandate. worker well-being, medical provisions, induction and training, safety best practices, branding, security, traffic management, Preventing Distracted Driving safety communications and personal protective equipment. We serve as role models and demonstrate safe behavior on the roads at all times. Accountability to Life Critical Rules Fluor employees adhere to Life Critical Rules at all times, Learning Through HSE Project Experiences and violations are treated with accountability. We communicate important reminders throughout the organization to prevent the recurrence of high-potential Management Site Safety Walks severity incidents. Our leaders are equipped to effectively engage with the workforce and provide both positive and corrective safety feedback. Celebrating Safety Successes Recognition of significant HSE accomplishments is a key Safer Together Welcome and Orientation component of a successful HSE program and an element All Fluor offices welcome visitors, contractors and new employees in promoting a positive HSE culture. Safer Together Actions: with a consistent overview that relays the importance of safety to our company. Safety Steering Team Leadership from the HSE function, Construction & Fabrication, Leadership Development and each business line engage quarterly to review the company’s True safety leaders are developed through comprehensive safety climate and set strategic safety goals. management training, coaching and succession planning. SAFER TOGETHER program that invites and engages our yet we already see benefits just through Safer Together, and we are gaining the For many years, Fluor has built a solid employees and leadership in an active the positive adoption and anticipation momentum to make a real difference. foundation of policies and procedures that preventive culture, where each individual is generated as we rolled out the new theme have met and continue to meet legal and empowered to own the initiatives of safety. on our projects and started implementation In Safer Together branding, client requirements and to positively impact of our first Safer Together actions. complementary safety colors come the safety of our people and the conditions Safer Together is organized in 10 steptogether to show connection and in which they work. changes, which we introduced in 2018. We know this is ambitious. We also know teamwork. These colors encircle a blue We have set a goal for full implementation that for our culture to undergo true change field with a green construction rim, This has been a good approach, but just by the end of 2019. To us, this is the right of this magnitude, Safer Together must be which represents Fluor — an entire as we push ourselves to be innovative and path; in fact, it’s the only path on which we embraced throughout Fluor, beginning with organization rallying around safety. transformative in how we serve clients, we can surpass industry standards and arrive executive leadership. CEO Carlos Hernandez, believe we must act equally in the service somewhere better — somewhere safer. the business group presidents and all of safety. This is the basis of our new safety The culture shift will not be immediate, of the management are championing 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 0 9 H E A LT H , S A F E T Y & E N V I R O N M E N TA L Setting The Bar Higher For HSE STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE Instilling a preventive culture of health and safety takes caring. It also takes training. To truly As the Department of Energy’s prime contractor at care about the role they play in achieving positive outcomes, our people must be equipped the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), Fluor Federal Petroleum Operations manages the world’s largest with the knowledge they need to take ownership of our health and safety programs and supply of emergency crude oil. their own well-being. Fluor provides multiple avenues for this training and development. With a workforce of approximately 600 employees, and six locations, the SPR recycled more than 86 percent of the waste it generated in 2018. Total waste HSE TRAINING organization. We are supporting local both actual severity and potential severity, recycled was 1,205 tons (1,093 tonnes), equivalent to Fluor’s HSE Management System was worksites with consistent, high-quality or “what could have happened,” in all the weight of 209 African elephants. established in 2003, and it has served us training modules through the Fluor HSE incidents. The new protocol has four well. In 2018, we augmented the training University® platform. primary drivers: In total, the SPR’s waste minimization program component exponentially, providing reduced the generation of hazardous waste to only abundant computer-based and classroom These sessions are tracked through the 1 Establish timely and accurate new Fluor Craft Passport program, which communication of incidents to the 179 pounds (81 kilograms), or 0.01 percent for the training to prepare our people to safely perform their duties on job sites around captures all training each craft worker appropriate levels of leadership. year. Additionally, the project’s Green Purchasing the world. As a project-based company, receives, logged in a standardized method program ensured that 99.4 percent of all electronic we know the risk landscape changes from in one place. Not only does this facilitate 2 Focus valuable time and resources on equipment procured for use at the SPR meets federal assignment to assignment, so we are competency across the entire workforce, incidents that pose the greatest risk. standards for energy efficiency. working to ensure every Fluor employee is it allows craft workers to apply training properly prepared, especially in life-critical certifications from project to project, 3 Drive consistent and appropriate situations. without the need for retraining and incident response across the company. delayed onboarding. In 2018, more than 3,650 operational 4 Facilitate organizational learning to personnel were assigned curricula. At yearHSE PROJECT EXPERIENCES prevent recurrence of incidents. end, these individuals had completed 42,822 (INCIDENT ALERTS) HSE courses — 78 percent of the total 55,195 The insights we gain from this approach In early 2018, we initiated a company-wide courses assigned. While we are proud of this help us make every person safer in every injury and response protocol that defines achievement, our constant goal is to reach Fluor project around the world. In 2018, the communication, investigation, follow100 percent course completion. We are Fluor projects issued 44 incident alerts up and severity levels for both actual and working hard to achieve it in 2019. under the new protocol to promote potential incidents. learning from the incidents and nearCRAFT PASSPORT PROGRAM misses throughout the organization. While most HSE reporting protocols focus It is critical to Fluor projects that our craft on whether or not an incident is reportable, workforce around the world has the same we have found that we have much better HSE competency and training as our entire opportunities for improvement by analyzing 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 0 H E A LT H , S A F E T Y & E N V I R O N M E N TA L Recognizing Fluor Safety Leaders: We offer a number of awards to recognize individuals who have exceeded expectations in upholding our culture of safety. SILVER SAFE T Y MEDALLION AWARD WINNER S The Silver Medallion Award: Honoring employees who have acted in a heroic manner to save another’s life Robert Ariatti Charles Costanza John Watkins DOE Strategic Petroleum Reserve DOE Strategic Petroleum Reserve DOE Strategic Petroleum Reserve New Orleans, Louisiana New Orleans, Louisiana New Orleans, Louisiana Dean Checkai Kenney Kelley John Stamm DOE Strategic Petroleum Reserve DOE Strategic Petroleum Reserve DOE Strategic Petroleum Reserve The KNPC Clean Fuels Program Mina Abdullah Package New Orleans, Louisiana New Orleans, Louisiana New Orleans, Louisiana 2 (MAB2) exceeded 60 million hours without a lost-time Will Chinn Allen Lemieux Robert Clay Thompson incident and with an overall total recordable incident rate Nexus Pipeline Gas Project DOE Strategic Petroleum Reserve Savannah River Nuclear Independence, Ohio New Orleans, Louisiana Aiken, South Carolina of 0.045 compared to the KNPC target of 0.084. Roxanne Copass Michael J. Miller Joseph Uribe TCO FGP Project/Farnborough Savannah River Nuclear DOE Strategic Petroleum Reserve “When we look at the scale of what we The American Society of Safety Engineers – Tengiz, Kazakhstan Aiken, South Carolina New Orleans, Louisiana have built over the last three years, and Kuwait Chapter awarded the project with its considering the risks involved by having a 2018 Gold Award in HSE Excellence. workforce of over 12,000 workers, achieving BRONZE MEDALLION HSE AWARD OF EXCELLENCE: 60 million hours without a lost-time incident “It is not about statistics — it is about people is a remarkable milestone,” says Mark and ensuring that everyone goes home AWARD WINNER: Honoring individuals and site teams that truly excel in Cummings, Fluor FDH JV HSE site manager. safely at the end of each day,” says Chris Honoring employees for the proper demonstrating HSE awareness, leadership, proactive “Let’s not forget that the contractors Evans, Fluor HSE EAME Region executive use of PPE to prevent injury. engagement and appropriate behaviors. carrying out the work on site are the ones director. “There has been a strong spirit of who make up the bulk of our workforce. cooperation and collaboration between Their people are the ones who, day in, day the partners and subcontractors to ensure Marvin Kirlew Jim Breland, retired out, are putting together the pieces of a success, just like our new Safer Together AMECO Fleet Service Center monumental jigsaw to create a world-class theme that embraces an attitude of active Kingston, Jamaica Kevin Medeiros, Life Sciences and Advanced operating facility. Independent of their caring and support for one another.” Manufacturing, Fort Dodge, Iowa scope of work, the message from FDH JV has always been consistent, and that is the need Robert Carballo, AMECO, Guadalajara, Mexico for us all to work together to achieve our goals safely.” 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 1 H E A LT H , S A F E T Y & E N V I R O N M E N TA L Working To Meet And Then Exceed Our Marks Goals for 2018 Industry average for companies greater than 1,000 employees 1.30 Fluor monitors both lagging and leading indicators to measure the effectiveness of our Source: U.S. Bureau of health and safety programs. While we are always encouraged by our accomplishments, we Labor Statistics are never satisfied, and we never will be, until none of our people is ever injured. We know Data based on: per 200,000 hours worked that we can only achieve that mark by learning from both our failures and our successes. 0.43 0.42 Goal: ≤ 0.40 0.36 2018 INDICATORS leg amputation. Finger amputations IMPROVEMENTS THROUGH AUDITS A company-wide U.S. Occupational Safety and crushed hands remained our most Fluor’s HSE audit program allows and Health Administration (OSHA) standard significant high-severity incidents in 2018. In leadership to measure site leading indicator 2016 2017 2018 guides our measurement and reporting response, we have enhanced and promoted performance and, more important, presents process. In 2018, our workforce reported our hand-injury prevention materials to them with tangible opportunities to identify a total of 539 incidents, 243 of which improve worker awareness and protection. and prioritize areas for improvement. In TOTAL CASE INCIDENCE RATE threatened serious injury or fatality and 2018, these audits were focused on three TCIR 12 of which rated as high-severity, In 2018, our total case incident rate (TCIR) critical areas for attention: Industry average for companies resulting in life-altering injuries. was 0.36, achieving our goal of ≤0.40. greater than 1,000 employees Our days away, restricted or transferred 1. Management in Action 0.90 In 2018, we suffered two fatalities in the rate (DART) was 0.21, compared to our 2. Human/Machine Interface 1.30 Fluor family. In March, a worker at a project goal of ≤0.15. 3. Falling Object Prevention was pinned and fatally injured in an elevated lift basket. In September, another worker To continue to mitigate risks and reduce In 2018, we completed a total of 70 HSE was killed when an intoxicated third-party our lagging indicators, in 2019, we are audits. The 62 general worksite audits driver crashed into a construction work zone adding severity-level classifications on top received an average score of 87.8 percent, and struck the worker. We are devastated of our current incident reporting efforts. This Data based on: per while the eight life-critical audits scored by these tragedies, and in remembrance will be expressed as a pyramid framework 200,000 hours worked 89.7 percent. of our colleagues, we have further steeled with fatalities at the top, life-altering injuries our resolve to develop preventive programs following and lesser-severity incidents at where incidents like these will not happen. the base. These insights will better inform us 0.21 0.21 of the most serious threats our workers 0.17 Goal: ≤ 0.15 Of our 12 life-altering injuries, 11 included are facing and guide us in proactive hand and finger injuries and one double development of future initiatives. 2016 2017 2018 DAYS AWAY, RESTRICTED OR TRANSFERRED DART 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 2 H E A LT H , S A F E T Y & E N V I R O N M E N TA L Extending Care To Clients And Job Sites BUILDING A CULTURE OF CARING Our health and safety outreach emanates from the Fluor culture. It begins with our employees and flows outward to job sites around the world where we work and HUMAN PERFORMANCE support clients. ACTIVELY CARING & EMPOWERING SAFETY LEADERSHIP FOCUS ON HIGH POTENTIAL Fluor cares about the health and safety to detail, enhanced alertness and everyone who sets foot on the site, as well of all individuals who come in contact heightened responsiveness of all parties as to express health and safety as Fluor’s with our projects: employees, suppliers, on the job site, all of which contribute to first Core Value. COMPETENCY AND TRAINING subcontractors, clients and people in the superior project outcomes. surrounding communities. Over many Furthermore, we ensure our workforce is decades, Fluor has built a reputation One highly visible example recently enabled with the proper equipment, tools MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS of steadfast dedication to safety and introduced through our Safer Together and training to perform by Fluor standards compliance. Every year, we work to make program is standardized personal and protocols. We remain ever vigilant in COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND PPE this reputation even stronger by remaining protective equipment (PPE) for all Fluor monitoring and improving site conditions. attentive and actively innovating new projects worldwide. initiatives. In 2018, that was Safer Together, This means our onsite leadership does not covered earlier in this report. Most of the It is the collective effect of efforts like accept unsanitary or unusable facilities elements of Safer Together were specifically these that ultimately increases the welland accommodations. Our projects are designed to address safety at project sites, being of our people and allows us to challenging enough without asking our where there are many stakeholders in workers to brave site conditions that could achieve outstanding results. addition to our own employees. be improved. For example, we won’t leave workers out in sweltering heat to eat STANDARDIZING HEALTHY because of poor lunch facilities. Instead, we PROTECTING EVERY INDIVIDUAL Fluor wins billions of dollars in project AND SAFE ENVIRONMENTS will establish minimum requirements with Another Safer Together element that the goal of providing an alternative that awards every year. We capture this business will be seen around the world is our expresses a caring and preventative culture. in no small part because Fluor is known for standardization of worksites globally. delivering productivity and efficiency. We While cultures vary greatly from country to We know that this unyielding commitment believe the most important factor in this country, we are working to make sure safety translates directly to meeting and often delivery is the health and safety of culture is the same no matter where we go. exceeding client expectations. When our workforce. workers feel respected and protected — Safer Together branding is visible when care is apparent — they work We consider client project goals and our throughout our worksites, with safety more efficiently and produce higherHSE goals to be inextricably linked. We messaging posted in appropriate areas. quality results. know that high safety performance directly We do this to keep safety top of mind for translates to greater attention E&I Integrity Services, United Kingdom 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 3 H E A LT H , S A F E T Y & E N V I R O N M E N TA L Acting As A Responsible Global Citizen GHG EMISSIONS ABSOLUTE IN METRIC TONS OF EQUIVALENT CARBON DIOXIDE 2018 125,000 100,000 Environmental stewardship also drives our ongoing efforts and initiatives. Fluor works tCO 2 e 75,000 to ensure we are meeting environmental laws and regulations everywhere we work 50,000 and that we are operating in a responsible manner on behalf of our people, our 25,000 company and our clients. 0 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS reduce its emissions. In general, Fluor is not GHG emissions and Scope 2 indirect GHG Fluor follows the Greenhouse Gas Emissions governed by a requirement to measure its emissions are emitted due to consumption carbon footprint. However, Fluor established of purchased electricity, heat or steam. *Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions (GHG) Protocol standards for inventory over Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions from consumption which Fluor maintains operational control its global carbon footprint in 2006 for Fluor started collecting Stork emission of purchased electricity, heat or steam and updates emission factors periodically. offices, vehicle fleets at those offices and air in 2018. The Fluor including Stork GHG Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG emissions, such as travel The basic unit of measure used throughout travel. The boundaries exclude client sites emission chart will be shown for historical the GHG inventory is metric tons of and fabrication yards. comparison when three years of data equivalent carbon dioxide (tCO2e). Emission are available. Scope 3 emissions are not Measuring and reporting the carbon included since they include Stork emissions Photo courtesy of Marathon Petroleum Corporation sources in Fluor’s GHG inventory include electricity, steam and other stationary footprint of Fluor facilities provides valuable in 2018, but not 2016 or 2017. Scope 3 fuel consumption for Fluor’s facilities, information that is used to manage the emissions result from activities of the refrigerants used in building cooling company’s operations in an environmentally company, but occurring from sources not systems, fleet vehicle fuel consumption responsible manner. Fluor continues to owned or under control by the company and emissions associated with businessidentify ways to reduce carbon emissions (e.g., employee travel or commuting). related air travel. For each source, GHG through energy efficiencies, recycling emissions are quantified in the inventory activities, renovations and conservation ( continued next page ) for the following, if applicable: carbon efforts. Fluor’s absolute GHG emissions dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and any reflect the complexity of opening, closing, hydrofluorocarbon refrigerants reported. expanding, consolidating and maintaining space in 167 facilities around the globe. Fluor’s UK operations are subject to carbon emissions regulations. Emissions are not Fluor’s absolute GHG emissions, without Marathon Petroleum Corporation South Texas subject to regulations in any other country. Stork’s absolute emissions, are shown Asset Repositioning (STAR) Program, Fluor does not buy carbon credits in order to in the graph to the right. Scope 1 direct Texas City, Texas, USA 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 4 H E A LT H , S A F E T Y & E N V I R O N M E N TA L ( continued from previous page ) GHG EMISSIONS ABSOLUTE IN METRIC TONS OF EQUIVALENT CARBON DIOXIDE FLUOR WITHOUT STORK 70,000.00 CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS 60,000.00 001 001 001 001 001 001 001 001 50,000.00 08 08 08 08 08 08 08 08 Water Conservation 40,000.00 In 2018, Fluor conserved approximately 578,000 gallons (2.2 million liters) of water in its facilities. 06 06 06 06 06 06 06 06 30,000.00 These numbers do not include Stork operations. Those conservation volumes will be reported once 20,000.00 04 04 04 04 04 04 04 04 the accuracy of data collection has been confirmed, which is expected to occur in 2019. Conservation programs included deployment of low-flush valves and installation of automatic faucet sensors and 10,000.00 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 commodes and low-flow showerheads. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1+2 Waste Reduction, Reuse and Conservation Fluor offices reduce waste by donating electrical appliances, used furniture, office supplies, chairs, Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions from consumption carpet and computers to schools, homes for the elderly and nonprofit organizations. In 2018, of purchased electricity, heat or steam approximately 220 tons (200 tonnes) of these items were donated or reused rather than sent to local Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG emissions, such as travel landfills. During renovations, furniture and materials, including low-emitting and recycled-content materials, are reused whenever possible. Conservation and landfill avoidance activities are also an Normalizing absolute GHG emissions by revenue is another approach to evaluating the effect of important part of Fluor’s global HSE initiatives. Fluor’s ongoing initiative to promote double-sided Fluor’s efficiency measures. Between 2017 and 2018, there was a reduction of more than 13 percent printing saved approximately 47 tons (43 tonnes) of paper in 2018. in normalized GHG emissions for scopes 1 and 2 combined. Recycling Fluor’s normalized GHG emission by revenue without Stork’s input is 2.55 in 2018. As noted above, In 2018, Fluor offices worldwide, through their active recycling program, recycled approximately 550 the Fluor including Stork GHG emission chart will be shown for historical comparison when three tons (499 tonnes) of paper, 96 tons (87 tonnes) of cardboard, 4.3 tons (3.9 tonnes) of batteries and 250 years of data are available. Normalized GHG emissions for Fluor with Stork emissions is 5.38 and will tons (227 tonnes) of mixed recyclable materials. Assorted bulk material was 793 tons (719 tonnes). be depicted on the charts in the 2020 sustainability report. Note that the value of 5.38 is the first Assorted bulk material includes aluminum cans, glass containers, iron and steel, landscape trimmings, year of the new baseline. light bulbs, cooking oil, tires, plastic containers, and toner and ink cartridges. These numbers do not include Stork operations. Those recycling volumes will be reported once the GHG EMISSIONS accuracy of data collection has been confirmed, which is expected to occur in 2019. NORMALIZED BY REVENUE tCO 2 e) FLUOR WITHOUT STORK 4.0 3.4 3.5 2.9 3.0 2.5 2.5 2.0 1.5 Mechanical and Piping Services, Peru 1.0 0.5 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions 0.0 Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG emissions, such as travel 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 5 COMMUNITY & SOCIAL SERVICES T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D COMMUNITY & SOCIAL SERVICES Giving Something Back To Every 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: Community We Touch • Initiated the Movers & Makers program, engaging 4thand 5th-grade girls to take an interest in our industry through Fluor’s purpose is to transform the world by building prosperity and empowering progress. The economyeducation programs and hands-on projects. boosting projects we construct in countries around the world certainly fulfill this purpose. Yet it is never the • Contributed $100,000 and 400 volunteer Fluor way simply to roll in, build a project and move out. The work we do to lift up the communities that hours to support the renovation of two surround our projects also brings our purpose to life. All around us, we see opportunities to fix problems, elementary schools in Guinea, Africa. to improve circumstances, to enrich lives. We seize these opportunities with both an open heart and a focused strategy so that everyone who comes in contact with a Fluor project comes out in a better place. ENRICHING COMMUNITIES programs to life, volunteering their time At Fluor, we believe if communities AROUND THE WORLD to provide vital services to our communities. When a group shows up sporting our thrive, so do their businesses Fluor offices and project sites encircle the planet. And because we build the kinds red Fluor Cares® T-shirts, everyone there and residents. The stability of of large projects that energize economies can be sure that something good is a community is affected by the and create progress for societies, a large about to happen. percentage of our work takes us to condition of its infrastructure and its developing countries. It is our goal, through In 2018, more than 10,200 Fluor volunteers ability to attract and retain talent. our projects themselves and through our donated a total of 52,600 hours to the community and social programs, to leave communities where we operate and live. communities better than when we arrived. Volunteers across our global operation removed 40,000 pounds of litter at sites Fluor programs focus on key areas around the world. We built and refurbished where we believe we can make the 198 homes and community facilities and most impact: education, social services, donated more than 814,000 meals. community and economic development, and the environment. We are proud of these numbers, but we know our true results are immeasurable. In 2018, our efforts funded by Fluor and Though our financial support and volunteer the Fluor Foundation provided more than hours have been substantial, what is $7.5 million in contributions to our nonprofit even greater is the lasting impact our partners and initiatives. But money is just communities are experiencing. one component. Fluor people bring our 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 7 COMMUNITY & SOCIAL SERVICES OUR APPROACH • Executive leadership develops the community involvement strategy associated with our key areas of focus by assessing its impact and evaluating its continued relevance. • The strategy is implemented via programs, initiatives and partnerships led by Fluor, the Fluor Foundation and Fluor Cares employee volunteers. Cindy Cervantes is one of thousands of Fluor employees who dedicate time and effort giving back to the communities where they live and work. • Inputs and outputs are collected, measured and analyzed using advanced data management systems, to assess results and reveal areas Four-year Fluor employee Cindy Cervantes is motivated by service — and she takes for improvement. advantage of the many opportunities Fluor offers its employees to give back. EMPLOYEES GIVING BACK She volunteered with students at a local choice. She donated it to the Children’s Joy “It gives me so much happiness and joy elementary school, cleaning classrooms, Foundation Inc. orphanage in Cebu. in my heart,” says Cervantes, a project painting furniture, covering textbooks and document and data management specialist distributing school supplies to first graders. As a mother of two children, Cervantes currently assigned to the Fording River makes sure to balance her time among Water Treatment Facility project in Additionally, Cervantes volunteered in work, family and service. To others who Vancouver. Cervantes is based in Cebu, tree-planting activities in Barangay Bonbon, worry that there aren’t enough hours in Philippines. “It allows me to engage and to Cebu, and built homes with Habitat for the day, she encourages them to become connect with new friends, to build a strong Humanity in Lawaan II Talisay City. involved in a small volunteer effort, just network to other professional contacts and once, and see how it feels. potential references. It also gives me an “Giving back to the community made me opportunity to practice and develop my feel that I made a difference and I made an “Start small and start today,” she says. social, communication, negotiation and impact to someone else’s life in my own “Once you start giving back to the leadership skills.” simple way,” Cervantes says. community, you will see how positive actions inspire others to get involved, too. In 2018, Cervantes was a core member of the To recognize Cervantes’ efforts, the I am thankful that our company gives us this Philippine Community Affairs committee, Philippines office presented her with its opportunity and often shoulders expenses leading and participating in a blood internal Golden Heart Award — for the during volunteer work, and all we have to donation drive, Fluor Kids Day, Canstruction® second consecutive year — along with do is to give our time.” and relief operations after 78 people were a $500 donation to an institution of her killed in a landslide in Naga City. 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 8 COMMUNITY & SOCIAL SERVICES Helping On The Home Front Fluor supports more than 240 programs and initiatives that enrich communities in the United States. Our 2018 highlights include: FAMILIES FORWARD in Greenville, South Carolina, donating BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF AMERICA Golf for Greenville raised Families Forward is an ongoing initiative $25,000 in 2018. This program serves men The Fluor Foundation has long supported $670,000 for local charities that supports individuals and families in who are working to overcome addictions the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, in the Greenville, South Southern California that have undergone and homelessness and have committed specifically the organization’s Military Carolina, area in 2018. a crisis. The program equips them with themselves to one year of homebuilding Teen Ambassador program. This program tools and resources to overcome difficulties job training and a mentoring internship supports teenage boys and girls living on and establish sustainable stability in their program. The program has helped 100 military installations who have parents on lives. In 2018, Families Forward supported percent of its graduates find gainful active duty, often deployed to dangerous a woman who was a single mother of employment, and many of them return to areas of conflict. two autistic boys and who had survived the organization to give back as mentors. domestic abuse. We helped her find Every summer, the program brings affordable housing and support services, Fluor employees from our Greenville together representatives from military putting this family on a path toward location also participated in an annual bases around the world for a three-day self-sufficiency. homebuilding project for Homes of Hope, workshop that helps them teach critical and the organization was a beneficiary skills in resilience and reintegration. The Today, 97 percent of families assisted by of our 2018 Golf for Greenville® tournament, representatives return to their local youth Families Forward remain in permanent which raised $670,000 for nonprofits in centers newly empowered to teach the housing one year after graduating the community. program to their peers. from the program, and 76 percent have increased or maintained their current MEGLOBAL AND DOW PROJECT The Fluor Foundation has supported the income. This shows the impact from Fluor’s CONSTRUCTION WEEK PROJECTS program since 2012, donating a total of contributions. In addition, in 2018, Fluor A group of Fluor employees partnered $1.5 million. In 2018, we renewed our provided Thanksgiving meals to families with the police department in Freeport, commitment for the next four years, which and backpacks and school supplies to the Texas, to bring two severely dilapidated will invest an additional $1 million into the organization’s participating youth. homes in the community back to life, program through 2022. Our support has making them habitable for the elderly impacted more than 500,000 teenagers HOMES OF HOPE occupants who had no other means for to date, a number we look forward to Fluor has proudly supported the Homes making improvements. The first home’s increasing every year. of Hope organization since 2012. Homes refurbishment took eight weeks and the of Hope helps rebuild communities and second five weeks, all made possible individual lives through quality affordable through the skills and sweat of 45 volunteers housing, economic development and who donated approximately 1,650 hours job training. We have taken a special of their time. We also collected more than interest in supporting the organization’s $13,000 in donations and materials. Men’s Workforce Development Program 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 1 9 COMMUNITY & SOCIAL SERVICES Volunteerism More than $7.5 million and 52,600 volunteer hours contributed to building a better world in 2018, and many of our results surpassed the already substantial goals we had set for ourselves. 14 158 255 814 14 THOUSAND TREES, FLOWERS & SHRUBS 158 THOUSAND YOUTH 255 THOUSAND STUDENTS 814 THOUSAND MEALS ENVIRONMENT Environment Community & Economic COMMUNITY Development & ECONOMIC Education EDUCATION Social Services SOCIAL SERVICES 39,990 pounds of litter removed 38 homes built 255,317 students educated in STEM 179,840 meals donated 340,000 pounds acres of of litter removed land restored DEVELOPMENT 160 homes refurbished teachersstudents trained in 1,403255,317 STEM education provided 4,351 people 814,669 received meals shelter donated 14,011 plants planted 530 individuals received certification training 18,139 backpacks Science, donated Technology, 18,407 individuals impacted through 38 homes and community facilities built 14,011 individuals 14,463 trees, flowers and educated 17 supported students received degrees Engineering and 4,350 people prevention received shelter programs shrubs planted 133homes 160 peopleand received job skills training community Mathematics (STEM) 18,770 individuals impacted by emergency 158,298 refurbished youth received life skills enrichment 18,407 individuals impacted programs facilities enrichment 14,463 individuals received education through prevention programs environmental education 530 individuals received industry 1,403 teachers trained 17,776 individuals impacted certifications in STEM education by crisis relief programs 17 supported students received degrees 11,000 students received backpacks and school supplies 133 people received job skills training through Fluor’s Building Futures 158,298 youth received life skills backpack program and leadership training 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 0 COMMUNITY & SOCIAL SERVICES Supporting Programs To Bolster Our Industry Developing the next generation of engineers and skilled workers is imperative to building our future, not only for Fluor and our industry but for the advancement of our society. We are dedicated to creating a sustainable flow of new, highly engaged and educated talent. Fluor makes its contribution to this future by supporting a number of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education initiatives. on developing construction skills and with advanced training. Through programs self-confidence. In 2018, these girls applied like these, we are committed to fostering their knowledge to an important hands-on progress by sponsoring STEM education. project, helping build a STEM-focused Every year, we see our efforts enrich the lives playground at their school. Fluor also raised of everyone involved, which in turn will one more than $115,000 to fund this project. day enrich the expertise and diversity of our future workforce. MOVERS & MAKERS In the United States, women make up only GIRL SCOUTS OF ROPER MOUNTAIN SCIENCE CENTER 9 percent of the construction workforce. In 2018, three female Fluor employees NORTHEAST TEXAS As we have for more than a decade, we working on our Novo Nordisk project in For the sixth year in a row, we continued to continued in 2018 to support the Roper Clayton, North Carolina, set out to change support the Girl Scouts of Northeast Texas Mountain Science Center in Greenville, that. They founded Movers & Makers, to broaden kindergarten to 12th-grade girls’ South Carolina, as part of a learning which sponsors an area Title I school both interest in and exposure to STEM subjects. In initiative for Greenville County Schools. With financially and through mentorship. 2018, Fluor enabled more than 400 students a healthy balance of financial and volunteer to receive 400 hours of STEM academic support, Fluor is helping the center promote In the program, 4thand 5th-grade girls are training, enrichment and career opportunity and advance science education. invited to participate in education sessions awareness. To complement these efforts, crafted by Fluor experts that are centered we provided more than 100 STEM educators 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 1 COMMUNITY & SOCIAL SERVICES Leaving A Project Legacy Everywhere we build a Fluor project, we have an opportunity to also build something that sustains and empowers the surrounding communities. When we complete our contracted work, we strive to leave more than a structure or a physical solution — we want to make a lasting positive impact on the lives of the local people. The capital projects we build naturally achieve this by moving forward the development and uplifting the economy in areas where we work. We also achieve this by collaborating with our clients to answer a specific need in a project location. Our 2018 highlights include: Before After and laws, which can create barriers to the good work we want to do. By sharing our extensive global experience in corporate social responsibility, we are helping other member companies understand the country-by-country idiosyncrasies of philanthropic work. We expect to continue to support The Conference Board in 2019 and beyond. OUR PATH FORWARD Supporting the communities that surround GUINEA ELEMENTARY students and teachers. Now thousands of Fluor offices and projects has always been SCHOOL RENOVATIONS students are able to focus on education in a guiding force for us to fulfill our purpose. In 2017 and 2018, we responded to an a safe learning environment. Our path forward looks much like the one urgent need in Guinea, Africa, contributing we have already traveled. We will continue $100,000 and 400 volunteer hours to THE CONFERENCE BOARD to support community causes worldwide, support the renovation of two elementary In 2018, we continued to spread our both financially and with volunteer hours. schools that serve nearly 3,000 students. values and share our expertise through We will look for the greatest needs and do The renovations included new roofs, new Fluor’s involvement with The Conference what we can to help. And we will continue to bathrooms, structural repairs, landscaping, Board Global CSR & Philanthropy Council. support the young people who will take the painting, road improvements and repairs Promoting philanthropic work around good works that we started and carry them to a drainage system. Local carpenters also the world can prove challenging, as every into the future. built more than 400 desks and chairs for country has its own guidelines, regulations 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 2 EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE Nurturing A Highly Skilled, Diverse Workforce 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: And Providing An Outstanding Workplace • Increased sustainable employment of our craft workforce from 30 percent to 52 percent through our new Craft Passport Diversity of thought, experience and culture adds a unique aspect to Fluor’s people strategies, and we are as program. passionate for our people as our people are for the projects on which they work. This is among our highest • Expanded the Fluor Mentoring Circles priorities for a number of reasons, perhaps the greatest of these being sustainability. By bringing the best to program globally to engage employees Fluor, we are able to develop and sustain strong internal and external relationships that provide clients across across our organization. all of our business segments and geographies with the highest level of service. By focusing on the needs of our employees and the atmosphere in which they work, we continuously raise the satisfaction of our people, we raise efficiencies and executional excellence for our clients, and we are able to achieve these goals while acting with the highest level of integrity. DEVELOPING A of Women Engineers and National Society at Fluor by providing fair compensation assigned to lead a group of about a dozen DIVERSE WORKFORCE of Black Engineers, attending their annual and strong growth opportunities. employees in open discussion and to share Fluor epitomizes the very definition of a conferences and sponsoring events. vital information about Fluor business and global company, and we make deliberate As part of this effort, Fluor calibrates best practices. efforts to ensure our workforce reflects We also continue to participate in the Work compensation to meet local-market costthis — by embracing diversity in people, Opportunity Tax Credit program by hiring of-living standards and to comply with ideas and expertise. In 2018, we developed qualified personnel within low-income or legal requirements, such as minimum wage and continued to support a number of at-risk target demographics, particularly in laws, in order to maintain fair compensation initiatives to grow in our diversity for our craft employment community. for all employees. the benefit of Fluor, our clients and the 24% global community. Furthermore, Fluor has always been DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES and proudly remains a military-friendly To nurture and grow our base of talent employer. We participate in the Employer worldwide, Fluor offers access to training DIVERSITY RECRUITING MALE EMPLOYEES Support of the Guard and Reserve program and development programs across AND HIRING PROGRAMS to champion our employees’ current military positions at all levels of our company FEMALE EMPLOYEES 76% Fluor is an equal-opportunity employer that commitments. In total, we are honored and all geographies. advertises all positions widely to attract a to have 1,367 former or currently serving diverse pool of candidates. Furthermore, members of the United States military One of our greatest programs for cultivating to ensure we continually have access to among the Fluor workforce. individuals is Fluor Mentoring Circles, which diverse talent, we engage and partner with was founded in 2003. In 2018, we expanded select organizations, such as the Society COMPETITIVE WAGES the program to include global offices with of Hispanic Professional Engineers, Society Once we’ve attracted a diverse workforce, both in-person and virtual involvement. we make a focused effort to retain this talent To form a mentoring circle, a manager is 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 4 EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE Securing A Highly Skilled Craft Workforce In an increasingly competitive labor market, it is vital that Fluor differentiates itself to acquire the Leadership Training Hours Provided to Fluor Employees most talented craft workforce available. On behalf of our clients, we work on the most complex and challenging projects on the planet, and it is imperative that our labor pool is the best. To attract 960 F LU O R L E A D E R S H IP 1,456 H A R VA R D 7,920 THE NEW LEADER S U M M IT L E A D E R S H IP D IR E C T the people we want and need, Fluor has developed and continues to refine and grow a number of programs that make our company the preferred destination for the most skilled workers. 1,512 LEADERS OF LEADERS 1,000 F LU O R MA N AG E M E N T P R O G R AM IN S T IT U T E THE CRAFT PASSPORT transform the world by building prosperity people with the right skills for each job, The Craft Passport program was one of and empowering progress, we have we developed the Elite Craft Workforce our focus initiatives for 2018. This program embarked on a comprehensive training program. Through this program, we train 2018 PROGRAM METRICS: utilizes an online portal we developed that program designed to upgrade the skills and qualify superior technical teams electronically files craft training records and capabilities of local craft workforces dedicated to Fluor and ready to respond and certifications, which helps us eliminate redundancies in training between projects. No longer are we spending the time and everywhere we go. It is vital that these local workforces operate in accordance with our safety, quality and productivity to projects worldwide. When we anticipate severe worker shortages in a certain skill set, such as ironworking, we use this program $67K 579 588 money to train craft personnel on areas they standards. We have learned that when done to proactively build an elite, mobile team to FI N A N C I A L WELDING STUDENTS have already covered in past projects. With properly, this global approach to training fill the need and mitigate the risk. To qualify AND AND OSHA ENROLLED IN the Craft Passport, our workers can focus local workforces will reduce project costs for the program, craft workers must have IN-KIND C E R T I FI C AT I O N S FLU O R-S U P P O R T E D only on any new training they need for and schedule risks and will ultimately give skills that exceed industry standards. For SUPPORT CLASSROOMS a project, streamlining the process from back to local communities. We implemented example, welders in the program need 10 assignment to being field-ready. Fluor this program in Kazakhstan to support the certifications, rather than the typical three has experienced substantial savings Tengizchevroil LLP project. In following held by most in the welding profession. We by eliminating redundant training, and years, we will replicate and scale this ended 2018 with 61 workers in the Elite Craft PROGRAM METRICS SINCE INCEPTION: our clients benefit from greater project program to apply to other projects program, a number we plan to grow to more efficiency. We are seeing results. We are around the world. than 150 workers in 2019. pleased to report that, from 2017 to 2018, sustainable employment of our craft population increased from 30 percent to 52 percent. THE ELITE CRAFT WORKFORCE Even with our comprehensive local training Finally for our entire craft workforce, we continue to uphold our sponsorship of the training curriculum accredited by the $490K 2,359 4,958 program, sometimes a project requires National Center for Construction Education FI N A N C I A L WELDING STUDENTS workers with a high level of very specific AND AND OSHA ENROLLED IN UPLIFTING EVERY LOCALE skills. Having these highly skilled craft & Research, providing free training in IN-KIND C E R T I FI C AT I O N S FLU O R-S U P P O R T E D Fluor projects continuously take us to the workers at the ready is key for Fluor to areas of entry-level craft, upgraded SUPPORT CLASSROOMS farthest reaches of the developing world. meet its project obligations around welder training, certifications, supervisory In the spirit of the Fluor purpose to the world. To ensure we have the right development and more. 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 5 EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE Maintaining Our Core Value Culture OUR COMMITMENTS: As our workforce comprises more than 53,000 people working on more than 1,000 projects across more than 60 countries, it is vital that we embrace a culture of diversity and integrity. CHILD LABOR: We are able to unite people of many backgrounds around the globe through Fluor’s singular Fluor offices worldwide prohibit the hiring of underage culture, exemplified through our Core Values of safety, integrity, teamwork and excellence. By employees, and we do not allow or support child labor in any manner. building on this strong foundation, we are able to combat discrimination and equip employees with clear guidelines when unethical situations arise — and the confidence to act appropriately. FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR: We do not promote, condone, practice or tolerate the use of forced or compulsory labor, human trafficking or the to make our workplaces a worldwide This program has a robust nomination sale of sexual acts of any kind. example for diversity, safety, opportunity and certification process, to ensure that and integrity. We are a global company, the individuals are experts in their fields of NONDISCRIMINATION: working in a world full of great ideas, talent work and recognized not only within Fluor and potential. We believe our workforce but outside the company in the industries We recruit, hire, develop and retain employees based must reflect this better world, and we will we serve. Certification is also contingent on job-related specifications. All leaders, managers and remain dedicated to making it so. on other business factors, such as the supervisors are expected to maintain an environment free availability of openings, strategic business from any form of unlawful discrimination and harassment. FLUOR FELLOWS PROGRAM objectives, financial performance and The Fluor Fellows Program was created business outlook. UNION/COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: to attract, develop, mentor and reward Worldwide, we prohibit the hiring of The Fellows Program facilitates Employees may choose to join or not join third-party individuals in functional organizations underage employees and the use of forced who excel in an area of technical collaboration among innovative thinkers organizations without fear of retaliation, coercion labor. Likewise, we maintain clear and expertise. Being named a Fellow or Senior across the company and encourages our or harassment. practicable policies and procedures to Fellow is recognition for those individuals top-tier specialists to utilize their expertise protect the security of every employee. who choose to keep their focus in a to develop innovative solutions that benefit When employees feel safe, respected and Fluor and our clients. SECURITY: technical area, as opposed to moving rewarded, only then are we able to develop We uphold a zero-tolerance policy that prohibits actual into general management. our people, expand our diversity, encourage Fluor currently has 49 Fellows and 27 or threatened violence by employees against coworkers, new ideas, attract the best talent and grow In some cases, our Fellows have literally Senior Fellows, including Jim Hambright, visitors or others while performing their duties or on our workforce so we can partner with clients written the book for their area of a Fellow in sustainable design, and company or client property. to build the world’s most complex projects. expertise — including sustainability. Jeffrey Goetz, a Fellow in sustainability Some Fellows have patents that distinguish and energy management. OUR PATH FORWARD Fluor in the markets we serve. Others are Our people are by far the most valuable requested by name by our clients to be asset we have at Fluor. We will continue involved in their projects. 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 6 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Remaining Proactive And Unyielding In 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: The Face Of New And Persisting Risks • Achieved 100 percent completion by salaried employees of our Code training and certification program. Our values define how we do our work. Fluor operates with an unyielding commitment to integrity • Developed and provided live, innovative Core Values training sessions for all and the highest standards of business conduct. Our clients depend on us to bring our culture to their offices in Sub-Saharan Africa. projects around the world. Fluor expects every employee to do the right thing. And we expect our • Named one of the World’s Most Ethical suppliers, subcontractors and parties with whom we do business to also do the right thing. This chain Companies® by the Ethisphere Institute for the 12th consecutive year. of integrity must hold firm, no matter how small or large the project, in every region where we work. UPHOLDING THE through our commitment to ethical seeking advice and raising ethical FLUOR REPUTATION behavior, both internally and through concerns without fear of retaliation. The belief that corruption and bribery are collective efforts. Periodically, we survey our workforce simply “how business is done” in certain to measure the company’s culture and cases yields alarming behavior. At Fluor, OUR COMMITMENT susceptibility to misconduct. In 2018, we do not subscribe to the philosophy The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics employees confirmed their belief in our of “necessary evils.” The truth is that (the Code) has long been the centerpiece strong culture of integrity through survey corruption and bribery exact a serious toll of our commitment to operating with questions addressing areas such as comfort on businesses and communities, costing the highest standards of integrity. Along speaking up, organizational justice, tone at our global society more than $3.6 trillion with our U.S. Government Contracting the top, trust in colleagues, direct manager annually. Fluor works to combat this supplement to the Code and Anti-Bribery leadership, clarity of expectations and corruption, not only to reduce this massive and Corruption Policy, we have set forth openness of communications. drain on our global economies but also to clear standards for employees to apply make a positive impact on our diverse and to every business environment and Clients have come to understand that worldwide stakeholders. context, in our offices and on job sites when they partner with Fluor on their globally. Employees are expected to read, complex projects, they are also partnering Fluor’s long-established ethics and understand and comply with the Code and with a committed leader in ethics that will compliance program has positioned our related policies as they apply to their work. work within comprehensive principled company as a leader in business ethics and guidelines — and will expect the same operational integrity. We are honored by Our goal is for each employee to understand from all other parties involved. this recognition, and we work diligently to what is expected of him or her, to be able to continually earn and uphold our reputation identify misconduct and to feel confident CBG Bauxite Production Expansion, Kamsar, Guinea 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 8 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Of all the structures we have created, our corporate culture may be the most impressive. It is our focus on our Core Values that enables us to provide superior integrated solutions to our clients, a supportive work environment and an improved quality of life for billions worldwide. Our values define how we do our work. We will not undertake or execute a project that compromises any of these values. When we commit to work within Fluor’s values, we achieve superior work and a leadership position in our industry. — Fluor Code of Business Conduct and Ethics COLLECTIVE ACTION welfare program that examines global and compliance subject-matter-based task Our ethics and compliance initiatives are workforces and the steps the engineering forces that periodically assess corruption important to us because they further the and construction industry can take to and other risks. Fluor purpose. Our people care about combat modern slavery in operations building a better world. As a result, we have and the supply chain. THIRD PARTIES long been involved in working with others Fluor seeks to do business only with third to instill ethical practices in the global RISK MANAGEMENT parties that share our standards and values. community, and the tradition thrives today In many areas of the world, ensuring that a Because the actions of third parties can as Fluor leadership continues to promote complex project can be completed expertly reflect on our company, Fluor chooses ethical conduct in the industries we serve. and ethically has far-reaching implications. partners that also adhere to strong conduct Our clients’ projects take us around the and ethics standards. Company executives have long taken active world, and each new engagement has roles in global anti-corruption initiatives, its own unique set of risks. Through our In our business relationships, we must working with others in our industry to Business Risk Management Framework be confident that our partners do not eliminate corruption and bribery. For (BRMFSM), we assess the corruption risks engage in bribery, modern slavery or example, Fluor Executive Chairman Alan of each project against a background of other unethical behavior. Risk-based due Boeckmann has long been an advocate for project location, business culture, locally diligence is conducted when selecting anti-corruption programs in the industry required third parties and government third-party business partners, and approval, and was a driving force behind the creation touchpoints. contractual and other anti-corruption of the United Nations Partnering Against controls are in place. Corruption Initiative (PACI). We further manage ethics and compliance risks on each project through our Project Furthermore, all subcontractors and We believe that working in cooperation Compliance and Ethics practices, which suppliers are expected to uphold high with our peer companies, clients and require project-specific risk assessments ethical standards in compliance with Fluor’s suppliers is the best way to promote better and, as warranted, mitigation plans. At a Business Conduct and Ethics Expectations working and living conditions worldwide. In corporate level, Fluor has an Enterprise Risk for Suppliers and Contractors, which is 2018, Fluor continued to hold a leadership Management program and ethics modeled on our Code. role in Building Responsibly, a worker Petronas Refinery and Petrochemical Integrated Development (RAPID), Johor, Malaysia 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 2 9 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Recognized among the World’s Most Ethical Companies® by the Ethisphere Institute for the 12th consecutive year. Reinforcing The Code One of our top priorities is to constantly around the world received communication in Kazakhstan, covering project-specific Through these exercises, 231 employees reinforce our strong ethical foundation. about avoiding extortion attempts while risks and anti-corruption. And our Board learned how to work through challenges We achieve this in a multitude of ways, passing through customs or border of Directors and senior executives were locally, which in turn creates a more including through ongoing communication checkpoints, and how to recognize the updated on international compliance risks, sustainable framework of support for our and training programs. warning signs of modern slavery. including those related to trade sanctions, program. Due to the success of the training, anti-corruption and data privacy. we intend to continue this training format at other global locations. INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS TRAINING PROGRAMS Consistent and frequent ethics and Training has proven to be an extremely In 2018, we developed an innovative compliance communication is vital to Fluor’s effective way to introduce and reinforce Core Values training program that was 300 231 culture of integrity. To clearly highlight ethical conduct and the protocols that delivered to offices in Sub-Saharan risks and illuminate the ethical courses of should be followed when issues arise. Our Africa. In interactive, live sessions, our action, case studies are published on our training focuses on how to identify risks, leadership introduced a series of scenarios and case studies specific to the region, K A Z A K H S TA N WO R K E R S S U B -S A H A R A N A FR I C A company intranet. The articles detail real-life the actions we should take when faced covering political climate risks, bribery T R A I N E D I N P R O J E C TE M P L OY E E S T R A I N E D instances of ethical issues and detail how all with them and consequences we all suffer and corruption, sexual harassment and S P E C I FI C R I S K S & I N I N T E R AC T I V E , parties involved handled them, identifying when these risks are not handled properly. retaliation. The training also provided a A N T I CO R R U P T I O N LIVE SESSIONS the right course of action. Topics in 2018 In 2018, we trained more than 21,000 included cybersecurity, inappropriate gifts global employees on our anti-bribery and format for individuals and small groups to and extortion. Consistent with our risksexual harassment policies. We conducted discuss scenarios where these risks may arise based approach, craft employees at projects live training of 300 workers in two offices and determine the correct courses of action. 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 0 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Promoting Open Communication 2% 3% To Protect Every Employee, 3% Contractor And Stakeholder 4% 2018 Compliance & 8% Ethics Investigations 734 TOTAL Substance Abuse INVESTIGATIVE Theft/Bribes/Kickbacks 8% CASES Maintaining open lines of communication is vital to ensuring our culture of Conflict of Interest Requests for Guidance Financial/Internal Controls accountability and integrity. We provide and publicize access to channels 58% Health/Safety/Environment Miscellaneous of support and guidance to promote ethical behavior and doing the right Human Resources/ Employment 14% thing. Employees, clients, partners and other stakeholders are empowered and encouraged, if not required, to seek guidance and report good-faith concerns about suspected behavior that violates Fluor’s Code. OPEN AND ACCESSIBLE Additionally, they are encouraged to Fluor maintains a formal open-door contact any of the following: their policy, enabling employees to have honest immediate supervisor; supervisor’s OUR PATH FORWARD conversations with managers without the supervisor (and up the reporting structure Fluor’s programs for ethics and compliance fear of suffering negative consequences. as necessary); the local Human Resources are well-established and highly regarded We have provided managers and leadership manager or, if applicable, their Industrial throughout the industry. While we with training to help them respond to Relations manager; a company subjectcontinually strive to improve and enhance questions and concerns. Any complaints or matter expert; or, if they are uncomfortable our program by monitoring evolving risks issues that are raised undergo a consistent, discussing the matter with any of these and benchmarking, we are proud of the unbiased investigation to support the resources or the response is inadequate, fact that our programs are mature and employee and come to a resolution. Fluor’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline at strong and stand as a model for our clients, www.fluorhotline.com. The hotline provides suppliers and peers. As we have since our Employees can and do protect the translation/interpretation support in more founding more than a century ago, our company’s reputation by promptly raising a than 150 languages, and reports may be efforts will continue to focus on upholding concern when they know or suspect that a made anonymously where allowed by law. Fluor’s reputation of integrity and making colleague is involved in unethical, illegal or Investigations are timely and thorough in a positive impact on our employees and dangerous behavior. Employees who have order to maintain trust and integrity. In 2018, others with whom we work. concerns are encouraged to speak directly we trained more than 120 investigators on with the person involved, if appropriate. Fluor’s Investigation Guidelines. U.S. Department of Energy Strategic Petroleum Reserve, Louisiana, USA 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 1 SUPPLY CHAIN T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D S U P P LY C H A I N Operating A Sustainable, Values-Driven, 2018 HIGHLIGHTS: Project-Centric Supply Chain • Conducted business with approximately 15,000 subcontractors and suppliers, which resulted in an estimated 50,000 purchase orders and subcontract awards. A supply chain is only as strong and effective as its guiding principles. At Fluor, we operate upon an • Introduced mandatory training covering unbreakable foundation of Core Values and unwavering supply-chain policies that we believe lead us to worker welfare and modern slavery to excellence. Though cost always must be taken into consideration when making supply-chain decisions, 1,000 employees. at Fluor, it is not the overriding factor. Driven by our integrity-based culture, our clients’ specific goals and • Increased our spend with certified diverse suppliers and contractors within the United a project-based focus, we strive to invest in local and diverse spending — spending that can benefit all States from 11 percent to 16 percent. stakeholders from one end of the supply chain to the other. To us, that is an investment in ourselves, our clients and, most of all, the global economy. ACT INDIRE UPHOLDING THE HIGHEST DEGREE SUBCONTRACTOR AND SUPPLIER SUBCONTRACTOR AND SUPPLIER ONTR C OF NON T PRO L & C ENT -CA CU A M OF BUSINESS STANDARDS PREQUALIFICATION PROCESS POST-AWARD PROCESS RI GE PIT RE TE ANA AL Responsible spending is a term often At the onset of a relationship with Equally as important as prequalification is MA M G NT S included in a company’s supply-chain Fluor, suppliers are taken through our the post-project review. At the conclusion of ME OOD objectives. Yet many organizations take the prequalification process. This streamlined every project, we analyze the performance IES ERC I AL STRATEG easier route, the low-cost route, the “we’ve and comprehensive pre-award assessment and outcomes of our supplier and always used this supplier” route. At Fluor, assists in revealing potential risks or subcontractor engagements. We measure LOGIS T I CS our supply chain incorporates responsibility threats a subcontractor or supplier could these against Fluor’s exacting standards for into every aspect of our process, from pose to Fluor’s operations or our client’s safety, quality, and overall execution and C O MM prequalification to post-project review. We project. During this assessment, we also delivery. This analysis allows us to improve maintain healthy business relationships seek to confirm that suppliers will be able our supplier and subcontractor relationships with diverse suppliers around the world, to comply with local environmental laws and refine our partners list so that each spanning more than 80 countries. For each and regulations mandated in a project’s supply-chain solution that we design for OC PR engagement, we look at specific project prime contract. each new project is better than the last. UR EM MS parameters and goals. Then we tap into our ENT STE IT SY supply-chain community down to the local This process continuously bears fruit. level and explore our options, selecting In 2018, Fluor conducted business with the optimal partners that will meet our approximately 15,000 well-qualified objectives for responsible spending and subcontractors and suppliers, which ultimately will support and sustain our resulted in an estimated 50,000 purchase clients’ efforts. orders and subcontract awards. 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 3 S U P P LY C H A I N CREATING OPPORTUNITIES SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE When a supplier or contractor is moving through the proposal stage, it has two options for sustainability compliance: It can agree to adopt Fluor’s program and terms or develop its own program that certifiably meets or exceeds ours. Furthermore, prior to partnership, all subcontractors and suppliers agree to Cusiana and Cupiagua Operations and Maintenance Contract, Colombia comply with Fluor’s Business Conduct and Ethics Expectations for Suppliers and Contractors. This document covers ethical “We partner with our clients to build a Protecting Fluor’s Ethics And risks across the globe, including bribery and trade controls; conflicts of interest; financial and operational controls; human rights and better world. Our commitment to inclusion of diverse suppliers in the supply chain Welfare In The Supply Chain employment practices; and health, safety and environmental stewardship. creates economic impact that helps communities to thrive.” WORKER WELFARE AND MODERN SLAVERY TRAINING Located in Sugar Land, Texas, Annie Lidge is responsible for For more than a century, Fluor has built a reputation One of the most deplorable realities of increasing the visibility of Fluor’s Supplier Diversity program the modern global workforce is the use of among its clients, suppliers, subcontractors and peers for slavery. In 2018, Fluor escalated its efforts throughout the corporation and for promoting growth in fighting this insidious practice. We through increased spend with diverse suppliers. She has exemplifying the highest Core Values of safety, integrity introduced mandatory worker welfare and revamped the program by creating best practices to aid and modern slavery training through our Fluor assist Minorityand Women-Owned Business Enterprises and delivery excellence. While our supply-chain activities University online platform to educate all (MWBEs) on how to do business with Fluor. The revamped engage many parties outside of Fluor, all are held to our supply-chain stakeholders and to help them program has received numerous awards and recognitions. conduct business in a manner that protects unshakable standards, with the most important focus on workers around the world. Last year, 1,000 Lidge is passionate about utilization of diverse companies individuals received this training. the areas of safety, ethics and human rights. We integrate within Fluor’s supply chain. She understands the challenges that MWBEs encounter in their attempts to navigate the every aspect of our integrity-first culture into our supply process of connecting for successful bid opportunities within corporations and is committed to streamlining the entry chain and seek to ensure that those with whom we work process at Fluor. do, as well, for the benefit of every individual who comes anywhere near a Fluor project. 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 4 S U P P LY C H A I N Supporting Supplier Diversity And Local Spending Every time we spend a dollar in our supply chain, we have an opportunity. We can choose to spend that dollar close to our projects — no matter where they are in the world — and support local economies, and we can choose to promote diversity across our supplier and LNG Canada, Kitimat, British Columbia, Canada contractor base. While Fluor always works to be the best steward of our clients’ budgets, we have found that being a force for good in how we LOCAL SUPPLIER SPENDING choose to spend is often just as important to these clients as it is to us. 2018 TOTAL SUPPLIER SPEND WORLDWIDE SUPPLIER DIVERSITY PROGRAM of the U.S. government regarding small, Fluor defines our supplier diversity program minorityand women-owned businesses. as a proactive business initiative that works Our program also acts in accordance with to expand opportunities offered to diverse Fluor’s Corporate Procurement Policy. 21% suppliers, building upon our combined strengths to drive mutual success. In short, For a supplier to qualify for the diversity we do not seek diversity to check a box; we program, it must self-certify through do it because it makes us all more successful, an online application. We are proud to LOCAL SPEND including our clients. report that in 2018 we achieved strong results — increasing Fluor’s spend with OTHER 79% Three pillars uphold this program — certified diverse suppliers and contractors environmental stewardship, economic within the United States to 16 percent from growth and social progress. These pillars 11 percent in 2017. align with related goals and standards 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 5 S U P P LY C H A I N Improving Lives Around The World Our sustainability goals reach far and wide to every Fluor project around the world. This means local spending and community improvement are key factors in all of our supply-chain decisions. We operate on a simple but important philosophy: We spend where we’re working. If the project site is in Peru, we’ll spend in Peru — and simultaneously work to invest in the population and protect the environment. If we’re working in India, we’ll do the same there. This is done in part to empower local support of our TCO project for Chevron, economies and foster sustainability which allowed us to reduce imported labor, everywhere we go, which is often in improve productivity and reduce project PLC, while self-performing 60 percent underdeveloped countries that have great costs due to rework and worker turnover. of the construction work, also potential for growth and need support to Not only did this positively impact our achieve and prosper. It is also an important project deliverables in everything from subcontracted with additional specialty way to support our clients’ own goals for safety to quality of execution, but it also consultants responsible for design, the communities around them. allowed us to create lasting value in the independent quality assurance and community, providing skills that local environmental compliance geotechnical AUSTRALIA ABORIGINAL workers will put to use long after we engineering, as well as local and are gone. Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) COMMUNITY In 2018, for a large mining project in subcontractors and material providers. Australia, we sourced a large percentage BRITISH COLUMBIA of our workforce from the aboriginal GROUNDWATER CLEANUP An 8 percent DBE participation community. We supported the local In 2018, we supported local resources for a goal was established. economy and met both Fluor and facilities project to clean up groundwater TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF client objectives. in British Columbia as a result of runoff The PLC awarded more than $74 million rainwater from nearby mines. TRANSPORTATION in commitments for subcontracts and LNG CANADA HORSESHOE PROJECT purchase orders to DBE firms, exceeding For the LNG Canada project underway OUR PATH FORWARD the established goal by committing in British Columbia, we are supporting We have made great leaps this past year A Fluor-led joint venture, Pegasus Link 10.34 percent to DBE firms. the Indigenous population through our in using our supply chain as leverage to Constructors LLC (PLC), completed the supply-chain spending. contribute to the sustainability of our design–build contract for the Horseshoe clients’ projects and to the communities This represents an additional Project in Dallas, Texas. The project TCO IN KAZAKHSTAN where their projects take us. We will $16,889,734 paid to DBE firms. rebuilt a major highway interchange We have built a highly capable, continue to make both diversity spending near downtown Dallas, replacing sustainable craft workforce in Kazakhstan. and local spending major priorities into 2019 deteriorating roadways and bridges We provided training to improve the and beyond — and by doing so, sustain healthier economies and empower and improving capacity. skills and capabilities of local workers in societies around the world. 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 6 APPENDIX A: MEMBERSHIPS, AWARDS & CERTIFIC ATIONS 2018 INDUSTRY RECOGNITIONS North America Dow Jones Sustainability Index Most Admired Company for the 19th year Chris Farrell Julie Cook Listed for fourth consecutive year Fortune magazine Top Young Professional 2018 40 Under 40 Engineering News-Record Building Design and Construction No. 1 Design-Build Firm in 2018 Best of the Decade Engineering News-Record Minority Business News USA Bryant Lynch Fluor Greenville Office Most Promising Engineer finalist 2018 Corporate Partner Unsung Hero Award Lisa Davies South Mountain Freeway Hydrocarbon Processing magazine Greenville Technical College Global Energy Awards Rising Star finalist Arizona Million Dollar Circle of Excellence S&P Global Platts Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and Abdullah Dirani Fluor Philippines the Minority Business Development Center Best Innovator for Oil and Gas Nation Builder Award ENR’s 2018 list of Top 20 Design Firms TahawulTech.com Future Enterprise event, Dubai Quantity Solutions Inc. Ranked first in Industrial Process/Petroleum Tolani Azeez and the American Chamber of Commerce, sector for the 15th consecutive year Sarah Cook Gordie Howe International Bridge project Philippines Stephen Mogose 2018 Transport Deal of the Year ENR’s 2018 list of Top 20 Design Firms Jennifer Oakham Project Finance International Fluor Supply Chain Ranked first in the Refineries and Petrochemical Liz M. Smith 2018 Brandon Hall Excellence in Learning Award Plants sector for the fifth consecutive year Finalists in the 2018 European Women in LAX Automated People Mover Human Capital Management Excellence Construction and Engineering Awards 2018 P3 Deal of the Year Conference World’s Most Ethical Companies Project Finance International for the 12th year Sheikh Rafik Manihar Ahmed Joseph Connors Ethisphere Institute Design Thinking Personality of the Year, Savannah River Nuclear Solutions 2018 Rising Star UBS Transformance 2018 Excellence in Workplace Diversity Award Oilweek Ashly Coggins South Carolina Chamber of Commerce 2018 Top Leader Under 40, Top 20 Under 40 Max Eklund Control Engineering and Plant Engineering Engineering News-Record Just 100: Companies Doing Right By America 2018 Top Adoption Leader Forbes BuiltWorlds KNPC Clean Fuels Project BASF Automotive Coatings Plant, China HSE Excellence 2018 Gold Award Global Best Best Use of Labels Kevin McCann Engineering News-Record American Society of Safety Engineers – Fluor’s Southern California Canstruction team 2018 Rising Star of Safety Kuwait Chapter Canstruction Orange County National Safety Council Procter & Gamble manufacturing project 2018 Construction Industry Project Excellence Award, Construction Users Roundtable 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 7 APPENDIX A: MEMBERSHIPS, AWARDS & CERTIFIC ATIONS 2018 INDUSTRY MEMBERSHIPS In 2018, Fluor and its employees were • National Minority Supplier Development Council Ethics • Energy Facilities Contractors Group (United States) associated with the following initiatives (United States) • Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure (United States) and organizations: • United Nations Global Compact, signatory • Member of Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) and board member of PACI Vanguard • Institution of Occupational Safety and Health • American Society of Civil Engineers: Subcommittees • United States Energy Association: the U.S. Member of the WEF (United Kingdom) to the Committee on Sustainability (United States) Committee of the World Energy Council • B20 Cross-Thematic Group, on Responsible Business • National Construction Safety Executives • The Association of Union Constructors (United States) • Women’s Business Enterprise Alliance Council Conduct & Anti-Corruption (United States) (United States) • B20 Task Force on Infrastructure • Building Responsibly, addressing worker welfare • National Safety Council (United States) • World Economic Forum (WEF) concerns in the engineering and construction industry • Center for Corporate Citizenship (United States) • Offshore Contractors Association (United Kingdom) • Centre of Excellence for Governance, Ethics • Oil & Gas UK • Conference Board: Career Development Human Resources, Management and Transparency (CGET) (India) Practitioner Council; CFO Council: Fortune 250; and Professional • Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Chief Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) • Confederation of Indian Industries: Integrity & (United Kingdom) Officers Council; Corporate Communications • Associated Builders and Constructors (ABC). Transparency in Governance Committee • Step Change in Safety (United Kingdom/Africa) Strategy Council II; Financial Planning & Analysis Pelican Chapters, Baton Rouge, Louisiana • Global Coalition on Anti-Corruption and Council; Global CSR & Philanthropy Council; HR • U.S. Green Building Council • American Benefits Council Sustainable Growth Technology Council; Innovation Leadership Council; Leadership Development Council; Mergers & • Catalyst (India and United States) • National Contract Management Association Supply Chain Acquisitions Executives Council; Purchasing & Supply (United States) • Construction Benefits Group (United States) Leadership Council; Strategy Executives Council and • International Compliance Professionals Association • Houston Minority Supplier Diversity Council Sustainability Council I: Strategy & Implementation • Council of Employee Benefits: Board of Directors • Society for International Affairs (United States) (United States) (United States) • Institute for Supply Management (United States) • Construction Industry Institute (United States) • Dallas-Fort Worth Business Group (Local Benefits Group) HSE • National Contract Management Association • Construction Owners Association of Alberta (Canada) (United States) • Foreign Benefits Study (International) • American Society of Safety Engineers • Construction Users Roundtable (United States) • Oil and Gas Diversity Council (United States) • International Foundation of Employee Benefits (IFEB) • ANSI A10 Accredited Standards Committee for • Engineering and Construction Risk Institute International Society of Certified Employee Benefit • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council Construction & Demolition (United States) • Engineering Construction Industry Association Specialists is the membership group under the IFEB (United States) (United Kingdom) • Board of Certified Safety Professionals (United States) • International Society for Quality in Healthcare • European Construction Institute (International) • British Safety Council (United Kingdom) • Institute of Workplace and Facilities Management • National Association of Colleges and Employers • BuildSafe South Africa, founding member (United Kingdom) (United States) • Dropped Objects Prevention Scheme • International Facility Management Association • National Center for Construction Education and (United Kingdom) Research (NCCER) (United States) 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 8 APPENDIX B: PERFORMANCE METRICS SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE WORKPLACE 2016 2017 2018 Total case incident rate per 200,000 work hours 0.43 0.42 0.36 Days away, restricted or transferred (DART) case rate per 200,000 0.17 0.21 0.21 Number of regular employees at year-end, thousands 61.5 56.7 53.3 Percent of salaried employees 47.0 56.0 60.0 Percent of women among salaried employees 25.0 23.0 24.0 ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions, absolute (CO2-equivalent emissions) thousands of metric tons* 14.37 Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam, absolute (CO2-equivalent emissions) thousands of metric tons* 50.48 Scope 3 – Indirect GHG emissions from travel, absolute (CO2-equivalent emissions) thousand of metric tons* 38.23 GHG, normalized by revenue, metric tons per million $ per year* 5.38 Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions (without Stork), absolute (CO2-equivalent emissions) thousand of metric tons 8.0 7.0 6.9 Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or steam (without Stork), absolute (CO2-equivalent emissions) thousand of metric tons 56.6 50.3 42.0 GHG, normalized by revenue, metric tons per million $ per year (Scope 1+2 only, without Stork) 3.39 2.93 2.55 Direct energy use (thousands of gigajoules) for natural gas, diesel and gasoline 79 65 147 Indirect energy use (thousands of gigajoules) for electricity 370 331 356 *Emissions data for Stork were not available for 2016 and 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2016 2017 2018 Recycled waste (paper, cardboard, batteries, plastic and assorted bulk material), tons 2,238.5 1,839.3 1,693.3 Diverted waste (donated or reused items), tons 47.4 75.7 220.1 Conserved water in Fluor offices, thousands of gallons 711.5 343.1 577.6 Planted trees, flowers and shrubs, thousands 7.0 17.3 14.0 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL IMPACT 2016 2017 2018 Community investments, initiatives and programs, million $ 7.5 7.4 7.5 Community investments, employee volunteer time, million $ 1.0 1.3 1.3 Hours of STEM academic training, enrichment or increased awareness, millions 1.9 1.8 2.2 Life skills enrichment training of youth, thousands 205.6 204.1 158.3 Meals to the hungry, millions 0.67 0.77 0.81 Assisted individuals with preventive and emergency services, thousands 39.8 47.9 40.5 Grants to universities, millions 1.6 1.2 1.4 Scholarships for children of Fluor employees, thousands 600 675 637 Volunteered hours by Fluor employees globally, thousands 42.2 53.7 52.6 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPLY-CHAIN MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 Fluor spending with US-based suppliers and subcontractors, billion $ 2.8 3.8 5.1 Fluor spending with US small, minorityand women-owned businesses, million $ 277 418 811 Fluor spending with local suppliers worldwide, billion $ 11.3 9.2 13.4 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 3 9 APPENDIX C: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals Fluor’s sustainability actions support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Please note the icons at the beginning of each chapter of this report, identifying applicable SDGs. GOAL 1: GOAL 7: GOAL 12: NO POVERTY AFFORDABLE AND RESPONSIBLE CLEAN ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION GOAL 2: ZERO HUNGER GOAL 8: DECENT WORK GOAL 13: AND ECONOMIC CLIMATE ACTION GOAL 3: GROWTH GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING GOAL 16: FOR PEOPLE GOAL 9: PEACE, JUSTICE INDUSTRY, AND STRONG INNOVATION AND INSTITUTIONS GOAL 4: INFRASTRUCTURE QUALITY EDUCATION GOAL 17: GOAL 10: PARTNERSHIPS FOR REDUCING THE GOALS GOAL 5: INEQUALITIES GENDER EQUALITY GOAL 11: GOAL 6: SUSTAINABLE CITIES CLEAN WATER AND COMMUNITIES AND SANITATION 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 4 0 APPENDIX D: ABOUT THE REPORT Fluor has published a Sustainability Report annually since 2008. Prior reports are available online at www.fluor.com. In 2009, Fluor became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which enables companies to voluntarily align their GRI ASPECTS operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles regarding human rights, labor, the environment and GRI Standard # Aspect anti-corruption efforts and to actively support UN Sustainable Development Goals for these issues. Fluor management appointed Marc van Heynigen, Vice President, Health, Safety & Environmental, executive sponsor of 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURE ECONOMIC Fluor’s Sustainability Committee, leading an internal team of subject-matter experts in developing the report. 201 Economic Performance Fluor used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards and the Sustainable Development 202 Market Presence Goals to develop this report. In determining content, Fluor’s Sustainability Committee considered the company’s Core 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Values and experience, as well as the reasonable expectations and interests of the company’s stakeholders and clients. In this document, Fluor reports on the standards and goals relevant to its business operations and measurable in 2018. 204 Procurement Practices ENVIRONMENTAL SCOPE 302 Energy In the context of Fluor’s carbon footprint, this report represents emissions produced within the corporate boundary and excludes emissions produced at client sites and fabrication yards. All other health, safety, environmental, 305 Emissions economic, stakeholder engagement, governance, human rights, labor practices, philanthropy and community service 306 Effluents and Waste data included in this report cover Fluor and its subsidiaries, except as specifically noted. 307 Compliance ALIGNMENT WITH GRI STANDARDS 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment In addition to Fluor’s 2018 Sustainability Report, Fluor has prepared a GRI Table in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The GRI Table, as reflected on the Aspect table, can be found at www.fluor.com and addresses those 103-2 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms standards that Fluor has determined are pertinent for its operations. SOCIAL – LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Fluor did not employ an external organization to audit this report. External assurance is provided by Fluor’s 401 Employment independent, registered public accounting firm for Fluor’s 2018 Form 10-K. 402 Labor/Management Relations RIDER A 403 Occupational Health and Safety Except where noted, the information covered in this report highlights our performance and initiatives in fiscal year 404 Training and Education 2018. We have prepared the information solely to provide a general overview of our sustainability activities, and this report should not be used by anyone making an investment decision. In addition, the information in this report is 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity summarized and is not a complete description of all of our activities; therefore, we have made qualitative judgments as 414 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices to certain information to include that could be determined to be inaccurate or incomplete. For example, some data are not included in this report for privileged, proprietary and/or competitive reasons or because resources for consolidated SOCIAL – HUMAN RIGHTS data are limited. The inclusion of information on this site should not be construed as a characterization regarding the 412 Investment materiality or financial impact of that information. For a discussion of information that is material to the company, please see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and 406 Nondiscrimination Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining RIDER B – FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 408 Child Labor This report contains forward-looking statements relating to the manner in which we intend to conduct our activities 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor based on our current plans and expectations. These statements are not promises of our future conduct or policy and are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, the 410 Security Practices actual conduct of our activities, including the development, implementation or continuation of any program, policy 411 Indigenous Rights or initiative discussed in this report, may differ materially in the future. The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we do not undertake to publicly update any statements in this report. You should 412 Assessment read our Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which include a list of factors that could SOCIAL – SOCIETY cause actual operational and financial results to differ from those expected. 413 Local Communities 205 Anti-Corruption 415 Public Policy 206 Anti-Competitive Behavior For more information about Fluor Corporation Nancy Kralik Fluor’s global sustainability 6700 Las Colinas Blvd. corporate.communications@fluor.com 419 Compliance efforts or to share your thoughts Irving, Texas 75039 +1.469.398.7000 about this report, contact: United States 2 0 1 8 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T T R A N S F O R M I N G T H E W O R L D 4 1 TRADEMARK AND SERVICE MARK INFORMATION © 2019 Fluor Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Fluor, Fluor Cares, Fluor University, and Golf for Greenville are registered service marks of Fluor Corporation. Business Risk Management Framework (BRMF) and Life Critical are service marks of Fluor Corporation. AMECO is a registered service mark of American Equipment Company, Inc. Canstruction is a registered trademark of Canstruction, Inc. Construction Users Roundtable is a registered service mark of The Construction Users Roundtable Corporation. FORTUNE and FORTUNE 500 are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are used under license. From FORTUNE Magazine, June 2018 ©2018 Time Inc. Used under license. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or services of, Fluor Corporation. Engineering News-Record is a registered trademark of BNP Media. “World’s Most Ethical Companies” and “Ethisphere” names and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC. All other service marks or trademarks are the intellectual property of their respective owners. 6700 Las Colinas Blvd., Irving, TX 75039 | www.fluor.com BREX107719
