Communication on Progress Report January 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 3 ABOUT US 4 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 10 PRINCIPLES 5 Human Rights Management Policies & Procedures 5 Labor Management Policies & Procedures 6 Environmental Management Policies & Procedures 7 Anti-Corruption Management Policies & Procedures 8 ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES 9 Promoting a Comprehensive Corporate Sustainability Approach 9 Supporting inclusive and social business 10 Promoting Gender Equality 13 Corporate Sustainability Governance and Leadership 17 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Esteemed Stakeholders, It is with pleasure that we publish Ahead of the Curve’s third United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) report. This report covers our activities for the years 2017 and 2018. This report acts as an affirmation of our commitment to maintaining accountability and transparency, and to supporting the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in​ ​the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our continued efforts in integrating sustainability and Global Compact principles into our​ ​business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely, Dina Sherif Co-founder and CEO Ahead of the Curve Cairo, Egypt ABOUT US Ahead of the Curve (ATC) is a social enterprise dedicated to the promotion of sustainable management practices, inclusive market growth and social innovation across growth markets. Our mandate stems from our firm belief that companies, non-profits and government entities alike are only sustainable and have a positive social impact when they are stakeholder-driven and have clear shared value creation agendas. We work towards the fulfillment of our mandate through four main streams of work: 1. Knowledge Creation and Awareness Raising We produce world-class knowledge pieces about regional insights and practices related to the areas of sustainable management practice, entrepreneurship and impact entrepreneurship, and inclusive economic expansion across growth markets, including women’s equitable economic participation. We also continuously engage in raising the awareness levels of our different stakeholders around these topics. 2. Consulting and Training Services We offer our clients and partners with tailored consulting and training services, enabling them to integrate the principles of responsibility and sustainability into their company culture and day-to-day operations. 3. Entrepreneurship Support Efforts ATC is committed to ensuring more sustainable and inclusive growth models in the region. We realize that groundbreaking efforts are needed for this to materialize. We have launched a series of support programs to enable the proliferation of social and inclusive business models across the Middle East and growth markets beyond. 4. Gender Diversity Efforts Stemming from the belief that sustainable growth will only be possible if women are able to equitably access and advance within the labor market, ATC launched a stream of work that is focused on women’s economic integration in 2014. This includes a women’s network that connects, supports and celebrates women leaders from the region, as well as engages men around pressing issues related to women’s equitable socio-economic participation. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 10 PRINCIPLES ATC’s mission and approach revolves around ensuring more sustainable societies through enabling businesses, civil society organizations and the public sector to create shared value by adopting responsible and inclusive management practices. We incorporate the principles of sustainability within our own operations by: ● Basing all of our core corporate functions on the achievement of more responsible and sustainable growth. ● Mainstreaming the principles of accountability and transparency within our corporation: ○ We have developed comprehensive bylaws to ensure effective board oversight. ○ We maintain an open work culture whereby employees and management openly communicate and are held accountable for any potential sustainability violations. ○ We integrate a comprehensive sustainability management paradigm overview in our employee induction trainings. ○ Our employee handbook addresses issues of corruption, human rights, non-discrimination, and integrity at large, and explains the company’s zero tolerance policy for any violations. ● In 2017, we updated our governance bylaws, human resources manual, and introduced a comprehensive financial procedures manual including a comprehensive procurement system to ensure the diligent and efficient use of resources as our operations expand. Human Rights Management Policies & Procedures ATC is committed to promoting human rights by reference to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights dated December 10, 1948, and adheres to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. ATC not only promotes human rights internally through integrating human rights principles in the framework of the company, but also through providing services to private sector and civil society organizations to foster human rights principles within their organizations. We have zero tolerance for human rights violations within our own internal operations. As per ATC’s bylaws and employee handbook, neither the corporation nor its duly authorized agents shall discriminate against any individual or group for reasons of race, color, sex, age, marital status, sexual preference, disability, religion, or any other basis for discrimination. Our open communication culture allows for any such violations to be detected and addressed at an early stage; there have been no such violations to date. With regards to supply chain integration, members of our supply chain are largely service-oriented. In support of ensuring more inclusive growth, we prefer locally-based suppliers that are small or medium sized (SMEs). We have zero tolerance for suppliers that violate human rights principles. While we do not have a formal supplier screening process, we cease dealing with any given supplier should we become aware of their engagement in violations of the principles of integrity and human rights. With regards to advocating for the protection of human rights within the corporate sector, we have continued engagement in multiple consulting, training, and research activities around the topic. PLANS FOR 2019 ● We plan on continuing to engage in core business activities related to the promotion and protection of human rights within the private sector. This includes sector-specific engagement around sustainability in the finance and textiles sectors. ● Our upcoming regional mapping report focuses on the role that the private sector is playing with regards to fulfilling the SDGs, particularly those that directly address human rights. Labor Management Policies & Procedures ATC surpasses the national minimum wage and goes beyond labor laws to ensure that its employees are effectively engaged and fairly treated within the company. We have zero tolerance for child labor, forced or compulsory labor; and they are explicitly prohibited in our employee handbook. Instead of contracting employees using letters of assignment, ATC initiated the issuance of formal contractual agreements for full-time employees. Accordingly, in 2017, ATC introduced new contracts that are based on the Egyptian labor laws. We continuously invest in the growth and development of our employees by: ● Granting them full ownership of their work, allowing them to innovate new streams of work and unleash their leadership potential ● Maintaining a coaching system whereby the company’s founding partners closely coach employees and employees coach each other ● Continuously offering our employees exposure and training opportunities that focus on developing their technical and interpersonal skills. ● Instituting a weekly gratitude circle activity that gathers all staff to share experiences, communicate openly, and share personal reasons for being grateful. The activity has proven very beneficial by promoting open and honest communication,enhancing team bonding, raising company morale, and supporting a positive working environment. ATC has flexible working conditions that allow employees to tailor their working hours to their needs and personal commitments, without sacrificing the quality of work. Employees work in an office building that is equipped with safe evacuation mechanisms. The office’s physical condition is well maintained to allow employees a comfortable and safe working environment. No employees have been subject to safety hazards as a result of working with the company. ATC has not experienced any incidents of bullying, verbal or physical harassment or any unethical behavior. PLANS FOR 2019 ● ATC is exploring different insurance provider options in order to be able to introduce a health coverage plan for full-time employees in 2019. In the meantime, ATC has provided financial assistance for support staff unable to cover family medical costs. Environmental Management Policies & Procedures Given the nature of our work, our environmental footprint is minimal. Many projects are desk-based with documentation exchanged electronically. However, we remain committed to maintaining an environmentally sustainable office. As of this moment, we have engaged in the following efforts to reduce our environmental impact: ● Designating a recycling paper station where unwanted materials are collected for continued use in printing or other projects ● Using double-sided printing and printing multiple pages on one sheet face whenever possible ● Reducing print publications by relying on digital publications whenever possible ● Re-using supplies and materials (including handouts, nametags, etc.) ● Encouraging employees to carpool; employees frequently travel from and to the office together ● Using reusable kitchenware in the office ● Installing water dispenser to minimize plastic waste resulting from using plastic water bottles in the office. PLANS FOR 2019 ● Introducing a waste segregation system to facilitate waste recycling ● Finding a local NGO to collect and recycle segregated waste Anti-Corruption Management Policies & Procedures ATC has a board of directors that is fully independent and does not derive any economic benefits from the company. Moreover, ATC’s bylaws dictate that the board of directors must disclose upon election or appointment any relevant interest, financial or otherwise, which may pose a conflict of interest. In the event that any matter comes before the board in which a director has an interest, it shall be immediately disclosed to the board. Board members who have disclosed their interest are not allowed to vote in matter in question. To prevent confusion, interest is determined as the director deriving an individual economic benefit, either directly or indirectly, from the board or committee’s decision on the matter. Moreover, employees are carefully hired based on their commitment to ethical practices. Our employee handbook includes a dishonesty and plagiarism policy, violations of which would negatively affect an employee’s standing. ATC encourages its employees to report any concerns they have about the company or its activities, to ensure transparency and minimal violations. As planned during the year 2017, we have integrated anti-corruption clauses and monitoring practices into our contracts, and employee handbook, respectively. ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES ATC’s main purpose is to ensure sustainable societies, and shared value creation across private sector, public sector and civil society organizations. The strong overlap between ATC’s work, the UNGC principles, and the UN’s development goals are described below. Promoting a Comprehensive Corporate Sustainability Approach Over the past two years, we have enabled three large corporations to conduct comprehensive sustainability diagnostics and issue sustainability reports conforming to internationally accepted standards. ATC has also engaged stakeholders worldwide in engagements related to gathering information for sustainability reporting. Two of the advised companies are holding companies with a diverse portfolio of subsidiaries and considerable potential for affecting multiple stakeholders as they enhance their sustainability performance. We have also worked with one of Egypt’s Telecommunications operators on their social investment strategy, enabling them to launch a foundation that fosters shared value creation for the company and its stakeholders. We also conducted a Situation Analysis for Private Sector Engagement for UNICEF Egypt. ATC gathered secondary data about 50+ private sector companies and foundations, 23 of which were interviewed to orient them with UNICEF’s five main pillars of work, and explore potential for different collaboration modalities: fundraising, in-kind support, cause-related marketing, among others. PLANS FOR 2019 ● Launching an 8-country mapping of how corporations across the region are contributing to Creating Shared Value in light of the SDGs. We are currently fund-raising for the report, and plan on publishing it by the first quarter of 2020. ● Sustaining our core business, which naturally supports UNGC’s principles and the SDGs. Supporting inclusive and social business ATC is a regional actor in the impact enterprise development and employment creation space that has strategic partnerships with major private sector actors nationally and across the region. We are working on the proliferation of impact and inclusive business models and provide non-financial support to impact-driven businesses and to already existing large businesses that are willing to expand their vision to include the base of the pyramid within their business model. We have developed several flagship training boot camps, including: ● ‘The Impact’ (2015 Present) The Impact was specifically designed to meet the needs of impact entrepreneurs in the region. Building on design thinking and collaboration principles, The Impact aims at supporting scalable impact innovation by providing participants with the knowledge and tools required to develop, implement, and scale their idea for social change. ● Thrive (2017 Present): Launched in 2017 in partnership with Oxfam Novib’s Work in Progress! Alliance, Thrive is a specialized program that offers tailored support to impact driven businesses to get them ready for investment and growth. It does so through capacity building training and one-on-one consulting in various fields based on our assessments of their needs. In 2017, the first round was launched with 8 impact driven businesses in different fields such as FMCGs, food processing, agriculture, culture and handicrafts, and fashion and textiles. One of our graduates, Brimore, grew 10 times in one year, was recognized by the African Entrepreneurship Award and won the Orange Start-up Award. In 2018, we worked with 10 impact driven businesses. We refined the training structure based on the feedback we received from the first round and based on the needs assessments and interviews conducted with participants. The training sessions covered areas including refining the company’s impact and business models, identifying the main customer segments and refining sales channels, branding, governance and financial intelligence. The consulting element is ongoing in areas such as digital marketing, business strategy, financial intelligence and impact mapping. After receiving rewarding feedback on these two rounds and witnessing the progress of the previous graduates, ATC plans to launch two consecutive rounds in 2019; one of which will focus on supporting 7 to 10 agribusiness SMEs. Egypt has a wealth of natural resources that can act as an integral element of the country’s food security, job creation, and overall stability. Smaller agribusiness operators, however, often lack access to the tools, knowledge and resources required to ensure their success. Opportunities are focused in Cairo, or on the larger companies that only dominate 20-25% of the market. ● Amideast (2017): ATC conducted an Innovation Bootcamp for 40 entrepreneurs from the Amideast Youth Entrepreneurship Programme (YEP). The main topics of the training were creativity and innovation, purpose driven entrepreneurship, creative and critical thinking, design thinking, and creating a team charter to enhance efficiency and effectiveness. ● IC (2016-2017): ATC trained International Baccalaureate (IB) students at Beirut's renowned International College (IC) on impact entrepreneurship, design thinking, and innovation for sustainable societal change. The training culminated in a Pitch Event where students presented their business ideas for social impact to a crowd of stakeholders. ATC also launched a series of sector-specific challenges and competitions to enable large and multinational corporations to support and integrate start-ups and entrepreneurs into their value chains. These include: ● PepsiCo. Innovation Challenge (2017-2018) PepsiCo and ATC introduced the PepsiCo Snacks Innovation Challenge in 2017. The competition sought out and enhanced the capacities of entrepreneurs addressing one of three challenges facing the snacks portfolio; offering healthy snacks, creating environmentally friendly packaging, and engaging consumers through digital media. The competition received over 400 applications, 35 of which were selected and received an intensive boot camp as well as mentorship by PepsiCo employees and mentors from ATC’s network. The provisioned support enabled entrepreneurs to enhance their ideas and to pitch to PepsiCo management and investors. The top two winners of this challenge will receive an online Scale Up Program in May 2019; the program is offered by IE Business School; one of the leading business schools in the world. ● EGBank (2018-2019) The EGBank Youth Ambassadors program is the first of its kind in Egypt. It offers 42 Egyptian students with comprehensive training in financial literacy, financial management, and personal skills development. After receiving the training each student had to complete the following missions: Passing on the knowledge that they obtained through the program to at least 20 other youth in Egypt. Develop innovative solutions to business challenges presented by the MINT management team. Top performing ambassadors will be offered a summer internship in EGBank in 2019. ● Tatweer Misr Innovation Competition (2017, 2018, 2019) For the third year, Tatweer Misr and Ahead of the Curve are holding the Annual Tatweer Misr Innovation Competition. The competition seeks out youth-led innovations to challenges that Tatweer Misr presents to the contestants in the areas of Marketing and Architectural design. This competition has proven its success with 10-12 finalists every year, who either win educational awards offered by both parties and/or sign business deals with Tatweer Misr to implement their ideas in one of the company’s properties. In an effort to support the impact-driven entrepreneurship ecosystem as a whole, ATC also worked with several support organizations on strengthening their capacities, or the capacity of the ecosystem as a whole. These efforts have included: ● Drosos (2017-2018): ATC’s trainers and consultants led a multistage assessment of the foundation’s grant application, selection, and monitoring and evaluation pipeline. The exercise focused on integrating business and financial modelling principles to grant-making, and to ensure long-term project sustainability after the grant-making period. ● The Startup Manifesto’s Impact Investment Working Group (2018): ATC is an active member of the working group, which aims at creating a cadre of well-informed impact investors in Egypt, and creating a collective impact monitoring and measurement framework. ● ATC conducted the first of its kind “SME Alternative Financing conference” in partnership with Oxfam Novib’s Work in Progress Alliance and the American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt in 2017. The conference aimed at filling the knowledge gap concerning alternative financing solutions such as factoring, financial leasing, micro-finance and Nilex; and linking Egyptian SMEs with these service providers. The conference took place on 26 June 2018, and featured a keynote speech by Dr. Sherif Samy Chairman of the National Asset Management & Investment SAE & Former Chairman of the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority. PLANS FOR 2019 ● Conducting an iteration of our Thrive program that focuses on enterprises within the agriculture value chain, and another that is sector-agnostic. ● Continuing to expand “The Impact” program by implementing it in new countries/cities, increasing the number of engaged entrepreneurs, and empowering others to start and scale up their social enterprises. ● Continuing to expand our sector-specific offerings, enabling large and multinational corporations across the region to support and integrate entrepreneurs into their value chains. Promoting Gender Equality Stemming from our commitment to the inclusion and empowerment of women, we continue our efforts towards strengthening a women’s network that aims at creating a supportive, celebratory, and inclusive community for women in the Arab region, both in the formal and informal labor market. The network continued to implement its pioneering experiential leadership retreats with the goal of helping participating women find their unique strengths as leaders and to help participants develop leadership skills that resonate with their respective personalities and the specificity of their contexts with reference to their gender.. As planned in 2017, we have conducted a training of trainers for Arab coaches-to-be in order to be able to deliver the women leadership trainings in Arabic and with less cost, and thus, making them more accessible to Arab business women. Two of the trained coaches were then sourced by ATC to conduct a full-fledged retreat in 2018. We have also launched a series of training programs that are specifically tailored for women entrepreneurs, including: ● LEAP With the support from Oxfam Novib, ATC designed a Women’s Entrepreneurship Program called “LEAP” which is a leadership journey specially tailored for women entrepreneurs that aims to bridge a gap in the entrepreneurship ecosystem. It presents women entrepreneurs with the needed tools to grow their businesses and leap into their full potential. ATC conducted the first round of LEAP in October-November 2018 with 20 women entrepreneurs completing the program. ● SMB (2017 Present) ATC was selected by Facebook to be its local partner and the manager of the #SheMeansBusiness campaign in Egypt since February 2017. #SheMeansBusiness delivers the first of its kind training to women entrepreneurs on the use of social media platforms namely Facebook and Instagram to run, grow, and scale their businesses. Trainings have been implemented in 7 governorates and reached over 1,000 women entrepreneurs.In addition, ATC is leading a coalition of 16 partners in delivering the training. To maximize this opportunity’s impact, we partnered with Egypt’s Technology, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Center (TIEC), and the National Council for Women (NCW) to collaborate on outreach and content delivery. ● AWO Training of Trainers (2018) In partnership with the Arab Woman Organization (AWO), ATC conducted an Entrepreneurship Training of Trainers (ToT) for 15 representatives from 15 Arab states. These government representatives are responsible for the women’s economic inclusion initiatives in their respective countries. The objective of the ToT was to equip trainers-to-be with the needed knowledge and tools in order to train women entrepreneurs in their countries on how to start, run, and scale their businesses. ● The Cartier Women’s Initiative Award (2017): ATC ran a training program for participants to enter in the Cartier Women's Initiative Award that prepares them for the competition. Founded in 2006, the Cartier Women’s Initiative Awards are open to social impact-driven commercial enterprises run by women in the design, education, finance, healthcare, energy and food sectors. Awardees have the chance to win one-to-one personalized business mentoring, entrepreneurship workshops, media visibility, networking opportunities, and USD 100,000. The MENA region winner, in 2016, Egyptian entrepreneur Sara-Kristina Hannig Nour was a participant of ATC’s training in 2016. To tackle diversity at the workplace, we have engaged in two key activities during 2017 and 2018, namely: ● Gender Diversity and WEPs Workshop (2017-2018): With support from Oxfam Novib’s Work in Progress! Alliance, we designed and launched a two-day training program that aims at enabling large local and multinational corporations to implement the UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles and improve the gender diversity performance at their workplaces. To date, we have conducted two rounds of the WEPs training (1 in 2017 and 1 in 2018), which were attended by a total of 38 executives. ● ANA HUNNA International e.V. (2017-2018): In 2017, ATC joined the ANA HUNNA International e.V. Network as a founding member. The network seeks to promote women’s right to work, and women’s economic inclusion at large. ATC is currently co-leading the Egypt network which aims to enhance the integration of women in the labor market through working with private sector companies, and strengthening the social and cultural acceptance for women’s right to work through working with civil society organizations. This is done through a series of capacity-building trainings and awareness raising sessions. Finally, we have conducted a series of in-depth studies about the state of women’s economic inclusion in the region, including: ● Gender Sensitive Value Chain Analysis in Agribusinesses (2016-2017): Ahead of the Curve conducted a study for UN Women that analyzed agribusiness value-chains using a gender-sensitive approach. The study aimed to understand the contribution of women at each phase of production and promote better integration of women in agribusinesses. The team conducted 6 management workshops, and 12 focus groups with young women in Upper Egypt. ● Policy Briefs and Roundtable discussions for the International Men and Gender Equality Survey in the Middle East and North Africa (2017): This exercise focused on contextualizing four policy briefs based on the IMAGES regional research to the Egyptian context. It also provided strategic guidance on how to use the research results to inform and guide advocacy efforts. Each policy brief was used to inform a roundtable discussion that included representatives of all relevant stakeholders from government, civil society, private sector, academia, and non-government organizations. The roundtables discussed and refined the recommendations provided in the policy briefs. ● Conducting Media Research on Gender Stereotypes, Gender Relations and Masculinities (2017 and 2018): In partnership with UN Women, ATC conducted a gender media monitoring exercise that analyzed the portrayal of gender roles, relationships and stereotypes as represented in television drama series during the month of Ramadan in 2016 and 2017. Specific issues highlighted include the representation of masculinities, and the treatment of violence against women. The purpose of this research exercise was to reach a set of recommendations to be used as guidance for media personnel, and developing a media-analysis toolkit that can be used in similar media analysis endeavors in the future and in trainings of content producers. ● Exploring Unconscious Gender Bias in the Egyptian Private Sector (2017): Commissioned by the World Bank, the purpose of this study was to unravel (un)conscious gender biases within private sector companies across the following sectors: Telecommunications, Banking and Finance, Agribusiness, Textiles and Garments, and Food Processing. The study entailed conducting 22 in-depth interviews with corporate management and 12 focus groups with management and employees. ● IMAGES MENA Business Case Brief (2017): The Business Case Brief was developed in partnership with Promundo and built upon UN Women’s existing work and research on understanding and advancing women’s integration in the workplace. It summarized the relevant, existing data; provided additional context analysis through conducting a case study on Mansour Group; and outlined promising approaches. It presented a pathway forward, providing guidelines for engaging men at the workplace to support women’s economic advancement, making the business case for how a gender equal workplace will benefit women and men, as well as businesses and society more broadly. PLANS FOR 2019 ● Expanding ANA HUNNA; in 2019, ATC aims to expand its work promoting women’s economic inclusion under the ANA HUNNA network by conducting awareness raising sessions in communities about the value of women’s work that engage the men as well. ● Conducting at least one women’s leadership retreat. ● Repeating our LEAP program. ● Working closely with 3 SMEs on the adoption of the WEPs and gender equity principles. ● Widening the women’s network by adding all participants from future leadership trainings, retreats, and storytelling workshops conducted by Arab and foreign coaches. ● Implementing more women’s programmes that promote women leadership, economic empowerment, skills development, and entrepreneurship. ● Create a media communications campaign that promotes women’s inclusion through providing a set of trainings for content producers, awareness raising sessions for press and media personnel, and through creating content to be aired in Ramadan 2019. Corporate Sustainability Governance and Leadership We are a small-sized company that employs 10 full time employees and seasonal interns. We are governed by a fully independent Board of Directors, which does not derive any economic benefits from the company. Our Board of Directors includes some of the region’s top thought leaders on sustainability. Our Co-founder and CEO, Dina Sherif, is strongly committed to advancing the principles of sustainability within the company, and across other organizations through the company’s core business. Our Co-founder and CTO, Mohamed El-Kalla is one of the foremost experts on sustainability management and inclusive business in the Arab World; he was involved in the creation of Egypt’s UNGC chapter and other UNGC chapters across the region. Our third Co-founder worked at the UN Global Compact Office HQ for several years in his capacity as the Chief of Local Networks and NY Executive for Cities Programme. Prior to that, he was also a co-founder of the GC Local Network in Egypt and acted as the representative for several years before moving to New York. Members of our Board of Directors are: ● Fadi Ghandour, Founder of Aramex and Vice Chairman of Wamda ● Loay El Nazer, Chairman and Founder, Nazer Group ● Yasser Moustafa, Senior Managing Director, NBK Capital Partners ● Hala Fadel Chair, MIT Enterprise Forum of the Pan Arab Region ● Raji Hattar Chief Sustainability and Compliance Officer, Aramex The Board of Directors is constantly engaged in enhancing ATC’s operations and potential for reaching its goals of sustainable and inclusive growth. While ATC has not conducted a comprehensive stakeholder engagement exercise, feedback is always gathered after any project or activity undertaken by the company. Furthermore, ATC staff members provide and receive feedback from partners throughout partnerships, and conduct debriefing meetings following the end of a partnership. As any new program or initiative is designed, relevant key stakeholders are engaged in the project design to ensure that the project is built on a participatory approach, is relevant, and thus will achieve sustainable impact. When it comes to employee engagement, ATC management maintains an open door policy for employees to discuss any arising issues, while ATC employees are also encouraged to provide feedback for each other. Ahead of the Curve 124 Othman Ibn Affan St. 8th Floor, Apt. 82 Heliopolis, Cairo Facebook: /atcposts Twitter: @atctweets Email: info@ahead-ofthecurve.com www.ahead-ofthecurve.com
