4th February 2019 Global Compact: Communication on Progress To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Charlie Goldsmith Associates Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Charlie Goldsmith Managing Director Charlie Goldsmith Associates Ltd Charlie Goldsmith Associates Ltd 67 Blackheath Road, London, SE10 8EY UK Company No. 07635164 www.charliegoldsmithassociates.co.uk enquiries@charliegoldsmithassociates.co.uk 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTION Human Rights Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. Protect workers and communities CGA works (in particularly children and vulnerable adults) with through its safeguarding policy and reporting mechanism outlined in the Positive Business Ethics and Conduct Policy. The Company notes and is committed to the principles set out in the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business. Labour Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. Comply with minimum wage standards. Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. The Company notes and is committed to the principles set out in the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business. Environment Wherever possible, CGA will adopt a ‘Do No Harm’ approach while aiming to have a positive impact on the surrounding environment. This will include taking practical steps to minimise waste and limit pollution, e.g. through reusing and recycling and using the least damaging methods of waste disposal, and obtaining power and water available and practical. Anti-corruption Require all staff, contractors and sub-contractors to adhere to our Positive Business Ethics and Conduct Policy which specifically guards against corruption in our business practices. Specifcally, they must comply with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations including but not limited to the DFID Statement of Priorities and Expectation, UK Bribery Act 2010, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, relevant local legislation, and where appropriate, the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. Charlie Goldsmith Associates Ltd 67 Blackheath Road, London, SE10 8EY UK Company No. 07635164 www.charliegoldsmithassociates.co.uk enquiries@charliegoldsmithassociates.co.uk 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We will compile, monitor and report any and all concerns r.e. safeguarding and anticorruption internally and externally in line with our Positive Business Ethics and Conduct Policy and Operations Manual. As and when we have new contractor or supplier partners begin work with us we will pre-qualify any new firm through a series of due diligence steps, relating to company performance, compliance, and references. Charlie Goldsmith Associates Ltd 67 Blackheath Road, London, SE10 8EY UK Company No. 07635164 www.charliegoldsmithassociates.co.uk enquiries@charliegoldsmithassociates.co.uk
