QualityTrade Communication on Progress – Prepared by Nigel Johnston Period Covered: July 29th 2019 to July 29th 2020 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that QualityTrade reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact it’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Nigel Johnston CEO Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy & Goals QualityTrade actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. QualityTrade has an Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. QualityTrade will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment in the workplace. Implementation As we expand our operations internationally, all efforts are made to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. QualityTrade has a Grievance Procedure in place and offers mediation to staff as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. Staff consultation is run where organisational changes are being implemented to ensure staff are informed and have an opportunity to influence outcomes. QualityTrade has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect our pro-active stance on human rights including our Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy, Compassionate Leave Policy and Flexible Working Policy. Outcomes In the past year QualityTrade has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy & Goals QualityTrade supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. All QualityTrade employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Where QualityTrade employs agency workers we are fully compliant with the Agency Worker Regulations. QualityTrade complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job role. Implementation QualityTrade consults with staff on a continuous basis – each year we hold a Company Review Day where the Chair speaks about the past business year, appraising staff of what we have achieved, where we are going and thanking individuals who have made a specific contribution. QualityTrade has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including an Equal Opportunities Policy and Flexible Working Policy. Annual appraisals are run throughout the organisation. QualityTrade has a Health & Safety Policy and a well-developed range of safety procedures. Risk assessments are reviewed annually, we run a health surveillance programme and carry out regular safety compliance audits of all sites and Departments. Outcomes QualityTrade runs a system of annual appraisals each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are actioned where ever financially possible. QualityTrade has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Agency workers are given clear information regarding their hours and working requirements, and are free to make use of all welfare facilities provided including the staff canteen, rest areas, shower facilities etc. Agency staff are encouraged to apply for permanent positions with QualityTrade if an opportunity arises in their work area. QualityTrade has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy & Goals QualityTrade has an Environmental Management System, an Environmental Policy and a specific Policy on the Sustainable Management of Live Events. QualityTrade has targets set each year to increase the amount of waste we are able to recycle and decrease the amount of waste going directly to landfill. In addition we have targets for reducing fuel for vehicles and year on year we have improved the carbon footprint of our company fleet by replacing older vehicles and using more fuel efficient vehicles. Our new Environmental Management System is being implemented throughout the organisation and there is a plan in place to train all staff in environmental matters and carry out environmental audits identifying potential areas for further improvement. Implementation There has been some targeted campaigning run throughout the past year advising staff of waste recycling targets. All environmental incidents are investigated and remedial actions taken. This includes an immediate response to rectify the incident, plus training for staff or amendments to procedures/processes to prevent any recurrences. Records and investigation protocols for environmental incidents are included within our Environmental Management System. Outcomes QualityTrade uses licenced waste companies for disposal of waste. QualityTrade has not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy & Goals QualityTrade is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. QualityTrade supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not operate in countries or with organisations who are corrupt. Implementation The Finance Director is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within QualityTrade and our AntiBribery Policy sets out clearly exactly what could be considered to be bribery in terms of business operations. The Policy also covers the receiving of hospitality and gifts. Training for all relevant staff is planned. Outcomes QualityTrade has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery.
