Teleplan Sustainability Report 2018 UN Global Compact Communication of Progress Driving Circularity into Supply Chain Solutions Content: 1. CEO Message 2. About Us – Enhancing the lifecycle of electronics, their parts and even their materials 3. Managing Sustainability 4. People 5. Environment 6. Communities 7. Innovation 8. Supply Chain 9. Teleplan’s CSR Journey 10. Sustainability Performance Data 11. UNGC Statement of Continued Support 12. Index of UNGC Principles Supported in 2018 1. CEO Message We are accelerating the transition to a circular economy. Through various pilot projects and trials we are working together with key industry stakeholders understanding that Circular Economy is restorative and regenerative by design. In 2018 we have made great progress in developing and enabling circularity by re-using parts and limited raw materials and rare metals for new products. Two major pilot programs for Google and Dell Technologies have been accomplished: a new closed-loop process to recover the rare earth magnets from recovered enterprise equipment. The harvested magnets have been reformed for reuse in new hard-disk drives. In the initial pilot program, Dell Technologies are using the reformed magnets in Seagate hard drives for their Latitude 5000 series laptop that began shipping in May 2019. Plastics are fundamental to our everyday life. Yet they are one of the most wasteful examples of our existing linear, take-make-dispose economy. With 8 million tonnes of plastic entering the ocean each year, we urgently need to rethink the way we make, use, and reuse plastics. In partnership with a leading international industrial company involved in the manufacturing and sale of machines and films for food packaging, a first trial of replacing plastic shrink wrap with compostable material to wrap pallets has been concluded. Based on the positive outcome of the trial we are piloting this alternative packaging material with a selected number of existing customers in Europe. Anticipating the European ban on single-use plastics, Teleplan has started to eliminate single-use plastics in our European service center locations. Together with some of our European client base we 1 are looking into the elimination of single-use plastics in their supply chains which impact inbound and outbound processes at our service centers starting with packaging material. We have identified alternative packaging and wrapping solutions and have implemented these in our operations. Our engagement with the charity Lessons for Life in support of their education projects has had a positive impact on a number of children. Teleplan contributed to the funding of the school education programme implemented by Child Aid Uganda (CHAU) in Lyantonde, Uganda by supporting the payment of school fees, scholastic materials (stationery) and living costs. Teleplan’s donations have mainly been used for school fees and hygiene packs for girls. Additional fund raising activities were initiated such as our participation in the Big Ride for Africa, and the annual gala dinner in London which is a highlight of Lessons for Life annual activity calendar. A large number of Teleplan employees have sponsored these activities through their individual contributions. We continually strive to improve the environmental impact of our own operations. Our focus in the coming year will be on energy consumption and GHG emissions. Teleplan’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction strategy will be developed and short-, mid-, and longer term carbon emissions reduction targets will be set, measured and verified by an external third party verification company. Our primary aim is to help drive de-carbonization through our reverse supply chain business. We are fully committed to the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement’s target to limit global warming to well below 2°C and we understand that reaching this goal will require a full de-carbonization of the global economy. François Lacombe Chief Executive Officer 2. About Us As of 31st December, 2018: Revenue 2018 236 Mio euro No. of Employees 4.435 Indirect labour 3.911 Direct labour 524 Teleplan plays a vital role in mitigating the social and environmental impacts of the global consumer electronics industry. Circularity and sustainability are at the core of the business in the development and provision of services which keep products in use for as long as possible and maximise the value of parts and materials at end of life. The company’s expertise is in extending the lifecycle of electronic devices through the provision of a range of innovative services:  Customer Care  Reverse Logistics  Parts Management  Screening & Testing  Repair & Refurbishment  Resell & Recycle Our supply chain solutions are supporting:  Manufacturers  Telecommunication and Television Operators  Insurance Companies  Retailers and online shopping platforms 2  Resellers Our networks: We are an active member of the CE 100 Network (since 2016) United Nations Global Compact (since 2015) European Remanufacturing Council (since 2019) 3. Managing Sustainability Teleplan’s commitment to sustainability is underpinned by the management of the ethical, social and environmental impacts of our business. Principally these are:  innovation of services and solutions to extend product life and maximise recovered value  meeting the highest ethical standards in the conduct of the business  creation of an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper  ensuring the health, safety and well being of employees and facilities  the efficient use of energy  the responsible management of waste  championing and supporting good causes relevant to the business locally and globally Teleplan manages these impacts through systems and procedures which are integral to our operations. Our social and environmental management system is consistent with the requirements of Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and in alignment with environment and health and safety standards ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001. The company maintains certification to these internationally recognized standards and is also assessing the certification requirements of new standards such as ISO 27001 for information security. Teleplan maintained its EcoVadis gold rating for the third year in a row in 2018 with a score of 70%. This reflects a comprehensive and ongoing social and environmental improvement program and places Teleplan in the top 5% of organizations assessed by EcoVadis. We participate as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and align our sustainability efforts to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as shown below: SDG 9: Think of innovative new ways to repurpose old material SDG 12 Recycle paper, plastic, glass and aluminium SDG 13: Climate action to combat climate change and its impact 3 SDG 14: Avoid plastic bags to keep the oceans safe and clean SDG 17: Partnerships to achieve SDG achievements We will make reference to those goals where applicable in other sections of this report. Under the pledge of UNGC signatory companies to do business responsibly we follow the ten UNGC principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, anti-corruption and sustainable business practices and report on our progress in our annual Communication of Progress which is published on the UNGC website. 4. People Creation of an equal opportunity, diverse and inclusive workplace Teleplan employs 4,435 people across multiple service centers and geographies. The recruitment, employment, training and development, health, safety and well-being of these employees are integral to the prosperity and success of the business. Teleplan is committed to developing and maintaining a workplace and working environment in which employees are treated fairly and with respect and have the opportunity to develop and prosper. Teleplan has established management systems which ensure that the business:  Complies with all non-discrimination requirements and provides equal opportunities in employment at every level.  Maintains an environment which promotes inclusion and diversity where individuals are free from any physical, sexual, psychological, verbal or visual harassment or abuse  Observes all applicable restrictions on the maximum hours employees are legally permitted to work  Pays employees at least the minimum wage required by local law and provides all legally mandated benefits  Upholds the right to freely chosen employment and does not use forced, indentured or bonded labor  Requires a minimum age requirement for employment consistent with local law  Upholds the right to freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining in accordance with applicable laws and regulations These policies and procedures apply equally to permanent and temporary contract employees. Employee training and development programs are developed and managed by the service center management working with the locally based human resources specialists thus facilitating learning which is tailored to local employee and business requirements. Ethical Conduct of the business Teleplan Code of Conduct The Teleplan Code of Conduct prescribes the important legal and ethical principles that all Teleplan employees, managers and directors must observe in conducting the company’s business. It provides 4 a standing guide for handling business situations and determining key business decisions and actions in an honest, ethical and professional manner. Teleplan’s Code of Conduct is published on the corporate website and communicated to employees when they join the Company. It is translated into the seven principal languages used across the company and includes information on how to raise concerns, issues or suspected violations of the Code. Employees confirm their understanding of the Code and compliance to it through a written signoff process. Teleplan has an established whistle blowing policy and procedure which ensures that any individual can report in confidence and without fear of reprisal, actual or alleged breaches of the Teleplan Code of Conduct. Reports are managed by the General Counsel. There were no unresolved issues in 2018. Health and Safety of employees and facilities Health and safety performance Teleplan began collecting health and safety data in 2014. In 2018 the number of recordable incidents was 31 (2017:59). The absolute number of days lost as a result of these incidents was 782 (2017:458). The incident rate (as defined by OHSA) was 0.73 (2017:1.2). The Severity Rate was 25 days (2017:8 days). This means that for every recordable incident in 2018 an average of 25 days was lost due to work related injuries and illnesses. 5. Environment Helping to shape low carbon future economy We continually strive to improve the environmental impact of our operations. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) We continue to support the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as a responding company. Since 2016 we have completed, submitted and made publicly available on the CDP online platform our annual response to the Supply Chain Climate Change questionnaire and audit. In 2018 we achieved a “D” scoring reflecting our company’s level of environmental stewardship, and our actions and approaches in managing climate change. We have established a number of local initiatives to manage CO2 emissions from our operations through:  Sourcing green or renewable energy  Introduction of LED lighting  Introduction of sensor light switches in restrooms  Improving insulation of heating and cooling piping, valves and pumps  Continuing local employee engagement campaigns to promote, educate, and incentivise employees to conserve energy. To date our approach to reducing CO2 emissions resulting from our own operations has been to focus on the efficient use of space and judicious consumption of energy. Our supplier base is 5 principally determined by our customers and consequently we have limited influence on our suppliers’ impacts on climate change. In April this year we engaged the Carbon Trust to work with us on the development and implementation of smart, measurable and verifiable carbon emissions reduction targets for the short term (2019) and mid-term (5 years) These targets will be published on our website in the second half of 2019 and our progress to achieving them will be audited and verified by a third party on an annual basis. Energy efficiency of our operations Teleplan began collecting energy consumption data from our service centers in 2014. We are working to reduce the carbon intensity of the electricity we use by sourcing electricity from renewable sources where it is available and economic, principally in Europe. The decrease in electricity consumption in 2018 is the result of consolidating our footprint and reducing our square footage in Teleplan service centers as space and facilities are used more efficiently and effectively. Levels of energy consumption are also impacted by the type of activity undertaken and this varies in line with customer service programs and their specific requirements. Electricty Consumption 50.000 40.000 30.000 EMEA MHw 20.000 APAC 10.000 AMER 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The overall trend in the period 2014 to 2018, is a decrease in the consumption of electricity. Electricity consumption decreased by 8.5% in 2018 to 36,498 MW/h (2017:39,907 MW/h). 6 Natural Gas Consumption 400.000 350.000 300.000 250.000 Meters 3 EMEA 200.000 APAC 150.000 AMER 100.000 50.000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The consumption of natural gas which is used in a small number of service centers in Europe and North America for heating increased by 11.7% to 369,521 m3 (2017: 330,946 m3), in part as a result of severe winter weather conditions. Waste management to international standards Teleplan has a vital role in mitigating the environmental impacts of electronic devices through the provision of repair and refurbishment services. When a repair cannot be made, the recovery, reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials is integral to Teleplan’s customer proposition. Teleplan has well established programs to recover, reuse and recycle electronic waste at all its service centers. Other types of waste handled include cardboard and paper, metals and plastics, hazardous spare parts and substances such as batteries and florescent bulbs all of which are managed through recycling programs together with a network of recycling partners. We work to internationally recognised standards and certifications in relation to electronic and hazardous waste. 6. Communities Championing and supporting good causes locally and globally In 2018 we started to support Lessons for Life, a children’s charity that funds educational projects in Africa. The charity’s ethos is that education changes everything and that every child, no matter where they are born, has the right to a quality education that equips them for life. Our monetary contribution is assigned to Child Aid in Uganda and directly supports children to attend and stay in school and benefit from school and classroom improvements. CEO Francois Lacombe participated in the Big Ride for Africa, one of Lessons for Life’s biggest events, and Teleplan employees raised in excess of 4.600 euro. Teleplan corporate matching generated an additional 1800 euro. Big Ride for Africa – François Lacombe: “It is my passion to exercise, so I never need a reason to run or ride. With my participation in the Big Ride for Africa in Ireland I found out that doing it for a cause, Lessons for Life, which helps children across Africa have access to education, is much more rewarding.” 7 In recognition of Teleplan employees’ enthusiastic involvement both individually and together in fundraising activities and volunteering initiatives in support of the good causes important to them and to the community in which they work, Teleplan operates a matched funding program which reinforces the company’s commitment to living its values and reaching out beyond its usual business boundaries. Examples of local fundraising and donation activities:  Our Harrisburg team in the US participated in the Annual Big Brothers/Big Sisters Bowl for Kid’s Sake campaign and raised $2,400.  Our Mexican based teams donated to an educational institute. 7. Innovation Extending product life through refurbishment Innovation is at the core of Teleplan’s focus on extending product lifecycle. The continuous development of testers and solutions are supporting the reuse of old/used electronic devices. Certified data erasure is key in this process to guarantee data security and data privacy. This promotes consumer confidence in buying good quality second hand products. The high quality, objective, flexible, repeatable, full functional testing enables the diagnosis of a fault and the correct disposition decision in respect of repair, refurbishment, same unit return, swap, resell or recycle. Early in 2019 Teleplan unveiled its next generation of Optiline, an objective grading tester, which determines the physical and optical condition of any mobile phone or set-top box surface. A criteria which is key to determine the success of any resell partner in the value chain. It is forecast that the used and refurbished mobile phone market will continue to grow at a year-onyear rate of 10% to 2022. By 2022 it is estimated that the value of the used smartphone market will be in the region of $52.7 billion. The production of new products continues to be linear. However Teleplan is supporting a closed loop supply chain where new products are made using recycled or renewable materials. In a revolutionary and ground breaking development rare metals have successfully been recovered from hard disc drives. Since Teleplan processes over 65% of the worldwide returns of Hard Disc Drives (HDD) for Western Digital, Seagate, Toshiba and HGST this accomplishment has a significant impact on the opportunities for extending product life and value recovery in this niche segment. Mining less from earth and more from old devices Case: (published in GreenBiz in April 2019) “One very specific, pragmatic program to watch is an initiative Dell developed in collaboration with hard-drive and information storage equipment manufacturers Seagate and Teleplan, which manage repair and maintenance services for technology. Seagate and Teleplan together have created a process to recover rare earth-element magnets from old enterprise IT equipment that has reached its end-of-life — in the eyes of the original owners, at least. Starting in May 2019, those re-born magnets will be used in hard drives for the Dell Latitude 5000 notebook series. The goal is to produce about 25,000 drives initially, but Dell figures that its 8 take-back programs could quickly help Seagate manufacture roughly 300,000 of them on an annual basis. “ 8. Supply Chain Accelerate the transition to a circular economy The Circular Economy 100 network is a global platform bringing together leading companies, emerging innovators and regions to accelerate the transition to a circular economy. A circular economy is an economic model in which resources are kept in use for as long as possible, the maximum value is extracted from them whilst in use, and products and materials are recovered and regenerated at the end of life. Teleplan is an active member of the CE 100 network and is supporting a number of co-projects with other member companies. Teleplan joined CE 100 in 2016 and is still the only member company which operates in after-market services. “By 2050, the plastic in our oceans could weigh more than all the fish.” (Source: EllenMacArthur Foundation”). 40% of all plastic in Europe is only used once. This is what is referred to as single-use plastic (SUP), created by the throw away culture that many of us live in. In January 2019, China enforced a ban on the import of plastic waste for recycling. In March 2019 the European Parliament approved a law to ban the use of a wide-range of single-use plastic items, such as straws, cotton buds and cutlery, by 2021. We have started to eliminate SUP in our own supply chain and also in the supply chain of our European customer base by replacing plastic packaging material. This has resulted in a reduction of 30% of the total volume of plastic bags used. Case: Replacement of plastic shrink wrap for pallets by compostable wrap Teleplan has engaged with the Italian based company Fabbri Gruppo and concluded a successful trial in which traditional plastic shrink wrap for pallets was replaced by Fabbri’s compostable wrap for industrial purposes. The results were sufficiently promising for Fabbri to plan to start industrial production in the fourth quarter of 2019. The biopolymer used to make the film has been developed in collaboration with BASF. BASF is also a CE100 member and this is an excellent example of the results being achieved through collaboration, consultancy and advisory roles within the network. Going forward Teleplan will introduce compostable pallet wrap to an increasing customer base with a target of eliminating this particular single-use plastic from the supply chain. Shifting away from single-use plastics in our own operations Examples:  Single-use plastics have been eliminated in our gastronomy in Prague, Czech Republic  Multi waste containers are replacing general waste bins  Prague service center achieved zero-waste to landfill certification in 2018 Ethical supply chain 9 Teleplan expects its major local and regional suppliers to be aligned with and meet the social, environmental and ethical standards of the RBA Code of Conduct. This is the standard to which the company works and which has been adopted by many of its customers. Teleplan provides its customers with service solutions which range from simple repairs to highly sophisticated technological and electronic solutions. The units and components required to undertake these service solutions are purchased primarily from the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) or from a supplier designated by the OEM. In these instances, which are the bulk of Teleplan’s activity, Teleplan does not determine the supplier or source of the component. In other instances Teleplan purchases industry standard parts. Teleplan does not subcontract the manufacturing of any units or components. Whilst a material part of the supply chain is determined by the customer, Teleplan recognises the importance of its role in driving ethical practices in the supply chain. 9. Teleplan’s CSR journey and achievements 2013 CSR 2014 CSR 2014 2014 2014 EICC 2014 First 2015 2015 charter KPIs agreed Teleplan EcoVadis Labor and annual CSR EcoVadis Participate in defined and and reported Code of Bronze Ethics Lead report Silver rating CDP (Carbon published, Conduct rating Auditors published Disclosure EICC Code of translated trained and Project) Conduct into 7 qualified Supply Chain adopted languages 2015 2016 Join 2016 2016 UN 2016 Circular 2016 Circular 2016 Circular 2016 Signatory to Circular EcoVadis Global Economy Economy Economy Authorised UN Global Economy Gold rating Compact customer White Paper Product Treatment Compact 100 Network report experience published Passport Facility published center piloted (AATF) opened achieved at UK service center for the treatment of e-waste 2017 2017 CE 100 2017 Kicked 2017 2107 R2 2017 2017 UN 2017 94% of Ecovadis network 3D off process Teleplan electronics Matched Global Teleplan and Gold rating printing of of awarded recycling funding for Compact customerparts project eliminating Cisco standard employee report owned led by HP single use Sustainability achieved at charity fund published materials, plastics in Award four service raising parts and Teleplan’s centers launched equipment supply chain recycled ecosystem 2018 2018 2018 Prague 2018 EcoVadis Partnership Service Starting to Gold rating with charity center Zero eliminate Lessons for Waste to single use Life Landfill plastics in certified operations 10 10. Sustainability Performance Data Our targets and achievements Objective Achievement 2018 Target 2019 Target 2020 Innovation of circular services and solutions to extend product life Teleplan to be a leader  Advised and Develop and Develop and and driver in the supported key implement circular implement circular transformation to a customers on their solutions tailored to solutions tailored to circular economy, CE journey specific technologies specific providing circular  Contributed to a two and customer technologies and solutions phase academic requirements customer research with iNEMI requirements  Collaborated with leading data storage manufacturers and users on harvesting and re-using rare metal parts for new products Teleplan to demonstrate Approx. 50% of new Continue program to Establish a its commitment to eligible employees have equip new Teleplan program to equip circular economy been equipped with employees with all Teleplan through its own practices refurbished rather than refurbished devices employees with new mobile devices and replace outdated refurbished mobile phones of existing devices when a employees with replacement is refurbished mobile required phones sourced from one of Teleplan’s mobile centers of excellence Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Manage use of energy Energy consumption Work with the Carbon Achieve the 2019 efficiently decreased as a result of Trust to develop and carbon reduction local energy reduction implement smart, targets and third measurable and party verification programs verifiable carbon emissions reduction targets for the short term (2019) and midterm (5 years) Publish targets on the Teleplan website in H2 Reduce CO2 emissions Sourcing of alternative energy at various service centers in Europe and APAC Management of waste and recycling 11 Optimise the recovery, 80% of Teleplan and Standardize Zero Waste to reuse and recycling of customer-owned downstream waste Landfill program operational and materials, parts and processes at service implemented at customer waste equipment recycled center level as a key major service milestone in the centers development and implementation of the Zero Waste to Landfill program Engagement with the community Facilitate employee Undertaken a Continue to promote charity fund raising and successful partnership matched funding to volunteering with charity Lessons for encourage employee Life fund raising activities Fundraising activities enhanced by matched funding program Teleplan Service Centers ISO Certifications and Recycling Standards and Licenses Square ISO OHSAS Recycling Site meterage ISO 9001 14001 18001 standards/licenses Bydgoszcz 10,264    x Prague 13,200    x Zoetermeer 15,713    WEEELABEX Tallinn 916  x X x Genk 1,250 x x X x Mexicali 23,227    R2 Roseville 39,874    R2 Dallas 6,596    R2 Reynosa* 13,178    R2 Harrisburg 10,405  x X x Puerto Rico 300 (2018) X X X x Chile (2018) 1,100 x x X x Penang 13.200    R2 Hong Kong 3,172  x X x Singapore 1,552   X x Suzhou 5,880    x Jakarta 455  x X x *Reynosa achieved ISO14001, OHSAS 18001 and R2 in February 2019. 11. UN Global Compact Statement of Continued Support Period covered by COP: January to December 2018 Statement of continued support from François Lacombe, CEO at Teleplan 12 I am pleased to confirm that Teleplan reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders by publishing this communication on our website. The table below summarises our actions and provides a reference for further information. Francois Lacombe CEO Teleplan 8th November 2019 12. Index of UNGC Principles supported in financial year 2018 Principle Action Further information/reference Human Rights Principle 1 The Teleplan Code of Pages 4, 5 of this report Conduct is published on the Businesses should support Teleplan website and is eleplan Code of Conduct: and respect the protection integral to the new of internationally https://www.teleplan.com/manage/wpemployee onboarding content/uploads/1906_Teleplan_CoC.pdf proclaimed human rights; process. and Principle 2 Teleplan works to the Page 3 of this report social, environmental and make sure that they are not ethical standards of the complicit in human rights RBA Code of Conduct. This abuses. is the standard adopted by many of its customers. Teleplan expects its major suppliers to be aligned with and meet the RBA Code of Conduct. Labor Principle 3 The Teleplan Code of Page 5 of this report Conduct sets the company Businesses should uphold labor standards. It is the freedom of association translated into the seven and the effective principal languages used across Teleplan’s recognition of the right to operations. Awareness and collective bargaining; understanding of the Code and its importance to the Principle 4 business are promoted through a program of the elimination of all forms employee training and of forced and compulsory communications and form labour; an integral part of the 13 Principle 5 induction of new employees. the effective abolition of child labour; and Teleplan has an established whistle blowing Principle 6 policy and procedure. the elimination of Three members of the discrimination in respect of Quality Management team are trained and qualified as employment and RBA Labor and Ethics Lead occupation Auditors and lead a program of assessment and audit to the RBA Code. Environment Principle 7 Teleplan plays a vital role in Pages 8,9 and 10 of this report mitigating the Businesses should support environmental impacts of Teleplan website a precautionary approach electronic devices through to environmental the provision of repair and refurbishment services and challenges; the recovery, reuse, recycling or safe disposal of components and materials. Teleplan enables its customers to manage faulty, damaged and endof-life products thereby prolonging the life of the product, supporting circularity and reducing ewaste. Principle 8 Teleplan, is a member of Pages 8 “Case”and 9 of this report; the Circular Economy 100 undertake initiatives to (CE100) network. CE100 is Press Clipping: promote greater a global platform bringing environmental together leading https://www.greenbiz.com/article/dellscompanies, emerging discovery-closed-loops-require-openresponsibility; and innovators and regions to mind accelerate the transition to Principle 9 a circular economy. encourage the Teleplan has been involved development and diffusion in a number of relevant coof environmentally friendly projects together with technologies. leading electronic brands with industry breaking results being covered in the international media landscape and fully supporting circularity of rare earth materials and metals. Anti-Corruption 14 Principle 10 The Teleplan Code of Pages 3, 4, 5 of this report Conduct prescribes the Businesses should work legal and ethical principles Teleplan Code of Conduct: against corruption in all its that all Teleplan’s forms, including extortion employees, officers and https://www.teleplan.com/manage/wpdirectors must observe in content/uploads/1906_Teleplan_CoC.pdf and bribery. conducting Teleplan’s business. Teleplan has set the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct as the standard it works to and has appropriately trained people to lead the process of assessment and audit to the RBA Code. Teleplan participates in the social and environmental assessment survey operated by EcoVadis, the leading organization in this field. Since 2016 Teleplan is a responding Company to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and have completed, submitted and made publicly available on the CDP online platform Teleplan’s annual response to the Supply Chain Climate Change questionnaire and audit. 15
