Toyo Aluminium Toyal Group CSR Report Create the future Create the future Toyal Group Vision, Management Principles, and Course of Action Contents and Editorial Policy Message from the President Features Feature 1: Dialogue with Employees Creating a Vision of Sustainability for Our 100th Anniversary At Toyo Aluminium, CSR means following one principal rule, “create the future; I Feature 2: Dialogue with an Expert will create it” with an aim to helping build a sustainable society. Innovations Needed to Solve Problems Facing the World We are committed to giving back to society through our business operations as we work with an eye to forging a bright new future. Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group Visions and Strategies for the Future As we move closer toward celebrating our centennial in 2031, we are focusing on Management the actions we need to take that will see us through to the next fifty years to one hundred years. Five Material CSR Issues We will rebuild our management structure on a foundation of CSR to ensure that it can Material CSR Issue 1. Innovation for the future contribute to the development of a sustainable society. Material CSR Issue 2. Environmental protection Toyal Group Vision Material CSR Issue 3. Human resources diversity Think outside the box while putting our technological expertise to work for people and the planet. Material CSR Issue 4. Quality and safety Material CSR Issue 5. Cooperation with stakeholders Foundation for Sustainable Management Concept Corporate Governance [Think outside the box:] Messages from Employees: What We Can Do for a We think outside the box to create new products, such as TOYAL LOTUS®, an innovation inspired by the structure of a lotus Better Future leaf; CHROMASHINE®, that changes color depending on the angle it’s viewed from; and our black foil designed to deliver Independent Adviser’s Opinion all the flavor of stone-baked sweet potatoes without any of the fuss. Corporate Profile [Our technological expertise:] Business Overview Our technological expertise in rolling, roll-polishing, printing, laminating, Global Network grinding, molding, and more makes up our core competencies. [For people and the planet:] Editorial Policy We give our all for all our stakeholders and stay focused on protecting the environment in our operations across the globe. This report is intended for our stakeholders and describes policies, challenges, We are in the aluminium business but we go the extra mile to add value to aluminium and directions, and the current status of our CSR initiatives that fall in line with the goals leading to a sustainable society. To achieve the Sustainable Development beyond. Goals (SDGs), we use the SDG Compass to manage our CSR activities. This year’s report is all about “creating the future” and highlights the employee workshops we had on our vision for the future as well as the dialogue we had with We are in the aluminium business but we go the extra mile to add value to an external expert on innovation. aluminium and beyond. Just as it did last year, the end of the report features input from independent adviser, Masao Seki, a specially-appointed professor at Meiji University. His insights help us make continuous improvements to our CSR initiatives. Management Principles Course of Action ■ Reference guidelines “Create the future, I • SDG Compass: The guide for business action on the SDGs We, in the Toyal Group, will act as follows. • ISO 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) 1. Through sound business management, • GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Standards we will aim to provide products and services that always inspire customers, will create it” • Guidelines for Environmental Reporting, 2012 edition, Ministry of the Environment ■ Period reported prove useful for society, and are 1. Let’s aim for the top. Our activities from April 2017 to March 2018 as well as part of the 2018 action environmentally friendly. 2. Let’s win with our wisdom. policy and plan are reported. 3. Let’s deepen communication. ■ Scope 2. We will be committed to constant innovation and strive to provide products 4. Let’s learn from our mistakes. Toyo Aluminium K.K. and its affiliated companies 5. Let’s make more use of our ■ Issue date utilizing advanced technologies. sensitivities. September 2018 (previous edition published September 2017 and next edition 3. We will foster a vibrant and free-spirited 6. Let’s form alliances. slated for September 2019) ■ Cover design corporate culture and aim to be a group 7. Let’s further heighten awareness The image of children holding a globe represents the concept of “creating the of geniuses. about safety and security. future.” We will work toward achieving the SDGs so that our children can pave the 4. We will be aware of social responsibility way to a sustainable society and planet. and contribute to the society as a company with dignity. Message from the President We will make Toyo Aluminium Message from the President a company that will wow the world as we move toward our 100th anniversary. We would like to offer our sincere condolences With the help of all employees, we will develop a I believe that implementing the Ten Principles of the We will hire more women and non-Japanese workers and deepest prayers for the victims who lost their vision statement as we approach our 100th UN Global Compact is crucial to the sustainable than ever with an eye to making our company a lives due to the torrential rains this July 2018 and anniversary based on what we discussed there. development of our company and society as a whole. workplace where all employees are happy. Creating express our heartfelt sympathy to all those environments where a diverse group of employees affected by the disaster. can reach their full potential should change the way Please tell us about your plan for The Toyal Group donated to relief efforts aiding they think and help make innovations happen. What is your view on the SDGs and addressing the five material CSR It’s important that we become aware of what society disaster victims and the recovery of the affected issues you identified in 2017. how are you going to address them? needs and where we should be headed in the area. process of innovating, and the SDGs can be a useful We pray for the quick recovery of the disaster tool for doing that. At the same time we should not area. only discuss among ourselves but also be willing to Please tell us about your vision for A company must aim to deliver good financial Among the five material issues, we place listen to the opinions of people outside the company the future as we head toward Toyo performance and contribute to society through its special importance on “innovation for the future” so we can understand what people want from Toyo Aluminium’s 100th anniversary in business activities. The SDGs effectively help companies because it will directly help enhance our corporate Aluminium from an objective point of view before realize both of these purposes, and that’s why we are value. Being sensitive to changes in the society, such taking action. 2031. making group-wide efforts toward achieving them. as today’s accelerating shift to electric vehicles, Sustainability is the key to corporate survival. responding to them, and creating innovations will lead We must keep making innovations and work toward There are three keys that will open the way to However, since we’ve only just started working on the to new business opportunities. I’m also eager to work fulfilling society’s needs while staying on course. sustainable growth of a company: the ability to SDGs, I want to first get everyone across the group on with various partners on innovations, rather than That’s why our goal is to make Toyo Aluminium a quickly respond to any change, the ability to the same page as soon as possible. I want to educate working solo, and develop them into the fifth and sixth company that will wow the world. In fiscal 2018, we continually provide innovative and unique products our directors and employees so they’ll all gain an pillars of our business. I have set my sights on will operate in accordance with the goals and road that no other company has on the market, and the understanding about the SDGs. As a first step, all businesses related to issues facing Japan, such as map laid out in our medium-term management plan, ability to satisfy all stakeholders, including our directors now wear SDGs pins. We are also incorporating energy, public infrastructure, and living environments in with a vision for our 100th anniversary that employees. We are currently developing a vision the SDGs into our medium-term management plan. I’m a graying society, as well as electronic devices. encompasses the SDGs. statement ahead of our centennial. I want to make planning to ask the directors to talk about the business Recycling is another area we should work on. sure it reflects the values of our corporate group and strategies of the departments they are in charge of in Meeting environmental, quality, and safety standards is leverages our unique characteristics and strengths in relation to the SDGs inside and outside the company. For also a material responsibility and a requirement addressing as well as solving the problems facing the example, we are looking to set targets, such as the sales companies must fulfill, so we will do our part in that world. ratio of products that contribute to the SDGs that we’ll regard. When it comes to quality, in particular, we will Developing a vision is not just a job of company also incorporate into our centennial vision. step up efforts in fiscal 2018 as we learn a lesson from directors. At Toyo Aluminium, we value the bottom-up approach instead of just listening to what top We joined the United Nations Global Compact in April 2018. the problems that occurred in the aluminium industry and ensure that everyone across the group is aware Hiroshi Yamamoto, management has to say. In developing a vision for President and Representative that quality is the lifeblood of any company. I also the future, we encourage employees to imagine our Director, Toyo Aluminium K.K. believe that employees are the driving force that will company as they’d like to see it, so our CSR sustain our competitive edge over the long run. promotion team organized workshops for brainstorming a vision. Feature Workshop Overview [Dates] March 13 (Tuesday), April 12 (Thursday), and April 24 (Tuesday), 2018 (held 3 in total) 1 Dialogue with Employees [Venue] Toyo Aluminium K.K. Osaka Office [Attendees] (1) Toyal Group CSR promotion team • Toyo Aluminium K.K. Motoki Furueda, Foil Headquarters Yuichi Asano, Powder & Paste Headquarters Yutaka Ochi, Photovoltaic Headquarters Tetsuya Matsui, New Business Creation Department Yutaro Sawada, New Business Creation Feature 1: Dialogue with Employees Department Masakazu Uematsu, Advanced Technology Division Creating a Vision of Sustainability for Our 100th Anniversary Keiichi Watanabe, Engineering Center Tatsuaki Otsuka, Management Planning Department Hideki Yamamoto, General Affairs Department Mitsunori Sawai, Personnel Affairs Department • Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd. The Toyal Group is developing growth strategies as it moves toward its 100th anniversary in 2031. Nobuhisa Ogihara, CSR Promotion Office Growth strategies should consist of not only financial strategies but also strategies designed to Yoshikatsu Isaki, Package Sales Department • Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K. enhance our corporate value by, among other things, contributing to the SDGs, i.e. a vision of Satoshi Kawahara, General Affairs Department sustainability that will guide us to growth. At Toyo Aluminum, we are using both top-down and bottom-up approaches to developing a vision of sustainability, where employees actively engage (2) Toyo Aluminium K.K. CSR Promotion Office staff in discussions. We are aiming to be an innovative and sustainable organization that continually Administrative office: Toyo Aluminium K.K. creates value for society. CSR Promotion Office Members of the CSR promotion team and the CSR In the first and second workshops, the participants Contribution to Ways to contribute Promotion Office, made up of employees from different departments and companies across the were divided into three discussions groups, and in the third workshop everyone took part in one big First workshop SDGs • Renewable energy, storage batteries group, held discussions to develop a sustainability round-table discussion. • Global power generation business <Discussion Theme> vision statement. Launched in December 2016, the In addition to discussions by the CSR promotion CSR promotion team is comprised of 13 members, team, individual employees will also get a chance to How the Toyal Group can • Recycling, circular business model including mid-level executives from Toyo Aluminium’s review the proposed sustainability vision statement business and administrative divisions, Toyo for themselves on an ongoing basis. After the contribute to each SDG Contributing Aluminium Ekco Products, and Toyo Tokai Aluminium management team reviews and approves a through innovation to the SDGs • Paint/energy-related innovations (that leverage existing technologies) Hanbai who are the next generation of leaders. summary of the discussions, we will finalize a through The team organized three workshops in March and sustainability vision statement for the Toyal Group Participants were divided into three groups, in innovations • More durable, maintenance-free April 2018. that will guide us as we work toward achieving our which they discussed how the Toyal Group could infrastructure financial targets and contribute to the SDGs. help achieve the SDGs, and then put their ideas First workshop together. The table on the right is a summary of • Agricultural and food storage what was discussed in the workshop. How the Toyal Group can help achieve the SDGs Third workshop Specifically, all participants agreed that it’s more solutions A vision of sustainability for important that we contribute to the SDGs through Contributing • Human resources diversity the 100th anniversary innovation in products and technologies that are to the SDGs Second workshop through designed to help solve energy and climate business Our innate strengths and value creation model change problems, enhance the safety and processes • Responsible production and consumption efficiency of infrastructure, and facilitate effective use of resources as well as by enhancing the business processes that keep us ahead of the competition. Second workshop Third workshop <Discussion Theme> <Discussion Theme> What are the Toyal Group’s innate What are the contents and key Toyo Aluminium Sustainability Vision (Draft) strengths? What should the Toyal Group words/phrases that should be included in do in order to continually create value the sustainability vision statement based TOYAL 2031 Toward Our 100th Anniversary over the long run? on what has been discussed so far? Feature After looking at the Toyal Group’s innate strengths and values embedded in its DNA, participants were divided into three groups and discussed business models for The CSR promotion team conducted a round-table discussion to draft a sustainability vision statement based on the outcome of the first and second ALUMINIUM with + creating value on a long-term and sustainable basis as workshops. Participants shared ideas with a focus on well as contributing to achieving the SDGs through these business models while looking back over the past and into the future before putting all their ideas together. not only making it something that will help in achieving the Toyal Group’s financial targets and the SDGs but also on making it a statement that embodies the values Creating a Sustainable Future 1 Dialogue with Employees Participants agreed that the business models that the of the group and is easy for everyone to understand. group had used so far were designed to respond to a wide range of customer needs with an R&D capability that enhanced value through a focus on aluminium processing technologies. Proposed ideas for the future included exploring further possibilities for aluminium and using the technologies the group has developed for non-aluminium applications. Participants agreed that Vision they would contribute to the SDGs through such new business models. Values and strengths • Hard working, technology oriented • Encourage taking on challenges We will explore the far edges of the • Value people • Aluminium-related basic R&D capability, • Engage employees in discussions horizon to find new possibilities for processing technologies • Excellent customer base, ability to aluminium as we continue coming cultivate a new customer base • Top market share, unparalleled quality up with innovations that enrich and performance Innovations the Toyal Group aims to make as well as people’s lives. types of environmental and personnel initiatives to be implemented, which were discussed and decided on at Business models the workshop, are as shown in the page on the right. Following the workshop, one participant said, “It was a [Past] great opportunity to talk about the future of our • Creating value through a cycle of developing products, technologies, and customer bases while responding to a company with people from other departments. The We will leverage the features and advantages of wide range of customer needs with aluminum processing workshop enabled me to look at my responsibilities in materials to promote clean energy. technologies light of the SDGs.” Another commented, “The SDGs [Future] Develop have helped all departments to align the direction in • Explore further possibilities for aluminium which we are headed and I think everybody is now on • Use technologies built on aluminium for non-aluminium the same page.” applications • Expand customer bases, markets for various applications, operating areas, and value chain We will cut CO2 emissions from our operations by 30%. Value creation = Contribution to the SDGs • Expanding the value chain for distributed renewable energy systems • Expanding operations in the medical field by incorporating sensors into drug packaging materials, making a full-scale entry into the medical equipment market, etc. We will work with various stakeholders to build a • Materials that remove toxic substances recycling system for the entire product life cycle. • Leveraging aluminium functions to The CSR promotion team drafted this sustainability contribute to the environment, safety, and infrastructure vision statement, and individual employees will review it for themselves on an ongoing basis. After putting all the • Making the environmental impact of ideas together, we will finalize a sustainability vision aluminium zero statement for the Toyal Group that will guide us as we We will promote smart factories and smart offices work to achieve our financial targets and contribute to where people from diverse backgrounds can work the SDGs. together and reach their full potential. • Packaging materials for long-term storage of agricultural products Current customer New customer experience experience [Mizukami] Now how will the SDGs lead to innovation? Innovation is a shift from A to B Feature [Nishiguchi] I just talked about shifting from A to B, and most people seem to focus on finding B during the process of innovation. In fact, the SDGs are an agreement about B among 193 countries around the world. In other words, they are the ultimate goal of 2 innovation. Once you know what B is, all you need to Dialogue with an Expert do is to take steps that will make the shift from A to B. The SDGs are made up of 17 goals plus their 169 targets. Companies must develop businesses that will generate a profit based on these targets and create a mechanism that will let the money flow into these businesses. [Mizukami] The SDGs are quickly garnering interest in Japan, just as they are in other countries. What do you think companies should be doing? [Nishiguchi] While many companies are actively addressing the SDGs, there are some that don’t get it Feature 2: Dialogue with an Expert right. They typically use the language of the SDGs in explaining their business operations. The SDGs are goals, and you need business activities that will get Innovations Needed to Solve Problems Facing the World you there. If you get this wrong, the SDGs will end up being just a PR tool. The 17 SDGs are well planned goals, agreed upon by 193 countries, encompassing the myriad of issues facing us across the globe. It would be hard not to find a business that doesn’t have anything to do with any of them. We invited Hiro Nishiguchi, executive managing director of Japan Innovation Network, to discuss Shifting from the current innovation at the Toyal Group in light of the SDGs. Participants engaged in lively discussions on the kinds of innovations the group should pursue and how it can accelerate innovation with the customer experience (= A) to a [Ashitaka] Every R&D theme of ours, including those implementation of the SDGs. new customer experience (=B) we’ve worked on in the past, is related to one of the is what innovation is all about. 17 goals. The innovations we made so far have been Workshop built on what we have done in the past. If we want to Overview incorporate the SDGs into new innovations, how [Mizukami] Toyo Aluminium identified “innovation for should we go about it specifically? [Date] May 21 (Monday), 2018 [Venue] Toyo Aluminium K.K. Osaka Office the future” as one of its material issues. Making innovation happen doesn’t seem like an easy task. Is [Attendees] there some formula for success? Let me ask Mr. Nishiguchi first. [Nishiguchi] There are 169 targets under the 17 Expert Toyo Aluminium K.K. Facilitator goals. If you break them down even further, you will find areas where you can contribute to respectively in [Nishiguchi] It all boils down to making a dramatic the public, private, and nonprofit sectors. Just pick shift in customer experience. It’s about how you shift one of these areas as “B” in the shift from A to B. the current customer experience (=A) to a new That’s a shift Toyo Aluminium should be able to make. customer experience (=B). Innovation creates value Toyo Aluminium has made numerous shifts happen once you put an idea into practice. I believe and made great contributions to the world through Japanese companies are among the best in the aluminium. It’s important that you first go back to the world when it comes to putting an idea into practice. very reason for your being and think about what you Hiro Nishiguchi, Executive Yoshihiro Tomioka, Zenya Ashitaka, Masahiro Yoshida, Takehiko Mizukami, What’s important is the ability to generate ideas. This can do and who you should target. It’s best if you Managing Director, Japan Innovation Director and Managing Managing Executive Officer in Charge of the Advanced Managing Executive Officer in Chief CSV Officer, Cre-en Inc. includes identifying issues, creating a concept, and discuss that with people from all different Network Executive Officer in Charge of Charge of the CSR Promoting New Business Creation Dept. Technology Division Dept. developing a business model. To generate ideas you departments, including young employees. need to go back and forth through these steps in a process of trial and error, and that’s the formula for success. Discussions are a must to keeping their morale up. Backcasting, a key to innovation Look for the shift you want to make and [Tomioka] It would be ideal to use both backcasting and forecasting and consciously link the innovations accelerate innovation we are working on to the SDGs. I believe the important thing to do is to find the kind of shift Toyo Aluminium can and wants to make. Look at the areas you want to contribute to. It’s also important that you do that with a focus on both your [Yoshida] I see. To make a shift from A to B, we should Feature company and the market. If you are currently working on a number of R&D discuss “B” based on the SDGs and identify what to [Nishiguchi] I’d like to emphasize that there is probably projects, see if the shift you are going to make is consistent with market needs (i.e. SDG targets). You should use your resources for the projects target. Our employees tend to focus on our current no issue a company can solve alone. The trick is to that focus on areas where there are needs. During our dialogue I said that capability, which is “A,” and building on it. Our New look for issues that cannot be solved without Toyo the SDGs represent the kinds of shifts everyone agreed that they want. Business Creation Department and the Advanced Aluminium. You should focus on making Toyo Expert’s Continue discussing which one you are going to contribute to. I also learned through our dialogue that your company had already made a Technologies Headquarters, on the other hand, are Aluminium indispensable. That’s how Toyo Aluminium comment number of innovations. You should be able to accelerate innovation by two organizations that are really able to focus on “B.” can be part of the big solution. leveraging your communication skills and overseas network. 2 Dialogue with an Expert [Nishiguchi] That’s the same as the concept of backcasting. You start with setting a goal and then Ability to identify real needs and Hiro Nishiguchi, Executive Managing work backwards to figure out how you can reach it. communicate essential value Director, Japan Innovation Network [Tomioka] The 169 targets of the SDGs seem very extensive. Even if you break them down, they still cover a vast area. We must look at how Toyo Aluminium can play a role in that area. [Ashitaka] I believe that highlighting our technologies is also important. I’m afraid that we always hold back and end up killing opportunities. [Nishiguchi] Exactly. After breaking them down into Looking at our company’s reason for being in the context [Nishiguchi] Well, you should first turn your attention to smaller areas, you’ll need to convert them into of achieving the SDGs the world, collect information about who is trying to solve corporate projects. Countries across the globe are issues and what those issues are, and then analyze that I’ve always believed that a company is a living entity and must have a reason for being working to achieve the 17 SDGs and their 169 information. There are a number of platforms out there. in order to survive. After participating in today’s dialogue, I realized that a company’s targets. That’s a fact, and reason for being lies in its ability to contribute to the SDGs and their targets. I will start with carefully thinking about the areas where we can and want to contribute to. The there is no need discussing dialogue also inspired me to work on enhancing our ability to get our message across, why they are important. throughout the world. This is a big plus for using the Yoshihiro Tomioka, Director and Managing Executive Officer in Charge of the SDGs. [Tomioka] If I look at it the New Business Creation Dept. other way around, you could [Ashitaka] I like the idea of let the public know the issues using the backcasting you want to solve via such approach to innovation, i.e. platforms and find people Identifying specific SDG targets and carrying on in-depth setting a goal first and working backwards to reach who would work with you on discussions with colleagues that goal. We seem to be focusing on our current solving them. Thank you for sharing your valuable insights with us during the dialogue. We are initiatives and doing nothing more than linking them Post-dialogue currently placing the biggest emphasis on energy, which falls under Goal 7 of the SDGs. I will work to identify specific targets as I continue further discussions with to the SDGs. [Mizukami] You could effectively communicate that comments colleagues to explore what Toyo Aluminium can and wants to do ahead of 2030. point using the common language that is the SDGs. For example, you can sell your aluminium Zenya Ashitaka, Managing Executive Officer in Charge of the Advanced [Mizukami] Linking your current initiatives with the processing technologies, which are your forte, by Technology Division SDGs is totally okay. It’s important that you aim for a linking them to the SDGs. You could use the goal and start new business initiatives. technology behind the TOYAL LOTUS®, which is currently used for yogurt container lids, for other applications that would address the food waste [Ashitaka] I see. When we take this approach, I issue. Working together to contribute to the SDGs believe that discussing it with other employees will be The dialogue provided me with a number of good tips that will help us move ahead with crucial. I will take time to carry on in-depth innovation. Being in charge of the CSR Promotion Office, I’m tasked with the responsibility of implementing initiatives aimed at achieving the SDGs. As I participated discussions to grasp the language used and identify [Yoshida] Enhancing our communication capability, in the dialogue, it hit home with me that the New Business Creation Department and the where we are headed and what we can do. such as communicating the right information via the Advanced Technologies Headquarters are also responsible for implementing initiatives aimed at achieving the SDGs. I will work closely with these departments to contribute to right channel, is one of the challenges we should the SDGs. address. [Nishiguchi] That’s exactly the part of the innovation Masahiro Yoshida, Managing Executive Officer in Charge of CSR Promoting [Nishiguchi] There seems to be things that can be Dept. process where you go back and forth through the solved through communication. You must steps, starting with identifying issues. Innovation is communicate the value your technologies will not possible unless employees are willing. Their faith deliver to your customers from their perspective. and enthusiasm are vital. Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group Visions and Strategies for the Future Management Sustainable Management of the Toyal The Toyal Group is moving ahead with CSR initiatives in accordance with the basic CSR policy and CSR CSR Management based on the SDG Compass charter it has developed in light of its Management Principles and Course of Action. We support the At the Toyal Group, we use the SDG Compass to The team is made up of the best and brightest from SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) with an manage our CSR initiatives with an eye to aligning each department, who is tasked with promoting CSR Toyo Group understanding of their background and are working to our business operations and CSR initiatives with the initiatives by sharing information on them with their SDGs as well as to measure and monitor our department. achieve them. We are helping build a sustainable society through our corporate activities while working Aluminium contribution to achieving the SDGs. In fiscal 2017, we took all five SDG Compass steps, to enhance our corporate value. The CSR Promotion Office serves an administrative i.e. understanding the SDGs, defining priorities, function for implementing CSR initiatives under the setting goals, integrating, and reporting & supervision of a managing executive officer in charge. communicating. We have been steadily taking these Basic CSR Policy On top of that, a CSR promotion team has been steps since fiscal 2016 and will continue to move Visions and Strategies for the Future/Management organized to serve a cross-sectoral function for the forward. We in the Toyal Group aim to build a corporate culture that allows us to continuously improve our sound business activities. To Toyal Group. Designed to help employees develop a that end, we will develop management that can contribute to society by (i) developing corporate activities that are compliant with social norms and corporate ethics, (ii) providing product quality that allows customers to use our products with peace of sense of ownership for CSR initiatives, the CSR mind, (iii) conducting business activities in harmony with the environment, and (iv) conducting activities that place the utmost promotion team plays a central role in our CSR priority on occupational health and safety in the workplace. initiatives. Participation in the UN Global Compact SDG Compass The Toyal Group signed the UN Global Compact and We will renew our awareness about human rights, labor, the Step 01 environment, and anti-corruption while ensuring that every The SDG Compass is a guide that presents Understanding was registered as a participant on April 10, 2018. the SDGs employee recognizes their social responsibility and fulfills our five steps for companies to maximize their In accordance with the Ten Principles of the UN contribution to the SDGs as shown in the social responsibility as an upstanding corporate citizen. Global Compact covering the areas of human rights, diagram on the right. labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, we, as a The beginning of the SDG Compass notes, global company, actively promote responsible “The SDG Compass explains how the SDGs Step 02 Step 03 management and CSR initiatives across our We report actions taken to implement the Ten affect your business – offering you the tools Defining Setting goals Principles of the UN Global Compact as well as and knowledge to put sustainability at the priorities corporate group with an aim of helping build a our commitment to various UN goals through our Communication on Progress. heart of your strategy.” The Toyal Group sees sustainable society. the importance of this tool and is dedicated to In fiscal 2018, we will conduct internal workshops on We welcome your feedback on its contents. making the best use of it in its CSR initiatives. the Ten Principles to promote a better understanding Communication on of them. Progress Step 05 Step 04 Reporting & Integrating communicating SDGs In September 2015, all UN members (193 countries) adopted Agenda 2030 with a view to eliminating extreme poverty, inequality, and injustice while protecting the globe over the next 15 years with an eye to forging a brighter future. Agenda 2030 is a set of goals known as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 targets on the issues Step 01 covered but yet to be fully addressed by the Millennium Development Goals as well as worsening environmental Understanding the SDGs problems and other issues discussed at Rio+20. The SDGs challenge countries across the globe to create a world where In fiscal 2017, we conducted an SDG workshop for This gives employees an opportunity to see how their no one is left behind. managers, following the SDG workshop we held for daily operations and actions contribute to the SDGs. directors and department heads the previous year. In fiscal 2018, we are planning to organize an SDG We also use quarterly internal newsletters distributed workshop designed to increase employees’ to all employees to familiarize them with the SDGs. awareness and understanding of the SDGs. Source: Global Compact Network Japan website http://www.ungcjn.org/sdgs/index.html The section of the newsletter entitled “Our CSR Initiatives” features articles contributed by employees about their CSR initiatives, which are linked to the SDGs. Sustainable Management of the Toyal Group Step 02 Step 03 Step 04 Defining priorities Setting goals Integrating Sustainable Management of the Toyal We identified material CSR issues for the Toyal Toyal Group’s material CSR issues We selected issues that correspond to the five Since fiscal 2016, the Toyal Group has been taking an Group in fiscal 2017 according to the following three material CSR issues from the medium-term offensive approach to CSR initiatives based on the steps. First, we asked experts representing our management plan running from 2018 through 2020. concept of CSV.* We linked the Toyal Group’s material Innovation for Group stakeholders what they expect from the Toyal Group the future Using the outside-in approach* and with the SDGs CSR issues with contributing to the SDGs and aligned in helping solve issues facing the world. The CSR in mind, we selected the areas where we can the CSR action plan shown below with our promotion team then identified material issues contribute to the SDGs. This helped us to see that a medium-term management plan. In order to further facing our corporate group and analyzed their Environmental Human resources Quality and large part of what we do contributes to the SDGs. ensure that CSR initiatives are integrated into our materiality in light of the findings from the interviews protection diversity safety We ensure that individual employees are aware of business operations, we incorporate them into our with the management team. Finally, material issues that as we work further to help achieve the SDGs. business strategy while making it clear why we work were identified after they were analyzed on the Some of these areas are shown in the CSR action on these initiatives as business. The CSR promotion Management Cooperation with basis of stakeholders’ expectations as well as stakeholders plan below. team discusses the significance of CSR activities on materiality assessed from our own viewpoint. The *Outside-in approach: Studying needs from a global perspective with a an ongoing basis with an eye to making them focus on external factors five CSR issues shown on the right were found to be voluntary actions across all departments. We are material. Governance is at the heart of addressing making company-wide efforts to contribute to the Governance these material issues. SDGs. *CSV stands for Creating Shared Value. It’s about creating economic value in a way that also creates value for society by addressing its challenges, Toyal Group’s CSR Action Plan and by doing so creating value for both the society and the Toyal Group to enhance its corporate value. Material CSR Issue Major initiatives Description FY 2017 results FY 2018 goals Gained an understanding of Build the fifth pillar of the Promote R&D with the Conduct R&D with the SDGs in mind the SDGs and identified SDGs in mind Commitment by the Director in Charge Innovation for the business issues of CSR future Sell environmentally Sell environmentally friendly products such as the Harnessing the Collective Knowledge HaneTM modules, aluminium foil for lithium-ion 95% of previous year’s sales 160% of previous year’s sales friendly products and Efforts of All Employees to Create batteries, and water-based paint a Sustainable Future Implement and monitor Eliminate serious Develop and implement a plan in each Number of serious activities focused on environmental incidents business location and monitor progress environmental incidents: 0 effectiveness Improve per-unit energy Per-unit energy consumption: Reduce per-unit energy consumption by Invest in energy-saving equipment and work Environmental consumption on making improvements Down 5% 1% Reduce energy consumption by 2.5% Reduce energy consumption Energy consumption: Down 1.8% protection Implement initiatives aimed at reducing industrial Reduce industrial waste Per-unit industrial waste: Up Reduce per-unit industrial Masahiro Yoshida, waste, sort waste and raise awareness for sorting 3% waste by 2% Managing Executive Officer in Charge waste of the CSR Promoting Dept. Provide flexible work Introduce a flextime program Considered the program Implement the program on This year marks the third year since we started Human resources arrangements a trial basis addressing the SDGs as part of our offensive diversity Ratio of recent female Ratio of recent female college CSR strategy. We started off small but are steadily moving Empower women Hire recent female college graduates for college graduates hired for graduates hired for career-track positions ahead toward 2030, the target year of the SDGs, career-track positions: 23% career-track positions: 30% and 2031, our 100th anniversary. Implement and monitor The SDG-aligned initiatives help us envision an Eliminate serious quality Develop and implement a plan in each Number of serious quality ideal future and point to the goals and direction activities focused on incidents business location and monitor progress incidents: 0 all employees should be headed for. effectiveness One of our material CSR issues we identified in Eliminate lost time accidents, Loss time accidents: 0, Implement and monitor light of the SDGs is “Innovation for the future.” As Develop and implement a plan in each Quality and safety non-lost time accidents, and business location and monitor progress Non-loss time accidents: activities focused on we move toward our 100th anniversary, fire accidents 10, Fire accidents: 6 effectiveness innovation is vital. Without innovation there is no growth or future. To make innovation happen, all Start implementing a system of us at the Toyal Group are aiming to be “a Establish a crisis Build a business continuity management (BCM) Made arrangements for group-wide after building a system at group of geniuses” who must take on new management system system building a system selected business locations challenges. We will harness the collective knowledge and Conduct cleanup activities in areas near each Implement social action efforts of all employees to build a sustainable Co-exist with local communities Conducted river cleanups future. business location programs Cooperation with stakeholders Exchanged information Hold dialogues (with experts, Work with other stakeholders Hold dialogues with stakeholders with NPOs NPOs, etc.) Five Material CSR Issues Material CSR Issue Contribution to SDGs SDG targets* the Toyal Group can Five Material CSR Issues The Toyal Group’s approach contribute to 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature We will work with medical institutions, pharmaceutical companies, etc. to mortality from non-communicable diseases identify the real needs of healthcare professionals and leverage our unique through prevention and treatment and promote technologies to make product innovation happen. We will help make quality mental health and well-being health services available. Innovation for the future 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of We contribute to this target through the provision of materials for solar cells, electric car batteries, etc. We will explore possible ways to contribute to this renewable energy in the global energy mix target via our technologies as well as by expanding the scope of sales for these products. 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by We will create innovations with technologies designed to prevent the paying special attention to air quality and degradation of materials, enhance strength, and prolong the life of structures. municipal and other waste management We believe that our most important social responsibilities are to provide new Innovation for future A recycling technology for thin aluminium foil has still not been established products and services that meet society’s needs, help solve issues facing the world despite advancements in aluminium recycling. As a manufacturer of aluminium in order to pave the way to a sustainable society, and create economic value. In the 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste foil, we’re dedicated to the effective use of limited resources. Realizing a generation through prevention, reduction, recycling system for disposable aluminium containers, for instance, is a major market, where technological advancements are rapidly heating up the competition, recycling and reuse challenge, and we are looking to make innovation happen in this area. first movers get the lion’s share. Working against this backdrop, we will think Why is it outside the box and push the envelope in our aluminium-based business as we important? move ahead at full speed to build a brighter future and create value. *Targets refer to the 169 targets associated with the 17 SDGs. Approach Examples The Toyal Group moves ahead with the R&D Reducing Hazardous VOCs via Waterproof-breathable and commercialization of products by Promoting Widespread Use Sheets Designed to Widespread Use of Water-based paints harnessing its core technologies at its of Electric Cars Extend the Life of Houses Advanced Technologies Headquarters and New Business Creation Department in response to Widespread use of electric cars whose sales are growing Equipped with a proprietary surface treatment technology Waterproof-breathable sheets are commonly used inside current and potential issues facing society as worldwide is one example of an environmental solution. that enables use of aluminium pigments in water-based the exterior walls of houses as thermal insulation and well as changes in the market environment. We Toyo Aluminium supplies aluminium foil and other paints, Toyo Aluminium works to promote the applicable waterproofing. Conventional waterproof-breathable divided target markets into three types, i.e. products to automobile parts manufacturers (primarily in pigment to the widespread use of water-based paints. It sheets, often employing vapor-deposited aluminium films existing, new, and next-generation markets, and China) for cladding, positive electrodes, and condensers would help to reduce VOCs.* While there are many new which readily absorb heat and possess low moisture invest R&D resources in each category. We used in electric car batteries. Our high quality aluminium color pigments that are not applicable to water-based permeability, pose a problem. Employing the aluminium actively promote open innovation, partnering foils offer excellent formability and can be processed into paints, our surface treatment technology can improve them technologies we have built up over the years, Toyo with startups, universities, research institutions, various shapes. to apply to water-based paint. Aluminium developed a waterproof-breathable sheet etc. across the globe, to tackle challenges we We will expand the scope of sales to cover the entire In fiscal 2017, VIAVI Solutions Inc., a US-based special using porous aluminium foil.* The newly developed sheet cannot overcome alone. globe with an eye to playing a major part in reducing CO2 pigment manufacturer, used our surface treatment features higher infrared reflectance, moisture Taking the Creating Shared Value (CSV) emissions through the widespread use of electric cars. technology to successfully enhance the durability of its permeability, and durability than conventional sheets. It approach, we focus on R&D projects that will high chroma blue pigment and commercialize it. makes living environments cool in the summer and warm Cumulative Electric Car Sales Volume and Penetration Rate create value for both society and the Toyal in the winter while extending the life of houses. Forecast by Country* *VOCs refers to volatile *A porous aluminium foil is a type of aluminium foil with numerous fine Group while staying in close touch with (Millions of units) Average annual growth rate through-holes. organic compounds, stakeholders. We will think outside the box and USA China Japan (2015–2023) which are often found in Insulation Sunlight Europe Other Penetration rate Other paints and inks. Since Interior push the envelope of our aluminium-based Europe they contribute to the Heat shield Rain business to lead the world. Japan formation of smog, China regulations are imposed Waterproof in countries around the Interior wall Wind world. A shift to Waterproof-brea USA water-based paints for thable sheet Windproof automotive and other Exterior Moisture Breathable (Year) applications is needed in order to reduce VOCs. Plywood Exterior wall *Source: Ikeda, K., Zhu, Y., & Kimura, Y. (2017). Trend watcher: Denki jidosha no shijo kankyo to shorai no tenbo [Outlook for the electric car market]. Joho Sensor, July, Ernst VIAVI Solutions’ new pigment (left) and conventional pigment Example of a wooden house wall (conceptual drawing) & Young Transaction Advisory Services Co., Ltd. (right) Five Material CSR Issues Material CSR Issue Contribution to SDGs Five Material CSR Issues SDG targets the Toyal Group The Toyal Group’s approach can contribute to 7.2 By 2030, increase We promote the widespread use of renewable energy by substantially the share of supplying parts and materials for solar cells and solar renewable energy in the global power systems. For example, we are working to Environmental protection energy mix enhance the efficiency of solar panels, reduce power generation costs, and make solar panels more installable. We also work to improve the energy 7.3 By 2030, double the global efficiency of products at every step from production to rate of improvement in energy utilization with an aim to reduce greenhouse gas efficiency emissions. Environmental protection 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and We are taking various measures aimed at building a efficient use of natural resources circular economy, such as switching productions processes to those that leave a smaller environmental We process aluminium made from the mineral bauxite to produce materials for 12.5 By 2030, substantially footprint as well as reducing and recycling waste. In reduce waste generation through fiscal 2017 we added molded pulp to our lineup as part various products. That takes huge amounts of natural resources, energy, and of our product-based environmental initiative. prevention, reduction, recycling chemicals in operations that we realize impact the environment. That’s why we and reuse Why is it ensure that our operations are in harmony with the global environment. important? Approach Examples Our approach to protecting the environment has two Aiming to Take Renewable Energy to sides, one is providing environmentally friendly Development of Molded Pulp Containers Energy-saving Initiatives based on products and the other is reducing our New Heights environmental footprint in our business operations. HaneTM Lightweight Solar Cell Module Capital Investment We focus on developing parts and materials for solar Conventional solar panels may be impossible to install in The EU announced the European strategy for plastics in Recognizing the huge environmental impact of the cells and low VOC water-based coatings, as well as some places due to their size and weight. Toyo 2018, with the objective of ensuring that by 2030 all manufacturing equipment it uses in aluminium manufacturing and selling high performance foils for Aluminium’s HaneTM lightweight solar panel modules plastic packaging placed on the EU market is reusable or production, the Toyal Group actively invests in condensers, all with an eye to supplying were designed to bring solar power systems where easily recycled. We’re also witnessing a growing number equipment with excellent environmental efficiency in a environmentally friendly components that will they’ve never been before. They have huge potential for of countries imposing regulations related to plastic well-planned manner in order to contribute to the minimize the environmental impact of the end-use use in distributed power generation as well as plates, utensils, and bags. These trends are expected to greenhouse gas reduction targets set under the Paris product. In an effort to reduce the environmental Agreement. emergency power supply and help spread renewable drive a quick shift from plastic food trays used in footprint of our business operations, we work to cut energy. supermarkets, etc. to paper trays in the West and In fiscal 2017, its Gunma Works installed a new VOC energy consumption throughout all production elsewhere. treatment system to replace three older systems. The processes, minimize waste, and promote reusing We have been promoting the use of these modules overhaul resulted in a 60% reduction in natural gas and recycling. Placing a special emphasis on in-house, and in fiscal 2017 the panels were installed on Working against this backdrop, Toyo Aluminium Ekco consumption (950 t-CO2) and a 17% reduction in power curbing global warming, we are currently developing a parking lot carport at our Yao Works where they power Products Co., Ltd. developed molded pulp*1 containers in consumption (40 t-CO2). a long-term plan to significantly cut our carbon street lights. fiscal 2017 to add to its existing lines of paper containers, emissions by 2030, the target year of the Paris such as EC-Ware*2 and paper cups. Since pulp can be Agreement and the SDGs, and will double our molded into any desired shape, molded pulp containers efforts going forward. can meet a wide variety of needs for use as food trays. Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products continues to focus on the In addition to all that, 15 of our business locations, manufacture and sales of paper containers that will including our production sites, have been ISO 14001 replace plastic containers with an aim to protecting the certified. We will maintain an effective environmental global environment. management system to prevent environmental incidents from occurring and ensure compliance with *1. Molded pulp: Molded paper products made from pulp, which is relevant laws and regulations while working to dissolved in water, made into paper over a wire mesh, and dried minimize our environmental footprint in order to *2. EC-Ware: Press-molded paper trays with rolled rims (EC stands for “edge curl”) keep our operations sustainable and in harmony Carport equipped with HaneTM modules (left) and LED street lights (right) powered VOC treatment system at the Gunma Works with the global environment. by the modules at the Yao Works Five Material CSR Issues Material CSR Issue Contribution to SDGs Five Material CSR Issues SDG targets the Toyal Group can contribute to The Toyal Group’s approach We have built a work environment where all employees can reach their full potential regardless of gender by enhancing the child care leave program and shortened work hour program for employees with child 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective Human resources care responsibilities, as well as implementing other measures to participation and equal opportunities for address Japan’s declining working-age population due to the falling leadership at all levels of birth rate and graying of society. We also provide female employees decision-making in political, economic diversity with career support by assigning them to career-track positions. These and public life initiatives will enable us to ensure full and effective participation of women in the workforce and equal leadership opportunities throughout the Toyal Group. 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic As our operations quickly expand across the globe, we are Human resources diversity productivity through diversification, actively hiring workers from overseas, including foreign nationals, technological upgrading and innovation, and equipping employees with skills needed to work in the global including through a focus on high-value arena through various training programs, including long-term and added and labour-intensive sectors short-term study abroad programs. These initiatives will all contribute to achieving higher levels of economic productivity. Three key phrases represent the current status of the business environment in 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive We are also focusing on reducing total working hours per year by employment and decent work for all reducing meetings, making them more efficient, and boosting Japan, i.e. globalization, declining working-age population, and diversifying women and men, including for young communication through the use of a new IT system as part of our personal values. work reform initiatives. These initiatives will contribute to ensuring people and persons with disabilities, and In working against this backdrop, we are forging a work environment that puts a equal pay for work of equal value productive employment and decent jobs. Why is it premium on job satisfaction, personal growth, and support for various work styles important? that will contribute to sustainable business practices and a sustainable society. Approach Examples We are a company that values people, and that’s Equipping Employees with Empowering Women in the Workplace Work Style Reform why we value employee diversity as well as individual personalities with an aim to foster human Global Skills resources* diversity. Toyo Aluminium has sent a number of its employees on The Toyal Group views empowering women in the We are implementing various measures to reduce As our operations quickly expand across the globe, overseas assignments. As we focus on equipping workplace as one of its top management issues. working hours as part of our work style reform initiative. we are actively hiring workers from overseas, employees with global skills group-wide, Toyo Aluminium Toyo Aluminium placed emphasis on hiring women in its In fiscal 2017, we launched a cross-sectoral meeting including foreign nationals, and equipping Ekco Products Co., Ltd. (TEP) introduced a study abroad 2017 recruiting drive, and as a result assigned about reform project to review meeting structures and employees with skills needed to work in the global program in fiscal 2017. The program provides employees 20% of new female employees who joined the company significantly reduced the number of meetings (by arena through various training programs, including with an opportunity to study in Singapore, one of our in April 2018 to career-track positions. Toyo Tokai approximately 18%). We also provide employees with long-term and short-term study abroad programs. We have built a work environment where all major overseas markets. In fiscal 2017, two employees Aluminium Hanbai K.K. introduced a job shift program in facilitation training to make meetings efficient. In addition employees can reach their full potential regardless participated in this program that helps employees 2017 and, thanks to the program, appointed a female to that, we introduced a chat tool to replace email. These of gender by enhancing the child care leave develop global skills as they learn the language spoken employee to a sales position for the first time ever in initiatives led to cutting the annual total hours worked per program and shortened work hour program for in this country that our business has forged close ties January 2018. person by about twenty-four. We also kicked off an employees with child care responsibilities, and with while giving them a chance to encounter different While we have been working toward reaching the target initiative aimed at transforming our company into a more implementing other measures to address Japan’s cultures and customs. set in fiscal 2016 of putting 3% of female employees on autonomous organization where managers delegate declining working-age population due to the falling We will continue to make the career-track by March 31, 2019, the percentage was more responsibility and authority to their subordinates. birth rate and the graying of society. We also group-wide efforts to about one as of March 31, 2018. Although we are still We will continue to work toward creating a more provide female employees with career support by provide employees with only halfway towards meeting this target, we will work autonomous workplace where all employees can feel assigning them to career-track positions. opportunities to study hard to nurture a culture that empowers women in the engaged. We are also focusing on reducing total working abroad. workplace and boost the percentage of women in hours per year by reducing meetings, making them career-track or managerial positions. more efficient, and boosting communication through ■ Annual Total Hours Worked per Person the use of a new IT system as part of our work (Hours) reform initiatives. Jun Matsumoto (leftmost) who participated in TEP’s first study abroad program We continue to create an engaging environment ■ Ratio of female employees* ■ Ratio of female managers* where people from diverse backgrounds can fulfill ■ Number of Employees Who Participated in Study Abroad their potential while ensuring that all employees Programs and Employees Assigned to Work Abroad* maintain a healthy work-life balance. FY 2018 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 (planned) *Human resources is jinzai (人財) in Japanese, where “jin” Number of employees who means people and “zai” means resources. At the Toyal Group, participated in study 4 2 3 3 5 (Fiscal year-end) we use the kanji character 財 instead of 材 because, while abroad programs (Fiscal year-end) Number of they both sound the same and mean “resources,” the first one employees assigned 20 13 13 17 17 *Data boundary is Toyo Aluminium K.K. (FY) reflects our belief that people are a treasured asset. to work abroad *Data boundary is Toyo Aluminium K.K. Five Material CSR Issues Material CSR Issue Contribution to SDGs Five Material CSR Issues SDG targets the Toyal Group can contribute to The Toyal Group’s approach We cannot provide customers with quality products unless we Quality and safety 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments keep the working environment where they are made both clean for all workers, including migrant and safe. workers, in particular women migrants, We conduct internal audits and use the PDCA cycle to check if and those in precarious employment our management system is working and to monitor all risks. Quality and safety In order for final products to be used continuously and effectively, 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce the materials that go into making them must be high quality. waste generation through prevention, Ensuring quality leads to minimizing quality defects and reducing We are committed to making and providing products that are safe, satisfying to reduction, recycling and reuse. waste. customers, and beneficial to society. We will provide products our customers can use effectively for a long time with an eye to cutting the waste we generate. Our workplace motto, “no safety, no production,” instilling a safety-first attitude in our employees sums up the foundation of our operations. Ensuring both product Why is it and workplace safety is job one for manufacturers who are responsible corporate important? citizens. Approach Examples We have obtained ISO 9001 certification at 16 Using In-process Inspection Expanding Occupational Health and Winner of the 2017 Special Award locations, including our affiliates across the Data for Repair Planning to for Excellence in Occupational globe, and completed a shift to the 2015 version Safety Management System at all of these locations. Enhance Product Safety In order to prevent work-related accidents, each Safety In order to ensure safety, a safety and health production site takes measures that are in line with the Product contamination is one of the worst kind of Toyo Aluminium’s Yao Works, Shonan Yabata Works, office has been set up at each production site occupational health and safety management system. incidents and one we definitely want to avoid as a maker Shinjo Works, and Shinjo Works (Gose) received the while Toyo Aluminium’s CSR Promotion Office Toyo Aluminium’s Gunma Works, Shonan Yabata Works, of pharmaceutical packaging and food containers. 2017 Special Award for Excellence in occupational safety plays a central role in maintaining a safety Chigasaki Works, and Yao Works that primarily produce Working to prevent mold-related incidents, which account from the Japan Aluminium Association in recognition of management system. This allows for concerted aluminium foil laminates made a declaration of for the bulk of incidents, Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products’ their tireless efforts to ensure workplace health and efforts between the head office and production conformity in accordance with the ISO 17050 conformity Shiga plant analyzes in-process inspection data to safety. The award is given to business locations that sites in implementing safety and health assessment requirements in September 2017. We will identify molds that are used frequently and systematically meet all its requirements, i.e. no lost time and non-lost initiatives. continue to encourage these voluntary initiatives as we conducts repairs. This initiative enabled the plant to time accidents, and reportable accidents (fires and We also ensure that subcontractors who move forward. completely eliminate aluminium contamination in fiscal explosions) as specified in Article 96 of the Ordinance on provide us with the processing services that 2017. Industrial Safety and Health, as well as no lost time and support our daily operations fulfill their quality In fiscal 2018, we will shift the primary quality assurance non-lost time accidents at their subcontractors. In order and safety responsibilities in order to prevent responsibility from the head office’s Quality Assurance to raise awareness about keeping its workplaces accidents and problems from occurring at Department to each production site to bring the initiative accident free, the Toyal Group also has an internal award production sites other than ours. We actively directly to the shop floor. program that recognizes business locations that have no help them with monitoring quality control, accidents (lost time accidents) for 1,000 days. conducting safety inspections for equipment we lend, and more while respecting their autonomy. ■ Number of times the Special While there have been reports about quality Award for Excellence was incidents that have shaken public confidence in awarded corporations, we are committed to not only Number of Location complying with social norms but also making wins continuous improvements to further enhance Yao Works 1 quality and safety with an aim of earning greater customer trust. Shinjo Works 4 Shonan Yabata Works 2 Representatives of the Mold repair operations Joint OHSMS internal audit guidance meeting held among four processing plants locations that won the Japan Aluminium Association’s Shonan Works (Gose) 5 occupational safety award Five Material CSR Issues Material CSR Issue Contribution to SDGs Five Material CSR Issues SDG targets the Toyal Group can contribute to The Toyal Group’s approach 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in As a manufacturer of aluminium products, we make every effort to Cooperation with accordance with agreed international communicate what we do as well as our technological expertise to frameworks, and significantly reduce their stakeholders across the board. We will stimulate not only our business release to air, water and soil in order to but the entire industry by educating the next generation and contribute stakeholders minimize their adverse impacts on human to a more sustainable society by pursuing further technological health and the environment development. Our factories conduct production activities with a close eye on ensuring 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste the safety of neighboring communities. We are dedicated to enhancing generation through prevention, reduction, the local communities we call home and always keeping the lines of recycling and reuse communication with our neighbors open. Cooperation with stakeholders Whenever a climate-related hazard or natural disaster occurs in any country, especially any of the countries or regions where we operate, we conduct disaster relief activities in cooperation with the affected 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive communities. We are continually looking at ways to help strengthen We place importance on working with all stakeholders, including customers, local capacity to climate-related hazards and local resilience and the ability to adapt in the wake of a disaster by communities, governments, NPOs, and employees, to create innovations and natural disasters in all countries. discussing disaster response measures with local residents and more. We are also developing a business continuity management (BCM) maintain sustainable business operations while helping to build a sustainable system that will enable us to restore normal operations as soon as society. We actively engage in stakeholder dialogues with an eye to enhancing our possible in the event of a disaster. Why is it important? corporate value. Approach Examples Our production and employment activities affect local Environmental Education for the Next Disaster Relief Activities Generation at Our Production Site [Hunan NingXiang JiWeiXin Metal Powder Co., Ltd. Launching an Educational Website about socioeconomic conditions. We are committed to (Hino Works) (China)] Aluminium making a positive impact on society by working with employees, our closest stakeholders, as well as local Our production sites have a significant impact on local Committed to actively contributing to society as a responsible We believe that it is crucial to find different ways to get as communities and NPOs in addition to providing communities, and we believe that contributing to the many people as possible interested in aluminium. corporate citizen, the Toyal Group is always ready to lend a education of the next generation at our production sites has a In fiscal 2017 we launched an educational website about quality products, with an eye to enhancing our positive effect on the sustainability of both the Toyal Group hand whenever disaster strikes. aluminium* containing easy-to-understand explanations and corporate value. and the community. At Hunan NingXiang JiWeiXin Metal Powder Co., Ltd. in illustrations with an eye to getting people of all ages interested The Hino Works co-sponsored phase 2 of a renovation project China’s Hunan Province, workers and management pulled Specific initiatives include providing support for local in aluminium and helping them gain a better understanding for the Lake Biwa Museum in Shiga Prefecture, where the plant operates. Focusing on the lake and how it relates to together to help those hit by the floods that swept through about the metal. cultural projects, sponsoring environmental people’s lives, the Lake Biwa Museum is a comprehensive Ningxiang city’s town of Qingshanqiao in 2017. Their donation The website has garnered a lot of attention since it hit the programs, cooperating in food drives organized by museum that attracts many visitors. The museum conducts internet. We have received inquiries from parents and of emergency food supplies to the city and help in disaster NPOs, and more. Working with a focus on educating joint research on the environment with many universities and teachers of elementary school-age children, people with recovery work earned the company high praise from the whom we never had direct contact before. We were also research institutions and also serves as an environmental the next generation, we added a kids educational municipal government and those they helped. learning facility, making it a popular field trip destination. asked to be interviewed by a TV producer and the editor of a site all about aluminium to our corporate website. In newsletter for union employees of a major company. addition to these initiatives, we provide assistance to *Visit Toyo Aluminium’s corporate website to explore its educational site on aluminium. areas affected by natural disasters, and our http://www.toyal.co.jp/jiyukenkyu/index.html employees volunteer to clean up areas near our business locations. We will continue to actively Relief supplies (shovels and carts) engage with the community as part of our commitment to contributing to a more sustainable society as well as enhancing our corporate value. Photo taken with Toru Shinohara, Director General of Working in the Relief supplies (rice and oil) the Lake Biwa Museum (right) disaster area Foundation for Sustainable Management Messages from Employees Corporate Governance Yoshikatsu Isaki, Package Sales Department, Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd. Mitsunori Sawai, Personnel Affairs Department Foundation for In 2016 the Toyal Group distributed the third version of its Management Principles Handbook to all employees so they can keep it handy. It enables them to better understand the group’s Management Principles and Courses of Action as well as action guidelines for themselves. I work as a sales rep for commercial food packaging Promoting diversity in the workplace is one of the main The handbook also contains information about the group’s basic CSR policy, CSR charter, etc. that will serve as the products. Our products are made from recyclable Sustainable Management challenges for the Personnel Affairs Department. I will do foundation for our CSR management system. materials such as aluminium and paper. We also focus my part to develop flexible systems while nurturing a In fiscal 2018 we continue to focus on enhancing corporate governance across all Toyo Aluminium departments and on marketing products made from FSC-certified paper culture and workplace that embrace diversity so all affiliates as we did last year. that has been certified by the Forest Stewardship Council employees can reach their full potential regardless of (FSC) to have been sourced in an environmentally nationality or gender. What We Can Do for a Better Future Internal control system Working under the leadership of the president of Toyo friendly manner. At the Toyal Group, we have a process for ensuring that Aluminium K.K., its directors and presidents of its affiliates I look forward to continue working on promoting the sales financial reporting adheres to the Financial Instruments serve as risk management officers responsible for providing of environmentally friendly products. guidance and supervision on risk management for the Corporate Governance and Exchange Act. We also have a clear legal and regulatory compliance policy to ensure risk management departments and companies they are in charge of. Masakazu Uematsu, Advanced Keiichi Watanabe, Technology Division Engineering Center pursuant to the Companies Act and as well as compliance The Internal Audit Department conducts comprehensive with the Antimonopoly Act, and other relevant laws. We audits of Critical Risks semiannually and reports on its audit are continually working to enhance the group’s internal findings at management meetings. The members of the control system via ongoing audits, reviews and group’s management meeting provide necessary improvements. recommendations to risk management officers and advise them to look into corrective measures to be taken in areas I will try to enhance collaboration among the Intellectual I’m responsible for aluminium foil manufacturing Risk management Messages from Employees where proper risk management is deemed to be lacking. Property Department (where I work), business units, and equipment. We use a huge amount of energy and The Toyal Group has its own risk management rules that R&D departments to increase the value of existing generate carbon dioxide through our production activities. specify basic risk management requirements for the businesses and cultivate new business opportunities with I will look into the use of renewable energy and work with group. These rules enable us to properly manage various an eye to innovation for the future. More specifically, I will production departments to create innovations in Critical Risks create and maximize value by utilizing intellectual manufacturing practices and processes that will lead to a risks in our business operations and take necessary steps (1) Defective products or (6) Leak of confidential properties while making an ongoing effort to develop our substantial reduction in energy consumption. consistent with our business strategies as we aim to services company or personal (2) Environmental problems information R&D capability in order to help create a brighter future. continuously enhance our corporate value. (3) Natural disasters and (7) Failure to make timely The Toyal Group has identified nine risks that require accidents disclosure group-wide integrated management in addition to (4) Safety and health issues (8) Security export control Tatsuaki Otsuka, Management Yuichi Asano, Powder & Paste (5) Defective information (9) Overseas risk individual initiatives at its affiliates. These risks are Planning Department Headquarters systems management labeled as Critical Risks (see the list shown on the right) and managed respectively by responsible departments. ■ Corporate governance system General meeting The Management Planning Department will work on At the Powder & Paste Headquarters, we will leverage Appointment and developing an administrative system for group our high performance products, such as our colored Appointment and Appointment and removal companies in Japan and overseas to help streamline aluminium paste with excellent silicate treatment that can removal removal Audit report their back-office operations and enhance governance as be used for water-based coatings as well as aluminium Auditor Board meeting Auditors meeting Audit and audit part of our effort to promote the “G” in ESG nitride with high thermal conductivity, to reduce VOCs and Accounting audit Appointment Report report (environmental, social, and governance), which is so solve energy problems. As a member of the Business and dismissal Information Recommendations crucial to the sustainability of global companies. Strategy Office, I will propose forming partnerships that exchange Representative Director and advice will aid in achieving the SDGs, establishing a new Business Report technological foundation, and more. execution order Report Report Management meeting Compliance committee order Report/reply Haruka Ishii, Electronic Materials Sales Yutaka Ochi, Photovoltaic Department, Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai Headquarters Report K.K. Internal audit department Business Report CSR promotion office Assistance Report execution order Consultation Assistance Compliance promotion group Each department Monitoring, awareness-raising, and Reply Internal audit (individual) education I switched to a career-track position in January 2018 after The Photovoltaic Headquarters develops, manufactures, Consultation working in a clerical job for three and a half years. Being and sells solar power-related parts and materials. It’s a Consultation Reply the company’s first female sales representative, I had business unit that is directly related to energy and the Compliance consultation line some concerns and found myself faced with a dilemma at environment. I’m driven by the fact that what we do in our first, but I feel more confident now with the help of business unit is helping to build a brighter future and will Cooperation everyone working with me. I hope to find a firm footing on continue to move forward with the aim of putting the job so I can serve as a good role model for other renewable energy in more people’s lives. Audit report, cooperation, and information exchange women who want to follow in my footsteps. Independent Adviser’s Opinion Corporate Profile Business Overview Independent Adviser’s Opinion Masao Seki, Professor, School of Business Administration Meiji University Senior Adviser on CSR SOMPO JAPAN NIPPONKOA INSURANCE INC.  Trade name  Major business fields Toyo Aluminium K.K.  President  Foil We develop and supply original aluminium foil products using our Hiroshi Yamamoto unique technologies and know-how. We also offer high-function and  Head Office high-performance materials leveraging our lightweight and 6-8, Kyutaromachi 3-chome, high-performance aluminium foil as next-generation product solutions. Chuo-ku, Osaka, 541-0056 Japan  Establishment  Powder and paste Overall, this year’s report, like last year’s, underscores These should be targets the company aims to achieve We develop aluminium paste products with a focus on enhancing May 12, 1999 (the former Toyo the capable leadership of top management but comes over the medium to long run, such as CO2 reduction and aesthetic values as well as functionality. We have contributed to growth Aluminium was established on April with the added bonus of a focus on the contributions of female manager ratio targets. This is exactly the and development in the fields of chemicals, electronic materials, 7, 1931) automobiles, and aerospace via our aluminium powder and its applied individual employees. I can see that the Toyal Group is outside-in approach, which is mentioned in the report, and technologies. making a group-wide effort to integrate the SDGs into its  Paid-in capital is crucial to making innovations. business operations by making them the common 8,000,000,000 yen  Solar cell related products language. The company seems more future-oriented • The report lacks any descriptions of supply chains.  Number of employees (as of We have developed a division specializing in environmental-friendly than last year, indicating that it is putting the right foot Supply chain management relates to all of the five March 31, 2018) products, such as solar cells, as well as other related growth areas. The material CSR issues (materiality) and is an area that is division is paying particular attention to overseas solar power forward as it moves ahead. 2,542 (Consolidated), generation businesses, especially in China, and offers products of great interest to stakeholders. Next year’s report 1,450 (Nonconsolidated) employing its unique technology. Points to be appreciated should address supply chain management.  Shareholder • The president clearly indicated a firm intention to Nippon Light Metal Holdings Co.,  Household products • While the company is working mainly on the Ltd., 100% We manufacture and sell household products, aluminium foil food integrate the SDGs into the company’s business environmental issues addressed in the SDGs, it should containers, and paper packaging by leveraging our production and strategies. He noted in “Message from the President” materials expertise along with our marketing capability that gives look into ways it can leverage its products to contribute Corporate Profile that he would use the SDGs in developing a vision people exactly what they need in their daily lives. statement for the 100th anniversary (2031) and to other aspects of the SDGs, such as building an incorporate them into the medium-term management inclusive society where no one is left behind. This plan. should lead to innovation. • There were a number of employee workshops on • I give high marks to the section entitled “What We Can developing a sustainability vision statement for the 100th anniversary, and I can feel a sense of excitement Do for a Better Future” because it features input from individual employees and shows who they are, but it Global Network among employees who have been inspired to, not only should include more women. The same consideration think about, but forge the future of their company for Business Overview/Global Network should be taken in selecting employees to participate in themselves. the workshops for developing a vision statement.  Korea • The company is looking at new ways to find direct links Sam-A Aluminium Co., Ltd. with the SDGs, not just in terms of the broader 17 goals but with the more specific 169 targets. This is an Afterword  China effective and appropriate use of the SDGs. I want the company to step up efforts on “innovation for Toyal Zhaoqing Co., Ltd.  America • The company is leveraging its strengths (e.g. molded the future,” which is listed at the top of the material CSR Hunan NingXiang JiWeiXin Metal Toyal America, Inc. pulp containers) to help solve the plastic pollution Powder Co., Ltd. issues. Fulfilling the company’s potential as a material  France Suzhou Office, Suzhou Toyo problem that has raised red flags across the globe. manufacturer will help boost its corporate value over the Toyal Europe S.A.S.U. Aluminium Ekco Household medium to long run. Products Co., Ltd. Recommendations for improvement TOYO ALUMINIUM EKCO Since making its first step toward integrating the SDGs TRADING SUZHOU CO., LTD • The company should set mediumto long-term targets  Indi into its business strategies, the company has been on the TOYO TOKAI ALUMINIUM and make them public in addition to the annual targets TOYAL MMP INDIA PVT. LTD. HANBAI(SHANGHAI) CO.,LTD. right track. I’m looking forward to a positive outcome. it has set in light of past results. Svam Packaging Industries Pvt.Ltd..  Thailand I would like to express my sincere gratitude to Professor Seki for his TOYAL(THAILAND) Co., Ltd.  Japan valuable feedback on our activities again this year.  Singapore Toyo Aluminium K.K. production bases In reply to the At the beginning he wrote, “the company seems more future-oriented Singapore Branch, Toyo Tokai Aluminium Yao Works (Osaka) Kanbara Works Chigasaki Works (Kanagawa) Shonan Yabata Works than last year, indicating that it is putting the right foot forward as it independent Hanbai K.K. (Shizuoka) (Kanagawa) moves ahead.” His supportive comment encourages us to take further Chiba Works (Chiba) Shinjo Works (Nara) adviser’s opinion steps forward. Gunma Works (Gunma) Hino Works (Shiga) Still we are only at the beginning and have many challenges ahead of Masahiro Affiliated companies us, such as using the outside-in approach, as he pointed out. Yoshida, Managing We will continue to work on solving the problems facing society with a Toyo Aluminium Ekco Products Co., Ltd. Executive Officer in ALPHAMIC Co., Ltd. Charge of the CSR focus on innovation for the future, one of our material CSR issues, as we Toyo Tokai Aluminium Hanbai K.K. Promoting Dept. work to realize our vision of “TOYAL 2031 Toward Our 100th Toyo Aluminium Kosan K.K. Anniversary.” ALP Co., Ltd Toyo Aluminium K.K. Osaka office: Midosuji Daiwa Bld.14F, 6-8, Kyutaromachi 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Osaka, 541-0056 Japan Tel: +81 6 6271 3151 (main number) Tokyo office: Tennouzuyuusen Bld.6F, 2-2-20, Higashishinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, 140-0002 Japan Tel: +81 3 5461 0711 (main number) Carbon dioxide generated in the process of printing this document has been offset via Carbon Free Consulting Corporation.
