2018 UNGC E L I L I L LY A N D C O M PA N Y COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CONTENTS PAGE 3 ABOUT LILLY AND ELANCO PAGE 4 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO PAGE 6 2018 RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS PAGE 8 ABOUT THIS REPORT PAGE 10 HUMAN RIGHTS UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED: 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAGE 29 LABOR UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAGE 39 HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAGE 60 ANTI-CORRUPTION UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ABOUT ELI LILLY AND COMPANY Lilly is a global healthcare leader that unites caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people around the world. We were founded more than a century ago by a man committed to creating high-quality medicines that meet real needs, and today we remain true to that mission in all our work. Across the globe, Lilly employees work to discover and bring life-changing medicines to those who need them, improve the understanding and management of disease, and give back to communities through philanthropy and volunteerism. To learn more about Lilly, please visit us at www.lilly.com and http://newsroom.lilly.com/social-channels. ABOUT ELANCO ANIMAL HEALTH Elanco Animal Health Incorporated (NYSE: ELAN) is a global animal health company that develops products and knowledge services to prevent and treat disease in food animals and pets in more than 90 countries. With a 64-year heritage, we rigorously innovate to improve the health of animals and benefit our customers, while fostering an inclusive, cause-driven culture for more than 5,800 employees. At Elanco, we understand the powerful role healthy animals play in making life better. As pets increasingly become important parts of our families, the need to help them live longer, healthier, higher quality lives increase as well. As the global population grows, so too will the need to meet the demand for safe, affordable food for all. At Elanco, we’re driven by our vision of food and companionship enriching life–all to advance the health of animals, people, and the planet. Learn more at www.elanco.com. Until September 20, 2018 Elanco was a subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company. INTRO | PAGE 3 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Dear Stakeholders, DAVID A. RICKS Chairman and CEO At Eli Lilly and Company, our purpose is to unite caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people around the world. Core to our purpose is our commitment to aid human suffering—independent of an individual’s or nation’s economic status—and to conduct our business in a responsible way for the long term. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2009, Lilly is pleased to reaffirm our commitment to the responsible business principles represented by the Global Compact, as well as our commitment to work toward the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. DELIVERING VALUE AND REDUCING COSTS opened the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center to assist people who need help paying for their Lilly insulin. We In 2018, the company separated our Elanco Animal also launched Insulin Lispro, an authorized generic Health subsidiary with an initial public offering and insulin, at a list price 50 percent lower than our branded divestiture. This transaction allows Lilly to focus insulin, Humalog. We know there’s more to do, and we exclusively on human medicines—discovering, are committed to working with others across healthcare developing, manufacturing and reaching patients with systems to advocate for policies that expand access to new therapies for serious health conditions. In the past medicines while rewarding innovation. five years, we have launched 10 new medicines—halfway to our goal of 20 new molecules by 2023. The initially promising results of one of those medicines, Lartruvo FOSTERING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION for soft tissue sarcoma, were not confirmed in later To support our strategy of innovation, we must have a clinical trials—a risk inherent in the scientific process. culture of diversity and inclusion (D&I)—one in which So Lilly worked quickly with regulators to develop a plan everyone can bring diverse ideas, perspectives, and to withdraw Lartruvo from the market while allowing experiences to bear in the pursuit of our purpose. current patients to continue receiving therapy. We’ve taken a research-based approach—modeled after the research we conduct to understand our own Growing numbers of people are benefiting from Lilly’s patient populations. This research has helped us better medicines around the world. Still, we recognize that the understand the experiences, unmet needs, and career cost of medicines is a concern for many, and sometimes tensions of our employees, especially women and an obstacle to people getting treatment. That’s why Lilly minorities, and informed companywide D&I programs. has a long-standing policy of not seeking or enforcing From the end of 2016 to the end of 2018, we increased patents for medicines in any of the “least developed the number of women in management globally to 42 countries,” as defined by the United Nations. It’s also percent, our initial aspirational goal. We also increased why we’re working with others in the U.S. healthcare racial and ethnic minority representation in management system to make sure patients can get the medicines in the United States, to 21 percent of total management. they need—at reasonable out-of-pocket costs and with This year, we set even higher aspirational goals for pricing information they can understand. In 2018, Lilly women and minorities in management. In early 2019, INTRO | PAGE 4 we were proud that our research-based approach was neighborhood-based approach designed to help address recognized with the prestigious Catalyst Award—one of the high incidence of diabetes in three Indianapolis four companies to receive this honor this year—reflecting communities—where life expectancy can be 14 years our D&I focus. lower than in neighborhoods just 10 miles away. The $7 million, five-year pilot program features newly hired ADVANCING GLOBAL AND LOCAL HEALTH community healthcare workers who help identify people with diabetes and connect them with quality care. Advances in healthcare have helped billions live longer lives. But in too many places around the world, due to In the next few years, we will focus even more on the insufficient development of healthcare systems, these areas of programs and pipeline to increase our impact. innovations are out of reach. Lilly has set a goal to create new access to quality health care in resourceMANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS limited settings for 30 million people every year by 2030. We call this Lilly 30x30. It focuses on three areas: Lilly is committed to continually reducing our 1) Partnerships—working with others to strengthen environmental footprint and to publicly reporting health systems; 2) Programs—enhancing access to progress toward our goals. In 2018, Lilly received a CDP Lilly medicines; and 3) Pipeline—finding molecules (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) score of Aon for diseases that disproportionately affect people in climate change, which is considered leadership level, resource-limited settings. and we received a B on water stewardship. As of the end of 2018, we met and even exceeded two of our 2020 In 2018, Lilly continued to expand our partnership with goals: achieving a 20 percent improvement in our waste AMPATH, a medical consortium making an incredible efficiency, and a 15 percent reduction in phosphorous difference in the lives of patients in western Kenya who emissions in wastewater. are in desperate need. Since 2002, we have committed nearly $150 million in product donations to AMPATH, By 2020, we will transition 90 percent of our endotoxin helping to dramatically reduce what were once frequent tests—a mandatory quality test for pharmaceuticals shortages of medicine. The Lilly Foundation has and medical devices—from a process which relies on committed an additional $3.5 million to help AMPATH bleeding horseshoe crabs, to a synthetic compound. This expand its breast and cervical cancer screenings— new method, which Lilly helped to validate, is equally including mobile outreach for rural areas. As of effective, more efficient, and cost-effective—and it September 2018, they had reached 35,000 people. doesn’t require harvesting live animals. Transitioning our testing will lessen our impacts on the wild crab In 2018, building on what we’ve learned from global population, reducing our dependence on an increasingly health programs, we gathered with local partners to at-risk species that is a vital part of many food webs, launch a program addressing health disparities in including for endangered and threatened birds. our own hometown of Indianapolis. The result is a Every day, Lilly’s team of 33,000 employees strives to operate our company according to our values of integrity, excellence, and respect for people. While pleased with our performance, we are not satisfied. We are compelled to improve. Thank you for your interest in our company. DAV I D A . R I C K S Chairman and CEO INTRO | PAGE 5 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS IMPROVING LIVES AND STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES Lilly has a long, proud heritage of strengthening the communities where we work and live. We do this through giving, volunteering, and focusing on the issues that tie back to our business: health and education. We actively encourage our employees to volunteer—in their backyards as well as around the world—and give back in ways that are personally meaningful to them. Connecting Hearts Abroad More than 1,000 Lilly employees have volunteered CONTRIBUTIONS AT A GLANCE through Connecting Hearts Abroad, our global service TOTAL COMMITTED $90M program. Working on health and community projects across Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America, TO GLOBAL HEALTH PROGRAMMING 2017-2022 volunteers return to Lilly with insights that help us become a better, more globally aware company. $1.3B 2018 TOTAL PRODUCT DONATIONS Global Day of Service In 2018, we celebrated our 11th annual Lilly Global Day of Service, on which Lilly and Elanco employees help neighbors and communities around the world. Since $30.3M* 2018 TOTAL CASH DONATIONS *including $26M from the Lilly Foundation the program launched, employees in over 65 countries have given more than 1 million hours and created a INSULIN VIALS DONATED lasting legacy by completing thousands of projects— from assembling cancer-care packages for patients to 1.8M AS OF 2018 TO THE LIFE FOR A CHILD PROGRAM beautifying neighborhoods by planting thousands of trees. 2018 TOTAL UNITED United Way $13.3M WAY CONTRIBUTIONS *including $6.7M from the Lilly Foundation In 2018, Lilly and United Way celebrated a 100-year NUMBER OF EMPLOYEE 1.1M relationship dating back to 1918. To date, Lilly has VOLUNTEER HOURS raised more than $300 million for United Way. In 2018, THROUGH LILLY GLOBAL DAY contributions from Lilly U.S. employees and retirees, OF SERVICE SINCE 2008 plus a matching gift from the Eli Lilly and Company Foundation totaled $13.3 million. INTRO | PAGE 6 R E C O G N I T I O N F O R R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y: 2 0 1 8 – 2 0 1 9 CATALYST DIVERSITY INC. 2019 Catalyst Award Recipient 2018 Top 50 Companies for Diversity (No. 5) ETHISPHERE HUMAN RIGHTS World’s Most Ethical Companies, CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION 2017, 2018, and 2019 Corporate Equality Index—Perfect Score THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY JUST CAPITAL AND INCLUSION INDEX America’s Most Just Companies (No. 58) (No. 17) WOMEN’S CHOICE AWARD WORKING MOTHER MAGAZINE Best Places to Work for Millennials and Women 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers, 24 Consecutive Years Education—Investing in the Next Generation The Lilly Foundation works to improve the lives of • Teach For America, which advances educational those who lack resources, including supporting and excellence and equity in the United States through championing efforts in our home state of Indiana to a network of remarkable and diverse leaders working strengthen public education focusing on early childhood to expand opportunity and access for all children; education, K-12, and STEM subjects (science, technology, engineering, and math). The Foundation backs results• Junior Achievement, which inspires and prepares oriented programs and organizations with the proven young people to succeed in a changing global ability to drive community impact, including: economy. The Lilly Foundation provides support for the organization and its JA JobSpark program; and, • Indianapolis Public Schools (IPS), which empowers and educates students with diverse backgrounds to • Center for Leadership Development, which fosters think critically, creatively, and responsibly to pursue the advancement of minority youth in Central Indiana their dreams with purpose. The Lilly Foundation as future professional, business, and community gave $300,000 in grant funding to support leaders by providing experiences that encourage professional development, technology investment, personal development and education attainment. and youth employment at IPS’s Advanced Manufacturing, Engineering and Logistics Academy and Construction, Engineering and Design Academy; • The Mind Trust, which strives to provide every Indianapolis student access to a high-quality school that will improve the lives of the students served and create new possibilities for the communities where they are located; INTRO | PAGE 7 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report represents our Communication on Progress We welcome feedback on this content, as it helps us to for 2018 in implementing the principles of the United prepare future reports. Nations Global Compact. MOHAMED OSMAN MOHAMED Data and other updates contained in this report are Corporate Responsibility, Eli Lilly and Company focused on the 2018 calendar year and include global Email: mmohamed@lilly.com operations, unless otherwise noted. We also discuss Phone: +1.317.430.8123 data and trends from previous years, where relevant, and include some significant events and initiatives that occurred in the first half of 2019. This report does not include joint ventures, partially owned subsidiaries, or outsourced operations. In September 2018, Eli Lilly and Company, launched an initial public offering (IPO) of Elanco Animal Health Incorporated (NYSE: ELAN), thereby making it an independently traded company. Elanco, previously a division of Lilly, is a global animal health company that develops products and knowledge services to prevent and treat disease in food animals and pets. This report includes data from Elanco through 2018, including the period immediately following its IPO. ERM Certification and Verification Services provided independent, third-party verification on selected environmental data and progress against selected 2020 goals as described in the assurance statement. Lilly follows structured processes to collect, evaluate, and calculate the data we report, to ensure appropriateness and accuracy. We consider external standards in deciding what data to collect and report. For example, following guidance from the World Resources Institute, we report progress toward greenhouse gas emissions goals on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. Our global Health, Safety, and Environment management system is periodically reviewed by an independent, accredited auditor to ensure conformance with the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care® Management System requirements. INTRO | PAGE 8 As a member of the UN Global Compact, Eli Lilly supports the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and works to advance these goals within our sphere of influence. We are inspired by the global vision that the SDGs represent— and we are committed to doing our part to contribute. You can learn more about our efforts towards the SDGs in these areas of the report. LABOR A N T I CO R R U P T I O N HUMAN RIGHTS H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T INTRO | PAGE 9 HUMAN RIGHTS Lilly supports the UN Global Compact’s principles on respecting internationally proclaimed human rights. As a global pharmaceutical company, our activities cut across a broad range of societal issues: activities such as ensuring the safety and availability of our medicines, promoting global health, and enhancing access to medicines for those who have trouble affording them. In this section, we discuss our work in the following areas related to human rights: bioethics; the availability and safety of our products; sourcing in our supply chain; the affordability of medications; and our global health initiatives. Further information on our support for labor standards can be found in the Labor section of this report. INTRO | HUMAN RIGHTS | LABOR | H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | ANTI-CORRUPTION BIOETHICS Lilly has a longstanding commitment to bioethics—which focuses on the ethics of health care, biomedical research, and biomedical public policy—as an integral component of corporate integrity in the pharmaceutical industry. In 1999, Lilly became one of the first pharmaceutical companies to establish a standing bioethics committee to systematically identify, evaluate, and communicate bioethics issues, and in 2008 created a bioethics program with dedicated full-time staff. We embrace a comprehensive approach to bioethics, providing a variety of resources and educational offerings to help employees navigate ethical scenarios and apply bioethics principles in their daily work. Governance of Bioethics at Lilly Consolidating the company’s ethics efforts under one tent, ENTERPRISE RISK in early 2018 Lilly’s bioethics program became housed MANAGEMENT AND GLOBAL within the Global Ethics and Compliance organization, ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE reporting to the chief ethics and compliance officer. This move increases the independence of the bioethics function overall and allows the bioethics team broader focus E T H I C S A N D CO M P L I A N C E P ROG R A M across all aspects of Lilly’s operations—from research and development to commercialization activities. Bioethics team members include full-time, dedicated staff with pharmaceutical industry expertise as well as specialized training in bioethics. These individuals serve as valuable internal resources for the company, and are responsible ANTIP R I VAC Y BIOETHICS CORRUPTION for the program’s development, deliverables, and PROGRAM PROGRAM PROGRAM oversight. A cross-functional bioethics advisory committee also includes external expertise in bioethics. “ Moving Lilly’s bioethics program within our Global Ethics and Compliance organization will continue to elevate this important work and enable greater engagement—beyond just clinical research—with all facets of our enterprise. This move is part of our ongoing efforts to reflect our commitment to integrity and to engrain ethical decision-making into every phase of our work. In doing so, we also become a more efficient operation, helping our colleagues access the tools they need to make better, faster decisions across a range of business issues facing our industry.” MELISSA BARNES | SVP, ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND CHIEF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 11 Protecting Research Subjects’ FOSTERING INDUSTRY COLLABORATION IN BIOETHICS Rights in Clinical Trials In addition to publishing Lilly’s Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research, Lilly was a founding Lilly is committed to protecting the rights and well-being member and driving force behind the establishment of of research subjects and patients who use our medicines. the Biopharmaceutical Industry Bioethics (BIB) Forum. Lilly applies a single global standard to the conduct of Founded in 2016, the BIB Forum promotes collegial, medical trials involving human subjects. This standard non-competitive discussions regarding the application of is based on well-respected ethics guidance and other bioethics concepts in the biopharmaceutical industry and requirements including: sharing of best practices. • The World Medical Association’s Declaration of Helsinki; Lilly’s Positions on • The Council for International Organizations of Current and Emerging Medical Sciences’ International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical Research Involving Human Subjects; Bioethics Issues Lilly has developed position statements on bioethics • The International Conference on Harmonisation’s issues such as stem cell research, pediatric medicine, Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (E6); and multinational clinical trials, among others. • The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America’s Principles on Conduct of Clinical Trials; and, • Applicable laws and regulations of the country or Bioethics Consultations countries in which a study is conducted. Since 1999, Lilly’s bioethics committee has offered an internal consulting service, providing a forum for Lilly’s commitment to protecting the rights of research employees to seek advice regarding bioethics and subjects is articulated in two company guidance research ethics issues. Using the Bioethics Framework documents— Principles of Medical Research and Bioethics and bioethics positions, this service increases awareness Framework for Human Biomedical Research—and upheld about bioethics, empowers employees to raise concerns, through company policies, standards, and procedures. and helps them reason through challenging issues. LILLY’S PRINCIPLES OF MEDICAL RESEARCH The Principles of Medical Research specify Lilly’s standard for conducting, funding, and communicating L I L LY ’ S C O M PA N Y P U R P O S E results from its medical research. For more information AND VALUES on how Lilly shares information from clinical trials, see the Transparency section of this report. B I O E T H I C S F R A M E W O R K FO R H U M A N BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH LILLY’S BIOETHICS FRAMEWORK Basic Bioethics Principles Respect for persons Non-maleficence Lilly’s Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research provides a bioethics foundation for the Beneficence Justice company’s biomedical research so that it is aligned Essential Elements for Ethical Biomedical Research with broadly accepted ethics principles and Lilly’s core values. The framework consists of four basic principles Scientific validity Informed consent and 13 essential elements for conducting ethical human Social value Fair treatment of biomedical research and sits within the context of Lilly’s research participants Equitable selection broader company purpose and values. It specifies and of countries/communities Protection of privacy and participants and confidentiality compiles Lilly’s bioethical responsibilities to multiple stakeholders. The framework informs the development of Relationships with Fair access to investigators and study sites post-study benefits bioethics positions on topics important to pharmaceutical Reasonable benefit-risk profile Public transparency research and development, and it informs advice that the bioethics committee provides. Independent ethics review Stakeholder engagement Incentives for research participants HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 12 PATIENT SAFETY AND PRODUCT AVAILABILITY We work tirelessly to make our medications safe and effective—from the early stages of design and drug development— through ongoing monitoring and understanding of the patient experience once a medication is on the market. We recognize that taking the right medication at the right time is a critical piece of a person’s overall health. Therefore, ensuring our products are available wherever and whenever patients need them is one of our top priorities. Global Patient Safety material and component suppliers are evaluated for technical competence, and the ability to provide highBeginning with the discovery of a potential new medicine, quality, efficacious, and cost-effective raw materials to Lilly’s goal is to ensure that the benefits and risks of the Lilly. More information can be found in the Supply Chain medicines we market are continuously monitored and section of this report. well understood by regulators, healthcare providers, As an additional safeguard, we have mitigation plans and patients. Lilly’s Global Patient Safety organization— in place for our drug product components, including consisting of more than 300 physicians, pharmacists, materials critical to manufacturing finished drug nurses, and other healthcare professionals—is dedicated products. Continuous improvement initiatives in our to the continuous collection, monitoring, evaluation, and manufacturing, packaging, and distribution capabilities reporting of safety information. Even after medications help to safeguard the supply of Lilly medicines, and allow are approved for general use, Lilly continues to collect us to provide safe and effective finished drug products adverse event reports from around the world. Lilly to patients and healthcare providers. The introduction of enters this information into a company-specific adverse product serialization, first rolled out in the United States event database to further evaluate the safety of our in 2018, with ongoing implementation in other countries medications. New safety findings and emerging concerns to follow, adds an additional level of security to our are shared openly with regulators and healthcare distributed products. providers to appropriately manage risks associated with the use of our medicines. Ensuring Product Availability The mission of Lilly’s global manufacturing team is to provide a reliable supply of high-quality medicines. Because Lilly manufactures medicines that people rely upon and that can be critical for health, we know that we have a responsibility to safeguard both the materials needed to manufacture these medicines and the supply chain logistics that help to ensure their availability. Our manufacturing policy committee oversees the maintenance of Lilly’s inventory of essential raw materials. Before they enter the Lilly system, our raw HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 13 SUPPLY CHAIN At Lilly, our efforts to ensure the safety and integrity of our products begin with the procurement of materials and extend throughout the production process. This includes our interactions to promote strong health, safety, and environment (HSE) practices with suppliers who provide us materials for research and development, as well as with the contract manufacturers who help make our medicines and other pharmaceutical products. It extends to our work to stem the tide of counterfeit medicines and to ensure we comply with governmental efforts around conflict minerals. In addition to the topics we discuss in this section, more information on our work around HSE in our supply chain can be found in the HSE section of this report. Preventing supports the dedicated domain name “dot-pharmacy,” an initiative of the National Association of Boards of Counterfeit Medicines Pharmacy that helps patients distinguish safe and legal online pharmacies. Lilly cooperates with customs, police, Counterfeit medicines have been found in all therapeutic and other law enforcement officials around the world to areas in every region of the world. Their impact is investigate and prosecute those who make and distribute wide-reaching and potentially deadly, both due to counterfeit Lilly medicines without regard to the law or toxic substances sometimes found in the counterfeit patient safety. medicines, and because they undermine a patient’s confidence in legitimate medicines and the credibility of SERIALIZATION healthcare providers. Lilly’s anti-counterfeiting strategy is composed of three key objectives: Serialization is the unique identification of individual packs of medicines to ensure the security of the • Securing the integrity of Lilly medicines through the legitimate supply chain. One of Lilly’s major legislative legitimate supply channels; efforts has been to advocate for the establishment of a uniform standard for coding, serializing, and tracking • Deterring major counterfeiters of Lilly medicines pharmaceutical products. Lilly has made considerable through targeted investigations, internet monitoring, investments in its packaging operations, distribution legal actions; and, centers, and IT infrastructure to support this initiative, including new technology, which impacts all of our • Partnering with governments, non-governmental packaging lines around the world. These efforts help to organizations, and trade associations to raise ensure that doctors, pharmacists, and patients can be awareness, and to strengthen, enact, and enforce confident in the medicines they prescribe, dispense, anti-counterfeiting laws. and receive. WORKING TO DETER COUNTERFEITERS ONLINE Lilly believes that it is imperative that legislative AND IN THE FIELD efforts and policies around serialization and product Patient safety is the foundation of Lilly’s global antitraceability follow global standards. Non-standard counterfeiting efforts, and we are engaged in efforts to requirements not only increase the implementation costs combat counterfeiters. We are a founder and member for manufacturers and trading partners, but also fail to of the Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies, a global adequately prevent counterfeit products from entering coalition of stakeholders with an interest in protecting the legitimate supply chain, increasing the potential patient safety and ensuring patients have access to safe for patient harm. Lilly actively partners with industry and legitimate online pharmacies. Lilly advocates for groups such as The Alliance for Global Pharmaceutical protections for patients from the growing number of Serialization (RxGPS), global standards bodies such as illegitimate and unsafe online drug sellers. Lilly also GS1, country level groups and think tanks, and regulators HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 14 in many markets around the world to advocate for global standards to ensure a harmonized approach to product traceability initiatives. Lilly’s advocacy efforts have created positive and tangible outcomes that we believe enhance patient safety. We played a leadership role in China on this issue, influencing a shift from a nonstandard product traceability requirement to a policy that will accommodate global standards. In Malaysia and India, Lilly is investing in advocacy to educate and inform regulatory authorities on the importance of adhering to global standards as they evaluate upcoming legislation. Conflict Minerals Lilly is concerned with the variety of human rights violations that occur throughout the world. We are aware that the ongoing conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the surrounding countries is understood to be financed, in part, by the mining and trade of certain minerals, including tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold. We are committed to making every effort to ensure we understand our supply chain and the potential upstream impacts of our supply and purchasing decisions as they relate to the minerals at issue. From 2014 to 2019, Lilly filed annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to the conflict minerals rule. As a part of that reporting process, we examine the raw material content of all of our global commercial products and seek to identify the origin and source of these raw materials. Our goal is to develop a better understanding of the supply chain and to avoid the inadvertent support of businesses associated with human rights violations. Lilly’s expectation is that our suppliers will source their materials responsibly and abstain from procuring materials from areas or sources that might promote conflict in the DRC and that our suppliers conduct their own due diligence regarding the source of any materials they provide to us in order to ensure those materials are conflict-free. We filed our latest conflict minerals disclosure documents with the SEC in May 2019. Lilly is committed to continue to understand the origin of these materials and will take appropriate action to avoid the inadvertent support of businesses associated with human rights violations. HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 15 ACCESS TO MEDICINES, AFFORDABILITY, AND TRANSPARENCY Lilly supports expanded access to our medicines around the world—through the policies we promote; in the actions we take to help consumers, communities, and our employees; and by providing greater transparency about how we price our products. How we price our medicines is not a decision we take lightly or one we make in isolation. We consider how a patient can access the medicine, and the impact that access may have across the varying and unique healthcare systems around the world. We seek to strike the balance between access and sustaining an industry that can continue to build upon the lifechanging treatments it has discovered for some of our most serious diseases. This is one of the most important decisions we make as a company. Our efforts to bring innovative medicines to patients may take different paths depending on the healthcare Pricing Around the World system unique to a specific region of the world. However, Lilly sells medicines in approximately 125 countries we work to ensure our strategy fits with the needs and around the world. Each country values medications expectations of a number of different stakeholders, and innovation differently and must balance competing in addition to patients. As we evaluate the various demands for limited resources. This includes other stakeholder perspectives, Lilly may take into account the healthcare products and services, as well as meeting following considerations: other social needs such as education or infrastructure. At Lilly, we consider country-specific conditions when • Health system needs and constraints (e.g., advanced pricing medicines on a market-by-market basis, to help technology, quality metrics, budget constraints) ensure patients have affordable access to the innovative • Patient and caregiver needs (e.g., education and medications we develop. We support public policies to support tools) meet this same end. We strive to price our medicines to enable affordable access for appropriate patients, • Regulatory requirements (e.g., the need for ongoing reflecting the value provided to patients, providers, post-market safety or outcomes studies) payers, caregivers, the health system, and society as a whole. We define value in clinical, human, and economic • Public policy limitations (e.g., price controls) and terms, and we base our assessment on the results enablers (e.g., additional research incentives) of clinical trials, economic analysis, projected and measured health outcomes, as well as market research. Lilly works across the healthcare system to find solutions that make medicines more accessible. This includes Lilly is exploring new ways to achieve the right level of innovating beyond the medicines we produce. The future pricing in different markets and we advocate for policy of the healthcare system depends on how well it works changes that help increase access to medicines. Valuefor patients. Lilly remains committed to supporting a based and outcomes-based reimbursement models are system that enables people to live longer, healthier, more examples of payment initiatives that offer the ability to active lives. HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 16 deliver greater economic and health value to healthcare less than wealthy nations. Lilly also supports efforts to systems. When countries look at health costs and related decrease the final price of medicines to patients, such outcomes holistically, rather than in budget silos, it is as minimizing taxes of all types and limiting markups clear that medications deliver substantial benefits in both applied in the supply chain. In addition, Lilly has a longhuman and economic terms. standing policy of not seeking or enforcing patents for medicines in any of the least developed countries, as As a global company, we are particularly aware of defined by the United Nations. the economic circumstances in many developing countries that can make access to medicines difficult. In response, Lilly has developed alternative business models, recognizing that the poorest nations should pay Pricing in the United States Lilly sets a list price for our medicines. To enable patient access, Lilly pays rebates and other discounts to payers Lilly continues to work to expand access to medicines and other supply chain entities. The final amount that in the U.S. healthcare system—by helping consumers, Lilly ultimately realizes after paying these rebates and communities, and our employees; by providing greater discounts is sometimes called the net price. transparency about how our products are priced; and through the policies we promote. AVERAGE LILLY NET PRICE (AS A % OF LIST PRICE) Pricing our medicines is one of the most important AFTER DISCOUNTS ACROSS THE U.S. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO1 decisions we make as a company. We strike a balance 59% between access and affordability for patients while sustaining investments in life-changing treatments for 55% some of today’s most serious diseases. We consider: 50% 49% 46% CUSTOMER PERSPECTIVE The unmet needs that medicines can fulfill for 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 patients and caregivers, and how people can affordably access the treatment COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE Across our U.S. product portfolio, Lilly’s average net The benefits of our medicine compared to price after rebates and discounts—the final amount we alternative medicines, where our medicine fits in receive—has fallen from 59 percent in 2014 to 46 percent treating conditions, and existing contracts between in 2018. The amount of Lilly’s rebates and discounts payers and our competitors continues to increase through a combination of factors— including increased market competition, pharmacy C O M PA N Y C O N S I D E R AT I O N S benefit managers’ (PBMs’) increased negotiation The costs of research, development, manufacturing, leverage, and rising mandatory government discounts. and support services for customers; business However, changes in insurance design and the trend trends and other economic factors; as well as the toward greater consumer cost-sharing (through highmedicine’s potential market size, patent life, and deductible plans and co-insurance) means a growing place within our larger portfolio of medicines number of patients are exposed to medicines’ full retail price at the pharmacy. OT H E R E X T E R N A L FACTO R S Such as health system changes and policy guidelines HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 17 COMPARISON OF LILLY LIST AND NET PRICE CHANGES FOR U.S. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO3 (% change versus the prior year) List Price4 Net Price5 16.3% 14.0% 11.8% 9.4% 9.7% 6.0% 5.5% 2.4% 1.6% -0.5% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1. The average net price percentage is calculated by dividing net sales, the amount Lilly receives after discounts (rebates and channel cost), by the annual gross sales (total sales at list price, prior to all discounts). 2. Average list and net price per patient per month is calculated based on average prescribed utilization of Humalog U100, the most broadly used presentation of Humalog (Source: IQVIA LAAD Data 2014-2018). In 2018, per IQVIA reported data, if taken as prescribed, the average diabetes patient using Humalog U100 would have consumed approximately 19 MLs of insulin per month; this equates to approximately 2 vials or 6.4 Kwikpens. The actual utilization per patient per month may differ significantly depending on multiple factors, including prescription amounts and adherence behaviors. 3. U.S. Product Portfolio includes all human pharmaceutical products marketed in the United States for which Lilly is the holder of the new drug application (NDA). This represents approximately 95 percent of our total U.S. human pharmaceutical revenue. 4. List price represents the weighted average year-over-year change in the wholesale acquisition cost (WAC). 5. Net price represents weighted average year-over-year change in net price, which is WAC minus rebates, discounts, and channel costs. Lilly works with all parts of the healthcare system to HUMALOG® (U100) AVERAGE LIST AND NET PRICE (USD) find solutions that make medicines more accessible and PER PATIENT PER MONTH, IF TAKEN AS PRESCRIBED2 affordable. We support improvements to the U.S. healthcare Average List Price Average Net Price system that appropriately balance patient affordability, market-based competition, and rewarding innovation. We $588 $594 advocate for policy changes at the state and federal level to improve patient affordability, such as exempting treatments $539 for chronic diseases from patient deductibles and passing $480 through rebates to patients at the point of sale. $391 Between 2014 and 2018, the list price for Humalog increased 51.9% while the average amount that Lilly In this spirit, Lilly implemented a number of solutions in received – the net price – declined by 8.1%. 2018 that support patients and our employees. These are $159 positive steps, but we know there is more to do, and that is $147 $133 $135 $135 why we are committed to finding more solutions to lower the out-of-pocket costs for medicine at the pharmacy counter. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Humalog U100 is the most broadly used Lilly insulin product. The last list price increase for Humalog U100 was May 2017. The net price in the chart represents the average revenue Lilly realized per patient per month for Humalog U100 if taken as prescribed. Because of rebates and fees Lilly provides insurers and/or PBMs, increases in list prices do not always reflect increases in net prices. “ We don’t want anyone to have to pay full list price for their insulin, and many people who do will be able to pay significantly less by calling our helpline. Our goal is to ensure that people paying high out-of-pocket costs for Lilly insulins are matched with the best solution available to reduce their financial burden and help ensure they receive the treatment they need.” MIKE MASON | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CONNECTED CARE AND INSULINS HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 18 Our Commitment to that hit the coverage gap in their Medicare Part D plans. For patients with health plans that prefer the Addressing Out-of-Pocket current system, Humalog will remain available. Costs in the United States • Lilly is committed to increasing transparency around the price of our medicines. In early 2019, television Lilly recognizes that some people may struggle to pay for advertisements for our medicines began directing their medicines. We are committed to finding solutions people to a new website, lillypricinginfo.com, that to lower out-of-pocket costs and to implement other provides the list price, average out-of-pocket costs, changes that can help the U.S. health system work better and financial assistance information for the medicine for patients. Below are some of the solutions we have advertised. The website provides pricing information unveiled recently: for Trulicity®, Taltz®, Verzenio®, and Emgality®. In 2019, • In August 2018, Lilly opened the Lilly Diabetes we will begin providing information on this website for Solution Center to assist people who need help paying our other medicines as well, whether they are for their Lilly insulin, including those with lower advertised on television or not. incomes, the uninsured, and people in the deductible • Lilly actively pursues value-based arrangements to phase of a high-deductible insurance plan. More link the price of our medicine more directly to patient than 10,000 people every month are getting help outcomes. This approach can transform the healthcare lowering their out-of-pocket costs to affordable system to one that is about value versus the volume levels through programs like these. Lilly also donates of medicines purchased. We continue to advocate to charitable organizations that provide free medicine, for legislative and regulatory changes that support including insulin, to patients meeting program this transition. eligibility requirements. Over the last five years, Lilly has donated more than 5.4 million insulin vials and pens in the United States. • In March 2019, Lilly announced we will offer a lower-priced version of our Humalog® insulin called Insulin Lispro. This authorized generic version—which is identical to Humalog—will be offered at a list price 50 percent lower than the current Humalog list price. Insulin Lispro could make insulin more affordable for certain Americans asked to pay full retail price—or a large percentage of the retail price—from their own pockets. That may include people in high-deductible health insurance plans, the uninsured, and seniors LEADING BY EXAMPLE: REDUCING COSTS AND IMPROVING HEALTH FOR EMPLOYEES AT LILLY Employers can play a key role in patient access and affordability by offering benefits that help reduce employee medical costs. Lilly’s benefits align with this approach. Lilly applies prescription drug rebates at the point of sale to help our employees, retirees, and their families with out-of-pocket medicine costs. Last year, more than 11,000 Lilly employees, retirees, and their families benefited from these point-of-sale rebates, reducing their costs by approximately $3 million. We also use rebates to reduce the cost of medical coverage premiums. We exempt preventive and chronic disease medications from the deductible of our employees’ health plans to ensure there are no barriers for accessing medicines critical to their overall health and well-being. Starting in 2019, Lilly will begin providing our eligible employees and their family members living with diabetes a free connected glucose meter and related supplies, along with real-time support from trained diabetes educators. HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 19 LILLY DIABETES SOLUTION CENTER HELPS WITH The following solutions are available through the helpline: INSULIN AFFORDABILITY Point-of-Sale Savings In 2018, the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center—a new Helpline representatives can advise callers who face the patient-focused helpline—opened to help identify ways highest out-of-pocket costs at the pharmacy, such as patients can access the Lilly insulin they need. Staffed people who are uninsured and people in the deductible with representatives who take a personalized approach, phase of their high-deductible commercial insurance the confidential helpline is available to residents plans. The amount of cost reduction varies person-tothroughout the United States and all U.S. territories, and person based upon individual circumstances. Out-offeatures representatives who speak English, Spanish, and pocket costs for people who use traditional co-pay or several other languages. People in the United States can co-insurance plans will continue to be set by their health reach the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center by calling 1-833insurer, and federal regulations prevent people who 808-1234. As of early 2019, more than 10,000 people each use Medicare Part D or other federal programs from month received help through the center. In March 2019, obtaining additional point-of-sale savings. Lilly announced a lower-priced version of Humalog called Insulin Lispro. This authorized generic version—which is Free Clinics identical to Humalog—is offered at a list price 50 percent Lilly is donating insulin to three relief agencies— lower than the current Humalog list price. Americares, Direct Relief, and Dispensary of Hope—to The center is offering a suite of solutions—some of which supply nearly 150 free clinics across the United States are being offered for the first time—that can significantly with Lilly insulin. Helpline representatives point people lower and cap high monthly out-of-pocket costs for some toward clinics that are most convenient to them and people who use Lilly insulins. Dedicated representatives provide information about how to obtain insulin at those will review the personal circumstances and identify locations. Lilly is working with these relief agencies to options for people who pay near the full list price, such as identify as many clinics as possible that can adequately the uninsured and people in the deductible phase of their store and distribute insulin to people who need it. high-deductible insurance plans, as well as potential solutions for people with lower incomes. Immediate Needs for Insulin If someone has an immediate need for insulin, they can also call the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center to learn about immediate as well as longer-term options. HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 20 IMPROVING GLOBAL HEALTH As a leading biopharmaceutical company, Lilly has an important role to play in improving access to quality health care for people living in communities with limited resources. We are committed to extending the Lilly promise of caring and discovery to millions more people around the world. Our global health efforts focus on people who aren’t typically reached by our traditional business operations. We use a mix of philanthropy and shared value-based approaches, and concentrate on diseases where we have deep technical expertise, including diabetes and cancer, partnering with leading experts and organizations to expand our reach. Lilly 30x30 compliance, and Lilly’s international business unit. This group of leaders ensure that individuals across the To accelerate our global health efforts, we established company are committed to long-term progress toward Lilly 30x30—a bold goal to increase access to quality Lilly’s 30x30 goal. health care in communities with limited resources for 30 million people on an annual basis by 2030. Lilly 30x30 is a companywide effort through which we use a mix O U R G L O B A L H E A LT H A P P R O A C H of shared value and philanthropic approaches, often in collaboration with partners, to achieve our goal. FOCUS AREAS Lilly 30x30 initiatives include activities across three key Create Leverage areas: partnerships, programs, and pipeline. In each of Create strategic mix of Leverage Lilly these three key areas, we are leading cross-functional approaches ranging from capabilities, assets, teams to develop, pilot, and measure high-impact, novel business models to and the passion of scalable projects. traditional philanthropy our employees Partnerships Building partnerships that strengthen health systems, increase access to medicines, and improve care Programs Strengthening existing programs and creating new ones that help improve access to Partner Scale Up Lilly medicines Partner with leading Scale up organizations on complex and replicate Pipeline Discovering new medicines and exploring health challenges sustainable our current portfolio and shelved assets to find new solutions indications for diseases that disproportionately affect people in resource-limited settings 30x30 GOVERNANCE 30x30 Lilly has formed a steering committee to manage Reach 30 million people in progress toward the 30x30 goal. This cross-functional resource-limited settings on approach includes senior executives from Lilly Research annual basis by 2030 Laboratories, finance, corporate affairs, ethics and HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 21 Partnerships Examples of how the Lilly Global Health Partnership is strengthening community-based and primary care services include: Through strategic partnerships providing support and funding, Lilly and the Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, • Developing new, standardized protocols for diabetes a separate, independent, nonprofit organization, work care in primary care settings; to advance government priorities, strengthen local • Applying early learnings for NCDs into existing healthcare systems, and improve access to care. Lilly and future efforts to strengthen health systems; and, uses its technology and expertise in collaborations with other organizations to find innovative, sustainable, and • Implementing technology-based tools at the primary scalable approaches and solutions to pressing global care level to drive adherence to treatment and health concerns, including diabetes and cancer. reduce complications. We use our Research, Report, and Advocate framework to measure and evaluate effectiveness of our partnership PA RT N E R S H I P S TO AC H I E V E T H E S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T G O A L S and reach the greatest number of people. Through this approach, we pilot new models of care, share Lilly partners with local institutions around the world to the data and lessons learned to inform policy, and pilot and extend the reach of effective health programs. advocate for the scale-up and replication of proven, Using the data that we collect, we advocate for the cost-effective solutions. scaling up of interventions that show the greatest impact. We also advocate for the increased prioritization Lilly Global Health Partnership Focus Areas of non-communicable diseases (NCDs)—including cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, and mental Working with expert partners, the Lilly Global Health health conditions—on the health agenda at the global Partnership helps people living in limited-resource and national levels. settings, with a focus on five countries. Lilly is a member of the Shared Value Initiative, a Diabetes Cancer global community of organizations committed to driving the adoption and implementation of shared value CHINA strategies among leading companies, civil society, and government organizations. Lilly is also a member of the NCD Alliance, a global thought leader that brings the voice of communities and KENYA civil society to policy and practice related to NCDs. Lilly participates in Access Accelerated, a first-of-itskind, industry-driven collaboration focused on improving NCD care through new models of partnerships and multiMEXICO stakeholder engagement. GLOBAL HEALTH PARTNERSHIP SOUTH AFRICA The Lilly Global Health Partnership advances more than 20 years of Lilly’s global health work that seeks to improve access and care. Under new leadership and with increased strategic focus in 2018, the work is centered U.S. on developing collaborations with a variety of partners to expand access to quality care for people living in resource-limited settings. HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 22 L I L LY G L O B A L H E A LT H PA R T N E R S H I P H I G H L I G H T S PA RT N E R CO U N T R Y APPROACH E X P E CT E D I M PA C T CARLOS SLIM FOUNDATION MEXICO Developing a screening algorithm Screening algorithm that could reduce and treatment protocol for women costs to the health system while retaining with gestational diabetes at more women in care primary-care clinics CLINICAS DEL MEXICO Implementing a randomized control trial Policy recommendation to help people AZUCAR FOUNDATION to test key drivers for keeping people in a with diabetes remain in primary care cascade of care using a “one-stop shop” model for diabetes ADVANCED ACCESS SOUTH Creating a multi-year project aimed at Integrated care whereby patients with TB AND DELIVERY, AFRICA integrating diabetes and hypertension are screened for diabetes and linked to INTERACTIVE RESEARCH care with existing TB and HIV programs care; increased awareness about the risk AND DEVELOPMENT, AND factors associated with TB, diabetes, SOUTH AFRICA MEDICAL and hypertension RESEARCH COUNCIL UNIVERSITY OF PRETORIA SOUTH Testing insulin initiation at primary Improved access to care for diabetes AFRICA care clinics in Pretoria to drive patients close to their communities patient-centered care, incorporating a randomized control trial approach AMPATH KENYA Bringing screening and care for Improved early detection of cervical diabetes and cervical cancer closer and breast cancer; improved care to the communities where affected management at the community level and people live, and increasing awareness more effective use of scarce specialtythrough worker-led, community health treatment facilities; increased campaigns in three counties, funded cancer awareness and screening within by the Lilly Foundation local communities RICHARD M. FAIRBANK UNITED Using an approach common in global Increased screening for those at high SCHOOL OF PUBLIC STATES health programs outside the United risk of diabetes, improved access HEALTH AND MARION States, in 2018 Lilly launched a pilot and continuity of care for people with COUNTY PUBLIC community outreach program that diabetes, and fostering a physical HEALTH DEPARTMENT, deploys community health workers with and social environment that supports AMONG OTHERS the goal of combating type 2 diabetes diabetes control and prevention in three of Indianapolis’s most at-risk neighborhoods in partnership with local stakeholders and educators HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 23 AMPATH LILLY PARTNERSHIP GROWS TO REACH MORE PEOPLE For more than 15 years, Lilly and the Lilly Foundation have partnered with AMPATH, an African medical consortium, providing support and funding to help AMPATH provide medicines and quality health care to people living in western Kenya. The growing partnership has played an important role in helping AMPATH build Kenya’s first system of sustainable care for the communities it serves—services that would otherwise be out of reach for the many people there who live on less than $1 a day. In 2018, Lilly donated nearly $24 million in medicines to AMPATH. AMPATH, which stands for Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare, was created in 2001 in response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in western Kenya. AMPATH is built on a partnership with Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and the Moi University School of Medicine in Eldoret, Kenya, and a consortium of North American academic health centers, led by Indiana University. AMPATH has continually expanded its successful approach in treating HIV/ AIDS (including diagnosis, treatment, and patient support) to more diseases, including diabetes, hypertension, and cancer. Today, AMPATH serves a NANCY ODARI population of more than 8 million people in Kenya at more than 500 clinical Cancer Survivor sites—from village health centers and dispensaries, to county hospitals, to Eldoret, Kenya the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret, where the organization is headquartered. To date, AMPATH has trained 2,600 Kenyan medical professional and community health workers, building local knowledge and service capacity. Support and funding from Lilly and the Lilly Foundation—along with numerous other organizations and individuals—are allowing AMPATH to screen, treat, and provide palliative care to more people than ever before. Part of this vital support is directed to AMPATH’s Oncology Institute, which NANCY’S PURPOSE opened in 2009 with a single physician and nurse offering services in a tent Pastor, former nurse, mother, and in an alley behind AMPATH’s main building. Public-private partnerships, cancer warrior who supports others including Lilly’s support with a $1 million training-and-education grant over on their journey—Nancy Odari is four years, have allowed the institute to expand into a permanent facility, all of these and more. “I want to including 14 additional clinics and numerous oncology-trained clinicians. encourage people to know that having cancer is not the end of life. In 2018, the institute received more than 10,000 patient visits. But demand It’s a new start of life.” far outstrips supply: the institute is one of only two cancer centers in Kenya, meaning that nearly half of the country’s 49 million people must rely on it for Nancy received early diagnosis and screening and care. To help address this gap, the Lilly Foundation committed treatment for breast cancer thanks an additional $3.5 million, from 2016 through 2021, to fund breast and to community health screenings cervical cancer screenings. The screenings include mobile outreach for rural through AMPATH, Lilly’s global areas, and had reached 35,000 people as of September 2018. health partner in Kenya. Through product and financial donations, Lilly Lilly also sends employees to volunteer with AMPATH through the company’s and the Lilly Foundation support the Connecting Hearts Abroad program. Employees help support AMPATH’s AMPATH consortium, including the mobile screening efforts that reach people like Nancy Odari. launch of AMPATH’s oncology center Since 2002, Lilly has committed nearly $150 million in product donations and mobile screening program for to AMPATH, helping to dramatically reduce what were once frequent breast and cervical cancer. Today, shortages of medicines that resulted in people being turned away from Nancy helps others get screening clinics. Within the health system, AMPATH and Lilly have worked with the for early detection. “In every life, Kenyan government to develop innovative solutions to improve the overall you know there’s a purpose for it.” donation process, minimize delays, and improve the availability of muchneeded medicines. This includes the creation of a novel system which helps ensure that donated medicines will be available on a sustainable basis after government supplies are depleted. The model was first used for Lilly insulin, and helped to improve the availability of the medicine from 30 percent to 90 percent in western Kenya. This subsidized, but incentivized, pharmacy model has since been expanded to include most essential medicines, with similarly strong results. HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 24 FROM GLOBAL TO LOCAL: BRINGING The data-driven, $7 million, five-year program builds on THE LESSONS BACK HOME TO INDIANA similar approaches used throughout the world, including initiatives that Lilly and its partners have supported in In the spring of 2018, Lilly joined forces with local Mexico, India, and South Africa. The pilot focuses on organizations to launch a new pilot program with the goal three Indianapolis neighborhoods with significant health of using community outreach to combat type 2 diabetes disparities and high rates of diabetes: the Coalition of in three of the city’s most at-risk neighborhoods. Lead Northeast Neighborhoods, Northwest Neighborhood, and partner, the Richard M. Fairbanks School of Public Health Near Westside Neighborhood. at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI), is joined by the Eskenazi Health system, the Life expectancy in these three communities can be 14 Marion County Public Health Department, and the Local years lower than in neighborhoods just 10 miles away. Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) Indianapolis. The lower life expectancy rate is largely due to health disparities and is similar to rates seen in countries AV E R A G E L I F E E X P E C TA N C Y W I T H I N such as Iraq and Bangladesh. The Indianapolis pilot 10 MILES IN INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA will target both those with diabetes and those at high risk for developing the disease. In the three target neighborhoods, an estimated 10,000 people already 83.5 live with diabetes, with prevalence rates as high as 17.5 percent. By comparison, the diabetes prevalence rates in YEARS nearby communities in Indianapolis is as low as 5 percent. 96TH The pilot is powered by newly-hired community healthcare workers to help identify people with diabetes 86TH and connect them with quality care. In addition, community members will help identify and propose solutions for the cultural, social, environmental, economic, and policy barriers that increase the risk for diabetes, such as the lack of healthy food options and public spaces for exercise. 75TH The pilot uses Lilly’s global health framework, which includes studying key research questions, reporting what works and what doesn’t, and then using the data to advocate for the scale-up of the most effective solutions. The program will contribute to Lilly 30x30, the company’s goal to create new access to quality health care for 10 MILES 30 million people in underserved communities on an annual basis by 2030. It also directly supports the 2018 Indiana government drive to require the development of a 52ND statewide strategic action plan to significantly reduce the prevalence of diabetes. Lilly and its partners are testing the hypothesis that the implementation of a multi-pronged community health 38TH model will reduce complications for those with diabetes and reduce risk factors for those considered at high risk for developing the disease. Specifically, the pilot aims to: 30TH • Increase screening requests by those at high risk for diabetes; • Improve access and continuity of care for people with 22ND diabetes; and, • Foster a physical and social environment that supports diabetes control and prevention, such as better access 69.4 to healthy food and exercise options. YEARS Learn more about this program by visiting 10TH diabetes.iupui.edu. HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 25 “ Despite all our strengths and assets, Indiana ranks 38th among states for overall health status. Through this effort, we are applying what we’ve learned from our global health work in underserved communities around the world with the expertise of our local partners and the passion of the people living in these neighborhoods. Together we’re going to find new solutions for closing these health disparity gaps.” DAVE RICKS | LILLY CHAIRMAN AND CEO PRODUCT DONATIONS registered and more than 9,000 patients were helped through the two programs launched in 2014 and From natural disasters to helping people with limited 2015, respectively. resources, Lilly donates medicines to vulnerable people and communities worldwide. We work with leading partners to identify when Lilly products are needed and DISASTER RELIEF to ensure our medicines can reach the greatest number When major disasters strike, Lilly responds with cash of people who need them. and product contributions to help people in desperate situations. Every disaster is different, and immediate Life for a Child needs in the aftermath vary. When responding, Lilly Since 2008, Lilly has donated 1.8 million vials of insulin donates items that are specifically requested by relief to the Life for a Child partnership. The program currently agencies, and we partner with those agencies to provides access to care, education, and life-saving maximize our donations and ensure contributions get to medicines and supplies to nearly 20,000 children with the people who need them most. diabetes in 42 developing countries. In 2018 alone, Lilly In 2018, Lilly responded to two powerful hurricanes, insulin donated through this program helped young Florence and Michael, that struck the Carolinas and people in more than 30 less-resourced countries. The Florida, as well as to the devastation caused by the program has also established new evidence regarding wildfires in California. During these difficult times, the outcomes for children affected by type 1 diabetes in Lilly donated $1.85 million in medicines, and the Lilly less-resourced countries and, in some countries, has Foundation contributed nearly $350,000 in cash for helped catalyze national awareness and policy change recovery efforts, including matched contributions from that has helped make the disease a government priority. Lilly employees. PATIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS Lilly also continued its partnership with Direct Relief’s It is important to us to ensure that those who can benefit Hurricane Preparedness Program (HPP) to help stock from our medicines have access to them. One way we hospitals and clinics with essential supplies needed do this in the United States is by donating to the Lilly to meet the needs of patients immediately following Cares Foundation Patient Assistance Program, also a hurricane. Since 2009, Lilly has provided HPP with known as Lilly Cares. This program is operated by the medicines so that they are prepositioned and ready-forLilly Cares Foundation, a separate nonprofit organization use in communities impacted by hurricanes and major created to assist qualifying patients in obtaining certain storms. In 2018, Lilly donated $1.1 million in product to Lilly medications at no cost. In 2018, Lilly Cares helped this critical program. more than 120,000 people in the United States obtain the Lilly medications they needed in the areas of mental health, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, men’s health, osteoporosis, arthritis, cancer, psoriasis, migraine, and growth hormone disorders. In China, Lilly offers patient assistance programs for oncology and osteoporosis patients. Products are donated to the China Primary Health Care Foundation through which patients qualify and receive their medicine. In 2018, more than 3,000 new patients were HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 26 Partnering with Project Hope in Puerto Rico In the wake of the devastation that followed Hurricane Maria in 2017, much of Puerto Rico—where Lilly has two manufacturing facilities—continued to struggle in 2018 with infrastructure challenges, such as spotty electricity and disrupted access to medical care and health support services. In the face of these challenges, we maintained our commitment to helping Puerto Rico recover, sending two teams of medical professionals to the island—including nurses and diabetes educators—to volunteer. For this effort, we partnered with the international nonprofit organization Project HOPE, through Lilly’s Connecting Hearts Abroad global service program. The specialized skills-based volunteer program allowed Lilly physicians, scientists, and other healthcare professionals to apply their expertise and passion to directly impact people with, or at risk for, diabetes in communities outside of the San Juan and Ponce metropolitan areas, both heavily affected by the hurricane. Outreach services are critical in the posthurricane context, as the storm significantly disrupted access to many healthcare services and referral networks. Even prior to the hurricane, the burden of chronic diseases among adults in Puerto Rico was exceptionally high. Approximately 40 percent of adults are hypertensive and nearly 16 percent have diabetes. When it struck, Hurricane Maria exposed preexisting challenges in Puerto Rico—and created new ones—further limiting access to quality healthcare services, medications, healthy food, and clean drinking water in an already overburdened public sector. For those on the island living with diabetes, or at risk for the disease, the effects of Hurricane Maria have complicated their ability to get access to adequate care and treatment, as well as vital self-management programs. Patients who are able to acquire insulin—which requires refrigeration—face ongoing storage challenges due to a persistent lack of reliable power. Although maintaining a healthy diet is a critical component of successfully managing diabetes, as well as hypertension, many in Puerto Rico are routinely without access to fresh fruits and vegetables. In response, Lilly designed its program to address challenges at multiple levels, supporting those in need of immediate help, as well as working alongside local partners to strengthen the healthcare system overall. Lilly volunteers conducted diabetes screenings and testing, health education, and treatment support. They also helped train local healthcare providers and provided support for a community garden initiative to help ensure families have access to healthy food options. L I L LY ’ S C O N N E C T I N G H E A R T S A B R O A D P R O G R A M : I M PACT I N P U E RTO R I CO 29 990 3,350 E M P LOY E E VO LU N T E E R S PAT I E N T S R E AC H E D HOURS SERVED Programs PATIENT SUPPORT PROGRAMS Lilly provides more than 150 patient support programs Through Lilly 30x30, we are strengthening existing across 51 countries that reach close to 2 million people programs and developing new approaches that help annually. Our patient support programs are primarily people in resource-limited settings get greater access designed to support people who are taking Lilly to Lilly products and services. These efforts include medicines as well as their caregivers and loved ones. exploring and expanding alternative business models that These programs comprise three categories: answering create shared value for society and Lilly, pricing strategies, questions related to living with disease and managing patient support programs, and product donations. health, providing information about our medicines and HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 27 training about proper use of our devices, and supporting molecules, including one to the first clinical study patients through reimbursement and product access involving humans, which is a major milestone in drug issues. In an effort to expand access to our medicines, development, and another to the point of assembling Lilly designs and supports programs that take into a data package for submission to the U.S Food and consideration a patient’s income level and ability to pay. Drug Administration. The partnership breaks from traditional R&D practices in that the participating companies work together to develop the best Pipeline prospects, regardless of where the drug originated. Through our 30x30 pipeline efforts, Lilly is taking a multifaceted approach to find new medicines or new indications for existing medications to address diseases that disproportionately affect people living in resourcelimited settings. This includes efforts to: • Review our current and legacy products, and research and development (R&D) capabilities, through the 30x30 lens • Identify and explore external partnerships and business development models that support Lilly 30x30 LILLY’S WORK IN MULTIDRUG-RESISTANT TUBERCULOSIS Building on our legacy of more than 20 years of work to reduce the burden of tuberculosis (TB), Lilly continues to support discovery efforts aimed at accelerating the next generation of TB medicines with the understanding that more effective medicines with fewer side effects are desperately needed. Our work includes support for the following: • The Lilly TB Drug Discovery Initiative: a nonprofit, public-private partnership with a mission to accelerate early-stage drug discovery and develop clinical candidates by bringing together specialists from around the world for the systematic exploration of vast, private molecular libraries—including Lilly’s. • Infectious Disease Research Institute (IDRI): a nonprofit that applies innovative science to develop products to eliminate infectious diseases of global importance. Lilly has committed more than $35 million in funding and in-kind contributions to IDRI from 2008 through 2021. Funders include Lilly, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the World Health Organization, and GlaxoSmithKline. • TB Drug Accelerator (TBDA): a groundbreaking partnership between eight pharmaceutical companies and seven research organizations with support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation focusing on finding a TB regimen that cures patients in just one month. The partnership has advanced several HUMAN RIGHTS | PAGE 28 LABOR To solve some of the toughest challenges in medicine, we need the most innovative ideas from the best talent in the world. Our company’s values—integrity, excellence, and respect for people—shape our approach to attracting and developing a highly skilled and ethical workforce. We are committed to fairness and nondiscrimination in our employment practices, and we value diverse backgrounds, skills, and global perspectives. Lilly is a place where employees can enjoy meaningful work, build successful careers, and be part of a caring, inclusive team working with shared purpose to create medicines that make life better for people around the world. In this section, we discuss our efforts to provide employees with a safe, supportive, and rewarding work environment, and to offer fair compensation, training, and career development. We highlight our commitment to maintaining a workplace that upholds all applicable labor standards and is free from coercion, discrimination, and retaliation. We also underscore our efforts to promote diversity and inclusion within our company, as a reflection of our values and a key driver of business success and growth. INTRO | HUMAN RIGHTS | LABOR | H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | ANTI-CORRUPTION SHIFTING OUR CULTURE In 2018, Lilly took a number of actions to build an increasingly collaborative and inclusive workplace culture. We unveiled a new framework to articulate and emphasize four key expectations—include, innovate, accelerate, and deliver—that will help us be the company we strive to be. The framework describes what Lilly expects of its employees and leaders, and what they, in turn, can expect from the company: to be part of a team that cares about them and our shared purpose of making life better for people around the world. To meet our business objectives, the company expects that employees work together, inclusive of colleagues from all perspectives, to speed discovery and development of life-changing medicines, grow revenue for shareholders, and create long-term value. Not only do we want to inspire our employees and attract the best talent, we want those who do business with Lilly to find us trustworthy and easy to work with. We strive to create an environment built on mutual respect, openness, and individual integrity. Respect for people includes our concern for all people who touch or are touched by our company: patients, customers, employees, shareholders, partners, suppliers, and communities. A key factor in creating a positive, dynamic environment for our employees—and in delivering results for our customers—is our focus on diversity and inclusion (D&I). Lilly has taken a research-based approach to D&I in the past several years, clearly highlighting its importance and benefits in our new corporate framework—and we are seeing results. In 2019, we were proud to be one of four companies to receive the prestigious Catalyst Award for two of our signature initiatives—our Employee Journeys and People Strategy. Read more about our diversity and inclusion initiatives later in this section. LABOR | PAGE 30 LILLY’S SUPPORT OF LABOR STANDARDS The UN Global Compact’s principles state, in part, that both adults and children should be free from compulsory or coerced labor, and that people should have the right to associate freely and bargain collectively. Lilly fully supports these standards that are upheld in U.S. law. Freedom of Association and Forced and Child Labor Right to Collective Bargaining Lilly maintains a long-standing practice of complying with local minimum-age laws and requirements and does not Lilly recognizes the importance of freedom of association employ child labor, or forced or compulsory labor, in any in the workplace and respects the right of our employees of our facilities globally. In 2011, Lilly revised our global to join associations of their own choosing. We interact standards and procedures to include specific language with works councils and unions in several countries; we about human rights, including our expectation that support these bodies and work productively with them. vendors to Lilly abide by Lilly’s human rights standards The vast majority of our workers globally are not covered as one piece of our Supplier Code of Conduct. under traditional collective-bargaining agreements. In some countries where we operate, governments mandate working conditions, such as salary increases, minimum wages, bonuses, number of weekly working hours, vacation time, and overtime rates. These vary by country, and we follow these mandates wherever they are required. Several of our affiliates have employee councils that meet regularly with management to discuss workforcerelated issues that directly impact them, such as company policies and organizational changes. As laws and guidelines change wherever we operate, we will continue to work with employees, advocacy groups, and governing bodies to maintain compliance and respect the right of free association. LABOR | PAGE 31 PAY AND BENEFITS At Lilly, we support a culture of well-being by providing competitive pay, comprehensive employee benefit programs, training and development resources, and opportunities for employees to serve in their communities and around the world. Lilly is committed to ensuring pay equity for all of our employees. We comply with local legislative analyses and reporting requirements globally; for many years, we have regularly conducted pay-equity studies in the United States. In 2018, we broadened these efforts to include Lilly employees in Brazil, China, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom. The results were favorable, with a small percentage of employees receiving an adjustment. While our company’s programs vary around the globe, we take a holistic approach to our employee benefits. These may include flexible work arrangements; on-site conveniences, such as cafes, fitness centers, and child care; competitive timeoff programs; retirement benefits; and health and disability programs that are available to eligible employees when they need support. In some locations, certain benefits are extended to family members. Read more in our Employee Well-Being at Lilly section. EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING Keeping our people safe and healthy—whether at home or at work—is one of our highest priorities and aligns directly with our company values. We realize that the journey toward safety excellence never ends, and we are constantly evaluating approaches to improve our programs and to integrate injury prevention into everyday work. At Lilly, employee safety and well-being are managed by our Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) team. For more information, see our discussion in Employee Safety. LABOR | PAGE 32 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT Another way Lilly invests in its employees is through learning and development. Continued learning and growth is essential for individuals to stay engaged in their work, to develop their careers, and to be the best contributors they can be for Lilly. This further helps our company fulfill its purpose. We offer the training our employees need to do their jobs in the highly regulated pharmaceutical industry. We also provide training about corporate policies, such as those contained in our code of conduct. And we work to cultivate a culture of lifelong learning by encouraging employees to seek ongoing education and growth experiences, helping them to build careers that are rewarding both personally and professionally. Because Lilly’s work extends through business areas and functions across the entire breadth of our industry’s value cycle— medicine discovery, development, manufacturing, and marketing—a single career might include opportunities in several areas of interest, or several different geographies. To help individuals navigate these opportunities, we offer access to learning and development programs that can assist individuals looking to acquire the new skills needed to achieve career aspirations. Strong leadership is an important part of a thriving company. To invest in leaders at Lilly, we offer continuous learning and development opportunities for supervisors at all levels of the company to develop skills and apply strategies to become more inclusive, and to help their teams become more collaborative and effective. U.S. WORKFORCE ETHNIC DIVERSITY 23% MINORITY EMPLOYEES 9% 8% 4% 2% ASIAN A F R I CA N A M E R I CA N L AT I N O OT H E R G E N D E R D I V E R S I T Y AT L I L LY I N 2 0 1 8 36% FIVE OF FOURTEEN MEMBERS LEADERSHIP POSITIONS 2 ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 42% 58% WOMEN MEN ARE WOMEN 25.7% 1 IS THE AVERAGE FOR GLOBAL WORKFORCE 48% 52% FORTUNE 100 COMPANIES WOMEN MEN LILLY ALSO HAS SIX WOMEN ON ITS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 43% U.S. WORKFORCE WOMEN MEN 49% 51% 1. 2020 Women on Boards, 2018 Gender Diversity Index. 2. Percentage of those who supervise others or hold high-level strategic roles. LABOR | PAGE 33 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION: A KEY ELEMENT OF OUR CULTURE At Lilly, we care about our people. All of them. Embracing diversity at Lilly means understanding, respecting, and valuing differences, including race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability status, work style, national origin, and age. We believe that a diverse, inclusive culture provides fertile ground for scientific and clinical innovation, and also sparks new customer insights. Our commitment to diversity spans not only our workplace, but also shapes our understanding of the marketplace, and our relationships with our suppliers. We’re inspired to make a difference in people’s lives every day—through the discovery of life-changing medicines, better understanding of disease management, and support for people living with illness. We do this with a commitment to diversity and inclusion because we recognize that every individual is unique. This perspective helps us to attract and retain the best talent from around the world—people from all backgrounds, who can understand the perspectives of our diverse customers. Our efforts to build a more diverse and inclusive workforce at Lilly have gained momentum since we began a research initiative to better understand the lived experiences of women and minorities at Lilly. The research program called Employee Journeys resulted in a subsequent set of programs known as our People Strategy. In recognition of this work, we recently won the 2019 Catalyst Award—a prestigious global honor that evaluates companies’ recruitment, development, and advancement initiatives with a focus on proven, measurable results that benefit women across a range of dimensions—including race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, nationality, and disability. After a rigorous examination of initiatives, Catalyst, a global nonprofit, conducts intensive on-site evaluations to hear from leaders and employees across the company about their experiences. About the Employee “imposter syndrome”—secretly feeling as though their qualifications weren’t enough. Issues of authenticity were Journeys: Listening raised—where some minorities and women reported and Learning feeling pressure to act in ways that don’t reflect their own unique perspectives. Women of color, especially, said Beginning in 2015, we took the research process we use they sometimes felt invisible. to understand patients and turned it inward to better We shared the results with all Lilly employees, understand the lived experiences, or journeys, of our developing a common language to help colleagues employees: the enablers and barriers they experience in more easily relate to and understand one another’s their careers. This qualitative and quantitative research— individual and cultural experiences and perceptions. first focusing on women and then focusing on African The result has been a strong, companywide network of Americans, Asians, and Latinos—yielded themes we D&I champions, and a new appreciation of the value of called “moments of truth.” different perspectives. This research revealed that cultural and gender differences were affecting the way some employees reported being seen and heard—or not. Many women, for example, reported experiencing something called LABOR | PAGE 34 “ By understanding our employees’ journeys, we’re paving the way for more inclusion and career growth for everyone—and more innovation for our patients. And we’ve just begun.” DAVE RICKS | LILLY CHAIRMAN AND CEO People Strategy: It’s important to note that these aren’t quotas. We are making progress by focusing on developing talented Taking Action people from all backgrounds to further their careers. For every open position at Lilly, we require a diverse pool of Building a more inclusive culture doesn’t happen by candidates and a diverse set of interviewers. This helps itself. It requires focus and action. To that end, in 2017 us ensure that leaders look beyond their own comfort and 2018, we created and implemented a set of initiatives zone for the most qualified candidate available for each called the People Strategy to address what we found open role. in our research, and to further embed D&I into our internal talent systems and processes. We undertook and We also established new expectations for managers to expanded several significant D&I strategies in 2018: lead more inclusively by valuing differences, recognizing and overcoming bias, and fostering a speak-up culture. • We continued our Employee Journey research and Our performance management process and Pulse survey analysis to understand the diverse experiences of to gauge employee feedback are measurements we use our employees. to hold our leaders accountable. • We reviewed our talent management programs We’ve expanded training programs for leaders globally, to through the lens of D&I to assess and address help them develop skills to support conscious inclusion hidden biases while ensuring greater transparency and psychological safety. Several thousand leaders have about requirements for career development participated in one or both of these programs so far. and advancement. We’ve also begun a new cultural literacy program for all employees. Top leaders have long sponsored employees • Knowing that D&I starts with representation across who have the aspiration and the ability to lead at Lilly in our workforce, we set aspirational recruiting goals the future. This sponsorship initiative has been expanded for women globally and minorities in the United to involve more senior leaders with high-potential States. Through 2018, we exceeded both goals employees from majority and minority groups with key and reset guidance for 2019 in line with labor talents, to help guide and support their careers. pool availability. • For management roles across the enterprise, we held ourselves accountable for progress by setting External Efforts aspirational goals to increase representation for women globally and minorities in the United States. Our commitment to diversity goes beyond our employees. We maintain a presence at top colleges and universities • Between early 2017 and the end of 2018, the total and work with a wide range of professional associations number of women in management grew, increasing to recruit a diverse workforce. We also attract top talent our overall representation of women in these roles to through an extensive global MBA internship program. 42 percent, meeting our goal. And the number of women on our Executive Committee—leaders who We partner with advocacy groups, professional societies, report directly to the CEO—climbed from 29 percent community organizations, public and private healthcare to 43 percent over that time. We also met our goals administrators, and others to help reduce health for increasing the percentage of minorities in disparities and to address the unique healthcare needs management. We are currently re-evaluating to set of all communities. Our commitment to diversity and new goals. inclusion also extends through the full spectrum of our business, including our clinical trial strategies and our supply chain. LABOR | PAGE 35 Global Impact Employee Resource Groups We understand that diversity means different things One key element of our inclusive culture is our Employee around the globe. Our leadership teams formulate Resource Groups (ERGs), which help us connect with the their diversity strategies by considering our corporate diversity of our patients and customers around the world. perspective and then customizing their own plans In 2018, the ERGs that represent our Latino, African based on local demographics and culture. For example, American, and Asian employees played key leadership some build plans that are related to gender, provincial, roles in our Employee Journeys. generational, and/or disability diversity. In recent years, Lilly’s ERGs have been expanding into Lilly’s senior vice president for human resources and areas with a more direct business impact, becoming even diversity reports directly to our chairman and CEO. more central to our company’s success. For example, And our Code of Business Conduct, The Red Book, also our ERGs frequently consult on marketing and workplace summarizes our approach to creating an inclusive, programs. They also assist with corporate executive nondiscriminatory environment. training programs on topics such as cultural awareness and inclusion. When colleagues from other backgrounds are preparing for global assignments, ERG members help them understand the customs and culture of 2018 RECOGNITION their destination country. Lilly ERGs also participate in recruiting events at universities and career fairs to help CATALYST: 2019 Catalyst Award Recipient us attract diverse prospective employees, fellows, and interns. JUST CAPITAL: America’s Most Just Companies, No. 58 ERGs include members representing all levels of the ETHISPHERE: company, and each ERG has a senior leader as an World’s Most Ethical Companies, 2017, 2018 and 2019 executive sponsor, someone who takes an active role in ERG events and activities. This means that ERG members THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION INDEX have interactions with leaders they might otherwise never meet, which offers opportunities for informal or WORKING MOTHER MAGAZINE: 100 Best Companies for formal mentoring relationships. Working Mothers, 24 consecutive years At Lilly, ERGs support an inclusive workplace DIVERSITY INC.: 2018 Top 50 Companies for environment by: Diversity, No. 5 • Creating cross-cultural learning opportunities FORTUNE MAGAZINE: World’s Most Admired Companies • Providing networking and cultural support among NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FEMALE EXECUTIVES: employees with common backgrounds or interests Top Companies for Executive Women • Offering experiences for employees from diverse HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION: backgrounds to build leadership skills Corporate Equality Index—Perfect Score About 14,600 Lilly employees are members of at least one of our 11 ERGs, which include more than 75 chapters BLACK ENTERPRISE MAGAZINE: located at Lilly offices, research sites, and manufacturing Best Companies for Diversity operations around the world. SCIENCE MAGAZINE: Science 2018 Top 20 Employers DAVE THOMAS FOUNDATION: Best Adoption-Friendly Workplaces LATINO MAGAZINE: Latino 100—Best Places for Latinos to Work LABOR | PAGE 36 EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS IN 2018 E M P LOY E E R E S O U R C E G R O U P S A R E C R I T I CA L LY I M P O RTA N T TO O U R CO M PA N Y ’ S B U S I N E S S S T R AT E GY. 11 14,600 75 E M P LOY E E MEMBERS S AT E L L I T E RESOURCE GROUPS G R O U P S G LO B A L LY LGBTQ Employees at Lilly Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) people, and those with other sexual and gender identities, are an important segment of Lilly’s workforce. In the United States, we are required to collect data on the race, gender, and ethnicity of our employees, as well as those who are military veterans or have disabilities— but there is no legal mandate for similar data collection on sexual orientation or gender identity. Many leading U.S. employers and colleges have implemented voluntary LGBTQ self-identification programs. We invite employees in the United States and the United Kingdom to voluntarily self-identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer (LGBTQ), or heterosexual. We believe self-identification is a good practice that, where permitted by country-specific laws and culture, can help Lilly make progress toward a more diverse and inclusive workplace. LABOR | PAGE 37 SUPPLIER DIVERSITY We believe that doing business with a diverse set of suppliers delivers value to the company and creates a competitive advantage for us by linking the fresh perspectives and nimble thinking of ethnically diverse, women-owned, and/or small businesses to our internal business needs. Diverse suppliers are defined as those with at least 51 percent ownership and control by an ethnic minority, a woman, or someone who is LGBTQ. Small suppliers are defined as per U.S. Small Business Administration small business size standards. We actively seek to expand relationships with these types of suppliers, which we view as an often-untapped source of talent. In 2018, we spent $529 million with 619 suppliers classified as diverse, woman-owned, and/or LGBTQ-owned businesses, as well as more than $530 million with more than 1,640 suppliers classified as small businesses. During its last audit of Lilly in 2016, the U.S. Small Business Administration awarded Lilly an “outstanding” rating in our efforts to promote and maintain supplier diversity, which is the highest recognition possible. 2018 S U P P L I E R D I V E R S I T Y I M PACT E L I L I L LY A N D C O M PA N Y I S C O M M I T T E D TO P R OV I D I N G O P P O RT U N I T I E S TO M I N O R I T Y, W O M E N , V E T E R A N , LG BTQ A N D S M A L L B U S I N E S S E S T H R O U G H I T S S U P P L I E R D I V E R S I T Y P R OG R A M . SMALL AND G H L I L LY ’ S S U U IN CO ME DI VER SE SPE ND RO P P $699M T TH LI ER $655.8M O N O M I C I M PA Earnings by people in the Spending with minority, DIV $1.8B jobs in Lilly’s supply chain women, veteran, LGBTQ ERSITY P and their communities C & small businesses EC RO 8 G JOBS SUPPO RTE D 01 RA TAX E S 2 M 11,513 $605.3M Total jobs supported Federal, state and local through Lilly’s supplier personal and corporate diversity spending taxes generated due to the economic activity LABOR | PAGE 38 HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT Making medicines that help people live longer, healthier, more active lives requires the use of valuable resources, such as energy, water, and raw materials. At Lilly, we believe that promoting a healthy environment, maintaining a safe workplace, and operating responsibly and in an environmentally sustainable manner are linked to our business and supported by our mission and values. As a result, Lilly manages health, safety, and the environment (HSE) under a unified governance structure. We strive to understand and systematically address the human behaviors and choices that can improve HSE performance. We encourage responsible action at every point in our value chain: from the researchers who explore complicated chemical reactions, to the manufacturers who may work with hazardous substances, to the administrators who manage complex regulatory responsibilities. This section covers the broad range of our HSE activities, from our approach and management systems, to our work addressing environmental and safety issues across our value chain, to performance data and examples demonstrating our progress. INTRO | HUMAN RIGHTS | LABOR | H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | ANTI-CORRUPTION LILLY’S POLICY ON PROTECTING PEOPLE, THE ENVIRONMENT, AND OUR ASSETS We strive to maintain a secure workplace and to protect people and the communities in which we operate and serve. We are focused on continuously improving our health and safety practices to promote the well-being of our people. We are committed to conducting business in a responsible and environmentally sustainable manner. We are committed to a robust security culture to protect our people and brand from harm, and our assets from loss, theft, or damage. Each Lilly employee is responsible for implementing our security practices and applying them in our daily activities. In 2018, Lilly scored a rating of Aon climate change and B on water from CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project. CDP is the world’s largest repository of environmental management information. It allows companies and their stakeholders to assess environmental performance. For CDP, a score of A or Ais considered “leading” level, and a score of B is considered “managing” level. M A N A G I N G E N V I R O N M E N TA L P E R F O R M A N C E A C R O S S THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE Materials, water, and energy, HSE management system and standards Research and Development Materials and Natural Resources Manufacturing We consider environmental factors Our stakeholders, including Our HSE committee oversees from the earliest stages of design and customers, governments, and sustainability performance and development. We use the 12 principles suppliers worldwide, are increasingly compliance with applicable HSE of green chemistry, environmental risk focused on the materials and regulations, policies, procedures, and assessments, packaging manufacturing chemicals used to make products. standards while ensuring we continually reviews, and an Environmental We have a chemical management measure, report, and reduce Lilly’s Development Review process to program and work to reduce our use environmental impacts associated evaluate potential environmental of materials, water, and other natural with our own as well as contract impacts during the scale-up of human resources when possible. manufacturing organizations. health pharmaceutical production to manufacturing levels. Sales and Marketing Product Transport and Packaging Product Use At many Lilly sales and marketing We consider many factors in Lilly is committed to understanding offices worldwide, we manage projects selecting product packaging, the potential effects of pharmaceutical to improve environmental performance including sustainability aspects such products in the environment. We while increasing employee awareness as materials use and recyclability. support using science-based and action. Lilly continually works to evaluations to assess and reduce improve the fuel efficiency of our the environmental risks of our sales force fleet through vehicle pharmaceutical products. Through choice and optimization of driving and collaborations with industry partners, work practices. These efforts also academic researchers, and regulatory reduce associated greenhouse gas agencies, we continually work to further (GHG) emissions. understand and proactively address any potential impacts from our products. Product End-of-Life Due to patient safety considerations and medicine regulations, reuse and recycling are not applicable to our products. We are working with stakeholders to ensure cost-effective approaches are available for product end-of-life disposal that balance environmental protection, patient privacy, legal compliance, and security. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 40 L I L LY ’ S 2 0 2 0 E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D S A F E T Y G O A L S ENVIRONMENT 20% 20% 15% 20% Reduction in Improvement in Reduction of Improvement in greenhouse gas energy efficiency2 phosphorus emissions waste efficiency5 emissions1,2,3 (baseline 2012) in wastewater4 while increasing recycling rate (baseline 2012) (baseline 2014) above 70% and decreasing waste to landfill below 10% of total waste (baseline 2012) PROGRESS THROUGH 2018 12.7% 0.7% 34.4% 34% Reduction Improvement Reduction Improvement recycling rate increased to 55%, waste-to-landfill decreased to 21% SAFETY LILLY’S SAFETY PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE In 2013, we established new interim goals for the three occupational safety metrics we track: recordable injuries, lost-time injuries, and motor vehicle collision rate. These goals were developed to reduce our injury rates across a seven-year period: 2014–2020. 0.70 0.25 Lost-time 12% Total recordable injury rate Motor vehicle injury rate collision rate6 R E C O R DA B L E I N J U RY A N D LO S T-T I M E I N J U RY R AT E M OTO R V E H I C L E C O L L I S I O N RECORDABLE LOST-TIME YEAR YEAR MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE6 INJURY RATE INJURY RATE 2020 GOAL 0.70 0.25 2020 GOAL 12% 2018 0.79 0.27 2018 15% 2017 0.82 0.28 2017 15% 2016 0.93 0.32 2016 16% 2015 0.88 0.27 2015 16% 2014 0.90 0.36 2014 18% 2007 1.44 0.60 2007 25% 1 Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward the greenhouse gas reduction goal is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. 2 Per square foot of site space. 3 This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions related to site-purchased energy (e.g., electricity, natural gas, steam, and chilled water) and on-site fuel combustion. 4 In absolute terms. 5 Per unit of production or site-relevant index. Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “beneficially reused” without extensive processing. 6 A new goal for measuring motor vehicle collisions was established in 2015. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 41 HSE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE HSE management at Lilly is integrated through a formal, companywide structure, including the following groups and individuals: • Global HSE committee, which includes senior executives from key areas of the business, ensures proper oversight, and plays a central role in monitoring corporate HSE strategy, compliance performance and performance against goals, as well as continuous improvement; • Vice President responsible for corporate engineering and global HSE, a member of the global HSE committee who works closely with HSE and other functional leaders to ensure an appropriate and thoughtful response to HSE risks and opportunities, monitor emerging and evolving issues, approve appropriate metrics and goals, and oversee compliance with all HSE regulations, policies, procedures, and standards worldwide; • Lilly Research Laboratories HSE committees, which promote safety, health, and environmental aspects across research and development labs; • Affiliates HSE committee, which oversees those elements of HSEDirections programs which affect all affiliates globally; • Manufacturing HSE committee, which supports these efforts and drives ongoing improvement throughout manufacturing; and, • Executives and lead teams in each of our business groups, manufacturing, Lilly Research Laboratories, and general and administrative functions, who ensure good governance and oversee performance for HSE in those areas. Lilly’s HSE Policy Statement, Procedures, and Standards G O V E R N I N G H S E AT L I L LY Lilly has brief, principle-based policy statements that are implemented in two ways: through our global BOARD OF DIRECTORS procedures, which describe basic principles and general expectations; and through our global standards, which provide auditable, detailed requirements. These key EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE governance documents, and our related management systems, together detail Lilly’s HSE management and performance expectations. GLOBAL HSE COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL HSE COMMITTEES H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 42 Lilly’s global policies and standards clearly articulate our commitments and guide our efforts. They include Audits the following: We conduct audits of Lilly sites following protocols for each of our Global HSE Standards as well as regulatory • Protecting People, the Environment, and Our Assets requirements. Our five-year audit plan is updated – Policy Statement: Sets companywide expectations annually and identifies which sites to audit based on risk, for conducting business in a responsible and with sites associated with high-risk operations being environmentally sustainable manner, promoting audited more frequently. This results in annual audits the well-being of employees, and protecting the of approximately 25 to 30 percent of our sites globally. communities in which we operate. In 2018, we audited 18 sites. All audit results are shared • Management System Standard: Defines requirements with senior management, and sites are required to to ensure a robust process is in place within each part respond to all audit observations and track action plans. of the organization to effectively manage compliance We also hosted 71 HSE-related external regulatory with Lilly HSE standards, applicable regulatory agency visits which resulted in no critical observations requirements, and other external HSE standards and no related fines. to which we commit. • Environmental Standard: Provides more detailed requirements and establishes the core governance requirements to manage the environmental and energy-related aspects of our operations. • Health and Safety and Process Safety Standards: Provide requirements for identifying and evaluating workplace hazards and establishing control measures to eliminate or reduce the risk of injuries and illnesses. • Global Engineering Standards: Establish requirements for the design and operation of facilities and equipment, to ensure compliance with internal and external requirements, and responsibly manage environmental aspects of operations. • Product Stewardship Standard: Provides a systematic approach to managing product and process risks throughout the product life cycle, from research and discovery to product end-of-life. Management Systems Our Management System Standard requires that all business areas, including manufacturing, research and development, affiliate locations, and general administrative offices, adhere to an HSE management system that is consistent with third-party standards such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001, Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001, and the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care Management System (RCMS®) standards. Our global HSE management system is periodically reviewed by an independent, accredited auditor to ensure it conforms to the RCMS. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 43 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Lilly takes a broad approach to understanding and actively managing the risks and opportunities associated with HSE issues across the product life cycle. Our Product Stewardship Standard provides a systematic way to manage product and process risks, from the discovery of new medicines through use, to product end-of-life and disposal considerations. Reflecting the breadth of product-related sustainability issues we consider and manage, the Product Stewardship Standard guides us in these areas: • Emerging issues: Identifying, analyzing, and managing environmental issues as they arise; • Procurement: Considering environmental factors in purchasing decisions; • Product discovery: Reviewing internal and external research operations to foster high HSE standards; • Product development: Using inherently safer design principles, such as green chemistry, as well as engineering innovations, to identify and reduce HSE hazards from new production processes where possible; • Product packaging: Reducing the amount of packaging and using environmentally preferred materials, when possible, while satisfying regulatory and customer requirements, meeting marketing objectives, and preserving product integrity; • Distribution: Ensuring safe product transport and warehousing while reducing associated environmental impacts; • Marketing and sales: Working with customers to enhance the patient experience related to product environmental performance; • Suppliers, contract operations, and alliances: Evaluating and influencing the HSE performance of suppliers, contract operations, and alliances; and, • Supply chain management: Establishing plans to ensure business continuity and appropriate emergency response, if needed. Green Chemistry and toxic chemical alternatives where feasible. We explore innovations that can lessen or eliminate potential negative Engineering in Research environmental outputs, which can result from production and Development of a medicine. Green chemistry and engineering have been a focus The research and development phase significantly area at Lilly for many years. We engage in a variety of influences the environmental footprint of pharmaceutical activities, including: manufacturing. At Lilly, we strive to embed environmental innovation early in the product development lifecycle • Eliminating or reducing the hazardous materials used through our focus on green chemistry and end-product to make a product; engineering. Our green chemistry initiatives include developing manufacturing processes that use less• Focusing specifically on removal of substances of very high concern, classified as potentially carcinogenic, H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 44 mutagenic or toxic for reproduction by the European implemented a formal program and screening process to Chemicals Agency; evaluate designated “chemicals of concern” throughout the research and development process. Our process also • Shrinking the waste profiles of certain molecules addresses mitigation steps where new restrictions may through reduced solvent and water use; impact our existing operations. This allows us to ensure that our facilities and supply chain remain in compliance • Increasing the overall efficiency of material use; with chemical management laws. • Advancing the underlying green chemistry of medicine In addition to our green chemistry assessments, during development and making production both safer and the scale-up of medicine production to manufacturing more environmentally friendly through a commitment levels in our human pharmaceutical business, we use to continuous process improvement; and, an Environmental Development Review (EDR) process • Implementing new manufacturing technologies that to evaluate other potential environmental issues and minimize environmental impact, including continuous opportunities. This process identifies and addresses flow processes, which Lilly has worked to advance in potential impacts arising from manufacturing, suggests the pharmaceutical industry. process improvements, and facilitates learning as new medicines transition from the laboratory to the When we are developing a new human medicine at Lilly, manufacturing facility. green chemistry considerations are a complement to other criteria such as quality, cost, and speed to market. EXTERNAL COLLABORATIONS In fact, in most cases green chemistry improvements are Lilly actively pursues wider industry collaborations directly proportional to reduced product costs as these to help advance green chemistry, through a improvements typically deliver higher product quality combination of dialogue and leadership with peer and yield. From the selection of candidate molecules, companies, scientific partnerships, and sponsorship through the identification of manufacturing processes, of research. In 2018, we were involved in the following our established business practices hold our development pre-competitive collaborations: teams accountable for process efficiency, the type and quantity of materials used, and safety. At major • American Chemical Society (ACS) Pharmaceutical milestones, we evaluate success and share feedback with Roundtable: Lilly co-chairs this important group, development teams. We share guidelines, such as the which has grown from three companies in 2005 to 28 Lilly solvent selection guide and safety information, with today. In 2018, Lilly continued to lead a subgroup our external partners to ensure consistent objectives, focused on greener peptide, oligonucleotide, and processes, and outcomes. antibody-drug conjugate development and manufacture. Over the past decade, peptides have Employing green chemistry and engineering, we have shown great potential as therapeutic targets in been able to enhance the safety profile of manufacturing both human and animal health, but their manufacture processes by significantly reducing the risk scale of routinely involves hazardous reagents, produces the most hazardous manufacturing steps. We are also high waste-to-mass ratios, and requires solventfocused on the adoption of greener and safer solvents intensive purification systems. By investing early where possible. For example, we have replaced several in environmentally friendly production methods, hazardous solvents with safer alternatives, including participating companies hope to create the scale significant, nearly carbon-neutral, efforts to limit the necessary for these technologies to become use of dichloromethane (a hazardous air pollutant and cost-competitive in the long run. suspected carcinogen). • IQ Consortium: Lilly continues working with the IQ GLOBAL CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT Green Chemistry Working Group to promote the Green Aspiration Level (GAL) tool. Until now, the use of green Governments around the world and across many of the chemistry metrics among pharmaceutical companies regions where we operate have developed chemical has been hampered by the lack of an agreed-upon management legislation—such as the REACH regulation standard. This new tool makes the development in the European Union (EU)—that requires companies to of objective goals, like process efficiency and mass collect and register information about the chemicals they intensity, easier. It uses industry benchmarks to manufacture or use, unless those chemicals are exempt. create a unified scoring system for green chemistry formulations, and introduces a new green scorecard These regulations may require replacing chemicals for use across the supply chain. identified as hazardous with safer alternatives, when available. To address these concerns, Lilly has H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 45 Green Chemistry in Action: Replacing Horseshoe Crabs in Endotoxin Testing Lilly microbiologist Jay Bolden is an expert in bacterial endotoxin detection—a process JAY B O L D E N used both by Lilly and the entire pharmaceutical industry to ensure the safety of their Lilly Microbiologist products. He never expected his hobby as a birder to intersect with a novel way to test for harmful bacteria in the lab. Yet Jay has helped Lilly to forge a new path, and in the process, he has helped to protect a threatened marine species and the larger ecosystem that depends on it. For each batch of injectable medicines and medical devices manufactured across the globe, companies must prove that they have been checked—and tested free of—potentially life-threatening endotoxins. Water and raw materials used in manufacture must be tested as well. Around the world, this process is repeated approximately 70 million times each year, the linchpin of quality testing for the pharmaceutical industry. In this process, the humble horseshoe crab plays a vital role: its cloudy blue blood can be used to make an assay, known as LAL, that clots readily in the presence of endotoxins that could prove fatal if exposed to a person’s bloodstream or spinal fluid. To satisfy demand, LAL manufacturers capture, bleed, and release an estimated 500,000 horseshoe crabs along the eastern seaboard of the United States. Estimates of how many crabs die as a result are hard to pin down, with estimates ranging from five to 30 percent. In Asia, manufacturers use local horseshoe crab populations to make an alternative variant of the testing assay, TAL, which is used mainly by pharmaceutical manufacturers in the region. Most of the crabs harvested in Asia are ultimately killed after they are bled, and in 2019, the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources listed the Asian tri-spine horseshoe crab as an endangered species. Compounding adversities for the horseshoe crab are decades of overharvesting for use as eel and whelk bait, and fertilizer, not to mention devastating habitat loss linked to the commercial development of seashore communities and climate change impacts, including more intense storms and rising sea levels that threaten their spawning grounds. In the Delaware Bay, home to the world’s largest population of spawning horseshoe crabs, the population has crashed—declining by 90 percent over the past two decades. As a keystone species, the crab is vital to area food webs, and its decline has adversely impacted many other animals, notably shorebirds that rely on consuming horseshoe crab eggs to complete their migrations. At least one bird species that feeds on the crab’s eggs, the red knot, is now listed as threatened. Working at Lilly, Jay had been aware of an alternative method to test for endotoxins using a synthetic alternative— recombinant factor C, or rFC—developed just over 20 years ago. However, lacking an official entry in the United States Pharmacopeia (USP), and facing regulatory uncertainty in the eyes of health authorities, it required additional validation testing to prove safety for a successful FDA approval. Across the industry there was reluctance to undertake this extra validation, as well as concerns about widespread access to the alternative test agent. Jay began to wonder if he could make a difference. He had seen his first red knot in the Delaware Bay in 2005, during one of many birding adventures. But now, the bird and its plight held more of a personal connection. In 2014, when Jay met Dr. Jack Levin, one of the two scientists who discovered the LAL reaction in the first place, he recalled Dr. Levin saying that if ever LAL were ever to be unseated from its central role as the main endotoxin test agent, it would be because of the birding community. The turning point came in 2013, when Lilly began planning an insulin-manufacturing facility in China, where the native horseshoe crab species has been in decline. Concerned about potential future supply problems with LAL—and knowing that Lilly is committed to reducing the use of animals in research and testing wherever possible—Jay lobbied and won support from two governance committees at Lilly, getting permission to validate the rFC approach. Lilly drew a line in the sand in 2016, applying the rFC test to all new products being developed internally. We were the first company to submit an application for drug approval to the FDA—Emgality®—to prevent migraine headaches—where the final drug will be tested using rFC. In a watershed moment, the FDA approved Emgality in 2018, making it the first medicine approved for the market release using rFC. By 2020, Lilly intends to transition 90 percent of our endotoxin tests to the synthetic compound. Upon implementation of the rFC test across all Lilly manufacturing sites, on the order of several thousand horseshoe crabs will be saved in the first year and every year thereafter. Jay hopes that the ripple effect will be much larger, if the broader pharmaceutical industry can be persuaded to adopt the rFC test as a more efficient and cost-effective approach that doesn’t require the ethical tradeoffs of harvesting live animals. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 46 • Training Future Scientists: Through the ACS to ensure continuous improvement and advance progress Pharmaceutical Roundtable and IQ Consortium, Lilly towards our goals. Our multi-faceted approach includes: collaborated with other pharmaceutical companies • Designing for energy efficiency in new or updated to design and implement a green chemistry curriculum processes and facilities; for use at colleges and other organizations, which was presented at the 2018 ACS meeting in New Orleans. • Operating our facilities and equipment efficiently; • Facilitating the use of advanced energy monitoring • Research Grants: Through the ACS Pharmaceutical and control solutions; Roundtable, Lilly is active in selecting and funding researchers who are advancing the field of green • Measuring and internally and externally reporting chemistry. Since 2005, the Pharmaceutical Roundtable energy use and related GHG emissions; has provided more than $2 million in research grants. • Conducting and acting on energy audits and In 2018, five researchers were funded, including one implementing recommended projects to improve for green peptide chemistry and one for green Suzuki energy efficiency; chemistry. The green peptide process uses fewer • Evaluating and incorporating alternative energy solvents than traditional methods to build the sources, new technologies, and best practices for peptides—compounds of amino acids that can have energy use and GHG emission reductions; and medicinal potential. The green Suzuki chemistry model, meanwhile, replaced the use of palladium, a rare earth • Participating in local, regional, and national forums metal that is critical to reducing vehicle air pollution, to understand and integrate energy management best with iron, a much more commonly-available metal. practice and to support responsible and cost-effective decision-making and policy development. Manufacturing To help identify and assess energy management and technology best practice, Lilly is an active participant in the U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR Focus on Energy Efficiency The majority of Lilly’s direct environmental impacts in Pharmaceutical Manufacturing partnership. In addition are from the manufacturing of medicines. We measure to our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction and manage these impacts as they relate to energy and efforts, we monitor several categories of Scope 3 GHG water use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the emissions and are committed to expanding the scope generation of waste and wastewater throughout the and quality of related data and disclosures. In 2018, manufacturing process. Lilly launched an initial public CDP, formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project, offering (IPO) of Elanco Animal Health Incorporated in recognized our efforts with a score of A-, which is September 2018, and divested our remaining interest in considered leadership level. Elanco in March 2019, making it an independent, publicly traded company. Elanco was previously a division of Lilly, Goals and Trends in 2018 and data from Elanco operations is included in Lilly’s Lilly’s 2020 goal is to improve both our energy efficiency manufacturing data through 2018, including the period and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity, immediately following the IPO. Beginning in 2019, Lilly measured per unit of site space, by 20 percent as will adjust our environmental performance data baseline compared to our 2012 baseline. Through 2018, we calculations to reflect the Elanco divestiture. decreased our emissions intensity by 12.7 percent compared to our 2012 baseline. Total energy consumption Lilly recognizes the potential impacts associated with was flat compared to 2012, while our energy efficiency climate change and the risks of severe weather events. In improved by 0.7 percent. Since 2012, eight of our 11 2017, our manufacturing plant in Puerto Rico sustained largest energy-consuming sites—representing nearly minor damage from Hurricane Maria. Since then, Lilly 88 percent of our total energy consumption—increased has completed initial design for a new nine-megawatt production, in turn increasing their overall energy use combined heat and power system at our Puerto Rico per square foot of space. At the same time, several of facility. The project will improve our resiliency to severe these largest sites improved their energy performance weather events and our environmental performance. as measured per unit of production. While production See Promoting Cogeneration for more on our work in increases present challenges to our performance against Puerto Rico. our goals, we encourage and reward these process energy intensity improvements. ENERGY USE AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Lilly set aggressive targets for improving energy efficiency and thereby reducing our GHG emissions. We have an established global energy management program H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 47 Recent energy initiatives include the following: • Puerto Rico – Designed and began implementation of a chilled water optimization project at a Puerto • Global Engineering – Developed a new global energy Rico manufacturing facility, resulting in projected monitoring system for implementation at Lilly’s largest annual energy savings of $160,000, and installed energy consuming sites, which will provide a platform additional LED lighting. for collection of energy data and real-time identification of energy saving opportunities. This • Sesto, Italy – Completed projects to increase the use system will be largely implemented in 2019 at of recovered heat from the combined heat and power our largest sites, including Lilly’s main corporate system at our manufacturing facility, and installed headquarters, the Lilly Technology Center, and other additional energy monitoring instrumentation to assist global manufacturing sites. in identifying energy savings opportunities. PROMOTING COGENERATION Cogeneration, which uses combustion to generate electricity on-site while also recovering usable heat, presents another opportunity to reduce GHG emissions in our operations. In 2017, we began the design process for a new nine megawatt combined heat and power system at our Puerto Rico facility. Since then, Lilly has completed initial design, with major construction expected to begin in 2019. This project is expected to result in roughly $6 to 7 million of energy savings annually and approximately 15 to 20 percent reduction in GHG emissions for our Puerto Rico facility. We also operate combined heat and power systems in Kinsale, Ireland; Sesto, Italy; and Speke, England. Renewable Energy Engineering Technology Center helps Lilly sites around We will continue to evaluate further use of renewable the world identify water-saving technologies, and Lilly energy to diversify our energy sources, decrease our sites can apply for capital project funding through Lilly’s GHG emissions, and lessen our energy use intensity over dedicated Energy, Waste, and Water Reduction Fund. time. In 2018, energy sourced from renewable sources accounted for 49,000 MWh. We are members of the Rocky Goals and Trends in 2018 Mountain Institute’s Business Renewables Center and In 2013, we introduced a goal to reduce absolute are currently evaluating the feasibility of incorporating phosphorus emissions in our wastewater discharge by 15 more renewable energy sources. percent by 2020, as compared to our 2014 baseline. This goal addresses an issue that is increasingly important WATER USE AND WASTEWATER to communities, regulators, and investors. In 2018, our total wastewater phosphorus emissions declined Manufacturing operations account for the majority of to approximately 83 metric tonnes, a 34.4 percent the water used by Lilly. Our manufacturing locations decrease from 2014. Production cleaning changes and that produce injectable medicines require exceptionally other manufacturing changes decreased the amount high-quality water, while our utility operations use of phosphorus discharged at several large sites, thus water for cooling and to support steam boilers. Some positively impacting our overall progress on this goal. sites have updated equipment to use waterless cooling systems, and others reclaim water for this purpose. To With regard to our goal progress, we have successfully a lesser extent, we consume water for domestic use surpassed our 15 percent phosphorus emission in our offices. Lilly has assessed our water risks, and reduction goal at the end of 2018. As a result, we are while we generally operate in locations where water setting a stretch goal to reduce an additional 10 percent scarcity and quality risk is low, we will continue our of phosphorus emissions by 2020 using 2018 as the focus on conserving water, reducing our intake, and new baseline year. We have significant source reduction improving water quality. Potential future regional water projects planned, including phasing out and replacing risk, unpredictable costs, and climate change concerns selected cleaning agents with non-phosphorushave further strengthened our commitment to use this based alternatives. resource wisely. In 2018, Lilly’s total water intake was 13.9 billion liters, In 2018, our efforts received a B rating from the an increase of just under four percent from 2012, due CDP’s water program, above the average for Biotech, primarily to production changes. Health Care and Pharmaceutical sector rankings. Our H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 48 WASTE ENCOURAGING ECO-EFFICIENCY ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS Lilly generates both nonhazardous and hazardous waste from its manufacturing processes. Examples include We established the Energy, Waste and Water Reduction broth from fermentation operations and waste solvent Fund in 2006 to encourage projects that reduce our from the extraction processes used in the manufacture overall environmental impacts. The fund supports of small molecule pharmaceuticals. Lilly uses the projects that demonstrate the greatest potential for following hierarchy of approaches to disposition of waste reductions in emissions and energy use, and that are generated across our operations: not covered by local capital budgets. Since 2006, Lilly has invested more than $45.5 million in this fund, • Eliminate or reduce the amount of waste produced; enabling the implementation of 174 projects, which all • Reuse materials when possible (including closed told, garnered more than $22 million in savings. These loop recycling); projects collectively save more than one trillion BTUs of energy annually, avoiding more than 121,000 metric • Recycle spent materials to make new products; tonnes of GHG emissions each year, measured as carbon • Recover energy from waste (through combustion), dioxide equivalents (CO2e). where possible; We actively recognize innovation and excellence in • Treat waste to reduce toxicity and volume; and, HSE management by granting annual HSE awards. • Send waste to landfill (as a disposal method of last Nomination for these awards represents a significant resort, or when legally required). accomplishment on behalf of project teams, and we seek to reward teams that have shown an exemplary Goals and Trends in 2018 commitment to helping Lilly achieve energy and GHG In 2013, we introduced a goal to achieve a 20 percent emissions reduction goals. In addition to criteria such as improvement in waste efficiency by 2020, as compared to a project’s energy and GHG reductions, we consider the our 2012 baseline. We also aim to increase our recycling potential to replicate the approach in other locations. rate above 70 percent and decrease our waste-to-landfill below 10 percent of our total waste generated. For purposes of tracking progress toward our waste goals, “total waste” does not include material that is directly reused for other purposes, because the bulk of the “wastes” we generate is directly reused. Lilly generated 206,000 metric tonnes of waste (including material directly reused) in 2018, representing a decrease of 28 percent compared to 2012, and a 30 percent decrease compared to 2017 amounts. We were able to designate 152,000 tonnes of this waste for reuse, much of it as fertilizer. After reuse, 54,000 metric tonnes of waste remained. With regard to progress toward our goal, we have successfully surpassed our 20 percent waste efficiency improvement target, as our waste efficiency improved by 34 percent between 2012 and the end of 2018. Our recycling rate increased in 2018 to 55 percent, up from 47 percent in 2012, and we sent 21 percent of our waste to landfills, compared to 28 percent waste sent to landfill in 2012. As we have successfully achieved the waste efficiency aspect of our 2020 goal, for the next two years, we will focus primarily on achieving our recycling and waste-to-landfill targets. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 49 L I L L Y ’ S E N V I R O N M E N T A L P E R F O R M A N C E , 2 0 1 2 2 0 1 8 1,2,12 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 1,571,000 1,610,000 1,580,000 1,570,000 1,470,000 1,470,000 1,380,000 (metric tonnes CO2e) Scope 1 435,000 484,000 460,000 478,000 464,000 482,000 392,000 Scope 2 1,136,000 1,130,000 1,120,000 1,097,000 1,009,000 985,000 983,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (related to goal) 57.1 58.1 58.5 55.9 52.2 52.1 49.8 (metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet)3 Scope 3 Emissions (not included in metric 305,000 300,000 289,000 302,000 294,000 259,000 283,000 tonnes above) (metric tonnes CO2e)4 ENERGY USE Energy Consumption (million BTUs)5 11,000,000 11,500,000 11,400,000 11,500,000 11,100,000 11,400,000 11,000,000 Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet) 3 453 468 474 460 448 459 450 Direct Energy Consumption (million BTUs)6 4,210,000 4,560,000 4,410,000 4,590,000 4,390,000 4,750,000 4,390,000 Indirect Energy Consumption (million BTUs)7 6,830,000 6,960,000 7,020,000 6,890,000 6,730,000 6,620,000 6,640,000 WATER USE Water Intake (billion liters)8 13.4 13.7 15.0 14.2 14.5 13.8 13.9 Phosphorus emissions to wastewater (metric tonnes) --127 133 170 159 83 WASTE Total Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 285,000 310,000 295,000 251,000 297,000 294,000 206,000 Total Waste Generation not Including Reuse 74,000 75,000 89,000 112,000 90,000 60,000 54,000 (for recycling goal) (metric tonnes)9 WASTE DISPOSITION Recycled (includes combustion with energy recovery) 34,300 32,500 46,700 57,000 54,000 33,300 29,800 (metric tonnes) Treated (includes combustion without energy 18,700 19,900 30,100 26,500 23,900 16,600 13,100 recovery) (metric tonnes) Landfilled (metric tonnes) 20,700 22,600 12,000 28,300 11,800 10,500 11,200 Waste Recycling Rate 47% 43% 53% 51% 60% 55% 55% ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances10 8 5 3 5 5 6 6 Number of Significant Spills11 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental Fines Paid (USD) $732 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 ENERGY, WASTE, WATER, AND NATURAL RESOURCE USE REDUCTION FUND Expenditures (million USD) $1.1 $1.8 $1.6 $1.7 $0.9 $3.3 $3.2 1 Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology and other factors. Some segments do not add up to totals due to rounding. 2 In 2015, adjustments were made to data for all years to reflect the acquisition of animal health operations from Lohmann (closed April 30, 2014) and Novartis (closed January 15, 2015). 3 Data includes GHG emissions and energy use related to manufacturing facilities and other entities with more than $50,000 annual energy spend. Data for other locations is estimated based on square footage. 4 Data included in Scope 3 emissions disclosure contain assumptions and estimation as described here: Employee business travel (personal and rental cars, taxi, rail, and air travel) uses WRI GHG Protocol Cross-Sector Tool averages for fuel types, vehicle types, aircraft types, and aircraft travel distances; employee commuting uses EPA average for fuel types, vehicle types, and commuting distances; contracted product transportation and distribution is based on Lilly’s U.S. distribution footprint and extrapolated for distribution outside the United States; waste generated in operations uses Lilly-specific waste carbon content estimates for waste incineration and EPA’s WARM version 12 emission factors for landfilled and land-applied waste, and assumes transportation related emissions only for certain land-applied organic waste types. Scope 3 data does not include emissions from sales force travel using company vehicles, use of Lilly owned aircraft, on-site waste incineration, or product distribution with Lilly owned vehicles, as these are included in the Scope 1 data above. 5 Energy consumption is the total of direct energy consumption and indirect energy consumption, as defined in these footnotes, and does not include mobile sources. 6 Data includes energy from combustion of coal, fuel oil, natural gas, and liquid propane. 7 Data includes energy from purchased electricity, steam, and chilled water. 8 “Water intake” is the total amount of water coming into a site, including water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities, and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. Totals include a small amount of rainwater intake not included in other water intake subcategories. Lilly does not generally collect water data from small locations that house primarily administrative activities such as sales and marketing offices unless they are co-located at a Lilly manufacturing or research facility. 9 Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without extensive processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation or road base, and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer. 10 Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority. The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in harm to people or the environment. 11 “Significant spill” in this report refers to any unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of a substance that resulted in damage to the environment (i.e., human health, aquatic life, or wildlife) or a material event requiring reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Damage means the actual or imminent alteration of the environment so as to render the environment harmful, detrimental, or injurious. 12 This data includes that of Lilly’s former subsidiary, Elanco Animal Health, including the period immediately following Elanco’s IPO, approximately the fourth quarter of 2018. Beginning in 2019, Lilly will adjust our environmental performance data baseline calculations to reflect the Elanco divestiture. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 50 Supply Chain If a supplier in question does not take swift corrective action, as is our expectation, we reserve the right to halt We rely on our suppliers—including those who supply production or terminate contracts. HSE considerations us with materials for research and development, active are integrated into Lilly’s formal, annual process for pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), and other contract evaluating manufacturing suppliers. manufacturers—to ensure the availability of our human and animal medicines. As we have broadened our ASSESSING CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS AND manufacturing base and integrated new acquisitions into RESEARCH LABORATORIES our operations, we have taken significant steps to reduce For more than a decade, Lilly HSE professionals our exposure to the risks inherent in managing a global have worked to assess and strengthen performance supply chain. Lilly continues to strengthen our ongoing at the external research laboratories and contract efforts to monitor our supply chain for performance on manufacturing organizations (CMOs) with which we do HSE indicators. We have also taken steps to educate business. We use a standard auditing methodology and and engage our suppliers more directly on HSE issues, reporting framework for addressing risk, and a summary and we have taken a more active role in helping our of results is included in the quarterly reports received suppliers build expertise around HSE topics. This by the board of directors’ public policy and compliance includes our ongoing work as part of the Pharmaceutical committee. We designate suppliers that are critical to Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), a non-profit business our business as “suppliers of focus,” and take a special membership organization founded in 2006, which counts interest in their capabilities and performance. In 2018, we Lilly as one of its inaugural members. In 2018, Lilly HSE conducted onsite audits at 33 CMO sites. professionals led two PSCI committees and seven Lilly HSE professionals served on PSCI’s committees. OTHER SUPPLIER EDUCATION AND ENGAGEMENT GOVERNANCE OF SUPPLY CHAIN AT LILLY Lilly is an active PSCI member and our HSE professionals have led or participated in a number of PSCI sponsored PSCI, with its member companies, created and maintain webinars and in-country events. In 2018, Lilly the Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible professionals participated in supplier capability training Supply Chain Management (the PSCI Principles). The in China and India, building on work in 2017 conducting PSCI Principles provide our industry with consistent third-party auditor training. supplier performance standards in the areas of ethics, labor, health and safety, the environment, and related management systems. At Lilly, we have aligned several codes, policies and procedures with the PSCI Principles, Sales and Marketing including the following: Our sales and marketing affiliates around the world • Lilly’s Global Product Stewardship Standard, which develop goals and implement improvement strategies details our approach to managing risk across the as part of our GREENDirections program, which value chain and directly addresses our supply chain focuses on fleet fuel economy and GHG emissions, due diligence and supplier HSE risk assessment and office energy conservation, and waste reduction. Each management practices year, our affiliates look for opportunities to enhance their environmental performance by identifying and • Lilly Supplier Code of Business Conduct, applicable to implementing new projects and setting targets. all suppliers • Relevant procurement standards On the road, Lilly optimizes the fuel efficiency of our sales force fleet by choosing vehicles with better fuel • Standard contract language applicable to providers of economy, and we promote driving and work practices that contract manufacturing services emphasize safety and fuel savings. These efforts, in turn, also reduce the GHG emissions associated with our sales Lilly manufacturing procurement contracts ask that fleet. Lilly centrally manages vehicle selection across suppliers support the PSCI Principles and conform to the European Union and across the United States, which the HSE expectations outlined in our Supplier Code of improves efficiency while enabling us to implement Business Conduct. Standard contract language also strong safety and environmental standards. requires that manufacturing suppliers agree to submit, if requested, to audits that assess compliance with the principles. Lilly has a formal process for targeting those suppliers that we believe represent the greatest potential HSE risk for this additional scrutiny. We intervene quickly when we become aware of serious HSE issues. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 51 Packaging and over-the-counter medicines that supports compliance with U.S. household disposal regulations for unused Transportation medicines and sharps. We also engage with other industry stakeholders in the European Union, such as We consider many factors in selecting product packaging, European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries including sustainability considerations, such as materials and Associations (EFPIA), as well as in Canada (Health use and recyclability. Pharmaceutical packaging must Products Stewardship Association). meet stringent regulatory and internal standards. In some cases, this prevents us from using recycled content in packaging, as is the case with containers that come into direct contact with our products, where we require Pharmaceuticals in the virgin materials be used to deter counterfeiting. Where Environment (PiE) we can, we continually seek to improve packaging design to reduce the amount of packaging used, include After they are used to improve human and animal health, lower-impact materials, and ensure recyclability. Our medicines enter our natural environment through the Product Stewardship Standard helps set expectations normal biological processes of waste elimination. They for these efforts. may also enter the environment from improper disposal of unused products or through manufacturing discharges. In transporting our products, we have made strides in Residues of these medicines may pass through waste and reducing the volume of empty space in the packages we sewage treatment facilities and enter rivers, streams, or ship, which has increased our overall fleet efficiency. lakes. While reported concentrations of pharmaceuticals Additionally, we have achieved GHG emission reductions in the environment (PiE) are usually extremely low, their by changing the shipping mode for some of our presence and biological potency raise questions about pharmaceutical products from air to ocean. In 2018, we potential risks to humans and the environment. shipped 50 percent of our product via ocean, resulting in reduced GHG emissions. Another benefit of ocean shipping Reports such as the World Health Organization’s is an overall reduction in packaging used because less Pharmaceuticals in Drinking Water (2012) and the multiple protective packaging is required during transport. publications following an extensive, three-year joint study by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and U.S. Geological Survey on the presence of contaminants Product End-of-Life in drinking water and surface water have concluded that the concentrations of pharmaceuticals in drinking Unlike many consumer products that can be recycled, water are unlikely to have a direct impact on human or are composed of materials that can be reclaimed at health and aquatic life. However, some health advocates the end of their usefulness, medicines are by nature and researchers are concerned that low concentrations different. Public health regulations often prohibit the use of antibiotics in the environment comprise an indirect of recovered materials from pharmaceutical products like threat to human health by promoting the development of those produced by Lilly. antimicrobial resistant genes in bacteria. Questions have also been raised about the impact of the pharmaceutical Lilly continues to work with customers, industry supply chain, especially when those suppliers are located partners, and public health officials to address these in countries that may lack rigorous environmental product end-of-life issues. Our Product Stewardship protection standards. Governance Committee meets quarterly and regularly engages with our leadership to better integrate product Lilly is committed to ensuring that the active stewardship efforts into our business. We promote policy pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used in our products do decisions that are efficient, effective, and that protect not have a negative impact on the environment whether both human health and the environment. We also support exposure is associated with end use or manufacturing. We educating patients and caregivers on proper disposal of are committed to understanding the public’s questions and medicines, as well as disposal of syringes, needles, and concerns related to PiE. other sharps used in home settings. We communicate this information to patients through product user GOVERNANCE OF PiE AT LILLY manuals, and through The Lilly Answers Center, a hotline Due to the importance of PiE issues to Lilly and our that answers frequently asked questions. stakeholders, we have established a PiE Governance Committee that reports to our executive-level Global We are actively involved in the Pharmaceutical Product HSE Committee. The PiE Governance Committee sets Stewardship Work Group, a U.S.-based membership strategic direction related to PiE and provides longassociation of manufacturers of prescription and range oversight for the program that controls active H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 52 pharmaceutical discharges from manufacturing sites, EXTERNAL COLLABORATIONS our Lilly Aquatic Exposure Guideline (LAEG) program. We continue to partner with industry, academia, and The LAEG program determines containment needed governments to improve both our understanding of, and at our manufacturing sites to protect environmental our response to, PiE. Among ongoing efforts in 2018, Lilly species living in downstream surface waters in scientists and technical experts have: addition to humans and wildlife using those surface waters. This program has been in place for many years • Supported the Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship plan in for Lilly facilities. For outsourced segments of our collaboration with EFPIA and the Inter-Association manufacturing processes, we have begun to implement Initiative on PiE, including a proposal for extended our LAEG program with contract manufacturers environmental risk assessment evaluations, and a (third party suppliers) of targeted products and active model for wastewater control limits for pharmaceutical pharmaceutical ingredients. residues at manufacturing facilities; • Reviewed articles in scientific journals, presented at ENVIRONMENTAL DATA AND RISK ASSESSMENTS conferences and workshops, and participated in FOR LILLY APIs meetings concerning the safety of pharmaceutical We assess our medicines for potential environmental residues in water, in collaboration with the U.S. impacts, ensuring that they meet regulatory EPA, and the Society of Environmental Toxicology requirements and internal standards before introducing and Chemistry; our products to markets. We use procedures • Served on technical committees addressing topics recommended by U.S., Canadian and European related to PiE for industry trade associations such regulatory agencies for identifying and minimizing as EFPIA; and, risks from residues of our products in the environment, and for determining predicted no-effect concentration • Engaged with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain values for our medicines. We also make information Initiative (PSCI) team developing training for external on the environmental hazards and impacts of our manufacturing partners on risk-based approaches to pharmaceutical products available through product managing APIs in manufacturing effluents. Lilly safety data sheets and through the FASS product delivered four presentations on PiE at on-location database published by the Swedish Pharmaceutical capability training for partners in India and China in Trade Association. 2018. As a PSCI member company, Lilly conducts health, safety, and environment assessments of its supply chain partners where environmental ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY OF MANUFACTURING performance, including PiE, is evaluated. To study the overall impact on the local environment, our manufacturing site in Kinsale, Ireland, initiated a continuous evaluation of aquatic habitat quality in 1978. The Kinsale Harbour Study is maintained by the National About Elanco Animal Health University of Ireland Galway and is one of the longest In September 2018, Lilly launched an initial public studies of marine coastline conducted anywhere in the offering of Elanco, thereby making it an independently world. The evaluation has shown no evidence of an adverse traded company. Elanco provides comprehensive impact from the Lilly wastewater discharge point on any products and knowledge services to improve the health of aspect of habitat quality in the study area. Results have food animals and pets in more than 90 countries around been published in peer-reviewed scientific publications the world. and several project reports. This project continues to support academic research for university students. IMPROVED METHODOLOGIES FOR ASSESSING ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Lilly participates in the Intelligence-led Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment project (iPiE project), a program supported by the Innovative Medicines Initiative, a public-private partnership coordinated by the European Commission and the industry group EFPIA, in collaboration with universities and other research organizations, public bodies, and nonprofit groups. The iPiE project develops frameworks, methods, databases, and software tools to support environmental testing for new pharmaceuticals and prioritizes the testing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) that were approved for use before 2006 and that remain in use today. The frameworks draw upon existing data on the environmental impact of APIs, toxicological studies, and computer models. Our current commitment to the project runs through 2019. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 53 PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE USE OF ANTIBIOTICS IN developing alternatives to shared-class antibiotics; FOOD-PRODUCING ANIMALS • Increase veterinary and professional oversight Antibiotics, including those manufactured by Elanco, are access in countries with limited resources through one way, but not the only way, that farmers keep their new partnerships; animals healthy. Feeding animals carefully balanced • Expand data collection and analytics to inform animal diets to strengthen their immune systems and providing health professionals on best practices, and; clean, comfortable, well-maintained housing are also important. But because bacteria and other microbes • Encourage vaccination and nutrition programs that are constantly evolving and found everywhere in the reduce the need for medically important antibiotics environment, it’s virtually impossible to prevent animals by preventing disease. from being exposed to disease. This is true whether Elanco’s commitment—outlined within the CDC’s animals are kept on open ranges or housed indoors. Antimicrobial Resistance Challenge materials—is the Antibiotic resistance occurs naturally over time, as next step in its eight-point antibiotic stewardship plan. bacteria develop resistant genes that are then passed on Since the inception of the antibiotic stewardship plan in to other bacteria. This natural process can be magnified 2015, Elanco has made tangible progress, including by the misuse and overuse of antibiotics. At Elanco, the following: we believe that the concern over reduced effectiveness • Changed nearly 100 labels to remove growth of antibiotics is real and needs to be addressed. All promotion claims from our medically important those involved—the human, animal, and environmental antibiotic molecules globally, even if the practice health communities—must take responsibility and work is allowed by local regulation; together to develop long-term, responsible solutions. • Completed submission of 67 labels to move For our part, Elanco is committed to bringing greater products from over-the-counter use to be under clarity to issues around antibiotic stewardship and the oversight of a veterinarian in the countries where engaging in collectively shaping science-based over-the-counter uses remained and veterinary recommendations on responsible use, animal welfare, infrastructure exists; and the long-term sustainability of the food system. • Brought more than 15 antibiotic alternatives into Elanco Animal Health has updated its commitment our pipeline to help producers replace antibiotics to fighting antimicrobial resistance, which includes when possible; promoting responsible antibiotic use practices and policies while developing alternatives to medically • Convened a landmark, first-of-its-kind One Health important antibiotics (a subset of which include critically Antibiotic Stewardship Summit for more than 200 important antibiotics to human health). global animal protein industry and food chain leaders and declared priorities to help combat antimicrobial ELANCO’S ANTIBIOTIC STEWARDSHIP PLAN resistance as part of efforts to produce a sustainable food supply, and; The Antimicrobial Resistance Challenge, led by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and U.S. • Joined with 200 other companies and 700,000 Health and Human Services (HHS), is a yearlong effort to veterinarians worldwide to undersign Health for accelerate the fight against antimicrobial resistance with Animals’ “Commitments and Actions on Antibiotic action across governments and industries. As part of this Use,” which outlines the five guiding responsible use effort, Elanco has committed to: principles of the animal medicines industry. • Invest at least half of Elanco’s food animal research and development budget in projects dedicated to “ It is of utmost importance we address the complex challenge of antimicrobial resistance and preserve the effectiveness of medicines for people and animals. Supporting the CDC and HHS effort is an important step in reaffirming our commitment to responsible antibiotic usage and veterinary oversight capacity around the world. This is a global issue, and any solution will require global participation across all sectors of human and animal health.” JEFF SIMMONS | PRESIDENT AND CEO, ELANCO H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 54 EMPLOYEE SAFETY Lilly focuses on creating a companywide culture where best-in-class safety practices are intuitively and consistently followed. To do this, we assess and continuously strive to improve our safety performance across our entire enterprise. We believe this ongoing commitment promotes the well-being of our employees and helps safeguard communities where we operate. At Lilly, we measure both leading and lagging indicators when assessing our overall safety performance. We have found that tracking leading—or predictive indicators—such as ergonomic risk, safety culture surveys, and vehicle safety training contributes greatly to our company safety culture. Using these indicators in conjunction with measures of lagging indicators—such as our recordable and lost-time injury rates—we are able to paint a comprehensive picture of the areas that most influence employee safety across Lilly. This approach allows us to both influence change where needed, and track our safety progress in concrete ways over time. Since we introduced our global safety goals in 2007, our total recordable injury and illness rate has declined by nearly 45 percent, equivalent to the prevention of hundreds of injuries and illnesses to Lilly employees across the globe. In 2013, we established new goals for the three occupational safety metrics we track: recordable injuries, lost-time injuries, and motor vehicle collision rate. These goals were developed to help reduce our injury rates across a seven-year period, 2014 through 2020. In 2017, Lilly established new leading indicators focused on office ergonomic risk and motor vehicle safety designed to influence behavior change and reduce company injury and illness rates. These metrics are shared with the executive committee quarterly, emphasizing the importance of maintaining an employee safety culture and minimizing risk. Promoting a Culture of • Completing training/education for all levels of leadership within the pharmaceutical development Safety at Lilly organization to improve HSE leadership and culture; We know that to reach our goals for safety performance, • Piloting an advanced initiative working with an external Lilly must continue to instill and promote a best-in-class partner to improve informal risk assessment and safety culture. We use a well-known model—the DuPont™ peer-to-peer conversations to improve operational Bradley Curve™—to measure our progress, and we will safety at the task level; continue to use this model in the foreseeable future. In 2018, we launched a number of key initiatives to continue • Continuing expansion of existing behavioral-based improving our performance in this area, including: safety efforts and tools across the organization that focus on reducing human error and further • Developing our first draft of safety culture engagement of employees and leadership; and requirements to be included in our global Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) standards that apply • Developing and executing safety culture improvement across the company; plans for manufacturing, research and development, and sales affiliate sites. • Collaborating with external partners to develop a new training course on safety management fundamentals for new leaders at Lilly; H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 55 Reducing the Potential potential SIF events and precursors. The SIF team analyzes event data, always focusing on reducing the for Serious Injury probability of employees’ exposure to high-risk hazards. Specific actions conducted in 2018 include: While the most common work-related injuries are covered by our safety programs, we also have committed • Conducting workshops where employees could voice to systematically address infrequent but severe events, their opinions and identify improvements related where the consequences can be potentially life-altering to SIF; or fatal. To prevent such serious injuries and fatalities • Sharing near-miss events across the globe with an (SIFs), we subscribe to the following model: emphasis on learning and prevention; • Train employees at all levels on the SIF prevention • Conducting forklift and dock safety assessments to model and key SIF definitions identify and mitigate SIF precursors; and • Measure SIF events and potential SIF events across • Approving a global plan to upgrade engineering the entire company controls for dock loading and unloading operations. • Identify and mitigate SIF precursors Lilly also participated in, and presented company • Integrate SIF prevention into existing accomplishments at, SIF prevention conferences in 2018. business processes These opportunities allowed Lilly to benchmark our results with peer companies. In 2018, as part of a continuous improvement effort, we created a global SIF team responsible for analyzing L I L LY ’ S S A F E T Y P R O G R E S S A N D P E R F O R M A N C E 10% 9% 20% 16% TOTAL Struck by / Caught between1 LO ST-TIM E RECORDABLE 43% Ergonomic Risk2 INJUR IE S INJURIES BY Motor Vehicle Collisions3 37% BY ACCID E NT 12% ACCIDENT Slip / Trip/ Fall CATE GO RY CATEGORY Other 2018 2018 12% 28% 13% RECORDABLE LOST-TIME YEAR INJURY AND INJURY AND YEAR MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE3 ILLNESS RATE ILLNESS RATE 2020 GOAL 0.70 0.25 2020 GOAL 12% 2018 0.79 0.27 2018 15% 2017 0.82 0.28 2017 15% 2016 0.93 0.32 2016 16% 2015 0.88 0.27 2015 16% 2007 1.44 0.60 2007 25% 1 Refers to non-motor vehicle injuries resulting in abrasion, contusion, and laceration. 2 Refers to ergonomic risks (posture and/or force, repetition, duration of tasks) which increase the likelihood of a sprain or strain. 3 A new goal for measuring motor vehicle collisions was established in 2015. Note: Reporting data is fluid and dynamic, and slight discrepancies from year-to-year are the result of minor updates or recharacterizations of previously-recorded data. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 56 Sales and Marketing Safety Employee Well-Being At Lilly, sales and marketing employees represent at Lilly approximately 35 percent of our global workforce. We want our company to be a place where our employees Their jobs require them to spend significant time enjoy meaningful work, build successful careers, and driving, exposing them to the risk of accidents which make important contributions to society. We work are challenging to mitigate. In 2009, we launched a to foster a healthy, vibrant work environment, while motor vehicle safety program, HSEDirections, designed also supporting our people in the important time that specifically for the thousands of Lilly employees who are they spend at home, with their families, and in their on the road every day, visiting physicians, hospitals, clinics, communities. We believe this holistic focus helps us to and other customers. Our HSEDirections investment all be at our best—more collaborative, more creative, has resulted in a decrease over time in motor vehicle and more engaged—which, in turn, helps our employees collisions, and, consequently, a significant reduction in deliver on our company promise to make life better motor vehicle-related injuries. In 2018, our motor safety for patients. vehicle rate essentially stayed steady. As part of ongoing efforts to improve motor vehicle safety, in 2018 we: At Lilly, we take a broad view of well-being that emphasizes multiple dimensions of each employee’s life. • Continued to monitor our motor vehicle collision rate We focus on creating a healthy workplace, promoting year-over-year, which has shown a 35 percent physical wellness and behavioral health, improving decrease in collision rate since 2010; financial literacy, and maintaining social connectedness. • Defined and implemented leading indicator metrics, While local cultures, regulations, and market dynamics which are reviewed quarterly at the executive level; and influence our offerings in each country, our employee • Implemented the “Drive Safe, Arrive Safe” program to well-being strategy is global. help reduce distracted driving and the devastating effect it can have on individuals and their loved ones. L I L LY ’ S m y B E S T L I F E E M P L O Y E E W E L L N E S S P R O G R A M A healthy workplace is Physical wellness one where employees and promotes proper care managers collaborate on of your body for optimal processes to protect and health and functioning. promote the health, safety, and well-being of everyone. Social connectedness Behavioral health refers to the relationships focuses on preventing integral to well-being. or intervening in mental Your social network can illness, like depression offer support, happiness, or anxiety, as well as contentment, a sense of substance abuse or belonging, and can help other addictions. during difficult times. Financial literacy refers to the skill and knowledge that help you make informed and effective decisions with all of your financial resources. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 57 WELL-BEING IN THE UNITED STATES at the on-site fitness center, and an on-site kindergarten with flexible hours. In the United States, our myBestLife program offers a set of tools and resources to help employees better • The Fegersheim plant in France completed manage their health, as well as identify those things that construction of a new fitness center, BWell, in early can help individuals live a healthier and more active life. 2018, designed to promote health and well-being Lilly offers health plan coverage to employees and their through employee exercise and relaxation. The site eligible dependents, and our coverage for preventive hosted monthly educational sessions on well-being, health services go well beyond the requirements nutrition, and physical and mental health—including established under federal healthcare reform. a diabetes screening day, ergonomic awareness, melanoma screenings, and sleep hygiene presentation, At our Indianapolis headquarters, two medical clinics among other topics. allow employees to have annual preventive screenings and routine lab work on-site. We have several fitness • The Alcobendas plant in Spain operates an integrated centers available as well, offering individual and group employee well-being program, Naturally, designed exercise. When employees travel, we provide access to to increase health and injury prevention, build morale a national network of more than 9,000 fitness centers and workplace participation, and improve quality of located across the United States. We partner with our life for employees. As part of their well-being focus, food service vendors to offer a wide range of healthier nutrition and physical activity plans are available for dining choices and snacks—some of which are subsidized employees, supported by healthier choices in the by Lilly. We provide showers and bike racks for the more on-site cafeteria. Physiotherapy is also available at than 150 Indianapolis employees who commute to work the facility for employees, and in 2018, the site hosted by bicycle. a conference on stroke identification and prevention. Other efforts to support our employees’ physical and • The Kinsale plant in Ireland ran its sixth annual emotional health in the United States include access Live4Life week-long celebration in 2018, dedicated to a dietitian, frequent fitness challenges, and a to approaching health, safety, and well-being from comprehensive employee assistance program. Across a holistic, integrated perspective. Events included the United States, we have also designated all sites a wide variety of topics focused on work-life balance, smoke-free. New parents are eligible for a generous physical activity, mental well-being, and healthy eating. parental leave, two on-site child development centers Kinsale has integrated diversity and inclusion into its at corporate headquarters, back-up care options, and programming, spotlighting its positive effect on parenting education opportunities. New mothers receive employee self-esteem, work-life balance, career maternity leave benefits and access to lactation rooms. development, mental and physical health, social We promote financial well-being through a variety of connectedness, and belonging. online financial tools and financial advisory programs, and we offer individual financial counseling on-site or by • The Suzhou plant in China completed an employeephone. Many of the benefit offerings also are available to wide well-being survey in 2018, which identified spouses, domestic partners, and qualified dependents work-life balance and nutritional, physical, and to promote well-being for the entire family, not just the personal wellness to be among the top areas of person directly employed by Lilly. interest for employees. WELLNESS IN OUR INTERNATIONAL SITES • The Erl Wood research facility in the United Kingdom has developed a holistic approach to well-being Lilly affiliate sites around the world offer extensive through its program Get Active, Be Healthy, Live wellness programs, aimed at providing a holistic Well! Featuring activities and programs from the approach to employee health, safety, and well-being. human resources and health, safety, and environment These integrated programs feature safety culture departments, the program encourages employees messages and initiatives, and in some sites, integrate to be active and connected to one another. Focus diversity and inclusion programs as well. areas include diversity and inclusion, fitness and nature exploration challenges, outdoor meeting Some examples from our manufacturing sites include: spaces, on-site health screens, and an emotional • The Sesto plant in Italy provides a holistic, integrated well-being online tool. approach to employee health, safety, and well-being • Lilly’s global business services center in Cork, through their program Welly. Initiatives include a focus Ireland, offered a series of workplace wellness on offering healthier food options for night shift events in 2018, including psychosocial risk workers, conferences on sleep hygiene, fitness classes H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 58 assessments and well-being surveys for employees. Results from these informed both site and function-specific wellness action plans. Activities included guest speakers on topics such as resilience and mental agility, financial well-being, and nutrition and physical activity, as well as workplace ergonomic assessments. The site introduced a healthier daily lunch option in the cafeteria, and promoted the “Lilly Lap,” a two-kilometer route around the business park where employees can walk or run. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | PAGE 59 ANTICORRUPTION For more than 140 years, Lilly’s people have approached our company’s business with a deep sense of responsibility to all of our stakeholders. Our actions, now as then, are grounded in our core company values of integrity, excellence, and respect for people. Recognizing our efforts to operate responsibly—including our strong ethics and compliance program—the Ethisphere Institute has honored Lilly as one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” three years in a row—2017,2018, and 2019. We train all of our employees in ethical business practices and have systems in place to detect violations of laws, regulations, and company policies, including those related to anti-corruption. We have developed—and we continue to refine and improve—an anti-corruption program designed to promote ethical conduct and instill a culture of integrity. In this section, we discuss our commitment to work against corruption in all its forms. We provide details about our code of business conduct, our compliance management systems, and our training programs—all of which reinforce ethical behavior and help avoid corruption and other unacceptable activities. This section also highlights our efforts to be more transparent about our operations, including our clinical trials, educational grants, and payments we make to physicians. INTRO | HUMAN RIGHTS | LABOR | H E A LT H , S A F E T Y, A N D E N V I R O N M E N T | ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICS, COMPLIANCE, AND GOVERNANCE AT LILLY At Lilly, our policies, our code of business conduct (which we call The Red Book), our compliance management systems, our training programs, and our communications work together to reinforce ethical behavior. We have implemented programs designed to promote ethical conduct and foster a culture of trust and integrity, which we continue to nurture and improve. We train all of our employees in ethical business practices and have systems in place to detect potential violations of the law and company policies, as well as to correct processes to avoid errors going forward. Our ethics and compliance program includes deliberate assessment of risks, training, and communications designed to prevent issues from arising, as well as reporting, auditing, and monitoring to detect potential compliance gaps. We also have a robust investigation process, and we develop corrective and preventive action plans to address issues we identify. We have aligned our bioethics work with our ethics and compliance program to reflect our evolving business as well as the external environment in which we operate. And, we have expanded and centralized our anti-corruption due diligence work to focus on greater consistency across the globe. Ethics and Compliance • Policies, Procedures, and Related Materials: Our policies, procedures, and other materials Program Oversight provide additional details and are available to employees on the company’s intranet. These The ethics and compliance organization is headed documents govern Lilly’s actions with respect by the senior vice president of enterprise risk to specific areas, including our ethical foundation, management, who is also Lilly’s chief ethics and preventing corruption, respecting privacy, compliance officer. This position reports to the CEO and communicating honestly, speaking up, protecting has direct access to the board of directors’ public policy information assets, and many other topics. and compliance committee. REPORTING, MONITORING, AND AUDITING CODE OF CONDUCT, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES To detect possible compliance violations, we maintain an Our ethics and compliance program includes policies internal disclosure system that includes a mechanism for and procedures. We communicate our key complianceanonymous reporting. We also review business actions related expectations through the following channels: through a system of monitoring and audits. • The Red Book: We regularly update and disseminate • Internal Reporting: Lilly employees are required to our code of business conduct, The Red Book. Available report to the company any known or suspected in 21 languages, this document and associated training violations of the law, The Red Book, company policies, emphasize the company’s values and the importance or official orders or decrees applicable to our of ethical decision-making, summarize key principles business. Employees are also encouraged to report from global company policies, and provide examples any other ethical concerns or issues. Our tollfor employees to practice applying these principles to free ethics and compliance hotline is staffed by an their decisions and actions. The foundational principles independent firm, 24-hours a day, seven days a week. of The Red Book are designed to help our employees Due to differences in local law, local reporting navigate an increasingly complex global processes can vary. business environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION | PAGE 61 • Monitoring: Lilly maintains an ethics and compliance ·· Managers provide sufficient oversight of business monitoring program that includes a global monitoring processes and related results to support compliance strategy, a risk assessment and monitoring plan with with company policies, procedures, and government standard tools, and a process for reporting metrics laws and regulations. to business leaders and key company stakeholders. The purpose of the program is to assess whether: • Corporate Auditing: Our internal corporate auditing function conducts both financial and nonfinancial ·· Ethics and compliance policies and procedures are audits of all Lilly affiliates globally to evaluate implemented and followed; compliance with various company policies and procedures. These audits include reviews of our ·· Employees are trained on the policies and anti-corruption program and the policies that govern procedures; and ethical interactions. L I L LY H O N O R E D F O R I N T E G R I T Y A N D T R A N S PA R E N CY W O R K Lilly’s ethics and compliance program has received recognition for three consecutive years at the Corporate Governance Awards in New York City. The awards are a global program of the organization that publishes IR Magazine and Corporate Secretary, read by executives around the world. In 2017, Lilly took top honors for Best Use of Technology, and in 2016, 2017, and 2018 Lilly was one of five finalists for best compliance and ethics program in the “large cap” category comprising large publicly traded companies. We continually work to improve our program so we can ultimately help business leaders around the globe assess the risks they face in real time. As part of this effort, we are: • Working to connect our data tracking systems to create one repository for information; • Identifying categories of potential risks to track; and, • Building a team to analyze key findings so we can create or improve processes to try to prevent issues from occurring. “ This work builds on the progress we have made in recent years simplifying our programs and raising awareness of the resources available to guide decision-making at Lilly. We are committed to getting better and better as we help our employees do the right thing.” MELISSA BARNES | SVP, ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND CHIEF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER TRAINING AND COMMUNICATIONS Our commitment to training and communications is visible through many of our activities, including the following: All employees play a role in the success of our ethics and compliance program. Therefore, we consider training and • Each year, all Lilly employees (and certain company communications an essential component of promoting and contractors) must complete training on The Red Book and nurturing ethical behavior and a culture of trust and integrity certify that they have received, read, understand, and will throughout the business. Some of the strategies we use to abide by its requirements. further strengthen our culture include sharing real stories of mistakes we have made as an organization and their • Employees receive targeted ethics and compliance training consequences and helping leaders understand the vital related to their specific job responsibilities. role they have in listening and creating an environment that encourages ethical behavior. • New employees in the ethics and compliance organization participate in a training and education curriculum that helps ANTI-CORRUPTION | PAGE 62 them understand and implement the elements of an Our centralized team of anti-corruption, due diligence effective ethics and compliance program globally. experts works to drive consistency of approach around the world as well as partner with our colleagues in the • Our leaders communicate regularly with employees business to achieve results. to ensure they understand that Lilly holds each employee responsible for making decisions and taking Lilly uses an anti-corruption due diligence process to actions that reflect our company’s values of integrity, assess the appropriateness of interactions with certain excellence, and respect for people. external parties, including the following: • In the spirit of learning, we took the bold step this • Individuals who may be authorized by Lilly to interact year of sharing with employees details about mistakes with government officials on the company’s behalf; we made nearly two decades ago with one of our medications, and the important lessons we learned • Prospective recipients of grants and donations; and, from that experience. Our executives used this • Prospective business development partners. example to reinforce their expectations that all employees speak up to ask questions or raise Lilly also uses an institutional notification process to concerns, listen to each other and the outside world, mitigate risk relating to healthcare providers whom and hold one another accountable for these behaviors, Lilly pays for services, including clinical trial research, and for doing the right thing. While we never want to or to whom Lilly provides other items of value, such as go back to this time in our history, we believe it’s educational opportunities. important to learn from it so we do not repeat the same mistakes. • We also began a conversation with our leaders and supervisors about their role in fostering an environment that encourages employees to speak up, ask questions, voice concerns, and share ideas. We developed a workshop to help leaders understand how people make decisions and how leaders’ actions and words can influence employee behavior. INVESTIGATIONS AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS We take all reports of known or suspected violations of company policies and procedures seriously, and we appropriately investigate all claims of potential wrongdoing that are brought to our attention. We seek to address inappropriate conduct as early as possible and to prevent future recurrences. To accomplish this, a global investigation process conducts timely, thorough, and professional investigations. All investigators are trained to understand and follow this process and to meet local procedural and privacy requirements. ANTI-CORRUPTION DUE DILIGENCE We strive to earn and maintain the trust of people we serve by acting with integrity in all that we do everywhere we operate around the world. We recognize that bribery, fraud, and other acts of dishonesty are a betrayal of that trust, so we do not offer, provide, authorize, or accept anything of value—or give the appearance that we do—to inappropriately influence a decision or gain an unfair advantage. Our commitment to operating with high ethical standards extends to all business relationships, dealings, and activities around the world. ANTI-CORRUPTION | PAGE 63 TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURE AT LILLY Lilly is supportive of transparency initiatives globally. We believe openly reporting financial interactions with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and healthcare organizations (HCOs) helps to build trust with patients, caregivers, and other key stakeholders. Payments to Physicians and interactions public in a searchable Open Payments Database. On the site, you can view whether a particular Healthcare Organizations physician or teaching hospital has had financial interactions with a biopharmaceutical company, including Lilly. Lilly collaborates with both HCPs and HCOs, focusing on a single goal: improving the health and quality of Outside the United States, in addition to adhering patients’ lives. Being transparent about the nature and to local and national legislated requirements for extent of our relationships makes it possible to build countries in which we operate, Lilly participates in trust about how we work to benefit patients. voluntary disclosure codes led by local or regional trade associations. One such example is the We believe HCPs should be compensated at a fair market European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries rate for their time and expertise whether they are and Associations (EFPIA), which has established the scientists helping to research a potential new treatment, EFPIA HCP/HCO Disclosure Code as well as the EFPIA HCPs advising us on medical and scientific matters, or Patient Organization Disclosure Code. Lilly views our physicians conducting an educational program for Lilly commitment to transparency and disclosure as an with their peers. By disclosing our financial relationships opportunity to ensure that patients, HCPs, HCOs, and with both HCPs and HCOs, patients, caregivers, and business partners feel confident when engaging with other key stakeholders can better see and understand Lilly. The EFPIA website has additional information on the the collaborations and interactions their own medical HCP/HCO and Patient Organization Codes. You can view professionals have with Lilly. more on Lilly’s commitment to HCP/HCO transparency in Europe, or view our EFPIA Patient Organization Disclosure. In the United States, Lilly follows disclosure requirements at the local, state and federal levels. Lilly adheres to the requirements set forth by the federal law known as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act (also called “Open Clinical Trials Payments”), which is part of the broader U.S. Affordable Care Act. It requires the biopharmaceutical and medical Data Transparency device manufacturing industry to report certain financial Lilly has a history of commitment to transparency in interactions to a defined group of physicians and teaching our clinical studies, and we recognize that responsible hospitals. Interactions include items such as payments sharing of clinical study data has the ability to enhance for services provided for research, or food and beverage public health. Currently, Lilly registers and posts results provided during an educational program. of all clinical trials on clinicaltrials.gov in addition to any legally required clinical trial registries. For Phase 2 and Lilly reports these financial interactions to the Centers Phase 3 trials that complete in 2019 and beyond, Lilly will for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). On an submit results one year after the completion of the trial annual basis, CMS makes all reported industry financial regardless of the medicine’s approval status. ANTI-CORRUPTION | PAGE 64 T R A N S PA R E N C Y AT L I L LY • Learn more about Lilly’s commitment to transparency at Lilly.com. • Lilly engages in dialogue directly with members of the healthcare system and other interested parties about ethical interactions through our ethics and compliance hotline (1-877-237-8197), the Lilly EthicsPoint website, or through means provided by disclosure code administrators such as governments and trade associations. • Learn more about Lilly sharing the results of our clinical trials in the Clinical Trials Data Transparency section of this report. Lilly makes patient-level data available from Lillyexpectations are consistent with Lilly’s commitment to sponsored trials on marketed drugs for approved uses the ethical management of all personal information that following acceptance for publication. Lilly is one of is entrusted to us, whether it is that of a customer, an several companies that provide this access through employee, or any other individual. the website clinicalstudydatarequest.com. Qualified researchers can submit research proposals and request At its core, our privacy program reflects our commitment anonymized data to test new hypotheses. to being open and honest about how we collect, manage, use, and disclose personal information, and to being In 2013, Lilly began conducting pilot projects creating intentional about protecting it. It also reflects our goal summaries of Phase 2 and 3 clinical trial results in to share personal information only with those who are patient friendly language using simple, everyday terms. authorized—and have a legitimate business need—to see In 2019, Lilly will continue creation of plain language it. Our program is overseen by our chief privacy officer summaries of Phase 2-4 clinical trial results and who is supported by an international team of dedicated making English versions available to study sites. Lilly is privacy professionals, along with an extensive network developing a translation process to fulfill posting plain of ethics and compliance professionals worldwide. Key language summaries to the European Union (EU) Portal components of our program include a principles-based and Database, when available. For EU portal posting, the policy supported by an infrastructure of procedures, summaries will be translated into the local language(s) job aids, training, and other materials governing the where the studies took place. collection and use of personal information. Our goal at Lilly is always to deliver on the promises that we make to individuals—in every business operation, in every Respecting Privacy location around the world—around the ethical use and management of the personal information that we collect Global concerns about data privacy have exploded in and use. recent years, as the world becomes more networked and interconnected than ever before. Lilly has had a longstanding commitment to data privacy, and we have had a global privacy program in place for many years. That program is continually refreshed in response to the ever-changing privacy landscape, including the introduction of—or anticipated introduction of—new regulatory requirements and ethical considerations around data privacy. In 2018, new privacy laws went into effect (e.g., the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation) or were passed for implementation in the near future (e.g., the California Consumer Protection Act and Brazil’s General Data Privacy law). By passing such laws, regulators have sent a strong and powerful message underscoring the critical importance of protecting personal information. These ANTI-CORRUPTION | PAGE 65 POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT When engaging in lobbying efforts or making political contributions, we comply with the laws that govern such activities. All financial support and lobbying activities are overseen by the board of directors’ public policy and compliance committee, which is composed entirely of outside directors. All decisions are made without regard for the private or personal preferences of the company’s officers and executives. All of our employees must also comply with our global policies, core values, and legal obligations, which FINANCIAL SUPPORT are outlined in our written code of business conduct, The Red Book. Our annual report of political financial AND LOBBYING ACTIVITY support provides details of our company’s U.S. political I N 2 0 18 , L I L LY S P E N T T H E contributions; our memberships in organizations that FO L LOW I N G A M O U N T S O N report lobbying activity to the U.S. government, and to D I R E CT P O L I T I CA L ACT I V I T Y 1 : which we contribute $50,000 a year or more; and the activities of our political action committee, the LillyPAC, which is funded solely by U.S. employee contributions. $1,284,000 In the United States, we are committed to backing IN POLITICAL FINANCIAL SUPPORT candidates of any party who support public policies that IN THE UNITED STATES contribute to pharmaceutical innovation and the health needs of patients. When reviewing U.S. candidates for support, we consider a number of factors, including $306,000 these examples: 24% to state candidates in corporate • Has the candidate historically voted or announced contributions; and positions on issues of importance to Lilly, such as pharmaceutical innovation and health care? • Has the candidate demonstrated leadership on key $978,000 committees of importance to our business? 76% through the Lilly Political Action • Does the candidate demonstrate potential for Committee (LillyPAC). legislative leadership? • Is the candidate dedicated to improving the $6,180,000 relationship between business and government? ON FEDERAL LOBBYING ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES This information is reported to the U.S. Congress in accordance with the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. 1 Rounded to the nearest thousand ANTI-CORRUPTION | PAGE 66 E L I L I L LY A N D C O M PA N Y LILLY CORPORATE CENTER INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 46285 USA 317.276.2000 • LILLY.COM
