UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018—2019 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018–2019 Turner & Townsend is an independent professional services company specialising in Strength programme management, project management, cost and commercial management and advisory across the real estate, infrastructure and natural in diversity resources sectors. Vincent Clancy Chairman and With 110 offices in 45 countries, we draw on our Chief Executive Officer extensive global and industry experience to manage risk while maximising value and I strongly believe that business must lead the way in finding solutions to performance during construction and operation the world’s biggest challenges. This is why I am proud to reaffirm Turner & Townsend’s commitment to the UN of our clients’ assets. Global Compact ten principles for another year. Guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we believe we can have the greatest impact by helping our industry modernise and build solutions to tackle the challenges we face together. Over the past year, we have been taking time to consider how best to use our increasing size and influence to drive industry change. Our corporate responsibility strategy supports us in this mission, helping us to maintain and progress responsible practices into the heart of our business. We continue to make strides on our priority Global Goals of Quality Education (SDG 4), Gender Equality (SDG 5), Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG 11) and Industry, Innovation and “Guided by the UN Sustainable Development Infrastructure (SDG 9) which form the foundation of our approach. Goals (SDGs), we believe we can have the It is thanks to our people that we are able to deliver impact for our clients, greatest impact by helping our industry communities, industry and environment. By continuing to empower our talented modernise and build solutions to tackle teams across the globe, we can build on our strong foundations and lead the challenges we face together.” the positive transformation of the built environment. This report demonstrates our progress against our corporate responsibility This document shares highlights commitments and sets out our of our story this year, our full-length ambitious agenda to address the world’s story can be read online: challenges through the expertise of our www.turnerandtownsend.com/AR1819 diverse teams. 1 2019 Responsibilities UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018–2019 Our commitment to 2018–2019 corporate corporate responsibility responsibility highlights Turner & Townsend’s CR pillars UN Sustainable Development Goals UN Global Compact principles Read more online: www.turnerandtownsend.com/corporate-responsibility Prioritised Additional Great place to work Human rights Great place to work • E mpower our people to realise • P  rinciple 1 – businesses should their potential. support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human • P  romote a diverse and rights; and inclusive workplace. • Support our people’s wellbeing. • P  rinciple 2 – make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 6105 89 100+ 85.20% 86.60% people nationalities people moved across of our people are satisfied of our people feel our global regions with the actions we take comfortable bringing on social responsibility their whole self to work Labour rights Community value Community value • Principle 3 – businesses should • Deliver projects and programmes uphold the freedom of association and that build a prosperous society. the effective recognition of the right to • C  reate opportunities for children collective bargaining; and young people to achieve their potential. • P  rinciple 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; £591.5k 9356 6170 70 corporate and employee community children and young community • Principle 5 – the effective abolition of donations volunteer hours people reached partners worldwide child labour; and • P  rinciple 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship Environment • I mprove our environmental impact • P rinciple 7 – businesses should and promote climate action. support a precautionary approach • S  upport our clients to enable more sustainable communities. • P to environmental challenges;  rinciple 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 30 20% 59 offices certified to reduction in CO2 emissions environmental champions Signing of responsibility; and ISO14001 Environmental per employee since 2014/15 worldwide Waste to Wealth Commitment Management System • P  rinciple 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Integrity in industry Integrity in industry Anti-corruption • M  aintain a strong ethical culture. • P  rinciple 10 – businesses should 48% 8.4 • A  dvance our industry to contribute work against corruption in all its forms, Jon Hughes Patricia Moore including extortion and bribery. Associate Director, Global Managing Director, UK to a more prosperous society. Health & Safety and BMS BEIS Advisory Panel, net promoter score average client Vice President of the Institute ICE Panel on Estimation care score of Health & Safety 2 3 Empowering People UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018–2019 increased by 1.5 percent while our Labour rights gender pay gap has decreased by 0.8%. Our people are compensated fairly By 2025, we want to have a gender split relative to our industry and local markets. of 40:60 female:male talent across the In addition, we respect that all our people entire business. have the right to freedom of association subject to local laws and regulations. The health, safety and wellbeing of our Empowering We follow applicable laws with respect people continues to be a key focus. to salary, benefits and work hours. We are training mental health first aiders to identify issues early and help colleagues We are committed to eliminating navigate challenging situations. any form of forced labour or human trafficking both in our business and our people Links to policies and more information across our supply chain as clearly • Annual review: Empowering people • Website: People stated in our UK Modern Slavery Act • Case study: Building a diverse business Statement. Commitments made in the • Health, safety and wellbeing policy UK are replicated across the globe as applicable and we are looking to build Investing in the next generation on progress made. We continue to invest in our apprentice and graduate programmes. The number As well as prohibiting the use of all forms of recent university leavers joining us has of forced or compulsory labour, we meet grown in all regions and we are increasingly all child labour laws globally and prevent attracting people from non-construction employment of anyone who does not backgrounds, including school-leavers. meet legal minimum age requirements. We are committed to social mobility, Finally, we guard against discrimination removing barriers to opportunity and in respect of employment and occupation raising aspirations among those who through clear recruitment guidelines need it most. We address SDG 4: Quality and polices. We regularly undertake Education through our education and unconscious bias training, an online employment programmes, reaching over version of which is now available to all 6,000 children and young people through employees. This training helps our people our #TT5000futures campaign this year. be aware of and counteract their inherent preconceptions of others. In addition, we We recognise that the root causes of have trailed ‘blind CV’ methods in several inequality differ across the globe. As a of our regions. As outlined previously, we result, we tailor our responses to local are actively localising our leadership and need. We commenced our reconciliation talent to diversify our workforce in a way journey in Australia this year to that is reflective of our local communities. acknowledge the traditional owners of the We have had particular successes in Asia land, and our approach to Broad-Based and Africa through targeted recruitment Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) drives and promotion support. in South Africa continues to grow. Links to policies and more information Links to policies and more information • Annual review: Promoting a strong risk culture • CR report: Empowering our people • Modern Slavery Act Statement • Website: Community value • Case study: Promoting access to education in Indonesia Anti-corruption Turner & Townsend has a zero-tolerance People “Guided by the UN sustainable development goals, We are working towards a sustainable Human rights Our leadership instills a culture where policy on bribery and corruption. As a global business, we make sure that all our people 6,105 future, empowering our diverse talent we are a responsible and supportive employer. This to lead this agenda. strong ethics are embedded in the way we work, ensuring we take proactive are clear on what this means and the actions they must take to prevent collusion. provides us with a clear competitive advantage, Looking after our people Our people provide the foundations action against any complicity in human rights abuses. Our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) policy and associated guidelines have 2019 6,105 ensuring we continue to grow at pace.” for our continued success. In the last 12 months, we have grown significantly: We see that all of our employees comply been translated into ten global languages 2018 5,209 with our ethical standards, updating and clearly set out our position and Turner & Townsend now employs more our policies and guidelines on corporate 2017 4,674 subsequent approaches to risk mitigation than 6,100 people. conduct regularly to respect the and whistleblowing. We continue to diversify our teams; protection of human rights. Each employee is required to sign a People % growth localising our talent particularly in Asia Turner & Townsend is committed to the declaration of complicity to our standards +17% and Africa. By training people and highest ethical standards and requires on an annual basis. In addition, every leaders, we are reflecting the customers all employees to be aware of, and employee undertakes an ABC training and practices of the communities in comply with, its policies and guidelines course when they join the company and a which we work. on corporate conduct. refresher module every two years. Children and young Addressing our gender balance continues Our risk management team continues Our e-learning system will continue to help people reached to be a key focus, prioritising SDG 5: to work directly with our people to guide our people around the world maintain current 6,170 Gender Equality last year. We are seeing and support where needed. knowledge on procedures, while our ABC more women reach leadership positions hotline helps them to raise concerns quickly. across the globe with increased female Links to policies and more information representation on our boards over the • Annual review: Promoting a strong risk culture Links to policies and more information • Annual review: Empowering our people last five years. In the UK, the proportion • Ethics policy and code of conduct • Annual review: Promoting a strong risk culture of women in our top pay quartile has • Anti-bribery and corruption policy • Ethics policy and code of conduct 4 5 Sustainability UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018–2019 Sustainability, innovation “Working on innovative projects like Virgin Hyperloop One, we are proud to be a part of forward thinking and industry programmes that are tackling society’s biggest issues.” leadership Supporting sustainable innovation work supporting the Tyneside Authorities, We have prioritised SDG 9: Industry, Sheffield City Council and Edinburgh Innovation and Infrastructure and SDG Council in framing their CAZ/LEZ. 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities, Links to policies and more information recognising that the greatest impact we • Annual review: Empowering people can have is through collaboration with • Website: Environmental stewardship our clients. We are proud to be a part • Case Study: Tackling increasing urbanisation of forward-thinking programmes that through innovative transport solutions are tackling society’s biggest issues. An example of this is the innovative Towards net zero carbon project Virgin Hyperloop One in India This year, we have refocused our which could reduce commuter times efforts towards becoming a net zerobetween Pune and Mumbai to a carbon business; recognising that fraction without negatively affecting drastic change is needed if we are to the environment. mitigate the worst effects of climate change. Awareness amongst our people In addition, we are increasingly continues to grow, and as a result our supporting clients with sustainable environmental champion network has solutions. Our lean construction advisory increased across several global regions. services continue to grow, as does our We have reduced our carbon dioxide work in renewable energy worldwide. emissions per employee by 20 percent The Snowy 2.0 Pumped Hydro Electric since 2014/2015 and 30 of our offices Project is an infrastructure project in are ISO 14001 accredited. This year, New South Wales, Australia, that ‘ticks we launched our green purchasing all the boxes’ in terms of sustainability. policy and signed the Business in Backed by the Federal Government, the Community ‘Waste to Wealth’ Snowy will deliver 2,000 megawatts of commitment; with the view to adopt renewable on-demand energy into the circular principles within our operations grid when needed. and support our clients to do the same. Turner & Townsend supported preIndustry leadership feasibility and feasibility studies Finally, our various industry as well as the appointment of the memberships enable us to lead the latest construction contractors. We are now thinking in our industry. Vincent Clancy supporting Snowy during the current continues to lead the export and trade implementation phase of the project. working group for the Construction Leadership Council and David Whysall We are also unlocking the sustainability is co-chair of Constructing Excellence. benefits of Business Information Our people have been involved with Modelling while collaborating across Reduced CO2 emissions by decision-making at the highest level. supply chains to achieve the highest For example, Patricia Moore is on 20% sustainability standards including the industry advisory panel for the BREAM, LEED and ISO 14001.With over Department of Business, Energy and 60 cities required to improve their Air Industry Strategy (BEIS). Quality, Birmingham City Council and Leeds City Council have led the way in Links to policies and more information ISO14001 accredited at delivering a Charging Clean Air Zone •A  nnual review: Empowering people 30 offices (CAZ). Our work with Birmingham City • Website: Integrity in industry • Case study: Driving change through Council has meant our experience, industry collaboration knowledge and abilities have been • Website: Signing the Waste to Wealth Commitment appreciated and have led to further 6 7 Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Contact UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018–2019 These represent the issues that we have This year, we have continued to focus on four the largest influence on and those that have impacted our industry and business Global Goals that are most material to our the most to date. business: We recognise the interconnected nature of the Global Goals, related issues and We welcome required solutions. We know that through UN SDG 4: Quality Education our corporate responsibility programme, operations and work with clients, we are UN SDG 5: Gender Equality impacting both society and the environment UN SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure beyond these prioritised SDGs. The table your feedback below outlines how we contribute to UN SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities additional SDGs through our corporate responsibility programmes, operations and work with clients. UN Sustainable Development Goal Description SDG 1: Our education and employment programmes target young people and children No Poverty from some of the most disadvantaged communities near our offices and operations. By providing opportunities to those who need it most, we can support social mobility Please contact on cr@turntown.com and reduce poverty in the long term. SDG 3: Whether in our offices or out on site, the health, safety and wellbeing of our people Good Health is of the upmost importance. Our HR policies, guidance and awareness-raising campaigns help us to take care of our people while our safety, health and quality and Wellbeing services help our clients embed strategies and cultures which support effective @turnertownsend operations that maintain safe and healthy environments. SDG 8: We see that our people are compensated fairly for the industry and market they are Decent Work and in. We also have a robust training and development programme and a clear review process helping people reach their full potential with us. Working with our clients, Economic Growth we help deliver much-needed public services and commercial assets on time and turnertownsend on budget, supporting long-term economic growth. SDG 10: As a business, we take a holistic approach to diversity and inclusion, ensuring that Reduced Inequalities equal opportunities are available to all regardless of gender, ethnicity, disability, age, sexual orientation, religion or social-economic background. Our localisation programme means we actively recruit for talent within the local communities in company/turner-&-townsend which we operate, helping to make sure that nobody is left behind. SDG 12: Through our work with clients, we look for innovative and sustainable solutions that Responsible reduce the resource intake of built assets over their entire life cycle. We are already using Building Information Modelling (BIM) to increase project sustainability and are Consumption working with others to explore the environmental benefits of off-site construction. and Production SDG 13: Our efforts to reduce carbon emissions begin in our own offices and operations. Climate Action Many of our offices are certified through the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and when relocating we select offices with strong sustainability credentials. We also work with our people to improve our carbon footprint by reducing business travel and waste. SDG 17: We are collaborating across our industry to achieve greater productivity and Partnerships efficiency through our involvement in industry bodies like the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, Association for Consultancy and Engineering or the UK for the Goals government’s Construction Leadership Council (CLC). We also actively work in partnership with our clients, supply chains and community organisations to build a legacy that contributes to a fair society and sustainable future. 8 9 Title goes here © Turner & Townsend. All rights reserved July 2019. This content is for general information purposes only and does not purport to constitute professional advice. We do not make any representation or give any warranty and shall not be liable for any losses or damages whatsoever, arising from reliance on information contained in this document. 10
