Progress Report 2018 2 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2018 Statement of Continued Support Statement of Continued Support The world faces an ever-increasing number of complex and interrelated challenges: radical technological advances driven by digitalization, new uncertainty caused by an unstable global political and economic order, and pressing environmental issues due to ongoing climate change. The global community needs to act responsibly and find solutions. As a global leader in security-based technologies and services, we are acutely aware of our corporate responsibility. We are committed to ensuring that technological change is implemented in a responsible manner and are taking proactive, long-term measures to tackle the urgent challenges of our time – for the benefit of our around 11,400 employees, our customers and suppliers, the environment, and the community at large. This report for the United Nations Global Compact sets forth our priorities and documents the measures we have put in place. It relates to our activities in the 2018 fiscal year. In publishing our eighth progress report, we are also renewing our commitment to the UN Global Compact for another year. Ralf Wintergerst Group CEO of Giesecke+Devrient GmbH 3 About Giesecke+Devrient Giesecke+Devrient (G+D) is a global security technology provider headquartered in Munich, Germany. Founded in 1852, the company has a workforce of around 11,400 employees and generated sales of EUR 2.25 billion in the 2018 fiscal year. 76 subsidiaries in 32 countries ensure customer proximity worldwide. The Group is comprised of four independent companies. G+D develops, produces, and distributes products and solutions relating to analog and digital payment transactions, the digital connectivity of people and machines on the Internet, the protection and management of identities, and digital security. G+D is a technology leader in these areas and holds a leading competitive position. G+D Currency Technology provides products and Veridos is a joint venture between G+D and Bundessolutions for secure payment to central and commercial druckerei, offering customers secure and pioneering banks, banknote printers, security paper manufacturers, identification and identity solutions. The product range security transport companies, and casinos around the covers traditional printed documents as well as electronic world. The portfolio includes banknote paper, banknotes, ID documents, such as e-passports and electronic ID cards. security features, banknote processing machines, and Highly secure travel documents, ID systems, and healthcomplete cash center solutions. G+D is an international care cards can be used for conventional identification leader in the currency industry. purposes as well as for authentication and protection in digital business processes. Banks, mobile network operators, car manufacturers, and other companies rely on industry solutions supplied by secunet Security Networks is a leading German providG+D Mobile Security. These solutions safeguard data, er of high-quality cyber security solutions and an IT secuidentities, and a wide range of digital transactions. The rity partner to the Federal Republic of Germany. It offers portfolio includes solutions for eSIM management, secure an extensive portfolio of products and consulting services HCE, and cloud payment. Data and project management around the protection of data and infrastructures and for are also part of the offering, as are SIM, bank, ID, and the transmission, storage, and processing of in-formation. healthcare cards and tokens. This includes encryption technology up to the highest security level. secunet ensures public authorities, organizations, and companies enjoy maximum protection against cyber attacks, espionage, and sabotage. 11,400 Employees 32 countries 2.25 billion EUR sales 4 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2018 Our Responsibility Our Responsibility As a global leader in security-based technologies and services, we are acutely aware of our corporate responsibility. We are committed to ensuring that the changes brought about in all areas of life by digital transformation are implemented in a responsible manner. We are taking proactive, long-term measures to tackle the urgent challenges of our time – for the benefit of our around 11,400 employees, our customers and suppliers, the environment, and the community at large. This report for the United Nations Global Compact sets forth our priorities for responsible corporate governance and documents the measures we have put in place. It relates to our activities in the 2018 fiscal year. Our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, together with three action areas that are relevant for G+D. In 2017, after conducting internal interviews and aligning with customer requirements, we identified our priorities as being employees, environmental and climate protection, and supply chain sustainability. Our activities and corporate governance measures are focused on these three areas. Group-wide framework requirements apply in the individual action areas. These requirements were laid down in greater detail in 2018 and a number of initial targets established. This included defining a new climate goal for reducing our greenhouse gas emissions (see p. 8). Within the constraints of the Group-wide framework, the business units set their own priorities in accordance with their specific requirements and define the CR measures and activities that are important to them. 5 Responsibility Our training portfolio is one of the instruments we use. It provides employees with fast access to high-quality training and is continually being expanded to include To Employees new aspects, such as agile working methods and virtual collaboration. We also deploy a wide range of other development resources, from individual career guidance – which covers specialist skills, project leadership, and Some 11,400 employees across 32 countries strive every management positions – through to coaching and special day to make the lives of billions of people more secure talent management programs. thanks to technologies and solutions from G+D. It is crucial not only to have the right experts on board today, In 2018, we redesigned our internal programs around but also to ensure we remain attractive to talented the systematic identification and development of young people with the relevant specializations. high-potential employees. We operate a Group-wide, global talent management program, in which we In these times of technological disruption and social prepare employees to take on bigger projects and change, digitalization is radically changing the way greater management responsibility. In addition, G+D people work and the way they are managed. We as a Currency Technology and G+D Mobile Security have each company therefore need to not only support and launched their own development programs, which are develop our existing staff accordingly but also attract geared to the particular requirements of their business. new talent to G+D. In the Employees action area, our The larger subsidiaries also operate talent programs at sustainability activities are focused on the following key the local level. dimensions: learning and development; diversity; health and work/life balance; and good working conditions. FOCUS “LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT” Given the pace of innovation in our markets, it is especially important for our employees to be flexible and continue acquiring new knowledge. Lifelong learning is becoming essential. To ensure we meet these requirements, we take particular care in analyzing what skills are important for G+D today and which ones we will need in Women in Management Roles the future. We take these findings into consideration when hiring new members of staff, but also with regard Worldwide in Percent to advising existing employees and helping them develop their abilities and acquire relevant new skills. 16.0 Women in executive management 2018 11.0 2017 6 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2018 Our Responsibility NEW DEMANDS ON LEADERS AND MANAGERS Diversity is also a key criterion when selecting trainees and participants for our talent programs. Leadership and management styles are changing as a result of technological and social transformation. They We reach out to skilled next-generation employees at an are also being adapted to a new generation of employearly stage, such as via careers fairs, at universities, or ees with different priorities and expectations of the work through Germany’s nationwide “Girls’ Day”, which seeks environment and career paths. This means an even to interest girls in technology-based career options. Girls’ greater emphasis on staff development at G+D with Day is the biggest career guidance project for female www.girl-day.de regard to leadership and management. New programs high school students worldwide. We attract young and training formats are intended to ensure that line employees and job market entrants via professional managers are optimally prepared for their demanding training opportunities, dual and master’s study programs role and fully supported in their management responsipredominantly in technical subjects, and direct entry into bilities. In 2018, special training on leadership in an the workforce. For the vocational training programs at increasingly digitized workplace was one such example. our Munich site, we have formed a network between the individual business units and the Corporate Center, G+D Currency Technology also launched the worldwide thereby giving trainees an insight into different areas of “Lead.Together” initiative, which involves workshops for the business. managers, development meetings, and talks by management. The aim is to establish a modern leadership culture and uniform management philosophy in the business unit. In addition, a transformation process was launched at our Munich site with the aim of creating a feedback-based performance culture that respects and values the individual. Implementing a robust feedback culture is an effective way of ensuring greater satisfaction, customer focus, motivation, better management and, ultimately, excellent performance. The program involves four key elements: the feedback dialog as a new format for employee evaluations plus a new three-tier bonus system. FOCUS “DIVERSITY”: STRENGTHENING DIVERSITY Alongside offering good career development and progression opportunities within the company, we aim to recognize and promote the diversity of our staff. G+D regards a diverse workforce in terms of gender, age, and cultural origin as a significant competitive advantage. Leveraging the existing diversity at G+D and actively countering discrimination are essential to our long-term success in extremely fast-moving markets. As a signatory EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN to the German government’s Diversity Charter, which is designed to promote respect and combat prejudice, we Equal opportunities for women and having a higher embrace these principles in training sessions, workshops, proportion of women in management and key positions and in the workplace. are important goals for G+D as we seek to achieve greater diversity throughout the company. We exceeded We aim to create conditions in which our employees can our target of women occupying 10 percent of manageperform to the very best of their ability regardless of ment positions in the top tier below the Management gender, age, or cultural origin. In countries with specific Board at Giesecke+Devrient GmbH in 2018, reaching a legislation in this area, such as the USA, India, and South 14 percent share. Twenty percent of positions in the Africa, we have set up corresponding programs to second management tier are filled by women, meaning promote equal opportunities and anti-discrimination. that we achieved our target here, too. Until 2022 we aim to reach 17 percent in the first and 30 percent in the second management tier. This also reflects the requirement under German law to define a female quota for management roles. A third of our Supervisory Board is already made up of women. Worldwide, we aim to increase the proportion of women in leadership www.charta-der-vielfalt.de positions. 7 Number of Employees Involved in a Recordable Injury We will seek to achieve these objectives by filling vacant 0.94 per posts with suitable female candidates and providing hundred targeted professional support for women within the employees organization. We take all aspects of management ability into consideration when selecting candidates and while recruiting staff in general. 2018 FOCUS “HEALTH AND WORK/LIFE BALANCE” We have a special responsibility to protect and promote the health of our employees. At all of our major locations around the world, we have introduced a certified occupational health and safety management system in accordance with the international OHSAS 18001 standard. This ensures that we take active preventive measures to avoid accidents and illness. Many of our subsidiaries 0.80 0.85 also offer other health-related benefits, such as medical 2016 2017 check-ups (screening), e.g. in Spain, India, and the US. We further expanded workplace medical services and the occupational health package at our Munich site in 2018. The associated training program addresses specific prevention and health-related topics, including ergonomics guidance, welfare advice, and addiction counGOOD WORKING CONDITIONS seling. We also provide exercise and fitness programs at our headquarters site and other locations. As an employer, we not only have a responsibility to support and promote the health of our employees, we In addition to helping our employees to be healthy and are also committed to creating a safe working environproductive, G+D seeks to ensure that each employee ment and ensuring the right conditions are in place. All finds his or her own personal work/life balance. Our major G+D production locations worldwide operate a response here takes the form of staff development certified occupational health and safety system in tailored to different life stages, which is designed to accordance with the OHSAS standard and have impleenable an individual and appropriate work/life balance. mented the appropriate measures. For the Mobile We offer a flexible working time model with no core Security business unit, this includes 15 certified producworking hours, no minimum daily attendance hours, and tion facilities, covering some 80 percent of employees. In no limit on monthly leave. As well as being flexible about the case of Currency Technology, five production sites are when our employees work, we also aim to be flexible certified, corresponding to 55 percent of the workforce. about where they work. We allow them to do their job in an environment that is right for them, be it a home office At the Munich site, we are currently modernizing the or another location via mobile working. If our employees’ offices and the general working environment, with a personal circumstances change – perhaps through scheduled completion date of 2020. One of the aims is to pregnancy, illness, or the need to care for dependent boost workplace flexibility and facilitate more team relatives – we support them. working. As a result of a pilot project carried out on risk assessment, greater account will be taken of psychologiSince 2004, our HR policy in Germany has been subject to cal stress when planning office space. In addition, as part external assessment in the berufundfamilie audit – a of the Workplace 2020 initiative, we are looking at ways strategic management instrument that reflects our focus to make G+D more attractive as an employer, including on accommodating different life stages. We have been measures to improve employee mobility. These are due awarded the highest level of audit certification, thereby for introduction in 2019. confirming that an HR policy geared towards different life stages is part of G+D’s corporate structure. The next In order to systematically integrate new employees into re-audit will take place in January 2020 and be in the the company and retain them in the long term, G+D in form of a dialog procedure. We intend to incorporate Germany rolled out a redesigned onboarding process in health as a focus topic into the action program of the 2018. The actual process is carried out within the business audit. units, thereby allowing it to be aligned with the particular requirements of different employee profiles. www.beruf-und-familie.de 8 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2018 Our Responsibility Direct and indirect CO2 Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Responsibility To the 46.4 metric tons of CO2 per million euros of sales Environment 2018 Ongoing climate change is one of the most pressing issues of our time and business needs to play its part in finding effective solutions. Protection of our environment and climate, together with responsible use of natural resources, is therefore a key action area for G+D. We are committed to ensuring that our entire value chain is sustainable and to continuously reducing our ecological footprint. 57.9 55.3 All major production sites operated by the individual 2016 2017 business units – 20 in total – have an ISO 14001:2015 environmental management system in place. The three Market-based factor set Currency Technology production facilities in Louisenthal, Konigstein, and Leipzig have energy management systems that are certified to the ISO 50001 standard. The individual business units and the Corporate Center are GROUP-WIDE CLIMATE GOAL each responsible for their own management systems and for practical implementation of the associated activities In 2018, we calculated and adopted a Group-wide and objectives. In the first half of 2018, all units were reduction goal for our greenhouse gas emissions, based audited. on data from the business units. We aim to reduce our direct and indirect emissions (tCO2) by 25 percent relative By defining Group-wide framework requirements, our to sales by 2022. The base year for our calculations is aim is to ensure that uniform standards are met while 2016. No complete emissions data is currently available also taking account of the specific requirements of the for Group companies Veridos and secunet. We have individual business units and identifying yet more ways therefore defined qualitative targets for them with of minimizing the environmental impact of our operaregard to managing energy consumption data and tions. We measure our activities against centrally defined recording all climate data. As a Group, our aim is to sustainability indicators, which we record for the largest reduce our emissions by 2022 to a level compatible with production sites worldwide. These indicators are based the <two-degree limit set out in the Paris Agreement. on the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Using these indicators to evaluate and This will be achieved partly through the use of innovative analyze our environmental performance in line with the technology. The Louisenthal paper mill, for instance, uses ISO 14001:2015 standard enables us to achieve greater renewable energy obtained from a dedicated hydro­ transparency and measurability, including with regard to power system for the production of banknote paper and www.louisenthal.com upstream and downstream processes in the value chain. is gradually establishing a heat recycling network at the site. As part of the modernization work at our Munich headquarters, the entire site will be converted to LED lighting by mid-2019. Floor lamps will be fitted with daylight sensors and movement sensors. This will allow energy consumption for lighting to be reduced by more than half. We are also reducing our CO2 emissions at other locations by implementing energy-efficient measures, such as changing the lighting in production facilities, e.g. at Mobile Security in China. We also aim to www.globalreporting.org increase the amount of green electricity we use as a proportion of our total power consumption. 9 A comprehensive emissions control policy helps us measure G+D’s climate protection activities. We report our greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This is the most widely used international calculation method for greenhouse gas emissions. In the world’s most extensive climate protection ranking, the CDP, we occupied a good mid-table position in 2018 in the supplier category. www.cdp.net SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR PRODUCTS Conserving resources is a crucial factor in the operation of our locations, and sustainability is also a priority when it comes to our products. Examples include banknote paper that is typically manufactured from cotton comber noil – a by-product of the textile industry that can also be Water Recycling derived from organically grown cotton if the customer prefers. For cashless payments, G+D Mobile Security (MS) and reuse1 can supply card bodies made of the renewable material PLA (polylactic acid). MS is also a participant in Master56.7 card’s Greener Payments Partnership, which was in percent launched in October 2018 to reduce the amount of plastic in payment card manufacturing and promote the use of sustainable materials. We can also provide SIM cards in various form factors that use less material as well as offering greener alternatives to the standard materials used. Embedded SIMs are the most environmentally 2018 friendly solution because they do away with the need for card bodies altogether. 58.5 56.4 Hazardous 2016 2017 Waste 1 W  ithout water intensive banknote paper production 13.2 in percent 2018 13.6 12.7 2016 2017 10 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2018 Our Responsibility Responsibility Internal policies, international standards, and legal requirements also oblige G+D to check the integrity of its business partners, both before commencing a new To Customers business relationship and also at regular intervals during an existing partnership. Our business partners are required to undergo an evaluation process and expressly and Suppliers commit to following proper business and information practices. Compliance underpins our reputation as a company and SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY is fundamental to the trust our customers place in Giesecke+Devrient. This does not just mean complying As a company with an extensive upstream value chain, with national and international laws and internal we also expect our suppliers to comply with sustainability corporate guidelines – it also means staying true to G+D’s standards. At both G+D Mobile Security and G+D values. A Group-wide compliance management system Currency Technology, suppliers undergo a selection (CMS) helps our employees to observe the relevant rules process that covers a range of criteria, including quality, and regulations, including those designed to prevent environmental, and workplace safety standards at corruption and antitrust law violations. production sites, plus compliance aspects. Open communication and staff training play an essential In 2018, we defined a Group-wide approach to selecting role in preventing compliance incidents. The Compliance and auditing suppliers in accordance with sustainability Office provides e-learning training sessions on complicriteria in order to meet our own expectations as well as ance issues in order to ensure a consistent level of quality. increasingly stringent requirements around sustainable Managers and staff working in risk-related fields also supply chain management. The guiding principle of a take part in face-to-face training. In the reporting period, sustainability-oriented supply chain is described in our G+D Currency Technology held ten such classroom Group-wide procurement manual. In 2019, we plan to training sessions and G+D Mobile Security held four. In define and implement specific targets and corresponding 2019, we intend to introduce new Group-wide e-learning action relating to the procurement process and supplier training sessions on the basics of compliance, anti-corrupaudits. tion, and competition/antitrust law. To enable us to identify possible misconduct at an early stage, we have set up an anonymous Internet-based reporting system, which employees and business partners can use to notify us of suspected unlawful behavior. In 2019, we plan to introduce a new tool for risk analysis and assessment in relation to potential compliance violations and will also be refining our analysis system. G+D Mobile Security, with its very deep supply chain, already audits 20 to 30 percent of its active A and B suppliers per year on sustainability criteria. 11 This includes developing an audit process for existing suppliers that considers social and environmental criteria, based on an industry standard. The aim is to expand and Responsibility systematize the existing audit process. The new process will initially be introduced in the Mobile Security business unit. To prepare the ground for this, Mobile Security To Society carried out a risk assessment of A, B, and sub-suppliers during the reporting period. The suppliers were categoThe not-for-profit Giesecke+Devrient Foundation has rized according to their social and environmental been the vehicle for our corporate citizenship activities performance and requested to provide evidence of since 2010. The Foundation supports projects devoted to sustainable practices, such as certification. G+D Mobile education, culture, and intercultural exchange. Particular www.gi-de-stiftung.org Security has an extensive supply chain; to date, 20 to 30 focuses include support for the Museum of the Printing percent of the active A and B suppliers have undergone Arts in Leipzig – the city in which G+D was founded – audits that include sustainability criteria. and an international program in association with the Goethe Institute that involves inviting young people In 2018, G+D also updated its Group-wide statement on from all over the world to Germany. For three years now, www.druckkunst-museum.de addressing forced labor, human trafficking, and slavery this initiative has also included an alumni program. Finally, in our supply chain. This policy meets the requirements of our employees have the opportunity to take part in a the UK’s Modern Slavery Act, which stipulates that volunteering program and get involved in social projects organizations must publish an annual statement. selected by the Foundation. Many of our security technology products contain metals that are extracted from ore. The mining of these materials repeatedly raises human rights issues. Accordingly, G+D Mobile Security engages in systematic reporting to ensure responsible sourcing of these so-called conflict minerals. The contents of materials supplied, such as those used in the production of smartcards, are recorded and checked by means of a standardized process at G+D, thus creating the transparency required within our own supply chain. Our procedure complies with the requirements of the Dodd–Frank Act, a US federal law that includes provisions to regulate cooperation with raw materials companies in developing countries. 12 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2018 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility at G+D GC Focus/Activity Progress/Outlook Status/Goal Principles* Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy Materiality Focus on CR action areas employees, climate and environmental protection, and Design strategic CR framework, 2018: a sustainable supply chain, based on internal survey and alignment with add detail and define specific targets. customer requirements (2017). Develop a corresponding CR strategy as a guiding Goal in 2019: finalize and implement framework for the entire Group sustainability objectives in the individual action areas Reporting UN Global Compact progress Eighth report as per UN Global Compact requirements, covering progress in 2018 Ongoing report MS1: Participation in EcoVadis CSR Annual evaluation of G+D Mobile Security's activities and supporting MS in top 20% of suppliers evaluated, assessment platform documentation relating to the environment, working conditions, human rights, annual rating fair business practices, and a sustainable supply chain Action Area: Employees Learning & development Talent management at both the Internal programs for systematic identification and development of high-poten2018: conduct standardized analysis of 1, 2, 6 global and business unit level tial employees (talent programs). Design and implement three programs in line potential across all business units, with the requirements of the individual business units and target groups (CT2, identify/define developmental MS, and Group-wide talent programs) measures for all participants. Start of the three new talent programs, continuation in 2019. Executive development Communication of management principles based on G+D values; leadership Ongoing, gradual expansion of 1, 2, 6 training for an increasingly digitized workplace program in 2019 CT: global campaign “Lead.Together” to establish a modern leadership culture Ongoing and uniform management philosophy (workshops, development meetings, talks by management, etc.) CT GmbH, Munich: implementation of a new feedback-based performance Ongoing culture that respects and values the individual Diversity Gender/equal opportunities for Female quota for G+D GmbH: 10% of managers in top tier below Management Target achieved in 2018 for top 1, 2, 6 women Board; 20% in second management tier management tier at 14%, 20% in second management tier Gender-sensitive approach to assessing potential in talent management and Ongoing 1, 2, 6 recruiting Age/demographic change Measures aimed at recruiting and retaining young talent, specialist staff, and Ongoing 1, 2, 6 managers, such as talent programs/reviews Initiatives to recruit and retain young talent, including Girls’ Day 2018, Ongoing Deutschlandstipendium Scholarship Program Dual master’s study program Ongoing 1, 2, 6 Cultural diversity Signatory of Diversity Charter (German business initiative to promote diversity Ongoing 1, 2, 6 in companies and institutions), integration of Charter content into training Hackathon internal digital initiative with international mixed teams Established 2017; held once or twice a year; May 2018 in Stockholm with 50 participants from 11 countries G+D America: Measures in Action plan as strategic tool for identification, development of measures, and Ongoing accordance with US law on equal implementation of measures relating to equal employment opportunities/ employment opportunities (EEO) anti-discrimination. Implemented policies and recruitment programs that focus for women, minorities, veterans, on equal opportunities for women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with and individuals with disabilities disabilities. 1 MS: Giesecke+Devrient Mobile Security GmbH 2 CT: Giesecke+Devrient Currency Technology GmbH 13 GC Focus/Activity Progress/Outlook Status/Goal Principles* Health/work-life balance Health management Certification of all major sites to OHSAS 18001; provision of medical check-ups Since 2018, independently certified 6 and promotion (screening) and health measures at various subsidiaries, e.g. Spain, India, USA. management systems in business units G+D location Munich: expansion of workplace medical services and occupational and the Corporate Center. Q1/2019 MS health scheme; pilot project on risk assessment of psychological stress. certification in accordance with new Ergo­nomics advisers, training program around health and prevention standard. Implementation of measures from pilot project on risk assessment of psychological stress, including adapting the work environment. Risk assessment with external partner since Q1/2019 Encouraging a healthy work/ “berufundfamilie” certification in accordance with follow-up procedure Measures ongoing until 10/2019, 6 life/caregiving balance (highest audit level), with inclusion of the Leipzig printing site in the 10/2016 including review and adaptation of audit; confirmation that the operational measures adopted or updated are shift system at Leipzig printing site, embedded in HR policy and are being rolled out in Leipzig 2018 expansion of option to work from flexible locations, approx. 20% of jobs at G+D GmbH are part-time; Integration of the priority topic of health into the action program of re-auditing 01/2020 Activities of subsidiaries Flexible working hours and telecommuting option, e.g. USA (CT) and Spain Ongoing Good working conditions Occupational health and safety Certified health and safety management system in accordance with OHSAS MS: 15 certified production facilities, 7, 8, 9 18001 at all relevant production sites worldwide (total: 20) i.e. approx. 80% of employees work at certified locations Q1/2 2019 audit; 2020: switch to new ISO 45001 standard CT: 5 certified production facilities, i.e. 55% of employees work at certified locations Employee information Location Munich: Sustainability Action Days with a focus on healthy eating, 2019: organization of Sustainability 10 and awareness health, and conserving resources/mobility; e-learning on occupational health Action Days planned and safety/fire safety; Louisenthal: Health Day Workplace 2020 Location Munich: modernization of office/working environment. Further Ongoing since 2016; review of increase workplace flexibility, expand team structures, and embed this approach solutions for improving mobility, such more strongly in corporate culture. Taking account of psychological stress when as introduction of JobRad and a planning office space. Consider other ways of boosting employer attractiveness car-sharing app, implementation in as part of Workplace 2020. 2019. Extending flexible working Employee retention CT Munich: realignment of onboarding process towards long-term retention of Implemented new employees. MS Munich: planning and introduction of a new preand onboarding process for systematic integration and long-term retention of new employees Activities of subsidiaries Additional measures that go beyond certification, e.g. G+D India: financial Ongoing assistance for elderly parents of employees (co-insurance) Action Area: Environment Management system for planning Central standards combined with decentralized responsibility: practical Centralized management of 7, 9 and implementing sustainability implementation of activities, objectives, and measures is the responsibility of standards; implementation became measures the individual business units as of 2018. Centrally defined sustainability the responsibility of the individual indicators in line with GRI standard (energy, CO2 emissions, water, effluents, business units in 2018 waste, workplace accidents, work days lost, etc.); information gathered across Group using SoFi software tool. Environmental management: Certified environmental management system for each business unit covering all 2018 certification in accordance with 7, 8, 9 certification to ISO 14001 relevant production sites the revised ISO 14001:2015 standard in MS, CT, and Corporate Center Energy management: Certified energy management system for paper mills in Louisenthal and Strategic energy target for Loui7, 8, 9 certification to ISO 50001 Konigstein and at the Leipzig printing site senthal 2017–2021: reduce energy requirements and CO2 consumption by 17% compared with base year 2010. 2018: 19% achieved. Group-wide climate objective Adoption of a Group-wide relative CO2 reduction target of 25% by 2022. Base Target for 2022: two-degree 7, 8,9 (scope 1 and scope 2) year: 2016, KPI: tCO2 relative to sales. Qualitative targets for Veridos and secunet: compatibility by means of various management of energy consumption data and import of all climate data measures at selected sites, including pro rata purchase of green electricity 14 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2018 Corporate Responsibility GC Focus/Activity Progress/Outlook Status/Goal Principles* Corporate carbon footprint (CCF) Generate CCF 2018 for relevant production locations (for entire Group, with Annually, 2018 definition of new CO2 7, 8 ability to break down by business unit). Greenhouse gas emissions reported in reduction goal as a framework for line with Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Product carbon footprint (MS): productbusiness units, partial collection of related CO2 footprint for cards manufactured at three different European sites scope 3 (3.1, 3.3., 3.6), 2019: collect data for Veridos and secunet Conserving resources in Louisenthal (Germany) paper mill (production of banknote paper + foils): ongoing Ongoing 9 production and site operation development of heat recycling network, using waste heat from the production (selected examples) process for climate control of buildings, own hydroelectric system, own CHP power generation via steam condensing turbine; G+D MS China: conversion to LED lighting at production sites; Spain: expansion of waste disposal, 100% green electricity; USA (CT): save water by replacing sanitary facilities, save energy by using motion sensors and regulating air conditioning systems; recycle cardboard waste via recycling company; G+D India (CT): use of digital documentation, e.g. for contracts and service reports for customers; installation of solar energy collectors on office buildings EU Energy Efficiency Directive Implementation at all European locations and performance of energy audits at Completed at Veridos 12/17; sites without ISO 50001 certification completed at G+D GmbH Q1/2018 Environmentally friendly products Development/supply of environmentally friendly products, e.g. card bodies Ongoing 9 made of renewable PLA (polylactid acid); SIM cards in various form factors that use less material or embedded SIM without card body; banknote paper made using organically grown cotton comber noil on customer request Dialog with stakeholders on MS: participant in Mastercard’s Greener Payments Partnership to reduce first-use Ongoing 8 environment and climate plastic and promote sustainable materials in payment card manufacturing protection initiatives (launch: October 2018). Participation in various climate protection schemes, such as Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and other initiatives, e.g. member of the German Global Compact Network’s Peer Learning Group in conjunction with WWF/CDP; climate reporting partner of Deutsche Telekom; continued membership of Munich climate pact Other activities Munich: keeping beehives to support biodiversity; Mexico: employee reforestation project near Mexico City Action area: Sustainable supply chain Sustainability goals in Analysis and set-up of a systematic process for selecting suppliers within the 2018: definition of a Group-wide procurement Group. Definition of sustainability goals and corresponding measures for approach to auditing suppliers procurement. according to sustainability criteria in line with the increasing demands on G+D and its supply chain, 2019: detailed definition of goals and implementation of measures Corporate procurement handbook Embedding of social and environmental criteria in supplier selection process. Since Q1/2018, general sustainability standards, 2018: development of a process to address sustainability in the supply chain, 2019: inclusion of detailed, Group-wide specifications in procurement manual, operational implementation in subsequent months. MS: Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct for suppliers Implemented Q2/2018 Supplier self-disclosure Extension of supplier self-disclosure (supplier questionnaire) to include Since Q1/2018 (CT and MS) environmental and social aspects Sustainability issues included in MS: audit of 20-30% of active A and B suppliers. CT: audit of approx. 5-10% of Since 2018, annual supplier audits (CT and MS) active A and B suppliers. Expansion of audit plan and corresponding checklist to include sustainability issues. CR audit process and standard Development of a systematic audit process for suppliers in accordance with 2018: risk assessment of A, B, and social and environmental criteria, based on an industry standard (initially at MS) sub-suppliers at MS in accordance with social and environmental aspects, clustering, sustainability evidence requested (e.g. certificates), 2019: selection of a CR audit standard, step-by-step development of an audit process MS: Bill of material (BOM) check Continuous expansion of product environmental management system Ongoing for suppliers BOMcheck (online database) to record and check contents of materials supplied, including conflict minerals in accordance with Dodd-Frank Act. Statement on the UK Modern Statement on how G+D addresses human trafficking and forced labor in the Update 2018 ff, development of a 1-6, 10 Slavery Act supply chain in accordance with the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act systematic audit process in accordance with CR criteria (see above) 15 GC Focus/Activity Progress/Outlook Status/Goal Principles* Compliance/anti-corruption Group-wide Code of Conduct Code of Conduct for all employees and business partners; incorporates UN Update 2019 in line with stricter 1-10 Global Compact, ILO core employment standards, UN Declaration of Human legislation and customer requirements Rights, OHSAS 18001; compliance monitored by Corporate Auditing Compliance management system Group-wide CMS to prevent corruption and violations of competition law, with Ongoing (CMS) the individual business units taking responsibility. Quarterly Compliance Committee meetings in the business units for mutual exchange of information, coordination. Enhanced compliance monitoring at local level. Introduction of a spot-check concept to verify compliance with processes at business unit level. CMS adapted locally to new legal requirements (e.g. France, Brazil). Auditing of compliance Auditing of CMS by external third party CT 2017; MS 2018, Veridos 2018 1-10 management system Group-wide risik analysis Systematic risk analysis of potential compliance breaches in relation to 2018: introduction of a new tool for corruption and competition law (compliance assessment). Regular identification risk analysis and assessment, ongoing and assessment of compliance risks. further development of analysis system. MS: compliance checks of top suppliers, of business with officials/ authorities and of association activities. 2019: carry out Group-wide risk assessment. Establish suitable measures for minimizing risk Employee awareness/ Training sessions via e-learning on the basics of compliance/Code of Conduct, 2019: introduction of new Group-wide 10 preventive measures anti-corruption, and antitrust law e-learning training sessions on the Special face-to-face training for managers and staff in risk-relevant areas basics of compliance, anti-corruption, (MS: 4, CT: 10 training sessions) competition law (antitrust law) to Re-rollout of anti-corruption training in Munich with 100% completion rate further raise awareness and inform employees in relevant roles (e.g. sales) Whistleblowing Internet-based reporting system for internal and external persons for Implemented since 10/2017, 1-6, 10 anonymous reporting of potential compliance violations and unlawful conduct 2018: introduction at Veridos Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) G+D is a co-founder of the initiative. Following a successful 2017 audit, Ongoing 10 confirmation of membership of G+D CT after letter of confirmation in November 2018 Review and monitoring of Ensure proper and reliable cooperation with business partners by means of Ongoing business partners risk-based checks, monitored using appropriate monitoring systems Corporate Citizenship Giesecke+Devrient Foundation Brings together G+D’s Corporate Citizenship activities; particular focuses include Ongoing Museum of the Printing Arts in Leipzig, an international development program for young people from different countries worldwide in partnership with the Goethe Institute, alumni program Corporate volunteering program G+D volunteering program involving social projects (selected by G+D Ongoing Foundation), such as construction work and meeting events, as well as participation in a project designed to teach schoolchildren how to manage money responsibly Activities in subsidiaries Mexico: financial assistance for earthquake victims and employee support for (selection) reconstruction work; India: blood donation campaign, donation of items for people in need; UK: local charitable activities in conjunction with customers; USA: donations and various social activities in local area (Community Support Committee); G+D Indonesia: support for a children’s educational project 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Giesecke+Devrient GmbH Corporate Communications Corporate Social Responsibility Prinzregentenstrasse 159 P.O. Box 80 07 29 81607 Munich Germany P +49 89 4119-13 86 F +49 89 4119-12 08 csr@gi-de.com www.gi-de.com
