We Sustainability Report 2018 PORR ians are doing our part for the economy, society and the environment. Rubrik Highlights 2018 14 Female workforce % Thanks to a comprehensive range of measures, PORR managed to increase the percentage of female PORRians year-on-year (2017: 11.8%). +62.0% > 95,000 Efficient reporting system Raising awareness of occupational safety has led to a sharp rise in reporting hazardous Training hours situations. »PORR is committed to ongoing HR development – in line with the principle of lifelong learning.« +18.0% Production output: +7.3% +11.5% EUR 5,593m Average staffing ­level: 19,014 Record order backlog: EUR 7,100m 1 Contents 03 Foreword by the Executive Board Corporate Profile and CDP rating, Sustainability Strategy Climate Change, B 05 About PORR 06 Sustainability strategy 07 Stakeholder management +23.2% 08 Material topics 10 Overview of action fields 11 Sustainability goals Adding Value 14 Straight talking on the Increase in construction site – interview with ­hazardous waste Construction Manager Inès Seger treated 16 Economic success 18 Value chain 19 Sustainable procurement 20 Compliance 21 Focus on value Recognising Value 24 Respect and appreciation are important for me – interview -7.9% with apprentice Ali Rezaie Decrease in paper used 26 Safety, security and prevention 30 Further education and training 32 Upholding human rights 33 Diversity and equal opportunities 34 Employment 646 595 tonnes tonnes Preserving Value 2017 2018 38 Together for a better environment – interview with Environmental Protection Officer Thomas Kasper 40 Energy and emissions 44 Resource management Service Section 52 About this report 54 Risk and impact analysis 58 GRI content index 65 Key performance indicators 79 Independent report on a limited assurance engagement on consolidated non-financial report 82 Acknowledgements PORR Water Policy introduced Foreword by the Executive Board We know how success is born. With passion. After all, we never compromise when it comes to construction. The best minds come together to provide the best solutions for our clients. The PORR Executive Board team (from left): Thomas Stiegler, Karl-Heinz Strauss, Andreas Sauer and J. Johannes Wenkenbach. 3 Foreword by the Executive Board Bound by our values – for 150 years Furthermore, the report focuses on the significant, specific management approaches, which have been presented with greater clarity this year. GRI We PORRians build for the future – and have 102-14 been doing so with great success for 150 years. In addition to the clear commitment to the We create worlds to live and work that span principles of the Global Compact of the United generations. Our works are the best proof of Nations, we have now underlined our commitembodying sustainability at PORR. And for this ment once again to the relevant Sustainable we rely on the diversity of our staff members. Development Goals (SDGs). We have adopted them in the report for the first time and placed Our success rests on our five strong principles. them in the appropriate context. These principles connect us in all our Groupwide diversity. Together they form our corporate Diversity and our strong commitment to culture, namely “Home of Construction”. They preserving value is also shown in the range of are reflected in our three action fields – adding measures implemented in the 2018 reporting value, recognising value, preserving value. period in order to make a greater contribution to These continue to serve as the maxims of our sustainability. We particularly welcome the fact business activity. “Passion” allows us to rise to that we have been awarded a score by the every economic challenge. Our “Pioneering Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the first Spirit” enables us to act as a trailblazer, particutime, achieving a B grade in Climate Change. larly on environmental issues. The entire team stands “Shoulder to shoulder”, while “AppreciaThe emphasis we place on recognising the tion” for the best performance provides motivavalue of our staff is reflected in all of the tion and inspiration. “Reliability” is the solid measures promoting occupational health and foundation on which our services are built. safety. Enhanced awareness of occupational safety issues has led to a sharp increase in This year’s Sustainability Report has been reporting hazardous situations. In the field of produced in accordance with the standards of further education and training there has also the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and audited been a rise in the average number of training by an external assurance provider for the first hours. We are especially pleased to see that time. We are particularly proud of that. women now account for 14% of the workforce, an increase on last year. We have revised our materiality matrix in light of the requirements of the Austrian Sustaina­ As you can see, it has been a busy year for us bility and Diversity Improvement Act and the with regard to sustainability. In the coming year GRI standards. It is now even more focused on we will continue to work on improving our KPIs. compliance as well as on environmental, social We look forward to hearing any feedback you and employee affairs and the related issues. might have. Thomas Stiegler Karl-Heinz Strauss Andreas Sauer J. Johannes Wenkenbach COO CEO CFO COO 3 05 About PORR 06 Sustainability strategy 07 Stakeholder management 08 Material topics 10 Overview of action fields 11 Sustainability goals Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy Reliability is our foundation. It provides a solid base on which to build our success. We all pull together as one and bring our projects to their successful conclusion. We PORRians are building for the future. 4 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy About PORR GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 201-1 LEADING CONSTRUCTION COMPANY Home markets NO Project markets PORR is Austria’s leading construction SE Target markets company and is one of the industry’s most important players Europe-wide – ­especially on the home markets of DK Germany, Switzerland, Poland and the Czech Republic. UK PL DE CZ SK AT CH RO FIVE HOME MARKETS IN EUROPE PORR’s focus on the five European home markets of Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Poland and the Czech Republic remains in place unchanged. STABLE CORE QA ­SHAREHOLDERS UAE With core shareholders that take a longterm approach, PORR has a stable ownership 88.0% of production output came structure that consistently supports the company’s strategy. The Strauss-Ortner from Austria, Germany, Switzerland, syndicate holds 53.7% of the shares, the remainder are in free float. Poland and the Czech Republic. Economic performance (in EUR m) GRI Core competency – construction 102-8 PORR has been successfully realising complex 2018 2017 Change construction projects in building construction and Production output 5,593 4,738 18.0% civil engineering for 150 years. As one of the few Order backlog 7,100 6,367 11.5% infrastructure specialists on the five home marOrder intake 6,326 6,301 0.4% kets, the company covers the entire value chain for infrastructure projects. The goal is to continue EBITDA 219.5 200.7 9.4% to expand the company’s leading position as a EBIT 92.3 90.2 2.3% design-build contractor. Furthermore, as a EBT 88.1 85.3 3.3% technology leader, PORR increasingly applies Consolidated profit 66.2 63.7 3.9% networked and innovative solutions to construcEquity (incl. nontion and is proactively driving forward digital controlling interests) 618 597 3.6% advances. PORR’s strategic growth requires Equity ratio 19.9% 20.7% -0.8PP ­integrated networks and cooperation that extends Net debt -150 -147 1.9% beyond the Group – while ensuring the best-­ possible use of resources. Average staffing levels 19,014 17,719 7.3% 5 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy Sustainability strategy Responsible corporate management across the entire value chain is a priority. A future-focused approach to resources forms the backbone of PORR’s sustainable mindset. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) staff unit. Together with the CSR project team – a cross-departmental network of experts from GRI PORR is a construction company that operates the fields of Quality Management, Environmen102-16, 102-31 internationally. The impacts its business activital Protection, Human Resources, Technology ties have on society and the environment are Management, Strategy, Occupational Health highly diverse due to the high consumption of and Safety, Procurement, Group Management energy and resources and require a global, and Accounting, Risk Management, Equipment forward-looking mindset. Safety, security and Management, Energy Efficiency and Waste prevention are other pillars of the business Management – the ongoing sustainability activities. The principles of sustainable corpomeasures are evaluated and adjusted and, rate management are anchored in the sustainawherever necessary, new sustainability probility strategy, which has been developed in jects are developed in direct relation to the coordination with the Executive Board. This core business. The sustainability network was strategy is regularly evaluated and adjusted further extended in the year under review, 2018, wherever necessary. The latest version is with the introduction of responsible officers in available on the PORR website. countries and divisions. GRI Responsibility and control The staff unit is in regular contact with the GRI 102-18, 102-19, 102-21 Responsibility for sustainability lies with the PORR stakeholders as the coordinating unit 102-20, 102-31, 102-32 Executive Board. The report is checked and and involves them by means of various activities SDG 16 approved by the Executive Board and the such as workshops, lectures, training sessions Supervisory Board. The sustainability strategy or live questions at events promoting sustainaand the defined targets with the accompa­ bility activities. This allows the issue to be nying set of measures are determined by proactively promoted and ensures the right the Executive Board in cooperation with the level of awareness among stakeholders. GRI 102-16 OUR VISION W  e strive for sustainable economic success W  e want to make a valuable contribution and want to operate in a way that is fair and to preserving our natural resources for just to society and the environment. current and future generations. W  e create a positive and inclusive work W  e advocate for an improvement in environment characterised by respect environmental performance throughout and support. the entire value chain. W  e rely on regular exchanges with our W  e want to replace resource-intensive stakeholders in our quest to find solutions methods that damage the environment for global challenges. by developing innovative and sustainable products and services. W  e intend to strengthen our resilience against the current and future consequences of climate change. 6 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder management Our stakeholder groups Shareholders Suppliers and investors Staff Media Customers Society internal evaluation of staff mental health and the survey on needs for childcare and nursing care. Stakeholders receive information about the company in various ways such as general media reports, the PORR website, newsletters, Cooperation Representations corporate publications such as the Annual partners of interests Report or the Sustainability Report, the staff Authorities and magazine rePORRt, as well as circulars or the policymakers intranet. Initiatives and memberships GRI PORR is a member and/or supporter of numer102-12, 102-13 ous initiatives and sector-specific organisations. These include the following institutions: GRI Both internal and external stakeholders are Federation of Austrian Industry, VIBÖ (Associa102-40, 102-42, 102-43 proactively involved in PORR’s CSR activities. tion of Austrian Industrial Construction CompaThe relevant stakeholders were identified and nies), DWA (German Association for Water, prioritised in a workshop with key PORR personWastewater and Waste), IDM (Institute for the nel, whereby peer-group and SWOT analyses Danube Region and Central Europe), IG Life­ were also applied. Recognising the needs of the cycle, Minergie Switzerland, NNBS (Sustainable material stakeholder groups, i.e. groups of Construction Network Switzerland), SGNI (Swiss people in a direct relationship with the compaSustainable Building Council), Austrian Associany, who influence it or are influenced by it, tion for Recycling Construction Materials, Assoopens up new perspectives. Securing economic ciation to Promote Fairer Conditions in Consuccess long-term is only possible if the comstruction, Achilles (prequalification platform), pany’s own activities are aligned with stakeCDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), DGNB (Gerholder needs. man Sustainable Building Council), FEhS (Institute for Research in Building Materials), GRI Multifaceted communication Mineral Resources Forum, German Water 102-21 PORR engages in regular dialogue with its Partnership, Ludwig Boltzmann Society, ÖGNI stakeholders. Exchanges take place in the (Austrian Sustainable Building Council), Railway company through networks, roadshows, Business Forum, STUVA (Research Association conferences, shareholder meetings, trade fair for Tunnels and Transportation Facilities), appearances and workshops, as well as in the Business for Integration, United Nations (UN) course of realising projects. Stakeholders are Global Compact, Diversity Charter, respACT included in key decisions via online surveys, (Austrian Business Council for Sustainable such as those used in the production of the Development), Companies for Families, Global materiality matrix for example, along with the Reporting Initiative (GRI). 7 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy Material topics GRI Materiality analysis depiction. Despite the lower weighting in the 102-15, 102-44, 102-46, The CSR topics of relevance to PORR were demateriality matrix, PORR continues to focus 102-48, 102-49 termined in a comprehensive materiality analyon the issues of diversity and equal opportuniSDG 16 sis conducted in 2016. The analysis was based ties, innovative technologies, and ecological on the GRI G4 reporting guidelines in force at products and services in light of their impact for that time as well as the topics of the relevant the future. An update to the materiality analysis sustainability rating and the peer group. The is planned for 2019 on the basis of a stakeholder topics ascertained were then condensed into survey and an assessment of the relevance for 16 core topics in the course of a workshop. In a the business. further step they were transferred to an online questionnaire in which each topic could be UN Global Compact GRI assessed in terms of relevance. The materiality As an international construction company PORR 102-16 matrix was produced based on the results of the is confronted by issues such as high consumpsurvey and then went on to serve as the foundation of energy and resources, high labour input tion for the PORR sustainability strategy. and building up land areas. The company supports the measurable Sustainable DevelopThe importance of the topics was based on ment Goals (SDGs) defined by the UN General how relevant the topics were for stakeholders Assembly in 2015 through various projects and (Y axis of the materiality matrix). In 2018 the initiatives. PORR is a signatory to the UN Global matrix was extended with a risk and impact Compact 2017 and is fully committed to the analysis (X axis). The relevance to the business Guiding Principles for Business and Human is reflected in the size of the circles. This led to Rights. When implementing its targets and a slight difference in the relevance of the strategy, PORR incorporates the principles material topics compared to the Sustaina­ relating to human rights, labour, environment ble Value Report 2016/2017. and anti-corruption. The projects and KPIs are evaluated in terms of their contribution to the GRI Material topics SDGs. The SDGs are also cited in relation to the 102-47 The most relevant issues remain unchanged, most important aspects of the report wherever namely safety, security and prevention, the PORR can make a contribution to meeting them. environmentally sound use of materials, and energy and emissions. The topics long-term As a first step, PORR contributes to meeting economic success, customer satisfaction and ten of the 17 SDGs through its measures and risk management are judged as very important programmes. The relevance of individual goals by the company, even though their impact has results from the materiality analysis, leading been categorised as lower in the current to a breakdown into three categories. GOALS TO TRANSFORM OUR WORLD 8 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy GRI 102-47 M AT E R I A L I T Y M AT R I X high 1. Long-term economic success 2. Customer satisfaction 3. Safety, security and prevention 1 4. Further education and training for staff 2 5. Contributing to the local economy 6. Compliance relevance for stakeholders 3 7. Risk management for projects 8. Diversity and equal opportunities 5 4 9. Innovative technologies 6 10. Environmentally sound use 10 14 7 8 of materials 9 11 13 11. Energy and emissions 12 15 12. Ecological products and services 13. Upholding human rights 14. Sustainable procurement 16 15. Biodiversity and soil 16. Commitment to society low Bubble size: relevance for the business low impact on non-financial topics high Priority 1 Priority 2 The goals 7 “Affordable and Clean Energy”, With regard to goals 3 “Good Health and 8 “Decent Work and Economic Growth”, Well-being”, 4 “Quality Education”, 9 “Industry, 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production” Innovation and Infrastructure” and 11 “Sustainaand 13 “Climate Action” are especially relevant ble Cities and Communities”, PORR makes as the company can have the greatest influence important contributions, especially in the areas in these areas given its high consumption of of further education and training and occuparesources. GHG emissions should fall and tional health. These measures are summarised dependency on fossil fuels should be reduced in the chapter recognising value. In addition, by introducing energy-efficiency measures and PORR is striving to improve local transport using renewables. The focus on comprehensive logistics and to identify efficiency measures in recycling measures makes an additional the fields of transport and building infrastruccontribution to environmental protection and ture. Promoting buildings with sustainability reducing disposal costs. These measures are certificates also falls under this category, as described in detail in the chapter on preserving does reducing emissions caused by transport, value. Occupational safety is also a top priority, pollution, and limiting any negative social and as are the regular checks to ensure that human environmental impacts. rights are being upheld throughout the supply chain. These topics are addressed in the chapters adding value and recognising value. 9 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy Priority 3 The impacts of goals 5 “Gender Equality”, Goals 15 “Life on Land” and 16 “Peace, Justice 6 “Clean Water and Sanitation” and 10 “Reduced and Strong Institutions” are also significant for Inequalities” have been given a lower weighting the business activities, even though they are in the materiality matrix. That said, PORR has accorded lower priority. PORR focuses on already implemented the first steps in the area products that come from sustainable sources of diversity and equal opportunities with the and is committed to recycling and reusing internal diversity initiative “We@PORR” and, on materials. Furthermore, a Code of Ethics has the issue of water, implemented a dedicated been implemented alongside the relevant local water officer and water policy. These aspects tax and trade practices and comprehensive are addressed by measures in all three action compliance and anti-corruption measures. fields. These measures fall under the areas of adding value and preserving value. Overview of ­ action fields Recognising value encompasses every measure and initiative whose goal is the wellbeing of every single staff member. The permanent changes and challenges of the modern world of Three pillars of sustainability work require a forward-looking corporate culPORR’s sustainability strategy rests on the three ture. With this in mind, the focus is on nurturing pillars of adding value, recognising value and and enhancing the performance and skills of preserving value – reflecting the three sustainapersonnel. On the other hand, all measures bility aspects of economy, ecology and society related to safety, security and human rights are and derived from the results of the materiality reflected in this area along with the major issue analysis. The material action fields, the goals of occupational health. With its multifaceted and the appropriate measures have been deand personalised diversity concepts, PORR has fined on the basis of these three pillars. What’s shone a spotlight on the topic of work-life more, PORR promotes an integrated approach, balance in the past two years as well as on a i.e. an interlinking of the three sustainability well-balanced and fulfilling work environment. aspects. Preserving value refers to the responsible Adding value forms the foundation of every approach to ecological resources. PORR strives economic activity within PORR. Here the comto minimise any damaging impact on the envipany is involved in constant dialogue with its ronment and to continuously improve its measstakeholders, makes an important contribution ures to protect the environment. Its proactive to local economic development and strives for climate strategy allows the company to react long-term economic success. Every member of to the greatest challenges of our time – climate staff upholds the company’s values as laid out change and mitigating its negative consequencin various mission statements and the Code of es. Measures to increase energy efficiency, the Ethics. In addition to complying with laws, fair use of renewables and the application of ecocompetition is the overriding priority here. logical products and services all serve to reduce When choosing business partners, suppliers harmful emissions. The growing scarcity of etc., PORR applies the principles stated in the resources and the related rise in prices are Code of Ethics and guarantees their complete being countered by means of recycling and observance across every business activity. the careful use of resources. 10 Corporate Profile and Sustainability Strategy S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y G OA L S ACTION ASPECT SHORT TO MEDIUM-TERM STATUS FIELD MEASURES QUO 2018 Long-term • Implementing the strategic plan for the further digitalisation economic of corporate, labour and construction processes success • Exploiting economic benefits through the increase in resources saved A D D I N G VA LU E Customer • Group-wide rollout of standardised feedback sessions ­satisfaction with clients • Introduction of a regular stakeholder forum Compliance • Further developing the high compliance standards • Conducting regular audits to receive certification • Continuing with Group-wide anti-bribery and compliance training Sustainable • Group-wide rollout of SAP MM procurement • Evaluating an SAP-based supplier management system • Set of criteria for high environmental and social standards • Introduction of ISHAP documentation system with complete coverage • Responsible sourcing Health, safety • Group-wide saturation with the “Vision Zero” campaign: and prevention reducing the accident frequency to <10 by 2020 R EC O G N I S I N G VA LU E • Continuing with training on occupational health and safety • Introduction of workplace health promotion with complete coverage Further education • Promoting e-learning and training • Implementing the digIT LearningMap and thereby increasing the average length of training • Rollout of the porr_academy for employees on the home markets • Strengthening the competencies of women to increase the percentage of women at every level of the hierarchy • Increasing the percentage of apprentices to 5% Upholding • Protecting and promoting international human rights human rights Diversity and • Diversity as a fixed focal topic in training for future managers and equal opportunities establishing it in the general educational programme • Rollout of “We@PORR” to all PORR markets • Raising awareness of diversity-related issues through communication, network meetings, role models etc. GRI Energy and • Reducing primary energy consumption by at least 102-11 emissions 1.5% annually by 2020 • Reducing the specific GHG emissions by at least 1.5% annually by 2020 • Continuing with energy-efficiency measures in the fields of equipment, P R ES E R V I N G VA LU E fleet and building management • Increasing the percentage of renewable, environmentally sound energy to over 10% by 2020 • Adhering to the binding climate strategy through regular monitoring and an annual progress report • Intensifying cooperation with climate-related representations of interests bodies • Decarbonising the construction process by 21% by 2030 versus 2014 Environmentally • Further developing methods that conserve resources in sound use of foundation engineering, building construction and civil engineering materials • Further increasing the percentage of recycled construction materials • Focused risk analysis with regard to environmental impacts • Cutting contaminated fractions through advances in waste treatment and recovery techniques • General reduction in waste Achieved Underway Planned 11 14 Straight talking on the construction site – interview with Construction Manager Inès Seger 16 Economic success 18 Value chain 19 Sustainable procurement 20 Compliance 21 Focus on value Adding Value Responsibility starts with me alone. That said, we can only enjoy sustainable success when we bear responsibility together. Sharing the knowledge we have gathered is a matter of course for us PORRians. After all, it’s only when I stand shoulder to shoulder with my colleagues that we can achieve the very best results for our customers. Inès Seger, Construction Manager on the Baloise Park Basel mega-project Adding Value I N T E R V I E W W I T H C O N S T R U C T I O N M A N AG E R I N È S S EG E R Straight talking on the construction site It’s only when we talk openly about our problems that we can develop and propose targeted solutions. Our construction manager Inès Seger reflects on what makes her work successful and what motivates her. You’re currently working on the office project At the end of the day, the joy felt by a customer Baloise Park Basel. What’s the greatest challenge should also be immense. What difference can you you face on the current construction site? personally make to customer satisfaction – a key Meeting all of the tight deadlines we have set is success factor in the construction business? the biggest challenge for sure. At the same time Clear and transparent communication with we have to apply the high quality requirements clients is particularly important to me. Especially and fulfil the individual demands of the in critical project phases. After all, it’s only when developers. Every decision often involves highly we honestly call problems by their real name complex approval processes. that we can develop and propose targeted solutions. What’s more, this strengthens the What makes a project a success? basis of trust needed to address problems There are lots of factors at play. But the most openly. important for me is successful cooperation on the construction site. This is part of the good You’re working in a heavily male-dominated communication in the team, i.e. between the sector? What is an average work day like in this whole project management team, designers and environment? construction managers – and of course I like the industry. People deal with problems externally as well. Trust-based cooperation with quickly and directly and you get to the point the designers and planners, developers, client more effectively. However, I do have the feeling representatives and all subcontractors is that I have to achieve much more as a young crucial. And naturally there has to be a clear woman. I need to fight harder for respect than division of responsibilities within the project my male colleagues. But I also try to make the team. That’s the only way that every individual best out of the situation. And I’m certain this will can embrace responsibility for his or her own prove highly beneficial in the long term. activities. Why is standing shoulder to shoulder with How strongly do you identify with each project? colleagues so important in the construction I feel a great degree of responsibility for my process? work and get deeply involved with every project. The whole process of construction requires a This is often very stressful especially if projects wide range of different competencies and the are subject to delays or everything doesn’t go accompanying knowhow. Everyone has their completely to plan. In any case, I feel an own strengths and weaknesses and can incentive to give it my all. The sheer joy when a contribute to success. In addition, it’s good to project is successfully finished is simply share your experience with others so that you immeasurable. can reap the mutual benefits. This exchange should also be expanded beyond the scope of the project where possible. 14 Adding Value 02 01 Baloise Park, Basel: office project, PORR lot B, shown on the right 02 Baloise Park, Basel: rendering office project 01 How does PORR ensure sustainability not only contains a high percentage of recycled material on the construction site, but also the supply for example. And especially on the Baloise Park chain? project, regional value creation has been a top Every product used on the construction site has priority. We have awarded at least 50% of the previously been checked for compliance with contract volume for building costs to regional sustainability criteria by means of data sheets. companies. This includes municipalities that Here we also work together with specialists are either in the statistically defined MS region from the different divisions. At the start of the or at a maximum distance of 50km to the project we had an internal training session to construction site. Within Switzerland’s raise awareness of sustainability issues. That borders, of course. helps us a lot when evaluating individual products. What specific sustainability aspects relate to the Baloise Park project? Resource consumption on construction sites in Switzerland is generally an important issue. That’s why we use construction concrete that 15 Adding Value Economic success As one of Austria’s leading construction companies and a renowned international player, PORR focuses on its core competency of construction and on a well-balanced risk profile. PORR is striving to increase digitalisation in GRI 103-2 corporate, labour and construction processes. This should be reflected long-term in greater efficiency and streamlined processes. Additional GRI Management approach key topics include greater resource savings in 103-1, 203-2 Doing business sustainably is a key component the environmental sector, developing innovative of the PORR strategy and provides a clear comsolutions and carrying out regular audits in petitive advantage in calls for tender. PORR has order to receive certification such as ISO, as international branch offices, invests in research well as efficient stakeholder engagement. and development, gives preferential treatment to local suppliers and makes an important In order to do justice to the great responsibility GRI 103-3 contribution to the development of the local to its stakeholder groups, PORR operates an economies on its relevant markets. As an emIntegrated Management System (IMS) in all ployer, PORR is also responsible for jobs at of its business units and subsidiaries. This home and abroad and thereby for purchasing is consistently developed and adjusted to the power through wages and salaries. By paying requirements of interest groups, the markets, taxes and charges, PORR supports public infrapolicymakers and international standards structure and makes a contribution to financing (ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015, ISO 45001:2018, communities. PORR also focuses on the satisISO 31000:2009, ISO 19600:2015 and ISO 37001). faction of its customers and takes into account the interests of its shareholders. Value added statement 2018 Material expenditure, Staff expense purchased services Economic value Economic value EUR 1,179m (91.4%) and other expenses EUR 5,253m distributed EUR 3,836m EUR 1,290m Payments to government entities EUR 22m (1.7%) Depreciation, amortisation, External equity providers and impairment EUR 66m (5.1%) EUR 127m Company (retained earnings) EUR 23m (1.8%) GRI Contributing to the local economy 102-2, 201-1, 203-1 The value added statement shows the direct SDG 9 financial value created by PORR for the relevant interest groups as the result of its economic activities. The company also contributes to public infrastructure through projects in road construction, tunnelling and bridge building, while making an important contribution to communities through building construction projects such as housing, schools or hospitals. 16 Adding Value Quality management Operational project risks are identified and The implementation of the Integrated Manageassessed already in the tendering and calculament System (IMS) facilitates the transformation phase. A detailed overview of the material tion of corporate objectives into operational risks and impacts on non-financial issues in targets and the definition of relevant key accordance with the Austrian Sustainability processes. A uniform process map promotes and Diversity Improvement Act can be found understanding, assigns clear responsibilities from page 54 of this report. and optimises cooperation in the company. Quality assurance is also part of operational In the environmental sphere, the main risks GRI project management. The process primarily relate to the impacts of climate change. These 102-11, 201-2 consists of the design phase, monitoring and include regulatory risks tied to energy efficiency. determining deviations and finally implementPORR puts an emphasis on environmentally ing correctional measures as part of defect sound planning right from the start, especially management. All three process steps are docuwhen selecting energy sources, materials and mented appropriately. The type, scope, frequency water disposal options. Extreme weather has and responsibilities of the respective inspection a significant impact on business activities. are laid out in test plans. Target and actual Weather phenomena such as heavy rain, high quality criteria are compared in test records, heat and strong winds can put a complete stop whereby the status of any deviations is deterto progress on a construction site. Furthermore, mined and the requisite correctional measures occurrences such as hail or flooding can cause are applied. Their implementation is then significant damage to buildings or construction checked once again. equipment. GRI Risk management Customer satisfaction 102-15, 102-30 Recognising risks and opportunities from the Guaranteeing customer satisfaction is firmly operating business in good time and proactively anchored in the PORR management system as a managing them is a decisive factor in PORR’s standardised process. Aspects such as adhersustainable success. Efficient risk management ence to deadlines, process and product quality, and an internal control system (ICS) are critical meeting budget specifications and good comfor the company. Quantitative opportunity and munication are all key success factors in the risk analyses are conducted as part of a risk construction industry. What’s more, long-term assessment process and are applied to standrelationships with clients also demand cooperaard risk checklists as well as risk evaluation in tive project realisation and upholding quality the course of project planning. PORR is observand safety standards. Satisfaction assessment ing new advances in light of increasingly strinis carried out at multiple project stages. When gent regulations. Furthermore, it maintains managing and/or handing over projects, satisclose contact with regulators and NGOs via the faction is surveyed using questionnaires. That energy efficiency officers and the sustainable said, the central instrument remains talking to building unit, as well as through active particicustomers. Issues covered here include the pation in standardisation bodies, advisory aspects of occupational safety and environmengroups, voluntary initiatives etc. The internal tal protection, staff performance and compecontrol system is based on the standards tencies on the one hand and adherence to mandatory in the EU since 2009 and covers the deadline-related, qualitative and other contracassessment of operating risks as well as the tual agreements. Various communication platadequate implementation of organisational forms and associations open up additional norms and processes throughout all accounting opportunities for evaluation. These include work and reporting activities. The goal is to mitigate on industry-specific committees, participation any risks related to the markets, financing, in standardisation bodies, representations liquidity, interest rates, currency, procurement, of interests and trade associations, as well loans and capital in every company in which the as construction site discussions with the Group holds an interest. More information on developers. these topics is given in the PORR 2018 Annual Report from page 61. In the same way, decisive action should also be taken against potential risks related to quality, the environment, society, safety and security, for example the shortage of skilled labour, wage and social dumping, human rights breaches and increased accident figures. 17 Adding RubrikValue VA LU E C H A I N GRI 102-9 Quality management and assurance, environment, occupational health and safety GROUP STRATEGY, MARKET TESTING POTENTIAL CLIENT Hazard analysis, Planning, design & Communication, risk & opportunity development information & analysis, audits training CONSTRUCTION Procurement ACQUISITION AND TENDER AND PROJECT Suppliers: raw materials, auxiliary and construction materials MANAGEMENT, PREPARATION Subcontractors: finishing trade and building technology, HVAC CONTRACTING Service providers: e.g. designers, architects, consultants etc. Construction Energy site equipment efficiency Site prepa­ evaluation rations, infrastructure, logistics, deploying personnel CONSTRUCTION HANDOVER TO CLIENTS PORR relies on closer collaboration with cooperation partners Products and energy Auxiliary products specific sources used to the environment to ensure sustainability Raw materials and construction Consumption of raw materials in the ­supply chain. materials: cement, steel, gravel, Packaging material bitumen, wood, water, formwork, Noise, dust, emissions, wastewater, insulation materials, scaffolding, waste plasterboard etc. Temporary use of space for Materials recycled in-company: construction site equipment and including rubble from asphalt and infrastructure concrete Energy sources: fuels, gas, electricity, district heating 18 Adding Value Sustainable procurement Upholding social, environmental and quality standards is essential across the entire supply chain. This is guaranteed by the supplier management system checked and, where necessary, revised in and ongoing optimisation of processes throughout cooperation with the CSR project team. the value chain. Focus on local procurement GRI Establishing stable long-term relationships 204-1 to suppliers and subcontractors is thereby an SDG 8 GRI Management approach urgent priority and allows the company to 102-9, 103-1 Supply chains in the construction industry are mitigate the aforementioned risks through complex in light of the high number of suppliers longstanding framework contracts. The focus and subcontractors. This brings with it the here is on cooperation with local suppliers, danger of a lack of transparency and failure to whereby local is defined as within the country adhere to internal corporate social, environmenor metropolitan area of the respective PORR site tal and quality standards, which can in turn plus/minus 150km. Depending on the country, have negative impacts on society. between 60% and 95% of purchases involve local suppliers. The sole exception is Qatar in GRI An effective staff protection policy is important view of the complexity of the project and the 103-2 for PORR, as is preserving the environment lack of availability of local construction materiSDG 8 within its sphere of influence. Here the focus is als. This is why PORR Qatar as part of the joint on stable long-term relationships in the value venture supports the “Local Industry Participachain – with strict attention paid to quality, tion Plan”, whose goal is to increase support of occupational health and safety, the environment local industry. and human rights. When choosing materials, PORR only has limited scope for action as it is Impacts on the supply chain GRI dependent on client specifications. In order to The negative impacts on the environment 308-2 increase quality and trust in regional suppliers, emanating from the supply chain mainly relate SDG 9 PORR is committed to reducing the number of to transporting construction materials, which suppliers along with encouraging the use of lead produces high levels of air pollution. The stronger buyers for primary goods groups such as readycooperation with local suppliers and better mixed concrete, energy and operating materials transport logistics should counteract this envior temporary labour. In addition, PORR has ronmental impact. Other negative effects speintroduced a system for recording and verifying cific to the environment can come from the workers’ documentation (ISHAP, see chapter spillage of oils and construction materials in on human rights). transport accidents and from the use of materials such as insulation that is neither recyclable GRI Any supplier certificates are recorded via the nor biodegradable. PORR has committed to 103-3 basic datasheet for suppliers. This datasheet focusing on companies that operate sustainably also references the Code of Ethics, which is when selecting suppliers. For example, a mandatory for all suppliers. Environmental business relationship in Romania was brought incidents and/or deviations in the environmento an end as a competitor was able to achieve tal and social sector are recorded in the supplier better fundamentals in terms of waste sorting database and evaluated using a traffic-light and recycling. system. Failure to adhere to applicable standards, which are laid out in multiple documents With the exception of Switzerland, no negative GRI 414-2 including the procurement guidelines, can lead social impacts were identified in the respective to a ban on further commissioning. The supplier supply chains of the countries included in the SDG 5 management system and its accompanying report. In the case of Switzerland, the breaches database serves as the control instrument for related to minimum wage requirements and this. The evaluation process involves annual were also the reason for ending a supplier performance reviews with supply companies. relationship. The basic supplier datasheet, the procurement guidelines and the Code of Ethics are regularly 19 Adding Value Compliance PORR is fully committed to fighting against corruption and unfair competition. The goal of the compliance management system, which is obligatory for all staff members, is to guarantee lawful behaviour. Anti-corruption and fair GRI competition 205-1 GRI Management approach The focal points of the PORR compliance organ103-1 Fair and transparent behaviour is a top priority isation include preventing corruption and antiat PORR, as unfair competition and dishonest trust violations. Out of a total of 240 business business practices can not only damage the sites, 50 were assessed for corruption risks in company’s image, but also have a negative the period under review. impact on the business location. The complex supply chains make upholding compliance Training GRI 205-2 guidelines even more important. The PORR In 2018 a total of 479 staff members undercompliance management system is in use at went training on the topic of anti-corruption. SDG 16 every branch office. It covers all relevant asIn addition, 15,099 employees were informed pects such as anti-corruption, social dumping about the anti-corruption guidelines. In order or disseminating information. PORR operates in to raise awareness of the issue of compliance, countries with a good ranking on the Corruption there was a dedicated compliance info stand Perceptions Index – CPI. PORR does not operate with 400 participants at the Management in any countries with high levels of corruption. Conference. GRI Compliance lectures as well as anti-corruption Investigations and proceedings GRI 102-17, 103-2 and issuer-compliance trainings aim to raise Investigations have been underway by the 206-1, 419-1 SDG 16 awareness among staff in relation to compliresponsible authorities since the start of 2017 ance issues. The PORR Code of Ethics is also into a range of civil engineering companies, mandatory for all members of staff. Adherence including PORR Bau GmbH, on suspicion of to the guidelines is monitored by the Complianti-competitive arrangements. The PORR AG ance Officer of the Risk Management/CompliExecutive Board immediately launched an ance unit, who works closely with the Internal internal investigation into this issue. This Audit and Legal departments. An internal whisinvestigation has not yet been concluded. tleblower system in accordance with Section 32 The company is cooperating fully with the of the MAR and pursuant to ISO 37001 is also in authorities. place, along with a notification procedure that allows any breaches relating to money launderThere were no significant fines or non-moneing or financing terrorism to be reported tary sanctions for non-compliance with laws anonymously. and regulations. GRI The efficiency of the compliance management The PORR Guidelines on advertisements, 103-3 system is consistently evaluated. The Internal sponsoring, donations and promotion ensure Audit department conducts regular spot checks that the rules governing cooperation across of every PORR business site and business prothe Group are upheld. cess and carries out additional inspections where required. These reports are discussed with the Executive Board. PORR Internal Audit is also subject to obligatory regular external audits. PORR is certified in accordance with national (ONR 192050) and international (ISO 19600, ISO 37001) standards for its compliance management system. 20 Wertschöpfung Adding Value FO C U S O N VA LU E Reliability Commit – don`t command. Our five Responsibility starts with me. Rules are not a matter of principles personal choice. Shoulder to shoulder PORR HOME OF Dare to go beyond your silo. CONSTRUCTION No lone wolves, please. Information & knowledge We developed the new corporate should be shared. philosophy of PORR – PORR Home of Construction – as part of a broad-based project on our internal values and it now applies across the Group. Five principles emerged from this process: passion, pioneering spirit, reliability, standing Appreciation shoulder to shoulder and appreciation. These make up the shared corporate Diversity – definitely. culture and are the foundation and the I am not the centre of the universe. pillars of the PORR Home of Construction. Fairness is a point of honour to us. GRI 102-16, 102-17 Passion SDG 8, 16 Working together for the best solution. No compromises when it comes CODE OF ETHICS to construction. The best minds at PORR. The Code of Ethics forms the basis for all of the company’s business activities. It provides a foundation for the morally, ethically and legally unimpeachable behaviour of everyone involved in the business process and is binding for all members of staff, Pioneering spirit service providers and suppliers. One objecAlways one step ahead. tive of the Code of Ethics is the constant development and optimisation of processes Entrepreneurs at heart. within PORR in regard to quality assurance, Mistakes are a learning environmental protection and occupational ­opportunity. health and safety. Passion, pioneering spirit, reliability, standing shoulder to shoulder and ­appreciation make up our shared corporate culture. They are the foundation and the pillars of the PORR Home of Construction. 21 24 Respect and appreciation are important for me – interview with apprentice Ali Rezaie 26 Safety, security and prevention 30 Further education and training 32 Upholding human rights 33 Diversity and equal opportunities 34 Employment Recognising value At the moment I’m learning how to build a solid foundation. I look forward to the time when I will be able to calculate a building’s statics. Appreciation is really important to me in everything I do. And that’s guaranteed at PORR. It gives me confidence in my work and motivates me to do my best. Ali Rezaie, Apprentice Civil Labourer/Paver Recognising Value INTERVIEW WITH APPRENTICE ALI REZAIE Respect and ­appreciation are ­important for me Our apprentice Ali Rezaie gives us a highly personal insight into his everyday work. He explains why PORR was definitely the right choice for him. People from over 70 nations work at PORR. Does PORR benefit from the diversity of Have ethnic or social background ever played its staff? Or is this more likely to create a a role in your job? backdrop for conflict? I was very warmly welcomed into the PORR Diversity means that every person is nurtured team right from the start. Cooperation between as an individual. It also gives us the confidence all of us staff works seamlessly. Mutual respect to be creative and to solve problems in different and appreciation form the basis for our cooperways with our own ideas. The things that make ation and are reflected in everything we do. people different are the same things that increase productivity. You are one of 15 asylum seekers or benefi­ ciaries in Austria who are getting an education The topic of occupational health and safety at PORR. What has your time as an apprentice is playing an ever more important role in been like? the construction industry and also in the I really like the work at PORR. In our team we all tendering process. Do you feel well-versed help one another. The fact that I have fled my in safety issues? homeland has never been a big issue at work. Occupational health and safety measures are Even though there has been a lot of interest in absolutely essential and sensible when doing my personal story from colleagues in general. practical work. They help to prevent accidents and protect our health. My construction sites Why did you choose an apprenticeship in the have always been very safe and care is taken construction business? that nothing can go wrong. We constantly For me this training is a major opportunity to undergo training on different areas related to integrate successfully in Austria. PORR provides occupational health and safety. me with a safe job that pays well. What I also really like is that every individual can determine Which occupational health and safety their own career through their own personal ­measures do you appreciate most on efforts. What’s more, we have a huge range of construction sites? further education options available. I’m really happy that there has been a Groupwide smoking ban in place since 2018. You can You have chosen a two-pronged apprenticeship only smoke outdoors. When a smoker needs a as a civil labourer and paver. What appeals to cigarette, they leave the office, container or you most in this area? vehicle and smoke outside. The measures Handling construction machinery and paving. applied during hot spells are also very helpful As well as the fact that I can see the results of for us. We start work as early as possible and my work every day. all of the heavy work is finished in the early 24 Recognising Value 01 03 02 01 Brünnsteinstraße construction project, Kiefersfelden: laying a wastewater pipe morning. Additional short breaks and drinking 02 Austria Campus construction a lot of water also help. When temperatures project, Vienna: paving the entrance area exceed 35 degrees, we leave the construction site for heat reasons – manual labour at these temperatures is simply no longer possible. 03 The right way to lift and carry loads: training What do you hope for your future personally? Where do you see yourself once you finish your apprenticeship? I hope to complete my apprenticeship successfully and then be able to apply the skills I have acquired in the company. My personal dream is to be a foreman. Depending of course on whether I’m allowed to stay in Austria. 25 Recognising Value Safety, security and prevention Our focus lies in preventing accidents through safe operations at construction sites and workplaces. In addition to the health aspects, safety is a topic of great relevance during the tendering process and is a major competitive factor. operations. These topics are of great importance in the tender award process, especially in Northern Europe. GRI Management approach 103-1 The heightened risk of accident and injury is With Vision Zero, i.e. the goal of reducing GRI common to the industry and means that safety accident frequency to less than ten accidents 103-2 is a topic of huge importance for PORR. Poor per one million hours worked by 2020, PORR is SDG 3 safety and circumstances that can endanger pursuing a clearly defined prevention strategy. health can lead to illness, accidents at work, As a signatory to the Safety Charter in 2015, physical or mental stress and subsequently to the Executive Board and Works Council increased absenteeism and early retirement. In are committed to proactive hazard prevention certain cases there is a threat to the company and health promotion. In order to meet these of criminal proceedings and, more broadly, objectives in occupational health and safety, damage to the firm’s image and to its ability to coordination meetings with the uppermost compete. What’s more, accidents at work can management are held four times a year. The impact the progress on projects. Further issues Occupational Health and Safety staff unit here include adverse effects on neighbours in coordinates, checks and evaluates all guidethe course of construction work, as well as lines and measures. Furthermore, the project transport safety during construction site manager of Occupational Health Promotion, part of the CSR staff unit, is responsible for planning, implementing and evaluating behavioural and circumstantial measures to promote good health. In addition, PORR is engaged in close, cross-country cooperation with different working groups from different companies. This includes regular coordination meetings with the safety officers responsible for each country, in which Group-wide measures to promote occupational health and safety are planned. Standard ISO 45001 is valid across the entire GRI 103-3, PORR Group and describes the requirements 403-1, of a modern occupational health and safety 403-8 management system; it replaces the former SDG 3 standard BS OHSAS 18001. In addition to safety at work, the aspect of promoting good health plays a particularly important role. The standard applies to all staff members, activities and jobs in the PORR Group including subsidiaries and companies in which PORR holds a majority interest. It does not cover employees in non-controlling interests, subcontractors or external service providers, as they have their own systems for health and safety protection. 01 26 Recognising Value 01 Wind park, Edmundshof: foundation engineering 02 Bekkelaget, Oslo: wastewater plant, checking the installations 02 GRI Occupational health and safety organisational terms is reflected in the fact that 403-4, 403-7 Organisation it has its own dedicated staff unit. SDG 3 The objective of the staff unit for Occupational Health and Safety is to provide support in Early hazard identification GRI establishing a safe work environment through Measures to improve health and safety at work 403-2 inspections, safety training and a notification are determined on the basis of identifying and SDG 3 system for near-misses and hazardous situaassessing risks in the course of a hazard tions. In addition, it provides advice on occupaanalysis and under consideration of the client tional health and safety for issues such as requirements. In addition, staff members should raising awareness and selecting high-quality report any situational or work-related hazards. safety gear and clothing. They have a choice of reporting them to the responsible manager, to the staff representative The staff unit for Occupational Health and or anonymously, by post. The incidents are then Safety monitors the measures implemented in analysed by the construction or operations regular coordination meetings with the managemanager with the support of health and safety ment. In the course of the European Occupaexperts, after which appropriate measures are tional Health and Safety Meetings, the measures developed and implemented. To facilitate better for all foreign subsidiaries are agreed by the planning for occupational safety programmes, international Health and Safety Managers. Furthe results of the analysis are included in the thermore, special meetings are held with occuaccident statistics. pational health and safety experts in Germany and Austria, while health and safety meetings Hazard identification, risk assessment and with the country coordinators are conducted monitoring of the measures determined in three times a year across the Group. PORR has the course of hazard and incident analyses is had full-time safety officers in place since 2015. undertaken by the responsible person in the There are currently around 50 occupational line organisation, construction managers, health and safety experts deployed across the operations managers and management staff Group, who provide support to the construction from the levels E1, E2, E3 and E4. Their regular sites together with the vocational health practiSafety Walks are embedded in the management tioners and the representative bodies responsisystem. What’s more, health and safety experts ble for health and safety in the workplace. The also identify hazards in the workplace during importance of occupational health and safety in their walkarounds. All of the analyses are 27 Recognising Value ments and respective national regulations, determining a Group-wide figure for PORR is not possible at present. Safety training GRI 403-5 In the year under review PORR placed an even stronger focus on the issue of health and safety SDG 3 and developed its safety culture at work. Here operational staff were offered internal and external training. In addition, practice-based health and safety training is a fixed feature of apprentice education. Health and safety campaigns focusing on different aspects are regularly conducted across the Group. Vocational health practitioners GRI At present the vocational health practitioners 403-3 operate autonomously on the PORR markets. SDG 3 They regularly walk around different construction sites and check whether health and safety guidelines are being upheld. They introduce appropriate measures wherever necessary. Partnerships are in place on the different PORR markets with vocational health practitioners (e.g. Germany) as well as with vocational health service providers (e.g. Norway). Vocational health experts are represented on the PORR 01 intranet. They are also a regular presence on construction sites in order to establish and maintain contract with operating personnel – longstanding workers as well as temps from manpower leasing agencies. collated and used in the hazard assessments for work equipment and processes, Workplace health promotion GRI 403-4, work ­instructions and briefings for staff. Measures 403-6 The efficacy of measures that have already The working conditions on construction sites been imple­mented is evaluated regularly. were improved in the period under review. SDG 3 Generally speaking, staff members on conFor example, a Group-wide smoking ban was struction sites receive intensive support introduced, the existing construction containers through a network of safety experts. had air-conditioning units retrofitted and ergonomic office chairs were made available. On top GRI Accident and injury statistics of this, PORR offers staff members different 403-9 The accident frequency is an important perforoptions related to sport/fitness, nutrition and mance indicator in this field. It is presented in mental health. For example, employees have the service section from page 74. A good figure access to training rooms at the headquarters in reflects a positive occupational health and safety Vienna including personalised training plans. performance and is a key competitiveness factor. Subsidised sports (e.g. volleyball) are offered in While the rate of work-related injuries declined in other countries such as Germany. The range of Germany, Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, food on offer at larger sites with their own canAustria and Norway, the rate in Qatar was teens is regularly checked and a wide, nutritious unchanged. Poland and Switzerland reported menu of healthy foodstuffs is provided. Regular an increase. In light of the different calculation lectures are also held on topics such as mental models resulting from varying client requirehealth (e.g. in Germany and Austria), along with needs-oriented health days including those at the Austrian branch office in Premstätten or in Most common types of injury Düsseldorf, as well as vaccination programmes Bruising and team sports events. The implementation of Strains, sprains, torn ligaments Cuts and gashes workplace health promotion was achieved along Broken bones with an advisory centre for mental health and 28 Wertschätzung 02 01 Business Run, Vienna: PORRrunners conflict resolution. Workshops addressing project development for healthcare and the mental health topics were also held. head of CSR, the Works Council reps for salaried 02 employees and waged workers, as well as those Breakletics-Training, Vienna: training room, PORR headquarters GRI Comprehensive communication for occupational health and safety. The team 403-4, Staff members have access to different services meetings are held once every eight weeks. The 403-6 via the PORR intranet and the newsletter, as Diversity Council and the Diversity Board – two well as the numerous health-related contribudecision-making bodies that have seniority over tions and information in the employee magazine the WHP project team – are responsible for rePORRt. There, under the headings Health and approving decisions on measures. In the reportSafety and Best Place to Work, a range of health ing period, the team’s competencies were exand safety topics are explored such as how to panded with the addition of an expert in sport deal with the heat, tips on not catching a cold, and nutrition. etc. In order to ensure that access to services is guaranteed for waged workers as well, the team for workplace health promotion (WHP) works closely with construction site managers. What’s more, information from the Occupational Health and Safety unit is provided at construction sites by the vocational health experts as they are regularly out in the field. WHP project team The activities are managed via the WHP project team, which includes vocational health experts, the occupational psychologist, the head of 29 Wertschätzung 01 Further education and training PORR is committed to ongoing HR development – in line with the principle of lifelong learning. Nurturing individual strengths and competencies is the way to safeguard competitive advantages long-term. GRI Management approach increasingly being used in HR development, for 103-1 When faced with challenges such as demoexample webinars, e-learning etc. In this way, graphic shifts or skilled labour shortages, PORR PORR is addressing the requirements of the has made HR development a key focal point. By world of work, as well as the needs of work individually nurturing and developing strengths methods and employees. and competencies, the strong talent for innovation should be maintained in the Group, know­ Training covers a broad spectrum of issues GRI 103-3 how safeguarded and competitiveness and ranges from communication basics and inexpanded. tercultural training to occupational health and safety through to legal issues such as employGRI The training platform installed by HR developing foreign workers. Feedback forms are evalu103-2 ment is called porr_academy and provides ated after every training course in line with the SDG 4 access to educational opportunities for employquality management standard, in order to gauge ees in Austria, Germany and Switzerland. In their effectiveness. Additionally, the company order to counter the prevailing lack of skilled relies on mandatory performance reviews for labour, the appeal of the construction industry all staff members, which serve as the basis for is highlighted already to schoolchildren in the choosing appropriate further education and course of career fairs or in the media. The focal training programmes and evaluating progress points here are on nurturing talented individumade. The annual Group-wide implementation als and on in-depth training of tomorrow’s rate is determined and reported to the Execuspecialists. What’s more, new digital media is tive Board. 30 Recognising Value GRI Measures NEW since 2018: digIT LearningMap 404-1, 404-3 Increasing training hours In addition to training on digitalisation – with the SDG 4 The number of training hours for female staff key focal areas of EDM, iTWO, SAP MM, BIM rose to 14.38 (2017: 12.73) in the year 2018 and and SharePoint – PORR is increasingly relying to 12.66 for male staff (2017: 11.84). For perforon digital media for the purpose of education mance reviews, the take-up rate among women and training. was 85.4% (2017: 86.2%) and 83.3% among men (2017: 82.7%). The “digIT LearningMap” comprises PORR’s digital education programme and offers an GRI Focus on soft skills overview of mandatory courses and optional 404-2 In order to embed the issue of diversity firmly training by function code from the field of SDG 4 in the company, all German-speaking managdigitalisation. This should ensure a uniform ers at Level 3 (department heads) – a total of knowledge base in relation to applying the twelve groups – were offered the diversity relevant IT tools by staff with certain function training “Diversity as Opportunity” as part of a codes. The “digIT LearningMap” is subject to mandatory two-day seminar. Another important constant expansion and is published once a offering from the training catalogue is “Managyear with the latest training catalogue. ing teams of different generations”, available to managers from every level. Under the title Recruiting and HR marketing “Strong leaders – the strength to lead”, Recruiting measures aimed at school pupils and neurophysio­logical approaches were explored university students continued in the year under for the areas of management, health, communireview – these included the events PORR@HAK, cation and motivation. All members of staff who Business School Games/MINT Games, various have recognised their stress resistance and construction site excursions and participating in want to increase it, have been able to draw on numerous fairs to present the vocations. PORR “resilience training” since 2018. In the field of continues to participate in Daughters’ Day and customer service, the goal of the training series mentoring programmes. In the year under “Sales for technical staff” is to become more review the cooperation with the organisation familiar with the world of the client and be able “MTOP – More than one perspective” continued. to present and sell services and technical This is a programme aiming at the ongoing intesolutions in the best possible way. gration of highly-skilled, recognised refugees on the Austrian labour market. In addition, PORR helps selected refugees to enter the world of work as part of a job market service programme. These initiatives have enabled the company to recruit new staff and enter into a 02 permanent working relationship with them. 01 Daughters’ Day 2018, Vienna 02 porr_academy: training catalogue 31 Recognising Value Upholding human rights A clear commitment to protecting human rights is indispensable for us. Focus: Qatar Local labour legislation, namely the Workers’ Welfare Standards – under which selected welfare reps advocate for worker concerns at GRI Management approach the monthly Worker Welfare Forum –, and the 103-1 High construction output and the lack of Dhaka Principles govern worker rights in Qatar. skilled workers necessitate multiple levels of The PORR Qatar guidelines and procedures also subcontractors. It is often hard to control this address this issue. PORR Qatar informs the complex supply chain and that’s why regula­ workforce about all legal occupational health and tory compliance is critical. Especially when it safety aspects. All workers have guaranteed comes to labour migration, which is particularly freedom of movement, receive an original copy prevalent in the Arabic region for example. Any of their work contract and are in possession of breaches can lead to criminal prosecution, as their passport and ­other personal documents, well as having an impact on the award of which are kept in their own personal, lockable tenders, recruiting, the corporate image and locker in their accommo­dation. In addition to damaging the company as well as the busibedrooms, their accommodation contains ness location. common areas with TV and internet, table tennis tables and a dining room. Different culinary and GRI PORR has signed up to the principles of the religious requirements are catered to in the 103-2 UN Global Compact and the SDGs. The Code of choice of food. Alongside sports areas, facilities SDG 4, 8 Ethics valid across the Group also has to be include a mosque and a shuttle service to the upheld by everyone in the supply chain. city centre. The Workers’ Welfare organisation Furthermore, the issues of child workers and should identify possible problems early on and forced labour are directly addressed in the basic take proactive steps to solve them. For example, data forms filled out by suppliers. PORR has there are heat-sensitive warning systems on introduced ISHAP, a system for recording and every construction site that are activated as verifying workers’ documentation, to facilitate soon as the temperature or humidity reach better checks on foreign staff; the Group-wide forbidden levels. Outdoor work then ceases rollout is pending. Any violations in the supply immediately. Pay is composed of a basic wage chain are recorded and evaluated in the supplier and generally exceeds the minimum wage. management system. Contact points on PORR In addition, accommodation, transport and markets can be local bodies such as the Norwefood (three full meals a day) are provided. gian Work Environment Board or contact partFurthermore, there is a complaint system ners from the departments of HR, Occupational via which any worker can register a complaint Health and Safety or the European Central at any time. Works Council (responsible for countries without union representation), the mental health Supply chain and disabled access and conflict resolution unit and the CSR staff With the exception of a violation of minimum unit. Violations of human rights can additionally wage requirements by a supplier in Switzerland, be reported directly to the compliance officer. with whom the cooperation was brought to an end, there were no breaches of human rights in GRI Annual checks are carried out on the Code of the PORR Group in the period under review. In 103-3 Ethics, supplier basic datasheets and internal terms of disabled access, this is secured standards to ensure that they are up to date, throughout for the new build of Group properalong with spot checks of company sites for any ties. When modifying or renovating properties, compliance breaches, all of which ensure disabled access is also provided wherever adherence to the measures implemented. structurally possible. 32 Recognising Value Diversity and equal opportunities At PORR, diversity is the key to success. We advocate for equal opportunities and equal treatment in every mental health and conflict resolution advisory service are always available for any questions one of our places of business. related to equal opportunities. The set of measures and the management approach are regularly evaluated by the diversity project GRI Management approach teams, the Diversity Board and the Diversity 103-1 The construction industry is particularly strongCouncil and adjusted wherever necessary. ly affected by demographic shifts. With the aim of establishing PORR as the best place to work, Measures it is increasingly catering to the changing needs PORR uses targeted measures to enhance employees have of their employer. the motivation and performance of its workforce as well as its potential for innovation and GRI The diversity initiative “We@PORR” was im­ social skills. The first successes have already 103-2 plemented in the course of this target-setbeen recorded here. For example, women now SDG 5, 10 ting exercise. The focus here is on securing a account for 14% of the workforce, correspondbetter work/life balance and addressing ing to an increase of 448 new female staff. diversity-specific content such as gender equality, ethnic origin etc. The diversity projects With programmes such as Home Office, sabbatare developed and implemented in the CSR icals and child-centred services and care opstaff unit. Issue-based, cross-country project tions, PORR has put in place a more favourable teams are in regular contact with staff from framework for balancing one’s professional and different divisions and levels of the hierarchy private life. In addition to the diversity-specific via focus groups, surveys, test phases etc. awareness campaign involving contributions, newsletters, network meetings (“Women@PORR” GRI The set of measures determined is evaluated and the “Diversity Table”) or diversity training 103-3 by the Diversity Board, an advisory committee for managers, there are training programmes made up of managers. Finally, these are apfor women and special mentoring initiatives. proved by the highest decision-making body, The set of measures is being rolled out to all the Diversity Council, with the participation of markets step by step on a needs basis. the Group Executive Board. Additionally, the HR department, the Works Council, and the PORR Adventure Camp 2018: kids’ construction site 33 Recognising Value Employment Building is a people business. Our overarching goal is to retain skilled experts at PORR long-term. We uphold fair working practices and guarantee our staff members optimum transparency. contracts as well as impacting the quality of the work. This makes it even more important to retain skilled experts in the company GRI Management approach long-term. 103-1 Fair working practices and upholding legal stipulations is particularly important in the PORR has a comprehensive Code of Ethics and GRI construction industry. Complex work processguidelines on avoiding illegal hiring and social 103-2 es incur an increased danger of a lack of dumping. ISHAP has been introduced to faciliSDG 10 transparency along with wage and social tate better checks of foreign workers and will dumping. Any breaches of employee rights be rolled out successively in the future. The can lead to criminal prosecution, as well as company places a strong focus on further eduhaving a negative impact on the award of cation and training, whereby the key factor is tenders, recruiting and the corporate image. highly qualified own staff, and has implemented What’s more, they damage the company and an initiative to promote a better balance bethe business location. The prevailing shortage tween one’s professional and private life. The of skilled labour in the industry has a direct contact partners regarding employment are impact on construction output. It leads to HR and the Works Council. delays and problems in realising buildings and The HR department monitors the status quo GRI using the KPIs such as fluctuation, length of 103-3 sick leave, training figures etc. together with the Processing basic data with ISHAP employment-related divisions, i.e. the CSR staff unit, and updates the measures implemented where necessary following approval by the Executive Board. Staffing structure and growth GRI 102-8 In the period under review PORR achieved further growth. Corporate takeovers led the company to have a workforce of 17,747 at the end of 2018, of which 16,419 were in the home markets. The PORR staff members originated from more than 73 countries. The percentage of upper management recruited GRI 202-2 from the local area stood at 70.6% in Austria and 100% in Germany. In the other countries SDG 8 under review there is no corresponding management level. PORR trusts in permanent staff. That said, the industry’s prevailing lack of skilled labour necessitates cooperation with manpower leasing agencies on a project and company-specific basis, i.e. for follow-up orders or due to high project volumes. Depending on the country, there are weather-related fluctuations in the employment figures among vocational staff, that are, however, markedly decreasing each year. There have been no fluctuations in 34 Recognising Value countries such as Germany, Qatar or Norway. tions. Remuneration is based on the principle GRI The data is gathered via standard evaluations of equal opportunities, i.e. there is no difference 102-41, 405-2 from the respective payroll systems. in pay due to gender. There were no salary ­increases for the highest paid employees in GRI In order to accommodate the different personal any country. 401-2 situations of its staff members, PORR facilitates individual part-time contracts. More than 700 With minimal exceptions, for which provisions GRI people – almost 4% of the workforce – work are formed in the balance sheet, there are no 201-3 under conditions customised to their needs. Group-wide performance-based benefit plans. When it comes to staff benefits, the company However, there are defined benefit pension doesn’t differentiate between full-time and plans in place in Germany, Austria and part-time employment. ­Switzerland. In addition, corporate agreements have been reached on continued renumeration when looking after a close relative while on nursing care leave (Germany and Austria), sabbaticals (Austria and Poland) and Home Office (Austria). A new insurance model has been developed together with the Vienna Insurance Group. In case of serious illness, staff members covered by insurance are entitled to a one-off payout of EUR 20,000 – in case of death this amount is paid out to family or a specified beneficiary. The monthly insurance premium is EUR 5.00 for both employees and PORR. The initiative was launched in Austria in July 2018 with more than 5,000 people joining the scheme. GRI Remuneration and benefit plans 202-1 Salaries in most countries are governed by SDG 5, 10 collective bargaining agreements and exceed the legal minimum wage requirements. For example, in Switzerland the starting salary is determined by the collective agreement and the construction union agreement. Extra pay is provided on the basis of additional qualificaGRI Staffing structure 102-8, 401-1, 401-3, 2018 2017 404-1 Workforce 1 17,747 17,279 of which women 14.0% 11.8% New hires 2,343 4,756 Left the company 2,385 1,035 Average training per staff member in hours 13.5 12.1 Parental leave women 181 149 Parental leave men 116 118 1 Effective date: 31 December 35 38 Together for a better environment – interview with Environmental Protection Officer Thomas Kasper 40 Energy and emissions 44 Resource management Preserving Value I like to be where change happens. At heart, I’m an entrepreneur who loves to take the initiative. New opportunities and ways of achieving sustainable change are constantly arising in the environmental sector. With the right pioneering spirit, you’re always one step ahead. Thomas Kasper, Environmental Protection Officer Preserving Value I N T E R V I E W W I T H E N V I R O N M E N TA L P R O T EC T I O N OFFICER THOMAS K ASPER Together for a better environment The power to innovate and a pioneering spirit require space to grow and opportunities to develop. It is only when all stakeholders work together that we can develop new approaches to improve our environment and optimise our use of resources. Mr. Kasper, which issues are you dealing precede a new build – accounting for more than with at the moment? 70% of total waste generated. This means that One of the issues that I’m currently puzzling construction activities have a very large over in terms of disposing of demolition waste environmental footprint in terms of both is the question of how to dispose of insulation resources used and waste produced. materials like mineral wool or XPS boards in an environmental way. We have various research Without innovation there can be no advances. projects underway together with MontanuniverWhy do you believe it’s so important to try new sität Leoben to address the issue. things, to develop new perspectives? We are currently on the precipice of a global That’s a very specific topic. What do you see as upheaval in how we treat our environment, the greatest environmental challenges we face as the conditions, such as the availability of in general? raw materials or energy, are undergoing a The construction industry is on the verge of a massive change. In this situation our task is paradigm shift. It makes all of its decisions in to examine every area for alternatives and the field of tension that lies between consuming improvements. That’s why new perspectives resources and promoting sustainable construcand innovations are always in demand and tion methods, at the same time as user demands immensely important. are rising. Here it’s necessary to constantly keep on making advances and to develop tomorrow’s In which areas has PORR already realised models today. This is what PORR does, on the pioneering work? one hand in the fields of demolition, recycling There are countless trailblazing projects we and waste management, on the other in the could point to. Take the field of environmental area of developing brand new, sustainable clean-up and the method developed by PUT for construction methods and more efficient securing contaminated sites and purifying the construction processes. groundwater, for example. There is also a range of plants in the Group, in PUT and in the area of Why does PORR need a dedicated PORR Bau GmbH for demolition and recycling environmental protection officer? construction waste along with using the recyBy having an environmental protection officer, cled construction materials produced. Last but PORR does justice to the growing importance of not least, the area of geothermal energy has environmental protection. The construction grown sharply in recent years. This field has sector is an industry through which huge also become more interesting in economic streams of materials flow and are used. The terms as ever more developers are opting for largest waste streams are created during this sustainable heating option that is excepdemolition and excavation, which usually tionally environmental and robust. 38 Preserving Value 01 Hospital, Baden: demolition of existing building 02 Recycled tile granulate 01 02 How can PORR make sure it’s always one team, I deal with the challenges of the managestep ahead here? ment and secondary use of waste, its creation Taking resources and staffing “into our own and the related legal matters. Here we collabohands” to address this issue in good time, rate closely with our construction sites and before others have done it. We must develop branch offices to determine which questions to solutions and processes to be the first to use ask and to work on finding tomorrow’s solutions. these tools. We want to lead the way for the As you can see, pioneering spirit is a normal part industry. of our day. What can policymakers do to support the What role does environmental protection construction industry in implementing play in your daily life? measures to protect the environment? Environmental protection and environmental Here one really important step is within our awareness are complementary factors – also in reach. Annex 1 of the Construction Products my daily life. This starts with the question of Regulation (EU Regulation) lays out the “Basic reducing waste when doing your daily shop, requirements for construction works” in seven choosing ecological products from the local items; these are mandatory for all member region and extends to the question of separating states. Item 7 describes the “Sustainable use waste and reusing items like children’s toys or of natural resources” but has not yet come into sports equipment. When building my own home, force. This specifies that construction works I also used ecological construction materials. must be designed, built and demolished in such a way that the use of natural resources is If you could wish for any one thing related to your sustainable. Construction materials must be work, regardless of whether it is actually feasible reused or recycled after demolition. Construcor not, what would it be? tion works must be durable and be built with All of the things I have mentioned can’t be environmentally compatible raw and secondachieved by PORR alone. Here we are just one ary materials. player in the whole system. That’s why I would wish for greater solidarity between all stakeTo what extent do you use your own pioneering holders and participants. With the mutual goal spirit in your day-to-day work? of improving our environment, we need to As head of the Process Development depart­develop new approaches together in order to ment and President of the Austrian Construcovercome the aforementioned changes. tion Materials Recycling Association, together with an extremely ambitious and highly skilled 39 Preserving Value Energy and emissions PORR’s objective is to continuously reduce energy consumption and emissions. PORR is setting new standards in climate protection with forwardlooking buildings. projects. PORR also demands sustainability from its suppliers and proactively advocates for forward-looking construction standards. GRI Management approach The focus here is on the greatest possible 103-1, 102-11 Resources such as energy and raw materials degree of climate neutrality. By using alternative are not endlessly available. With the UN Climate drive systems and energy sources, deploying Conference in Paris, discussions related to a centrally controlled equipment and fleet park sustainability gathered momentum again at the management system, using next-generation end of 2015. The international Sustainable construction machinery, modernising old Development Goals have set new benchmarks. production facilities and optimising its conThe construction and real estate industry has struction site logistics, there has been a particular responsibility in light of the imporcontinuous increase in energy efficiency and tance to society and the high resource cona steady fall in GHG emissions. PORR has set sumption with its related negative impacts on itself the goal of cutting its primary energy the environment. The sector’s high energy consumption and specific GHG emissions by at consumption, including the use of fossil fuels, least 1.5% annually by 2020. This corresponds largely results from construction site operato a 7.5% reduction for the period 2015 to 2020. tions, transporting goods and the administrative infrastructure. PORR is committed to continuEnvironmental protection should be seen as a GRI 103-3 ously improving its energy efficiency and continuous process. That’s why the PORR thereby reducing its energy demand. environmental and energy officers evaluate the targets and measures every year and apply any GRI With buildings that are fit for the future, PORR adjustments necessary. Furthermore, PORR is 103-2 is setting new standards in environmental and committed to further developing certification SDG 7, 9, 13 climate protection – in the interests of its systems, implementing the energy efficiency customers and for the generations to come. guidelines as well as conducting regular energy How climate-friendly a project is is determined audits, for example in line with ÖNORM EN by the client. There are particularly stringent 16247-1, on the basis of the Austrian Energy requirements for Green and Blue Building Efficiency Act and the EDL-G in Germany. GRI ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN 302-1 THE PORR GROUP (in MWh) 285,117 Stationary energy non-renewable 292,191 2018 Energy for transport vehicle fleet 94 Stationary energy renewable 125 61,714 Self-generated energy Electricity mixed sources 4,940 District heating 40 Preserving Value GRI DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS RELATED TO ENERGY 1 305-1, (in t) 305-2, 305-3 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Direct GHG emissions related to energy (Scope 1) 136,738 9,969 24,460 2,175 19,022 3,322 672 308 10,826 65,984 Indirect GHG emissions related to energy (Scope 2) 24,124 3,181 68 29 14,709 779 114 75 493 4,676 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)2 2,034 582 13 306 11 38 22 1 0 1,061 1 Calculations are based on the legal, country-specific calculation key. 2 Data relate to flights, rail travel and car rentals. GRI Energy consumption and the measures to increase energy efficiency 302-1 emissions therefore lies in the area of construction SDG 7, 9, 13 The energy data shown covers the energy vehicles and construction machinery along with consumption of PORR locations including decarbonising construction processes, i.e. production sites (majority-owned) as well as optimising construction operations. construction machinery and equipment. Recording the energy consumption on conIn light of the overwhelming use of fossil struction sites is a work in progress. In 2018 fuels, the GHG emissions showed a simithe company consumed 644,179,620.44kWh lar ­trajectory to the energy consumption. (2017: 545,675,668.00kWh). Energy consumpIn 2018 a total of 136,738 tonnes of CO2 tion in relation to production output stood at ­equivalent was generated by operations 0.117kWh/EUR. The most important energy (2017: 116,869 tonnes). source by far was diesel – followed by gas, electricity and heating oil. The key focus of Ongoing replacement of the fleet, which is characterised by a reduction in fuel consumption, along with the use of next-generation construction machinery, improvements in production facilities, as well as staff training, video conferences and the use of low-pollution products should lead to a reduction in GHG emissions. For the indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3), PORR reports emissions generated by flights, train travel, the use of rental cars and business travel. Emissions already covered by Scope 1 are excluded. The respective GHG emissions for 2018 amounted to 2,034 tonnes compared to 2,666 tonnes in the previous year. 41 Preserving Value GRI Energy efficiency be operated in a more economical and 305-5 In addition, measures that aim to reduce energy ­energy-efficient way. The use of electric-­ SDG 7, 9, 13 and subsequently GHG emissions are being powered construction equipment was also consistently applied in the plant engineering monitored. In order to reduce energy consumpof asphalt and concrete mix plants as well as tion for on-road equipment (cars, pick-ups and gravel processing facilities. At the same time, light commercial vehicles), PES has cut the the new construction and refurbishment of the timeframe for replacing cars from seven years buildings used by the operating business is or 240,000km to four years or 140,000km. contributing to cutting emissions. With this in mind, just as much attention is paid to upholdThe results of recent years show that the ing the highest environmental construction consistent implementation of measures for standards as on fitting photovoltaic systems on-road equipment has proven a success. (PV systems). The energy produced is used With total emissions of 1,101.5 tonnes of CO2, not only for heating and lighting, but also for the emissions generated by the equipment operating electric vehicles. and fleet park in Austria, Germany, Poland and the Czech Republic declined by 4.9% comThe new construction and refurbishment of pared to the reporting period 2017. existing buildings used for operations as part of the new world of work has also been realised in In order to compare the emissions of ozone-­ GRI 305-6 line with environmental principles. Here a huge depleting substances (HC) and other significant priority for PORR is low energy consumption for airborne emissions (CO, NOx, PM), the relationheating, cooling and lighting. The introduction of ship between each kW and the respective shared printers on each floor rather than each pollutant is shown. In terms of ozone-depletdesk has led to additional energy efficiency ing substances, no noteworthy quantities increases in office work. were generated. Other measures included further developing the As of 1 September 2018 the exhaust gas and centralised management of construction test procedure (test cycle) for passenger cars machinery and setting up a photovoltaic plant by the NEDC (New European Driving Cycle) was with charging points for electric vehicles. superseded by the WLTP (Worldwide Harmonised Light-Duty Vehicle Test Procedure), which GRI Equipment and fleet management will have an impact on the data for 2019. Since 302-4, 305-5 PORR’s equipment management is bundled that time all new vehicles require type approval SDG 7, 9, 13 in PORR Equipment Services (PES). The goal under the measurement methods of WLTP. The of PES is to increase energy efficiency at the WLTP method determines vehicle consumption same time as reducing airborne emissions in under more realistic conditions, so that the equipment management. One additional average consumption values are expected to measure is defining technical standards for rise by around 20%. Light commercial vehicles equipment and vehicles that apply Group-wide. will also have to be type-approved under the A corporate acquisition in the Czech Republic new measuring methods in the future. This will meant that the rollout to the Polish market had probably lead the average value reported in this to be postponed. The standardisation process area to rise by around 20%. The goal of the has already been completed in Austria, changeover is to make it easier to compare Germany and the Czech Republic. vehicles in terms of their consumption – and thereby their CO2 emissions. In 2018 PES and its subsidiaries operated construction machinery with total engine power of 195,920kW; in 2017 the value was 129,646kW. In order to reduce energy consumption on construction sites, when acquiring new construction equipment, PORR only buys off-road equipment (construction equipment) that conforms to the best available emissions standards on the market. All equipment with an operator seat has been fitted with an automatic startstop function, significantly reducing idle time and operating hours. This has also led to an extension in the intervals needed for maintenance, meaning that equipment can 42 01 Forestry Education Centre, Traunkirchen 02 01 Orhideea Towers, Bucharest: office building GRI Environmental products even more rigorous for projects with sustaina102-11, 302-5 and services bility certificates. PORR is setting new standards in environ­ SDG mental and climate protection with its forAfter the end of the reporting period, a 7, 11, 13 ward-looking buildings and construction Schuldscheindarlehen worth EUR 203m was methods. The objective is designing buildings placed. The issue also includes a “Green in a way that focuses on their whole life cycle, Tranche” totalling EUR 31.5m, which was issued thereby reducing environmental impacts in line with the Eligible Green Principles. You caused by emissions. Here, the life cycles of can find more details on page 141 of the Annual buildings should be optimised at the same Report 2018. time as achieving maximum climate neutrality and closed loops for resources. With the help of Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) 02 data, these emissions are calculated across the entire life cycle – for production, operations and end of life – and evaluated by applying benchmarks. The environmental problems caused by emissions are reflected in the environmental performance indicators (EPIs) such as greenhouse gas potential, ozone depletion potential, acidification potential and overfertilization potential. The building’s LCA should be applied wherever possible already in the design phase. Here it can serve as a key instrument for optimising the environmental quality of the building. The basis for calculating the building’s LCA is DIN EN 15978. In 2018 the structures designed and built by PORR in the course of building construction projects were on average 17% more efficient in terms of CO2 than the industry average. Their demand for non-renewable primary energy sank by around 53%. GRI All legal stipulations related to user health and 416-1 building security are upheld on PORR’s SDG 3 construction projects. The requirements are 43 Rubrik Resource management PORR embraces a responsible approach to resources. Recycling serves to counteract the growing scarcity of resources. What’s more, bundling the activities in resource management also enhances the efficiency of the measures taken. Environmentally sound use of materials GRI Management approach PORR has thereby set itself the goal of reusing GRI 102-11, 103-1 In the construction industry the demand for as many materials as possible. Here the per103-2 construction materials has the greatest impact centage of recycled construction materials SDG on the environment, alongside energy conshould be steadily increased and methods that 15 sumption. The sustainability strategy thereby preserve resources should be advanced. To focuses on high resource efficiency, better use this end PORR has a number of plants in which of materials, the development of new construcrecycled construction materials and secondary tion materials and methods, as well as more materials can be produced in guaranteed efficient construction site logistics – a signifiquality. These plants are continuously develcant cost and competitiveness factor in the oped. In order to realise synergies and thereby construction business. Last but not least, achieve optimum results, the Group’s entire reusing raw materials can mitigate procurement knowhow in the field of technology-based risks such as those related to supply bottleenvironmental protection is bundled in PORR necks or cost of materials. Umwelttechnik (PUT) and in the centre of 44 Preserving Value excellence for resources. PORR also promotes based construction rubble – especially from the issue of recycling in the research and asphalt, concrete, rubble and natural stone. development sector. Furthermore, in 2018 around 190,000 tonnes of construction rubble and excavated material was GRI Environmental management is part of the processed into recycled construction materials 103-3 Integrated Management System (IMS), on various construction sites. Quality assurance which is certified to 14001:2015 at the SQS is a critical factor in terms of environmental (reg. no. 40247). The goal of the system is to credentials and construction properties and implement environmental standards Groupthat is why it is overseen by accredited testing wide, taking into account all legal specificaand inspection bodies. tions. Here the incorporation of environmental aspects into all relevant processes and into The majority of the construction rubble recycled entrepreneurial decision-making should be by PORR is reused on construction sites and secured and monitored at regular intervals. asphalt mix plants, whereby demand for primary The focus of environmental management and raw materials has declined considerably. In the the environment experts lies in optimising the production of asphalt, 27,000 tonnes of stone use of resources – in particular by steadily was substituted for recycled rubble in the Czech increasing recycling rates and reducing waste Republic in 2018, along with 52,000 tonnes each volumes – and in the annual assessment of the in Austria and Poland. measures implemented with any adjustments made where necessary. GRI Focus on recycling 301-2 For materials that have previously been SDG classified as waste and thereby sent to landfill, 12, 15 PORR strives to transform them into valuable construction materials. At the same time, the company is working on innovative methods to improve the construction properties of recycled materials. The Group-wide total amounts of recycled waste stood at 1.3m tonnes for PORR in 2018. This figure is subject to sharp fluctuations that can depend on the application options on large01 scale projects for example, as well as the various levels of contamination of mineral-based construction rubble – for example excavated material – which is used as a feedstock. PORR currently has 17 sites in Austria at which construction materials are recycled. In 2018 around one million tonnes of recycled construction rubble was produced here from mineral-­ 02 01 Recycled construction rubble from asphalt 02 Recycled construction rubble from concrete 03 Mobile crushing and screening plant 03 45 Preserving Value Waste management GRI Management approach Waste reporting GRI 103-1 306-3 Every construction activity – especially the Reducing waste volumes is a key focal point in demolition and refurbishment of buildings – optimising the use of resources. 25,981 tonnes ­incurs a great deal of construction waste, most or 96.8% of the Group’s total waste volumes of which is mineral waste. Here construction were categorised as non-hazardous in the and demolition waste, together with soil exca­ period under review. Major renovation works at vation, represent 75% of all waste volumes. In two office sites led to a sharp rise in waste addition to damaging the ecosystem, these high volumes compared to 2017. The PORR waste volumes of construction waste also lead to reporting covers sites used for the company’s significant disposal costs. That is why PORR own business in Austria, Germany, Czech is committed to avoiding or reducing negative Republic, Norway, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, environmental impacts insofar as they relate Switzerland and Qatar. Not included here are to waste from secondary raw materials. waste amounts at sites where PORR has rented office space and waste disposal is handled on a GRI PORR operates waste recycling and treatment communal, property-specific basis. Traceable 103-2, 306-2 plants for processing mineral construction documentation of waste volumes was not SDG 12 rubble, industrial waste and contaminated soil. possible at these sites owing to joint disposal Specific techniques for recycling a wide variety arrangements with other companies. In the of waste types with different contamination year under review there were no significant levels are developed in the environmental lab. leaks of hazardous materials. The goal here is to limit harmful reactions and ensure the proper disposal of any waste that Rehabilitating and making cannot be recycled. What’s more, targeted safe contaminated sites R&D methods are developed for special issues. Making safe and rehabilitating contaminated Nonetheless, the choice of disposal ultimately sites is a key focal point of PORR’s business. On lies with the respective certified disposal the project “contaminated site N12 Kapellerfeld” provider. The largest waste amounts by volume in 2018 only material to finish the surface was related to municipal waste, metal and wood. backfilled. A rehabilitation facility has been in place there since the start of 2018. At an operGRI The environmental and waste network ating site in Vienna Simmering with a total area 103-3 in Austria provides an efficient platform of 120,000m², the contaminated site – tar and for sharing experiences and for knowhow tar products were responsible for the contamitransfer. Every department is proactively nation – has been made safe by means of a involved in reducing waste volumes longbeing enclosed in cut-off walls with five filter term and the network should thereby be windows and additional measures in the form rolled out across the Group. of seven safety wells and a groundwater purification unit. Rehabilitation of the contaminated site is continuously underway. The filter window is filled with active charcoal and purifies the groundwater that flows through it at a rate of around 4 l/s (14.4m³/h) or approxi01 mately 125,000m³ a year. Additional measures mean that around 3 l/s (10.8m³/h) or approximately 95,000m³ a year of groundwater that has previously been pumped uphill is purified using an active charcoal filter. 01 Recycling Centre Himberg, Himberg 02 Velký Rybník waterworks, Kutná Hora: rehabilitating a historic water basin 46 Preserving Value Water GRI Management approach status quo of the measures implemented at 103-1, 303-1 Construction activity and production sites (e.g. regular intervals and where necessary revise concrete mix plants) produce varying levels of the approach and the internal water policy. water consumption and wastewater, as does the demolition of buildings (to minimise dust Water consumption GRI emissions). Groundwater and mountain water PORR operates wastewater treatment 303-5 may be accessed in the course of excavation plants and soil-washing plants including SDG 6 works or underground construction (tunnelling). water treatment units. In general, the principle In building construction and civil engineering, of minimising water consumption and usage water is mainly used as an ingredient in fresh intensity is pursued. The goals set for water concrete. This is why PORR has integrated consumption are determined in cooperation water as a raw material into its internal with the responsible authorities. They are also resource management. influenced by natural science considerations, technological aspects and new developments. GRI Wastewater is fed into the public sewage 103-2 network or properly disposed of via reservoirs. The issue of water as a precious resource is SDG 6 Water on construction sites, depending on the particularly acute in Qatar. This is why PORR location and size of the construction project, is has developed a Water Resource Plan (WRPlan). provided by means of water hydrants, wells or The recommendations of the EIA report (Envisurface water, which are jointly used by all ronmental Impact Assessment Report) are companies working on site. For these reasons implemented under this plan. This stipulates it is currently not possible to calculate the valid that construction activity must not deviate from levels of water consumption. PORR has currently any environmental profile that forms the basis restricted itself to recording water consumption of water management. The WRPlan contains at its offices and production sites. The compaspecifications to be upheld both by the com­ ny’s internal water policy provides a key pany and by its suppliers. working basis in this respect. Water recirculation GRI The water officer evaluates the water consumpWastewater is fed into the public sewage 303-2, GRI 303-4 103-3 tion of the PORR Group together with the centre network, whereby the standards for wastewater of excellence for resources. Solutions for reducdischarge on PORR markets are subject to SDG 6 ing water use are then developed along with statutory provisions. In the period under review measures for recycling water. Together with there were no bodies of water that were signifitheir networks, the water officers assess the cantly affected by wastewater discharge. The total volume of wastewater discharged in the period under review stood at 113.45m³. As a general rule, PORR does not introduce any foreign substances into the wastewater. It 02 follows the principle of maximising wastewater quality and minimising wastewater quantity. To this end, new methods are consistently developed and implemented. The PORR Group is not aware of any incidents involving the breach of specified discharge levels. 47 Preserving Value Biodiversity GRI Management approach (reg. no. 40247). The goal of the system is 103-1 Biodiversity is of critical importance, not only to implement a Group-wide environmental in sociocultural terms, but also economics. As policy, taking into account all legal specificaa construction company, PORR contributes to tions. Here the incorporation of environmental building up and using the surface of the earth aspects, including biodiversity, should be and paving over areas, which reduces biodiversecured for all relevant processes and into sity. By upholding environmental protection entrepre­neurial decision-making and monispecifications and carrying out environmental tored at regular intervals. impact assessments (EIA), it is possible to prevent potential (high-cost) proceedings to Measures GRI restore areas, construction delays and the PORR’s business premises are generally in 304-1, 304-2 subsequent project costs hikes, as well as ­commercial areas and not in places with damage to the corporate image. On EIA projects, high levels of biodiversity. This means that an SDG 15 landfills and stone quarries compensatory indirect negative impact is generally caused measures are often laid out. Furthermore, the by transporting materials – including in the greening of rooftops creates replacement areas course of bridge building in Norway. Road and retention basins for the rain. In general, construction also affects the environment. PORR’s sphere of influence over biodiversity is However, this is the responsibility of the limited, as sustainable building already starts at commissioning authority. The application of the level of urban planning and zoning. Here the comprehensive protective measures meant local (construction) authorities are ultimately that no living organisms were endangered responsible in coordination with the developers. in the respective regions in the period ­under ­review. GRI PORR Umwelttechnik (PUT), the environmental 103-2 lab and the internal environmental officer are The renaturation of habitats is undertaken on GRI 304-3 SDG the direct contact partners when it comes to behalf of and commissioned by a third party. 15 protecting the environment. They are responsiAs a rule, specialised experts assist and ble for a range of services covering determining oversee the measures. However, the properand investigating contaminated sites, including ties are and remain under the ownership of taking samples and studying them, through to the client/developer. building fish ladders and undertaking renaturation, as well as rehabilitating areas that have PORR has installed bee hives and insect been contaminated by third parties. colonies at its own properties in order to nurture biodiversity. As part of the “bee@porr” initiative, GRI Environmental management is part of there is also a dedicated partnership with the 103-3 the ­Integrated Management System (IMS), “bee love” charity at the PORR headquarters. which is certified to 14001:2015 at the SQS 48 Dump truck, Brenner Base Tunnel Innovative technologies Developing innovative solutions is an indispenflow rates. What’s more, the suspension is sable part of both design and planning as well not washed out by flows in the subsurface. as in the build phase. PORR also promotes the The tensile strength of the jet grouting pillars issue of recycling in terms of research and remains practically unchanged. development. Here recycling methods for various waste types with different levels of Increasing the potential for recycling GRI contamination are developed in the environin tunnel excavation 301-2 mental lab. The challenge lies in the ever On lot H51 of the Brenner Base Tunnel, one SDG 9 evolving combinations of pollutants. This calls significant factor that led the tender to be for investments in both new analytical equipawarded to the consortium PORR-Hinter­eggerment and in developing new techniques to Condotte-Itinera was the maximum exploitation improve efficiency, as well as making economiof the recycling potential of the material cally and environmentally sound decisions. ­excavated from the tunnel. Scientific research projects conducted in advance yielded Innovations in special civil engineering important findings that were of great benefit Two projects are currently underway related later on. Various parameters were determined to civil engineering. In the course of the ideas in good time to facilitate the establishment of contest on “occupational health and safety”, the a quality management system. This led to the lifting of IBO anchor rods should be optimised, creation of a decision matrix that made it thereby contributing to reducing the accident possible to significantly increase the wealth frequency. As of July 2018, the first “new of recyclable excavated material to promote shanks” were tested, showing an improvement sustainability. This could not only potentially in occupational health and safety and drilling facilitate the production of high-quality performance. Another innovation related to the concretes, but also lead to the creation of jet grouting process. With so-called “Progel”, new product groups, such as grout with the stability of the drill hole is increased when drainage properties. drilling and of the soil when the nozzles are turned up, while the washing out of the suspenIn 2018 PORR received EUR 6,214,000 in public GRI 201-4 sion is significantly reduced for groundwater subsidies for research and investments. 49 52 About this report 54 Risk and impact analysis 58 GRI content index 65 Key performance indicators 79 Independent report on a limited assurance engagement on consolidated non-financial report 82 Acknowledgements Service Section Service Section About this report GRI Reporting practices Great Britain and the United Arab Emirates fall 102-46, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54 and framework below the production output threshold and are Since 2008 PORR has issued regular reports on not included in the report. On these markets its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activiPORR is currently engaged in tunnelling projects ties, published at least once every two years. (the Humber Crossing in Great Britain and the The last report came out in April 2018 and was Deep Tunnel Stormwater System in Dubai), based on the GRI G4 reporting guidelines in which are governed by stringent regulations force at that time. concerning the environment and occupational health and safety, as well as being subjected to GRI This 2018 Sustainability Report is a non-finanregular audits. Around 30 to 60 people are 102-46, 102-54 cial report pursuant to Section 267a of the employed there, whereby the projects have no Austrian Commercial Code. It is targeted at all significant impact on economic or social affairs stakeholder groups of PORR AG and covers the in the countries and/or on the environment. In business activities in 2018 – from 1 January to addition, the United Arab Emirates represents 31 December. It has been produced for the first a completely new market. On the Deep Tunnel time in accordance with the GRI standards of Stormwater System project in Dubai the focus the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), “Core” in the reporting period was on design and planoption. Parallel to this, PORR has shown how the ning works, permit procedures and temporary material topics and corresponding measures preparatory work. The major construction works stand in relation to the Sustainable Developwith tunnel boring machines did not begin until ment Goals (SDG). The measures have been February 2019. evaluated in terms of the contribution they have made to the SDGs and are cross-referenced in PORR is committed to comprehensive, Groupthe report. The PORR Sustainability Report will wide reporting on sustainability issues. All PORR be published annually from now on. markets should be reported on in the business year 2019 analogously to the Annual Report. GRI The most significant share of production 102-45 output – 88% – is generated on the home In light of the change in countries included, the markets Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Poland changeover to GRI standards and the presentaand the Czech Republic. In light of this, the tion of new indicators, full comparability of the home markets are the focus of this report. data with that from the year 2017 is not availaOther markets are included in the report if their ble. Wherever possible, a longer time period has production output accounts for more than 1%. been shown in order to present the information This includes the project markets Q ­ atar, ­Norway, in a transparent and relevant way that also Romania and – for the first time in the 2018 facilitates comparisons. reporting period – Slovakia. In comparison to last year’s Sustainability Report, there has thereby been a change in the consolidated group. 52 Service Section GRI External assurance upholding human rights and battling corruption 102-56 This report has been submitted for an external and bribery. This led to a slight difference in the audit for the first time by Wirtschaftsprüfungsweighting of the material aspects in comparison und Steuerberatungsgesellschaft BDO Austria with the Sustainable Value Report 2016/2017. GmbH. Alongside this report, PORR provides information on corporate responsibility in the The risk assessment corresponds to the Annual Report and online at porr-group.com/csr. requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (ASDIA). The Additional information risks identified in the course of workshops The CSR topics of relevance to PORR were have been assessed in terms of implications determined in a comprehensive materiality and probability of occurrence, evaluated, analysis conducted in 2016. The analysis was consolidated and finally entered into a matrix. based on the GRI G4 reporting guidelines in Appropriate countermeasures have been force at that time, as well as the topics of the identified for the items listed as top risks, some relevant sustainability ratings and the peer of which have already been implemented. group. In the year under review, 2018, the materiality matrix was revised in light of legal requirements in non-financial reporting. The assessment of materiality was thereby ex­ tended in relation to the impacts on environmental issues, social issues, employee affairs, GRI Your contact partner: 102-53 Theresia E. Pircher Corporate Social Responsibility T +43 50 626-1840 theresia.pircher@porr.at 53 Service Section Risk and impact analysis GRI 102-15 Impacts ASDIA1 topics Material topics Risks on PORR Respecting Upholding Human rights violations • Consequences under criminal law human rights human rights in business activities • Negative impacts on tendering process and the supply chain • Recruitment problems • Damage to image Employee and Safety, security Impact on physical/ • Prosecutions (e.g. corporate liability, administrative sanctions) social affairs and prevention mental health in • Decreased competitiveness (e.g. tender process, recruiting) business activities • Increased project costs and the supply chain • Enhanced external controls Further education Shortage of skilled • Problems in realising contracts and training labour in business • Lack of quality activities • Work pressure increases error frequency • Knowhow loss => technological stagnation • Sustainability criteria: pre-qualification Diversity and equal Intercultural problems • Lack of teamwork makes it harder to realise projects opportunities in business activities • Communication problems and potential for conflict • Endangering the international standing • Decreased innovation potential by failing to utilise diversity Contribution to • Knowledge of conditions improves contract realisation the local economy • Simplified communication with business partners Combating Compliance Unfair competition • Damage to image corruption and corruption in • Legal consequences and bribery business activities • Distortion effects/exclusion from tender processes and the supply chain • Share price • Limited financial options 1 Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act 54 Service Section Impacts on Concepts/Due-diligence Contribution non-financial topics processes/measures to SDGs • Violation of fundamental rights (child labour, forced labour etc.) p. 8 et seq. 8 • Loss of democracy and freedom p. 11 16 • Physical and mental health problems p. 19 • Social tension p. 32 • Damage to the economy • Increased cost to economy p. 11 3 • Increase in accidents at work p. 26 et seqq. • Early retirement on the grounds of physical/mental stress • Damage to infrastructure (e.g. power lines) • Damage to neighbours’ health => particulate matter, noise and vibrations • Impact on transport safety => entering and exiting construction sites • Impact on road users => construction vehicles turning • Lack of opportunities for promotion p. 11 4 • Loss of competencies and education p. 30 et seq. • Increased financial output • Increased mental stress due to lack of skills • Lower transferability to the labour market • Hampers innovation and advances • Disadvantageous for the location • Decreased ability to contribute to local economy • Conflicts/social tension => different values p. 11 5 • Discrimination against minorities p. 33 • Encouraging the formation of slums and ghettos • Impairing local purchasing power p. 16 et seq. 8 • Decrease in economic value generated p. 19 10 • Endangering local jobs through migration p. 20 et seq. • Damaging the business location p. 11 16 • Subverting the rule of law p. 19 • Loss of tax revenue p. 20 • Wasting of public funds • Increase in public legal fees 55 Service Section Impacts ASDIA1 topics Material topics Risks on PORR Environmental Innovative Lack of innovation • Decreased chance of being awarded tenders affairs technologies potential in business • Costs incurred by buying in knowhow => increased dependence activities • Higher investment costs • Not fit for the future due to not exploiting technological advances Environmentally No blanket environmental • Loss of contracts sound use of standards in the value • Prosecutions (e.g. due to environmental damage, compliance breaches) materials chain for business • Longer permit procedures through overregulation activities and the • Increased environmental impact => cost increases for fuel, energy supply chain • Production interruptions/higher costs through temporary bans/protected areas Energy and • Increase in costs caused by not exploiting material properties emissions • Higher disposal costs for non-recyclable material Ecological products and services Biodiversity Environmental • Prosecution and soil damage in business • Expensive/time-consuming procedures for site remediation activities and the • Damage to image supply chain • Construction delays => higher project costs Sustainable Supply chain • Prosecutions, e.g. for human rights violations, environmental damage procurement violations relating • Increased project costs caused by construction delays to human rights, • Damage to image environmental, • Increased external controls employee or • Pressure at work => lower quality and increased error frequency social affairs • Negative impacts on tender process • Increased environmental impact => increased costs for fuel, energy • Higher costs caused by temporary driving bans/protected areas • Cost increases caused by remediation of contaminated soil 1 Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act 56 Service Section Impacts on Concepts/Due-diligence Contribution non-financial topics processes/measures to SDGs • Outdated processes => resource inefficiencies, environmental damage, damage to health p. 11 8 • Decrease in standard of living p. 44 9 • Endangering the business location p. 49 • Damage to the ecosystem/bodies of water => exhausting resources p. 11 15 • Impacting the ecosystem => environmentally unsound materials p. 44 et seq. • Increase in waste generated => single-use products p. 46 • Preventing circular economies p. 47 • Damage to the environment caused by emissions (CO2, exhaust fumes, particulate emissions) p. 11 7 • Light emissions p. 40 et seqq. 13 • Higher energy consumption for production and because of inefficient logistics • Greater climate change • Building up natural areas hampers natural heat regulation => longer heatwaves p. 11 3 • Damage to health => noise, dust, vibrations p. 43 7 • Impact on the environment by construction activity p. 46 11 • Damaging habitats/cultural treasures 12 • Increased risk of extreme weather events/natural hazards => e.g. soil erosion 13 • Cost to the economy when failing to adhere to standards • Damage to habitats, protected areas, species diversity p. 11 3 • Decrease in usable arable land p. 47 et seq. 6 • Decrease in primary production 13 • Loss of climate regulation through factors such as urban hotspots • Impact on ecosystem performance • Violation of fundamental rights (child labour, forced labour, fair pay etc.) p. 11 3 • Increased number of accidents at work/early retirement p. 19 8 • Increased mental stress due to lack of skills 13 • Damage to health (noise, dust, vibrations) 15 • Damage to infrastructure (e.g. power lines) • Impairing transport safety/road users • Impeding local economic performance • Wasting or squandering resources • Increased use of environmentally unsound materials and waste generated • Damage to the environment caused by emissions (CO2, exhaust fumes, p ­ articulate emissions) • Light emissions • Higher energy consumption, e.g. cement production, long transport routes • Building up natural areas hampers natural heat regulation => longer heatwaves • Environmental impact through construction activity • Increased climate change • Damaging habitats and cultural treasures • Increased risk of extreme weather events/natural hazards • Preventing circular economies 57 Service Section GRI content index GRI 102-55 Page reference: Sustainability Report 2018 AR = Annual Report 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 5 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 5, 16 102-3 Location of headquarters 5 102-4 Location of operations 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form 5, AR 36 102-6 Markets served 5 102-7 Scale of the organization 5 102-8 Information on employees and 5, 34, 35, 65 other workers 102-9 Supply chain 18, 19 102-10 Significant changes to the organization AR 25 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 11, 17, 40, 44 43 7, 11, 13 102-12 External initiatives 7 102-13 Membership of associations and 7 advocacy organizations STRATEGY 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3, AR 7 et seq. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8 16 17, 54 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 6, 8 norms of behavior 21 8, 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 20 16 about ethics 21 8, 16 GOVERNANCE 2016 102-18 Governance structure 6 102-19 Delegating authority 6 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 6 ­environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 6 16 environmental, and social topics 7 102-22 Composition of the highest governance AR 37 et seqq. body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR 37 et seqq. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest AR 37 et seqq. governance body 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 17 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, 6 and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role 6 in sustainability reporting 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 46 et seq. 58 Service Section GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 46 et seq. 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 65 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total No increase compensation ratio STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 7 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 35 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 7 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 7 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 8 16 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 52, AR 143 et financial statements seqq. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 8, 52 102-47 List of material topics 8, 9 102-48 Restatements of information 8 102-49 Changes in reporting 8, 52 102-50 Reporting period 52 102-51 Date of most recent report 52 102-52 Reporting cycle 52 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 53 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 52 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 58 102-56 External assurance 53 GRI 200: ECONOMY ECONOMIC TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16 103-2 The management approach and its components 16 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated 5, 66, 78, and distributed 16 9 AR 74 et seqq., 157 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 17 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and 35 other retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received 49 Research subsidies from government 59 Service Section GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG MARKET PRESENCE 2016 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage 35 5, 10 by gender compared to local minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired 34 8 from the local community INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 16 9 supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 16 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 PROCUREMENT 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 19 8 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in 19 9 the supply chain and actions taken SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply 19 5 chain and actions taken MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 20 103-2 The management approach and its components 20 16 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20 ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related 20 to corruption 205-2 Communication and training about 20 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures 67 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption No incidents and actions taken ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 20 anti-trust, and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental No significant bribes laws and regulations PUBLIC POLICY 2016 415-1 Political contributions No political contributions CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning No substantiated complaints breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 20 in the social and economic area 60 Service Section GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG GRI 300: ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 44 103-2 The management approach and its components 44 15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 MATERIALS 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 67 301-2 Recycled input materials used 45 12, 15 49 9 67 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 40 103-2 The management approach and its components 40 7, 9, 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40 ENERGY 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 40 41 7, 9, 13 68 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 68 302-3 Energy intensity 68 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 42 7, 9, 13 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements 43 7, 11, 13 of products and services EMISSIONS 2016 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 41, 70 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 41, 70 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 41, 70 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 71 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 42 7, 9, 13 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 42 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 71 and other significant air emissions MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 47 103-2 The management approach and its components 47 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 WATER 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 47 303-2 Management of water discharge related impacts 47 6 303-3 Water withdrawal 69 303-4 Water discharge 47 6 69 303-5 Water consumption 47 6 69 61 Service Section GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 48 103-2 The management approach and its components 48 15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 48 BIODIVERSITY 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, 48 15 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, 48 15 and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 48 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national No endangerment of conservation list species with habitats protected species in areas affected by operations MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 46 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 12 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 46 12 71 306-3 Significant spills 46 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 72 GRI 400: SOCIAL SOCIAL TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 34 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 EMPLOYMENT 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 35, 73 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 35 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 35, 74 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 26 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26 3 62 Service Section GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety 26 3 management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 27 3 and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 28 3 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 27, 28 3 communication on occupational health 29 and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health 28 3 and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 28 3 29 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 27 3 health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational 26 3 health and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 28, 74 403-10 Work-related ill health 75 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 43 3 impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning No incidents the health and safety impacts of products and services MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 30 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 4 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year 31 4 per employee 35, 75 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 31 4 and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 31 4 regular performance and career 76 development reviews MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 33 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 5, 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 77 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 35 of women to men NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No incidents of discrimination corrective actions taken 63 Service Section GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page Comment SDG MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 32 103-2 The management approach and its components 32 4, 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right No risk identified to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk CHILD LABOR 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant No risk identified risk for incidents of child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk No risk identified for incidents of forced or compulsory labor HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to One assessment human rights reviews or impact assessments 64 Service Section Key performance indicators GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI INFORMATION ON STAFF 102-8 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total staff 17,747 2,876 815 108 2,036 319 239 86 852 10,416 Total male staff 15,257 2,364 748 79 1,638 243 200 63 701 9,221 Permanent male staff 14,271 2,253 748 41 862 243 177 63 663 9,221 Temporary male staff 986 111 0 38 776 0 23 0 38 0 Full-time male staff 15,112 2,332 748 79 1,629 241 194 63 698 9,128 Part-time male staff 145 32 0 0 9 2 6 0 3 93 Total female staff 2,490 512 67 29 398 76 39 23 151 1,195 Permanent female staff 2,312 473 67 19 284 76 35 23 140 1,195 Temporary female staff 178 39 0 10 114 0 4 0 11 0 Full-time female staff 1,932 403 67 26 385 75 36 23 140 777 Part-time female staff 558 109 0 3 13 1 3 0 11 418 Staffing levels: 31 December 2018 G4-10 2017 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH CZ AT Average staff 17,279 2,703 1,617 58 1,590 298 266 762 9,985 GRI ANNUAL TOTAL COMPENSATION RATIO 1 102-38 2018 DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Annual total compensation ratio for staff in employment for the full year 3.8 8.3 3.5 11.4 15.1 2.9 9.9 10.4 25.5 1 Annual total compensation ratio of the highest paid person to the median annual total compensation for staff in employment for the full year Higher median values in AT and RO: Group Executive Board in Vienna, management deployed abroad No comparative figures as this indicator has been used for the first time in 2018 65 Service Section ECONOMIC GRI PORR GROUP ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 (in EUR m) 2018 2017 Change Production output 5,593 4,738 18.0% Order backlog 7,100 6,367 11.5% Order intake 6,326 6,301 0.4% EBITDA 219.5 200.7 9.4% EBIT 92.3 90.2 2.3% EBT 88.1 85.3 3.3% Consolidated profit 66.2 63.7 3.9% Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) 618 597 3.6% Equity ratio 19.9% 20.7% -0.8PP Net debt -150 -147 1.9% Average staff 19,014 17,719 7.3% Figures include all PORR markets STAFF COSTS BY COUNTRY (in TEUR) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total workforce 18,393 2,993 1,189 404 2,279 376 301 133 840 9,878 Staff costs 1,154,451 220,035 54,910 27,995 71,419 8,531 32,877 2,704 26,097 709,883 Average staff costs per staff member 63 74 46 69 31 23 109 20 31 72 Average staffing level No comparative figures as this indicator has been used for the first time in 2018 EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING BY COUNTRY (in TEUR) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total workforce 18,393 2,993 1,189 404 2,279 376 301 133 840 9,878 Education and training costs 4,401 846 83 285 360 66 153 35 151 2,422 Average education and training costs per staff member 0.24 0.28 0.07 0.71 0.16 0.18 0.51 0.26 0.18 0.25 Average staffing level No comparative figures as this indicator has been used for the first time in 2018 66 Service Section GRI COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ABOUT ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 205-2 2018 Total Internal communication on anti-corruption guidelines 15,099 Members of the highest governance body 12 Upper management employees 18 Middle management employees 499 Non-management employees 14,570 Members of the governance body (%) 48.0 Upper management employees (%) 100.0 Middle management employees (%) 32.1 Non-management employees (%) 90.1 Anti-corruption training 479 Members of the governance body 12 Upper management employees 18 Middle management employees 407 Non-management employees 42 Members of the governance body (%) 48.0 Upper management employees (%) 100.0 Middle management employees (%) 26.2 Non-management employees (%) 0.3 No comparative figures as this indicator has been used for the first time in 2018 ENVIRONMENT GRI MATERIALS USED 301-1 (in t) 2018 Total PL CZ AT Materials used 1,400,204 606,200 236,682 557,322 Non-renewable materials 1,400,204 606,200 236,682 557,322 Renewable materials 0 0 0 0 Data relate to asphalt mix plants No comparative figures as this indicator has been used for the first time in 2018 GRI RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS USED 301-2 2018 Total PL CZ AT Amount of recycled material (t) 131,189 52,291 26,749 52,149 Percentage of secondary material (%) 9.3 8.6 11.3 9.4 Data relate to asphalt mix plants EN2 2017 Total QA PL CZ AT Recycled construction material from asphalt 10% 10% 11% 9% 67 Service Section GRI ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION 302-1 (in MWh) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Energy consumption ­within the organisation 644,180 48,366 99,526 12,165 98,934 16,751 7,318 1,697 49,629 309,794 Energy for transport – vehicle fleet 292,191 30,535 6,385 2,844 31,755 3,666 1,743 412 23,504 191,346 Stationary energy – non-renewable 285,117 10,580 93,141 6,008 47,004 10,709 975 841 25,184 90,674 Stationary energy – ­renewable 94 0 0 0 0 94 0 0 0 0 Indirect energy ­consumption 66,654 7,250 0 3,312 20,175 2,283 4,600 444 941 27,649 Power grid mix 61,714 6,870 0 3,312 20,000 2,283 4,600 444 941 23,264 District heating 4,940 380 0 0 175 0 0 0 0 4,385 Self-generated energy 125 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 125 Increase in energy consumption: corporate acquisition in CZ and expansion of entities included in the report GRI ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANIZATION 302-2 (in MWh) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK AT Energy consumption ­outside of the organisation 10,725 3,323 369 2,313 41 173 101 5 4,402 CZ: standardisation process for reporting underway EN3 2017 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH CZ AT Energy consumption 545,676 92,920 24,559 3,542 68,927 20,448 4,964 36,543 293,774 GRI ENERGY INTENSITY 302-3 2018 2018 2017 Change Total energy consumption (MWh) 644,180 545,676 18.1% Production output (EUR) 5,489,982.00 4,676,548.00 17.4% Energy consumption/production output (MWh/EUR) 0.117 0.117 0.6% 68 Service Section GRI WATER WITHDRAWAL 303-3 (in Ml) 2018 Total DE 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total water withdrawal 857.84 561.31 130.05 32.69 5.80 7.00 10.81 13.22 96.96 Surface water – withdrawal 154.58 0.94 123.66 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 29.97 Surface water – fresh water 153.64 0.00 123.66 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 29.97 Surface water – other water 0.94 0.94 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Groundwater – withdrawal 464.28 431.80 0.00 4.34 0.00 0.00 10.00 0.00 18.14 Groundwater – fresh water 464.28 431.80 0.00 4.34 0.00 0.00 10.00 0.00 18.14 Produced water – withdrawal 116.96 116.96 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Produced water – other water 116.96 116.96 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water from third parties – withdrawal 122.02 11.62 6.38 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 48.84 Water from third parties – fresh water 115.69 11.62 0.05 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 48.84 Water from third parties – other water 6.34 0.00 6.34 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total water withdrawal from areas with water stress 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 DE: Radmer Kies GmbH & Co. KG QA: water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible No comparative figures as this indicator has been used for the first time in 2018 GRI WATER DISCHARGE 303-4 (in Ml) 2018 Total DE 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total water discharge 498.70 386.08 0.35 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 57.08 Discharged into surface water 0.25 0.00 0.25 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into surface water – other water 0.25 0.00 0.25 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into groundwater 385.00 385.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Discharged into groundwater – fresh water 385.00 385.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recirculated as water from third parties 113.45 1.08 0.10 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 57.08 Recirculated as water from third parties – fresh water 112.33 0.07 0.00 28.35 5.80 7.00 0.81 13.22 57.08 Recirculated as water from third parties – other water 1.11 1.01 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 DE: Radmer Kies GmbH & Co. KG QA: water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible No comparative figures as this indicator has been used for the first time in 2018 GRI WATER CONSUMPTION 303-5 (in Ml) 2018 Total DE 1 NO PL RO CH SK CZ2 AT Total water consumption 401.10 175.23 129.70 32.69 5.80 7.00 10.81 0.00 39.88 Total water consumption from areas with water stress 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 DE: Radmer Kies GmbH & Co. KG 2 CZ: standardisation process for reporting underway QA: water withdrawal based on properties, no detailed breakdown is therefore possible No comparative figures as this indicator has been used for the first time in 2018 69 Service Section GRI DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) 305-1 (in t) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Energy-direct GHG emissions 136,738 9,969 24,460 2,175 19,022 3,322 672 308 10,826 65,984 Calculation basis: legal, country-specific calculation key EN15 2017 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH CZ AT Energy-direct GHG emissions 116,869 19,959 6,140 557 15,730 4,042 751 7,607 62,083 GRI INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) 305-2 (in t) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Energy-indirect GHG emissions 24,124 3,181 68 29 14,709 779 114 75 493 4,676 Calculation basis: legal, country-specific calculation key EN16 2017 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH CZ AT Energy-indirect GHG emissions 46,722 9,208 524 6,965 1,832 764 2,248 23,462 GRI OTHER INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) 305-3 (in t) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ1 AT Other indirect GHG emissions 2,034 582 13 306 11 38 22 1 0 1,061 1 CZ: The standardisation process for recording data is currently underway. Data relate to flights, rail travel and car rentals Calculation basis: legal, country-specific calculation key EN17 2017 Total DE QA NO PL CH AT Air travel 1,906 455 242 72 14 24 1,100 Rail travel 7 2 5 Car rentals 141 105 2 34 Staff travel 612 612 Total 2,666 562 242 74 14 24 1,751 70 Service Section GRI GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY 305-4 2018 2017 Change Total GHG emissions (t CO2 ) 162,896 166,257 -2.0% Production output (EUR) 5,489,982,000.00 4,676,548,000.00 17.4% GHG emissions/production output (t CO2 /EUR) 0.000030 0.000036 -16.5% GRI AIR EMISSIONS 305-7 (in kg/kW) 2018 Total/weight DE CZ AT Carbon monoxide (CO) 2.60 2.82 2.04 2.57 Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.13 0.04 0.05 0.16 Nitrogen oxide (NOx ) 2.18 2.21 1.55 2.20 Particulate mater (PM) 0.12 0.13 0.07 0.12 CHANGE IN AIR EMISSIONS (in kg/kW) 2018 2017 Change in % Carbon monoxide (CO) 2.60 2.53 2.8 Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.13 0.16 -18.2 Nitrogen oxide (NOx ) 2.18 2.38 -8.4 Particulate mater (PM) 0.12 0.13 -8.6 CO increase caused by corporate acquisitions GRI WASTE BY TYPE 306-2 (in t) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total waste by waste type 26,839 1,945 7,916 744 165 1,087 222 43 217 14,500 Hazardous waste 857 88 131 55 10 0 50 0 1 522 Mineral oil 244 21 0 4 6 0 0 0 0 212 Workshop waste 294 67 5 50 4 0 0 0 0 168 Other hazardous waste 319 0 126 0 0 0 50 0 1 142 Non-hazardous waste 25,981 1,856 7,785 689 155 1,087 172 43 217 13,977 Household waste 5,992 470 3,857 95 511 30 102 926 Paper 595 434 5 0 3 0 152 Paper packaging 67 17 0 6 1 2 41 Plastic packaging 48 20 4 1 4 3 16 Glass 20 0 0 0 1 19 Metal 1,330 440 103 100 2 3 29 653 Wood or wood waste 4,914 170 3,787 472 90 100 2 49 244 Bulky waste 166 2 9 70 0 31 54 Other non-hazardous waste 12,849 304 141 155 378 0 0 11,872 Data relate to offices and production sites QA, PL, RO, CH: waste disposal partly based on properties 71 Service Section EN23 2017 Total DE QA NO PL CZ AT Municipal waste 2,500.35 265.27 403.93 21.98 640.64 182.28 986.25 Paper 645.62 298.36 112.76 31.72 0.81 201.97 Paper packaging 363.97 36.57 0.01 84.77 6.78 235.84 Plastic packaging 217.42 18.55 69.00 0.02 97.47 3.03 29.35 Glass 20.53 0.01 2.00 18.52 Metal 971.06 100.39 47.04 51.41 68.71 17.39 686.12 Wood 2,085.78 73.67 1,354.04 158.50 167.39 332.18 Bulky waste 141.96 11.75 2.08 66.06 62.07 Other nonhazardous waste 1,121.03 171.37 97.10 3.60 3.35 845.61 Non-hazardous 8,067.71 975.92 2,083.87 267.25 897.02 445.74 3,397.91 Mineral oil 219.15 22.43 2.30 5.63 188.79 Workshop waste 61.46 23.54 8.23 0.71 0.21 28.77 Other hazardous waste 264.59 12.31 160.75 0.50 0.78 90.25 Hazardous 545.21 58.28 163.05 8.23 6.84 1.00 307.81 Total 8,612.43 1,034.20 2,246.92 275.00 903.85 446.74 3,705.72 GRI TRANSPORT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE 306-4 (in t) 2018 Total DE QA NO PL CH SK CZ AT Hazardous waste transported 4,305 88 131 55 10 50 0 1 3,970 Hazardous waste imported 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hazardous waste exported 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hazardous waste treated 61,248 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 61,248 Hazardous waste shipped ­internationally (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 RO: standardisation process for reporting underway EN25 2017 Total hazardous waste transported 3,071 Total hazardous waste imported Total hazardous waste exported 50 Total hazardous waste treated 49,705 72 Service Section SOCIAL GRI NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND COUNTRY 401-1 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total new hires by age group 2,343 652 18 49 858 99 32 31 144 460 New hires aged below 30 851 194 3 16 311 24 14 5 49 235 New hires aged 30 to 50 1,102 308 15 28 411 52 15 21 67 185 New hires aged 50+ 390 150 0 5 136 23 3 5 28 40 Total new hires by gender 2,343 652 18 49 858 99 32 31 144 460 New hires men 1,886 541 12 40 757 89 19 24 109 295 New hires women 457 111 6 9 101 10 13 7 35 165 Rate new hires aged below 30 (%) 36.3 29.8 16.7 32.7 36.2 24.2 43.8 16.1 34.0 51.1 Rate new hires aged 30 to 50 (%) 47.0 47.2 83.3 57.1 47.9 52.5 46.9 67.7 46.5 40.2 Rate new hires aged 50+ (%) 16.6 23.0 0.0 10.2 15.9 23.2 9.4 16.1 19.4 8.7 Rate new hires men (%) 80.5 83.0 66.7 81.6 88.2 89.9 59.4 77.4 75.7 64.1 Rate new hires women (%) 19.5 17.0 33.3 18.4 11.8 10.1 40.6 22.6 24.3 35.9 Total fluctuation by age group 2,385 416 725 36 520 105 13 10 210 350 Left the company aged below 30 656 76 190 7 159 21 4 3 96 100 Left the company aged 30 to 50 1,311 216 506 22 266 57 5 5 72 162 Left the company aged 50+ 418 124 29 7 95 27 4 2 42 88 Total fluctuation by gender 2,385 416 725 36 520 105 13 10 210 350 Men who left the company 2,104 346 712 33 474 90 8 7 187 247 Women who left the company 281 70 13 3 46 15 5 3 23 103 Fluctuation rate aged below 30 (%) 27.5 18.3 26.2 19.4 30.6 20.0 30.8 30.0 45.7 28.6 Fluctuation rate aged 30 to 50 (%) 55.0 51.9 69.8 61.1 51.2 54.3 38.5 50.0 34.3 46.3 Fluctuation rate aged 50+ (%) 17.5 29.8 4.0 19.4 18.3 25.7 30.8 20.0 20.0 25.1 Fluctuation rate men (%) 88.2 83.2 98.2 91.7 91.2 85.7 61.5 70.0 89.0 70.6 Fluctuation rate women (%) 11.8 16.8 1.8 8.3 8.8 14.3 38.5 30.0 11.0 29.4 Basis for calculation: staff employed for the full year LA1 2017 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH CZ AT New hires salaried employees and waged workers 4,756 814 1,617 53 719 137 67 155 1,194 of which women 547 172 79 11 90 17 7 16 155 Left the company 1,035 297 215 6 134 34 16 67 229 73 Service Section GRI PARENTAL LEAVE 401-3 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Total staff on parental leave 297 64 2 2 82 15 2 2 15 113 Male staff 116 36 0 0 49 3 0 0 1 27 Female staff 181 28 2 2 33 12 2 2 14 86 Total returned after parental leave 202 63 3 0 67 4 2 0 5 58 Male staff 110 36 1 0 48 1 0 0 1 23 Female staff 92 27 2 0 19 3 2 0 4 35 Staff retained after twelve months 124 45 2 0 15 4 0 0 3 55 Male staff 54 29 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 22 Female staff 70 16 1 0 15 3 0 0 2 33 Staff retention rate (%) 61.4 71.4 66.7 0.0 22.4 100.0 0.0 0.0 60.0 94.8 Retention rate male staff (%) 49.1 80.6 100.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 95.7 Retention rate female staff (%) 76.1 59.3 50.0 0.0 78.9 100.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 94.3 LA3 2017 Total DE QA PL RO CH CZ AT Women employed 149 23 1 49 5 1 2 68 who then left 4 1 3 Men employed 118 37 1 48 3 1 28 who then left 4 4 GRI WORK-RELATED INJURIES 403-9 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Fatalities caused by work-related injuries 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Serious injury (without fatalities) 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 Work-related injuries documented 556 84 6 2 30 1 6 0 5 422 Hours worked 46,460,822 5,514,615 16,900,302 758,984 3,543,112 522,122 455,488 107,128 1,374,819 17,284,252 Rate of fatalities caused by workrelated injuries (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Rate of serious work-related injuries (without fatalities, %) 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 Rate of work-related injuries documented (%) 12.0 15.2 0.4 2.6 8.5 1.9 13.2 0.0 3.6 24.4 Basis for calculation: staff employed for a full year Calculation key QA: pro rata project volumes in accordance with the requirements of the Qatar Construction Standard 2014 and client specifications 74 Service Section LA6 2017 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH CZ AT Fatal accidents at work Accidents at work 543 76 7 3 14 3 5 8 427 Frequency of accidents 11 18 8 6 6 11 6 27 Hours worked 48,064,112 4,245,595 22,834,314 385,618 2,454,348 514,122 435,254 1,328,101 15,866,760 GRI WORK-RELATED ILL HEALTH 403-10 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Fatalities caused by work-related ill health 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Documented instances of work-related ill health 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 Four cases of noise-induced hardness of hearing LA6 2017 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH CZ AT Reports of occupational disease GRI AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR BY EMPLOYEE 404-1 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Training hours by gender 95,672.00 22,280.00 288.00 1,931.00 7,382.00 1,840.00 748.00 2,388.00 3,090.00 55,725.00 Men 65,538 15,084 135 1,569 4,511 1,112 604 1,135 1,926 39,463 Women 30,134 7,196 153 363 2,872 728 144 1,253 1,164 16,262 Training hours by management level 95,672.00 22,280.00 288.00 1,931.00 7,382.00 1,840.00 748.00 2,388.00 3,090.00 55,725.00 Upper management 52.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 52.00 Middle management 26,612.50 5,155.00 93.00 655.50 5,293.00 1,584.00 197.00 454.00 1,481.00 11,700.00 Non-management 69,007.50 17,125.00 195.00 1,275.50 2,089.00 256.00 551.00 1,934.00 1,609.00 43,973.00 Average training hours by gender Men (h/staff member) 12.66 11.83 0.48 35.65 8.19 8.83 5.59 103.18 10.08 15.24 Women (h/staff member) 14.38 14.17 3.56 12.50 11.77 9.58 3.69 54.48 8.89 16.21 Average training hours by management level Upper management (h/staff member) 2.89 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.06 Middle management (h/staff member) 17.14 16.96 0.76 15.99 22.33 37.71 8.21 41.27 16.10 17.23 Non-management (h/staff member) 12.10 11.59 0.96 39.86 3.74 1.60 4.48 84.09 7.00 15.18 Upper management: E1-E2 (Executive Board, Managing Directors) Middle management: E3-E5 (heads of department, unit, group and team) Figures relate to salaried employees 75 Service Section LA9 2017 Total DE PL CH CZ AT Women 12.73 17.26 19.07 3.11 8.20 10.37 Men 11.84 16.41 10.80 4.27 5.63 11.76 Total 12.08 16.66 12.73 3.96 6.24 11.38 GRI PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS 404-3 2018 Total DE QA NO PL CH SK CZ AT Performance review by gender 5,188 914 309 45 681 126 54 315 2,744 Men 3,799 638 283 29 442 91 37 234 2,045 Women 1,389 276 26 16 239 35 17 81 699 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews by gender Men (%) 83.3 80.0 100.0 76.3 69.2 97.9 100.0 77.0 86.4 Women (%) 85.4 83.4 100.0 84.2 73.8 100.0 100.0 81.0 90.2 Figures relate to salaried employees RO: standardisation process for reporting underway LA11 2017 Total DE PL CH CZ AT Women 86.2% 85.0% 81.6% 93.3% 79.8% 89.0% Men 82.7% 84.9% 77.5% 97.3% 83.3% 82.7% 76 Service Section GRI DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES 405-1 2018 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH SK CZ AT Male members of ­governance bodies (%) 92.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 83.3 Female members of ­governance bodies (%) 8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 16.7 Members of governance bodies aged below 30 (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Members of governance bodies aged 30 to 50 (%) 28.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 33.3 Members of governance bodies aged 50+ (%) 72.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 50.0 0.0 100.0 0.0 50.0 66.7 Men in upper management (%) 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 Women in upper management (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Men in middle management (%) 89.4 94.7 89.4 75.6 80.2 78.6 95.8 63.6 97.8 90.9 Women in middle management (%) 10.6 5.3 10.6 24.4 19.8 21.4 4.2 36.4 2.2 9.1 Men in non-management positions (%) 85.8 80.7 96.1 71.6 80.5 75.8 82.3 74.7 80.4 88.3 Women in non-management positions (%) 14.2 19.3 3.9 28.4 19.5 24.2 17.7 25.3 19.6 11.7 Upper management aged below 30 (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Upper management aged 30 to 50 (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Upper management aged 50+ (%) 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 Middle management aged below 30 (%) 1.5 0.0 12.2 14.6 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 Middle management aged 30 to 50 (%) 57.3 49.3 71.5 80.5 58.2 85.7 62.5 54.5 44.6 56.4 Middle management aged 50+ (%) 41.1 50.7 16.3 4.9 41.4 14.3 37.5 45.5 55.4 43.3 Non-management aged below 30 (%) 20.8 17.5 29.5 17.9 27.3 12.3 24.2 9.3 13.9 20.7 Non-management aged 30 to 50 (%) 49.4 47.9 67.9 68.7 50.3 62.5 47.4 76.0 51.3 47.4 Non-management aged 50+ (%) 29.8 34.6 2.6 13.4 22.5 25.3 28.4 14.7 34.7 31.8 77 Service Section LA12 2017 Total DE QA NO PL RO CH CZ AT Executive Board 3 3 of which women Supervisory Board 14 14 of which women 2 2 Management up to level 4 without Executive Board 663 171 11 1 29 7 6 13 425 of which women 40 7 1 9 2 21 aged below 30 aged 30 to 50 29 4 6 1 18 aged 50+ 9 3 1 2 3 of which men 623 164 10 1 20 5 6 13 404 aged below 30 1 1 aged 30 to 50 330 88 6 1 11 3 5 7 209 aged 50+ 292 75 4 9 2 1 6 195 GRI DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 201-1 (in EUR m) 2018 2017 Revenue 4,959.1 4,292.9 Earnings from companies accounted for under the equity method 86.6 59.2 Other operating income 189.1 170.9 Income from financial investments and other current financial assets 18.5 16.0 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -127.1 -110.5 Cost of materials -3,462.6 -2,944.0 Other costs to generate economic value -373.9 -342.2 Economic value generated 1,289.7 1,142.3 DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED (in EUR m) 2018 2017 Staff costs 1,178.8 1,036.1 Payment to government entities 21.9 21.6 Shareholders (dividends) 43.0 42.3 External capital providers 22.7 20.9 Companies (retained earnings) 23.3 21.4 Economic value generated 1,289.7 1,142.3 78 Service Section Independent report on a limited assurance engagement on consolidated non-financial report The German text of the signed confirmation report, which refers to the German version of the non-financial reporting 2018, is the only legally binding version. The English translation has no legal effect. In particular, it cannot be used for interpreting the German text. Subject matter of the contract We have been appointed by PORR AG to perform procedures to obtain limited assurance (herein­ after “audit”) of the statements and data on the non-financial reporting of 2018 (hereinafter “reporting”) of PORR AG, based on the requirements according to Art. 267a UGB Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (Austrian Commercial Code, Nachhaltigkeits-und Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz NaDiVeG) and the GRI Standards Core Option. Our audit procedures were taken to achieve limited audit security as a basis for our assessment. The scope of audit procedures for obtaining audit evidence is smaller than the scope for sufficient audit security (such as for an annual audit), so that a low degree of audit security is given. Clarification of the audit engagement • W e have not audited prior-year figures. • The audit of forward-looking statements was not the subject of our engagement. • Equally, neither the detection and clarification of criminal offences, such as embezzlement or other malicious acts, nor the assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of management were the subject of our engagement. Criteria The information included in the report was based on the criteria applicable in the financial year 2018 (“the criteria”) consisting of: Requirement according to Art. 267a UGB Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (Austrian Commercial Code, Nachhaltigkeits-und Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz NaDiVeG) as well as the GRI Standards Core Option. We believe that these criteria are appropriate for the performance of our audit engagement. Management responsibilities The management of PORR AG is responsible for the preparation of this report and for the information contained therein, in accordance with the above criteria. This responsibility of management includes selecting and applying appropriate methods of non-financial reporting and making assumptions and estimates related to individual non-financial disclosures that are reasonable in the circumstances. In addition, management is responsible for internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of non-financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 79 Service Section Declaration of independence and quality We have complied with the Austrian professional provisions regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Quality Control 1 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Our responsibility It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on the information included in the Report on the basis of the limited assurance engagement. Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with Austrian generally accepted standards for other audits (KFS/PG 13) and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000 Revised). In a limited assurance engagement, the procedures performed are less extensive than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained. Our procedures The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement and are described as follows: • Obtaining an overview of the business activities as well as the company’s structural and process organisation; • Interviewing employees responsible for materiality analysis on group level in order to gain an understanding of the procedure for identifying significant sustainability issues and the ­corresponding reporting boundaries of the company; • Risk assessment, including a media analysis on relevant information about the company’s ­sustainability performance during the reporting period; • Interviews with company managers to identify and understand relevant systems, processes and internal controls • Inspection of selected internal and external documents to determine whether qualitative and quantitative information is supported by sufficient evidence and presented fairly; • Performing analytical procedures on Group level; • Assessment as to whether the requirements were addressed appropriately according to Art. 267a UGB; • Assessment as to whether the GRI Standards were consistent with the Core Option. 80 Service Section Conclusion Based on the audit procedures performed and the audit evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information relating to the defined report contents in reporting for the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 are not in accordance with the criteria identified above. Limitation of use We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the PORR AG. It is not subject of our performance to consider the interests of third parties. It serves exclusively the contracting authority and their purposes. Thus, it is not aiming at and intending to serve third parties as basis of decision-making. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Terms of contract The “General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions”, issued by the Chamber of Public Accountants and Tax Advisors, Version of April 18, 2018 are binding for this engagement. According to that, our liability is limited, and an accountant is only liable for violating intentionally or by gross negligence the contractual duties and obligations entered into. In cases of gross negligence, the maximum liability towards PORR AG and any third party totals EUR 726.730. Vienna, April 18, 2019 BDO Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Mag. Klemens Eiter Auditor ppa. MMag. Nicole Doppelhofer Auditor 81 Acknowledgements Media proprietor PORR AG Absberggasse 47, 1100 Vienna T +43 50 626-0 office@porr-group.com porr-group.com Concept, realisation and editing PORR AG . Corporate Social Responsibility be.public Corporate & Financial Communications GmbH, 1190 Vienna Layout section.d, 1020 Vienna Illustrations Aleksandar Savic, Agentur Azur Photos Astrid Knie, Gemeinnützige ZUWO Zufrieden Wohnen GmbH, ISHAP Personaldokumentations GmbH, Petr Badin, PORR, PORR/APA-Fotoservice/Jan Hetfleisch, PORR/APA-Fotoservice/Heinz Stephan Tesarek, PORR/BBT-SE/Schnittraum Gollmayer, S.C. Europolis Orhideea BC SRL, Shutterstock Printing Druckerei Piacek Ges.m.b.H., 1100 Vienna Further information PORR AG . Corporate Social Responsibility Absberggasse 47, 1100 Vienna csr@porr-group.com 82 Disclaimer Every care has been taken to ensure that all information contained in every part of this Sustainability Report is accurate and complete. The figures have been rounded off using the compensated summation method. We regret that we cannot rule out possible round-off, typesetting and printing errors. This report is a translation into English of the report issued in the German language and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. In the event of a discrepancy or translation error, the ­German-language version prevails. porr-group.com
