COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CONTENTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT………………………………………………….. ……Page 3 COMPANY PROFILE ………………………………………………………………………………. Page 4 HUMAN RIGHTS …………………………………………………………………………………. Page 5 LABOUR RIGHTS …………………………………………………………………………………… Page 6-7 ENVIRONMENT …………………………………………………………………………………….. Page 8-9 ANTI-CORRUPTION ……………………………………………………………………………… Page 10 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CONTINUED SUPPORT Message from the Chairman Despite the significant challenges and uncertainties of the European crisis,I am pleased to confirm our continuous support and active implementation of the ten universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact focus on the four areas of human and labor rights, environment and anti-corruption. We consider as moral obligation to our society and cooperators to place even greater emphasis on the implementation of our principles. We contemplate the active implementation of the those principles an integral part of our business practice and this statement presents the multiple ways that our commitment and our support to Global Compact becomes action day by day. AKRITAS S.A. Loukia Saranti Bod Chairman & Managing Director 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 A few words for us. AKRITAS wood processing industry was founded in 1977 in the border city of Alexandroupolis, Greece. It is currently the only Greek particleboard production industry.The raw material used by AKRITAS is high performance natural compact wood and its products are flexible, meet the highest quality and technical standards and cover even the most demanding market needs. AKRITAS production facilities , utilization of state-of-the-art technology, well trained personnel and expanded sales network have rendered AKRITAS a pioneer in providing full and feasible solutions adjustable to the needs of every project. . AKRITAS is the leader in the Greek market, regarding the production and establishment of internationally renowed products, and a major export player too. The company currently employs 250 people and its stocks have been trading on the Athens Stock Exchange (ASE) since 2000. . 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND OUR ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Description of activities Humanity is one of the core values of AKRITAS. Our company fully supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the relevant national and European legislation with reference to the fundamental rights of every person. Our commitments are not only reflected on our internal employment policies and partnership standards, but additionally our company, as a corporate citizen, provides active support to organizations dedicated to human rights protection . We have also been recognized for our support and donations in wood products to Local Community (schools, churches, museums, troop camps, hospitals) We support AHTIDA, the Society founded in Thessaloniki by parents and relatives of autistic children by financial support in order to help them reach their goals. Promoting voluntary blood donation Our company maintains in addition a blood bank as every year there is a voluntarily blood donation of employees in cooperation with the Alexandroupolis National Hospital. Measurement of outcomes In 2017, several donations in AKRITAS PRODUCTS value of more than 26.500 euros were given to the local community (schools, churches, museums, camps, hospitals, municipal services).Employees are encouraged to report to the company’s management any behavior 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 within the company that they believe may be a violation of the laws or the Code of Business Ethics. There hasn’t been recorded any fatal accident in the company and no employee has been involved in accidents. LABOR RIGHTS Principal 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principal 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principal 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principal 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Description of activities AKRITAS approach on the topics that concern the labor rights and the respect of the human rights emphasizes on the following sectors:  Health and Hygiene  Employees training Safety and Security in the workplace are of primary concern for AKRITAS . The company makes every effort to create a safe and secure workplace by having all the production and logistics areas certified according to the international standards for the hygiene and security and has already started the procedure obtaining the ISO 18001 certification. It is worth mentioning that there is a special concern for the systems development referring to the attitude cultivation for accidents prevention and safe workplace, while all the necessary measurements are taken aiming at full and absolute compliance with the rules AKRITAS has a specific code of conduct which describes the behavioral aspects employees should follow in their professional conduct and focuses on setting standards that facilitate ethical, professional conduct. The employees in our company are treated fairly, with respect and humanity, are developed in an environment of motivation and no discrimination. The company’s administrative executives arrange meetings with the presence of the staff , Safety engineer in order to express their opinions on operational safety issues. Hiring : selection of employees is based on a procedure, founded on our company’s values, following competency based interviews. The selection, recruitment and remuneration of our personnel are based on their qualifications, skills, work experience, and on personal interview without gender,age, family status or other discriminations. 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Health and Safety: AKRITAS has ensured occupational doctor presence in the workplace and under him/her supervision training seminars of first aid were held . AKRITAS implements informative programs on health and safety issues for ensuring that working conditions follow the respective legislation and offer our employees a safe working environment. Thus, we provide ‘’operations safety training ‘’ and offer internal sessions of seminars for fire-protection and safety conducted by the Technical Manager. AKRITAS offers equal possibility to all people regardless their gender. There is not and there will not be any future discrimination of labour force for whatever reason, like age, race, sex, family status, religion, nationality. To this purpose, instructions have been issued to all concerned in relation to the mutual respect of their fellow men and women and this is part of the company’s philosophy. As it is defined by the National Law, employees are associated in a Labor Union and their representatives have the right to meet the line management for issues of major importance. In particular, the company is committed to provide the capability of union activities for its personnel, to lock out any form of forced labour work, to forbid child work and not to allow any discrimination between the employees of the company, complying with International Labor Organization standards. TRAINING PROGRAM AND STAFF AKRITAS S.A. ensures that every employee is trained and developed according to their customized needs and ambitions. Additional training is also provided according to emerging business needs. In 2017, training hours have been dedicated to training for the staff in the factory as far as safety and first aid issues are concerned Measurement of outcomes No child or underage (under the age of 18) has been employed in the company during 2017. In 2017 , more than 90 training man-hours were implemented for our full-time employees. Training for the staff in HRM and first aid with a cost of over 520,32 euros has been accomplished in 2017. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ENVIRONMENT Principal 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principal 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principal 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Description of activities Environmental practices Eco-Paper Usage: The cartons used in our product packaging packages are recycling byproducts. Reduce used paper: • Reduce printouts, send daily and newsletters by email • Reuse printed papers as drafts when they are no longer useful (either due to poor printing or due to aging) before being sent for recycling. Packaging Recycling: We deliver the packaging to a licensed recycling company. Recyclable packaging 2730 kg Battery Recycling (car). Most legislation for each new car battery that is purchased must be delivered to the old. Recyclable packaging 2730 kg battery recycling (Car): Most legislation for each new car battery that is purchased must be delivered to the old. Reducing energy usage in the office: Use fluorescent lamps and the use of energy-saving profile on the computers Reduce lighting usage (eg use of fluorescent lamps): Almost exclusive use of LED and fluorescent lamps throughout the unit. 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Materials Management: Recycling: ALE 10540 Kg Metals 2800 Kg Paper / Cardboard 2730 Kg WEEE 550 Kg Lamps 78.6 Kg * Ale: Lubricant Waste ** WEEE: Electrical and Electronic Equipment Waste 3/7 New Environmental Approval on the 3/5/l7 the decision to approve the company's new environmental conditions (AERO) was issued. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PROMOTION The company has started the procedure to gain the ISO 14001 certification , a system through which the company will establish a functional and administration model in order to prevent pollution,to improve environmental performance and to comply with the existing legislation. Moreover, the company has started the procedure to get the TSCA title VI (Toxic Substances Control Act) certificate which applies to the production of low formaldehyde release boards in accordance with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulation. Measurement of outcomes Every renewal of electrical equipment with low power consumption has been effectuated in order to be environmentally friendly and of course the old equipment is led to recycling, as defined by legislation. Eventually, we made a somewhat massive change screens from legacy (CRT-cathode ray tube) into a new type(LED), which consume much less energy(approximately 10% of that consumed by the old ones). In our offices there are only led screens. 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principal 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Description of activities We are fundamentally opposed to any kind of corruption and bribery, our activities conform in total with the applicable law, and this is one of our major criteria in our selection process of a new supplier, customer or employee. Our core operating principles and values such << Trust and Respect>> emphasize on the importance of businesses working against all forms of corruptions, understanding the line that divides the right and the wrong and not crossing it in relation to competitive behavior and employee safety. AKRITAS has adopted standards of professional ethics that describes the behavioral aspects employees should follow. It focuses on setting standards which facilitate ethical and anti-corruptive professional conduct throughout the company. The company acknowledges the importance role of chain markets and wishes its collaborators to act with responsibility, integrity, honesty and transparency. Evaluation of collaborators based on the following standard: • The overall business activity should be guided by respect for and compliance with the applicable local and European laws and regulations. • Fair competition and refraining from unfair trade practices. Suppliers must also take care to safeguard the integrity, prestige and dignity of the profession to which they belong, with respect for the interests of consumers. Our purchase department follows strict procurement procedures regarding all purchases of goods. Measurement of outcomes No violations of our code of conduct for cases of corruption and bribery have been investigated. No fines have been imposed for legislative purposes. 10
