www.bekaertdeslee.com DEAR READER, Good quality sleep is what makes us tick, but how we affect the people and the planet is just as important. Corporate Responsibility has been an essential part of BekaertDeslee and is deeply rooted in our culture. We want to lead by example and inspire our industry towards a sustainable future. From the fabrics 600,000,000 people sleep on every night, to how we make them and everything in between, we endeavor to make sure we have a positive impact along the entire value chain. We want to actively participate in building a better tomorrow. With this corporate sustainability report, we commit ourselves to explain our sustainability journey. Dirk Vandeplancke CEO INDEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 4 6 9 16 ABOUT THIS REPORT WHO IS OUR MISSION BEKAERTDESLEE 20 23 24 DRIVEN BY OUR PRODUCT CORPORATE INNOVATION CYCLE RESPONSIBILITY 27 39 66 MANAGEMENT OUR SUSTAINABLE CR IN THE HEART OF DECLARATION JOURNEY THE COMPANY 69 80 89 CLOSE TO OUR PEOPLE FACTS & FIGURES ABOUT THIS REPORT 92 GRI CONTENT INDEX 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT Although BekaertDeslee has been involved with sustainability for many years, this is our first sustainability report. We see this digital and printed report as an important tool to communicate with all our stakeholders on the economic, environmental and social impacts caused by our daily industrial activities. This report covers the year 2017 and, going forward, follow-up reports will be published every second year. In this report, we illustrate our commitment to a sustainable global economy and document how that translates into strategy and the everyday work. We based our main focus areas and material topics largely on deep insights, gained during numerous stakeholder interviews. We aim at reducing the environmental impact of our activities while increasing the economical results. We take actions to generate positive social impacts in our organization. For the sake of continuous improvement, we will use the measurements, insights and feedback from our stakeholders to make further improvements and to define new areas of sustainable development. We choose to publish a report that is compliant with GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. On page 92 you will find the full Content Index in line with the GRI requirements. BekaertDeslee did not seek any additional external assessment for this report. Enjoy the read! Lien Sinnesael, Francesca Derkinderen & Philip Ghekiere 6 7 8 WHO IS BEKAERTDESLEE? BekaertDeslee is the leading specialist for the development and manufacturing of woven and knitted mattress textiles. Thousands of mattresses are covered with fabrics from BekaertDeslee every day – from New York to Sydney, from Helsinki to Cape Town. We are a multinational company with 17 production units in 14 countries and headquarters in Waregem, Belgium. We pride ourselves on our expertise in knitted and woven fabrics, fabric finishing and mattress cover production. This allows us to deliver mattress fabrics and covers fitting our clients’ specific needs and demands. Performance combined with an attractive look and feel is what matters. We spend months of research, years of development to improve the sleep quality of all those who sleep on our textiles. In order to stay innovative and respond to the latest trends, our headquarters in Waregem are home to the BekaertDeslee Innovation & Design Center, where new technologies are developed for all our plants worldwide. 9 Expertise in woven and knitted mattress fabrics & cut and sew manufacturing 10 knitted mattress fabrics cut & sew manufacturing 11 woven mattress fabrics CREATING TRUST SINCE 1892 12 2,500+ Employees Dedicated Innovation & Design Center in Belgium €350 MIO turnover textiles for we touch 9 business units 110,000 600,000,000 mattresses people per day every night 26 locations Special units dedicated to ready-made mattress covers worldwide 13 “‘Close to you’ is a clear expression of our ambition to be truly customer focused. It illustrates our global footprint, our proximity to our customers. And just as importantly it expresses the power of being together, being BekaertDeslee.” Dirk Vandeplancke, CEO 14 EUROPE Waregem (BEL), Beselare (BEL), As (CZE), Lodz (POL), Sant Boi de Llussanès (ESP), Valencia (ESP), Sibiu (ROU), Valcea (ROU), Istanbul (TUR), Çorlu (TUR), Tallinn (EST), Laval (FRA), Münchberg (DEU) ASIA & AUSTRALIA Wuxi (CHN), Dongguan (CHN), Purwakarta (IDN) Dandenong South (AUS) NORTH & SOUTH AMERICA Winston-Salem (USA), Riverside (USA), Ontario (CAN), Tijuana (MEX), Tlaxcala (MEX), São Paulo (BRA), Burzaco (ARG), Bogota (COL) SOUTH AFRICA Cape Town (RSA) 15 OUR MISSION To be the preferred supplier of bed-cover solutions in all important markets of the world and to enhance the bed comfort of the consumer. We want to achieve this mission by adhering to the following principles: 1. We are reliable in products offered and services rendered to our customers. 2. We pay high attention to sustainable development and the communities we work in. 3. We foster diversity, value our people and their contribution. We treat them equitably, fairly and with dignity, care and respect. 4. We guarantee long-term shareholder value 16 CLOSE TO YOU Our tagline Close To You is aspirational and layered: ALWAYS AROUND THE CORNER THE POWER OF TOGETHER! Our global presence allows us to be always We celebrate the power of diversity. close to you. 26 locations, connected as People are our greatest asset. We pride one virtual company. BekaertDeslee at ourselves on their expert skills, creativity your service! and knowledge. Tap into the richness of this great cultural mix! 18 WE TOUCH 600,000,000 SLEEPERS TEAM UP WITH BEKAERTDESLEE EVERY NIGHT Our textiles create the ideal sleep surface A deep understanding of our customer’s needs is for a blissful night’s rest. We spend months what keeps us awake at night. We think big but go of research, years of development to small to inspire, serve and help our customer in improve the sleep quality of all those who the best way possible. sleep on our textiles. 19 DRIVEN BY INNOVATION INNOVATION IS CHANGE THAT CREATES NEW VALUE. Change and continuous improvement are in the DNA of our company. We design new products that stand out. We develop technologies that make a difference for the consumer. We explore new ways to connect and communicate. We engineer for world class manufacturing. We foster cultural diversity and stimulate our people in all continents to be creative and to embrace change. We celebrate the power of together and bring relevant innovation, ‘Close to you’. 20 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION As market leader BekaertDeslee assumes the responsibility to explore innovative technologies that contribute to the circular economy in the bedding industry. Together with a chemical component supplier (Devan), a mattress producer (LS Bedding) and a retailer (Sleepy) we developed and designed two “circular” bed prototypes. One is 100% biodegradable via industrial composting and the other one is made with raw materials that are 100% recyclable. With this initiative we want to prove the point that a circular economy in bedding is possible if the consumer products are designed for easy disassembly. If the whole industry engages, we can prevent that millions of end-of-life-mattresses go to landfill, every year. Both prototypes were exhibited at the Brussels Furniture Show and won a “Balthazar” for most innovative ecological product. In the meantime, this first “The Circular Bed” project was followed by a research program “Innomat”. Innomat brings the whole value chain together; knowledge institutions, foam and textile producers, mattress producers and waste processors join forces to find sustainable solutions to recycle end-of-life mattresses. 21 22 OUR PRODUCT CYCLE The BekaertDeslee product cycle starts with the production of a synthetic or natural yarn. Weaving / Knitting The yarn is used to construct a textile by weaving or knitting. Weaving is a method of textile production in which threads or yarns are interlaced at right angles to form a fabric. Knitting on the other hand, is a method of construction using a series of needles to interlock loops of yarn. Textile Finishing Once the fabric is woven or knitted, it can be further processed by cleaning, bleaching, dyeing or treated to enhance special performance characteristics like water repellency, flame retardancy, antibacterial properties and others. Manufacturing Once the fabrics are ready, they are either sent to the customers of BekaertDeslee who cut and sew the fabrics to make mattresses or they are manufactured by the cut and sew facilities of BekaertDeslee. Distribution / Retail The final mattress product is shipped to distribution warehouses and retail. Bought and used by a consumer The mattress is purchased by a consumer or private and public collectivities like hotels, senior homes, boats, schools, hospitals, prisons,... 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY “Corporate Responsibility has always been an essential part of BekaertDeslee's basic values and is deeply rooted in our culture. Dirk Vandeplancke, CEO 24 25 26 MANAGEMENT DECLARATION At BekaertDeslee, Corporate Responsibility (CR) is an essential part of who we are. It is deeply rooted in our culture. Assuming responsibility means offering safe, high-quality products and ensuring that our business activities are environmentally friendly and socially responsible. Led by management, an interdisciplinary team prioritizes and initiates CR projects along the entire value chain. CR is in BekaertDeslee's DNA. Besides the overarching focus on providing products and services, BekaertDeslee’s commitment and drive to continuously improve has been embedded in the organization through the following four guiding principles: 1. The conformity principle 2. The prevention principle 3. The zero-defect principle 4. The principle of measuring 27 The conformity principle “ We commit to perform everything in compliance with what is agreed upon with the stakeholder. BekaertDeslee commits to work in compliance with the existing laws, rules and regulations. Where possible, we also commit to perform beyond what is locally required by using our global presence as a tool to develop and share best practices. The prevention principle “ We commit to do it right the first time, all the time, every time. BekaertDeslee commits to put processes in place that ensure that defects, non-compliances, accidents, waste, excessive use of energy, etc. are avoided. Should they occur, we commit that these are readily identified and remedied in a sustainable manner. 28 The zero-defect principle “ We commit to actively strive for excellence and to continuously improve our products and processes. While focusing on the needs of the customer, we seek to use those raw materials, and those processes that minimize the impact on the environment. We continuously enhance our processes and procedures to improve the safety and well-being of all our associates and of the communities we work in. The principle of measuring “ BekaertDeslee believes that improvement can only be made based on facts and data, whereby goals are set and results are measured and compared to the goals. Follow-up and root cause analysis allow us to improve conformance and to drive BekaertDeslee towards excellence. 29 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Since 2015 BekaertDeslee belongs to Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH., a German holding company. Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH is a family-equity company, rich in tradition, that is building a diversified portfolio with different business models. In doing so, they combine the professionalism of a private-equity business and the value system of a family-owned company. They only make long-term sustainable investments in companies that fit their values. Enkelfähig The values of a tradition going back 260 years, as well as high stability and a sense of responsibility for people, the environment and returns, are essential to the company. Haniel considers it a duty to bring economic, environmental and social objectives into harmony. This combination is what makes Haniel unique – and therefore enkelfähig. Enkelfähig has no direct translation into English, but this term illustrates the aim to always act in a way that will benefit future generations as well. Haniel shareholders & management In Haniel’s corporate governance, corporate management has been entrusted to external managers since the beginning of the 20th century. No family member works in the Group. Entrepreneurial decisions can thus be taken without regard to family commitments in order to achieve optimal business results. The family members only pass on Haniel shares to each other. Selling to people outside the business is not possible. The approximately 690 shareholders are organized in the Shareholders’ Meeting. The Family Advisory Board is the link between the family and the company. The Haniel management board consists of Stephan Gemkow (CEO), Dr. Florian Funck (CFO) and Thomas Schmidt (Chairman of the Management Board of the division CWS-Boco). 30 Who is BekaertDeslee? BekaertDeslee Holding NV (the ‘Parent Company’) is a company domiciled in Waregem, Belgium. The Company’s consolidated financial statements include those of the holding and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’ or ‘BekaertDeslee Group’) and the Group’s interest in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method. BekaertDeslee management The BekaertDeslee management board consists of Dirk Vandeplancke (CEO of BekaertDeslee), Sam Sabbe (CFO) and Dirk Verly (CHRO). They create our company’s strategy to achieve our goals. Every year quarterly meetings are being held between Haniel and the BekaertDeslee management board to discuss various topics, including corporate responsibility. The BekaertDeslee Executive Committee includes Dirk Vandeplancke, Sam Sabbe, Dirk Verly, Hans Dewaele (CCO) and the managers of the two biggest business units Brandon Wells (General Manager USA) and Veronique Mulliez (General Manager EU). The committee holds weekly meetings. to discuss the way of working. The BekaertDeslee leadership team (a team of 23 general and support function managers) reports its progress monthly in a business review meeting with the Executive Committee. 31 OUR CR TEAM It is fair to say that, at BekaertDeslee, CR is an essential part of the company’s basic values and is deeply rooted in the corporate culture. A multi-disciplinary BekaertDeslee CR team, sponsored by the CEO, is following up on the CR initiatives and CR reporting and is also tasked with integrating sustainability into the core processes. The variety in job titles of the team members is illustrative of the wide scope of corporate responsibility. In the CR team, Lien, Francesca and Philip undertake the responsibility of copy-writing and editing the BD sustainability report, the non-financial declaration in accordance with the EU CSR-directive, while Francesca and Philip also connect and align with the Haniel CR team and the Haniel CR Round Table. Corporate Responsibility initiatives, priorities and results at BekaertDeslee are reported on an annual basis by CEO Dirk Vandeplancke to the Haniel board at the occasion of the third quarterly meeting. DIRK VANDEPLANCKE DIRK VERLY President & CEO Executive Vice President & CHRO KOEN WITHOECK PHILIP GHEKIERE Manager Engineer & Marketing & Design Director Process Improvement 32 STEFAN POLFLIET LIEN SINNESAEL CI Sustainment Manager Marketing & Communication Manager SASKIA VERSTRAETE CHRIS DELOOF Director Corporate Product Innovation & Finance R&D Director GEERT DEMEYERE FRANCIS MARTROYE Chief Procurement Officer Project Engineer Innovation CHRISTEL DENOO FRANCESCA DERKINDEREN Health, Safety, Environment Marketing & Event Coordinator & Quality Coordinator CATHERINE VANDEPUTTE Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Coordinator 33 MEMBERSHIPS EBIA The European Bedding Industries’ Association (EBIA) was founded in January 2000. EBIA represents the interests of all European bedding articles' manufacturers and suppliers. EBIA was created to defend the industries’ interests with the authorities on a European level. European bedding industries also have the opportunities to meet and discuss common problems, and to access European information and statistics. Therefore, regular board meetings are held at EBIA. Additionally, there is an annual general assembly to which all members are invited. Finally, EBIA has established some internal regulations, which should be respected by the members. The organization also finances marketing studies and / or promotional actions, should this be of interest to the members. As market leader, BekaertDeslee takes an active role in EBIA. CCO Hans Dewaele is a member of the board. 34 ISPA For nearly a hundred years, the International Sleep Products Association (ISPA) has been committed to supporting the mattress industry in the USA through active public policy, public affairs, and education initiatives. This initiative has grown to represent the full bedding industry on a host of commercial, health, safety and environmental issues, and serves to provide a positive image for the sleep products industry. BedTimes magazine, published monthly, covers mattress industry news for manufacturers and components suppliers. FEDUSTRIA Fedustria represents the companies in the Belgian textile, wood and furniture industry, one of the most important sectors in the Belgian industrial landscape. Fedustria’s mission is to help companies in textile, wood and furniture industries in their successful development by safeguarding and strengthening their competitiveness. 35 PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH AND LEGISLATION REACH In the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, the importance of environmental protection is highlighted in principle 15. In the value added chain of BekaertDeslee, potentially negative environmental impacts arise especially with respect to the textile and chemical raw materials used in our production. In this context, BekaertDeslee works in partnership with the suppliers and Centexbel, an independent and accredited lab to make sure that negative environmental impacts are minimized or, where possible, totally eliminated. For textile raw materials we use the guidance of OEKO-TEX 100 Class 1 (cfr. page 62). For chemical raw materials, we use the guidance of OEKO-TEX 100 and the European REACH legislation, an EU legislative initiative for chemicals management and safety. REACH (EC 1907/2006) aims to improve the protection of human health and the environment through the better and earlier identification of the intrinsic properties of chemical substances. This is done by the four processes of REACH, namely the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals. REACH also aims to enhance innovation and competitiveness of the EU chemicals industry. The Regulation also calls for the progressive substitution of the substances of very high concern when suitable alternatives have been identified. BIOCIDAL PRODUCTS REGULATION The Biocidal Products Regulation (BPR) regulates the use and the placing on the market of biocidal products. Biocides are used to protect humans, animals, materials or articles against harmful organisms like pests or bacteria. Authorization and registration is needed for all biocides before these can be placed on the market. In addition, all the active substances in the biocidal product must also be approved. This regulation became active in Europe on 1 September 2013. BekaertDeslee is fully compliant with BPR and promotes the use of natural probiotics instead of biocidal products to keep textiles clean. 36 DETOX TO ZERO BY OEKO-TEX Greenpeace launched their Detox campaign in 2011 to shed light on toxic water pollution issues that a portion of the global apparel and textile industries are creating. Greenpeace has since issued numerous reports that have helped focus the industry on cleaning up most of the practices that have gone unchecked in several parts of the world. DETOX TO ZERO by OEKO-TEX® is a brand new, smart and easy-to-use verification system for textile factories whose goal is compliance and alignment with the detox campaign goals through waste water and sludge measurement and control. Detox to zero is not a classic certification system because it does not focus on a ‘pass’ or ‘fail’ status, it focuses on the engagement to improve. Continuous improvement is performed by analyzing the situation and creating a robust plan to reduce hazardous substances in the production processes while implementing environmental protection procedures. BekaertDeslee is engaging in a pilot project implementing the Detox to zero guidelines. Together with Centexbel (the Belgian textile research institute), an OEKO-TEX accredited lab and SGS (the inspection, verification, testing and certification company), BekaertDeslee is preparing a DetoxToZero June 2018 audit in the factory in Poland. 37 38 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY With customers increasingly asking questions about fair trade cotton, cradle to cradle, carbon footprint and about sustainable textile labels such as Bluesign, Oeko-Tex and GOTS, we recognized the need to build additional expertise on sustainable development. In 2012 we hired sustainability consultant Sustenuto to write an Executive Background Document on the sector specific sustainable development issues and to do an industry benchmark on sustainability. The principles and practice of Corporate Responsibility (CR) appeared to be really close to our core values and actual way of working. Therefore, we decided to establish a CR process to integrate social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer concerns into the core of our business operations and to prevent the organization from working on “flavor of the month” topics and initiatives. It is fair to say that, at BekaertDeslee, CR is an essential part of the company’s basic values and is deeply rooted in the corporate culture. Assuming responsibility means offering safe, high-quality products and ensuring that business activities are environmentally friendly and socially responsible. BekaertDeslee is now aligning its CR activities and reporting with the Haniel way of working. Haniel requires its divisions to publish a sustainability report compliant with the GRI standards. As sustainability is one of their core values. 39 SUSTAINABILITY IN THE MATTRESS TEXTILE VALUE CHAIN During the preparations of our Sustainability Report, we had several interesting conversations with many of our stakeholders. Upstream, we team up with suppliers, like Lenzing, who are very much involved in sustainable development. They developed a lyocell fiber (branded as Tencel) to derive cellulose fibers from pulp without relying on the complex chemical viscose process. A detailed description of this process is laid out in detail in their Sustainability Report. Downstream we have the privilege to work together with IKEA, a long term client and pioneer in sustainability. IKEA is very committed to make life better and to make a difference in our industry. IKEA During our interview, we received priceless advice from the Inter IKEA Group Sustainability Manager CA Comfort. IKEA mainly focuses on 3 pillars in their sustainability strategy: 1. To help their customers live a more sustainable life; 2. To have responsible sourcing of materials and sustainable production methods; 3. Take a lead in creating a better life for the people and communities. Besides this IKEA want to inspire and motivate their suppliers to work in the same areas. During 2018 IKEA will launch an updated sustainability strategy with bold ambitions and commitments up until 2030. 40 IWAY by IKEA ‘The IKEA WAY on Purchasing Products, Materials and Services (IWAY) is IKEA’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The IWAY Standard contains the minimum requirements on social and working conditions, together with environmental demands at IKEA home furnishing suppliers and other business partners.’ The IWAY is based on several international conventions and declarations such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. IKEA suppliers should always comply with the most demanding requirements, whether they are relevant laws or IWAY specific requirements. These requirements are legally binding and should be signed before or with a Business Agreement or Contract. Suppliers are expected to continuously implement these requirements. To monitor this, IKEA carries out regular audits, which can be either announced or unannounced. The audits must be performed at least every two years. IWAY MUST Requirements The IWAY MUST represents the basic requirements within the IWAY Standard, which are a precondition to start any business relationship with IKEA. Suppliers are bound to fulfill these requirements, prior to starting business with IKEA and during the business relationship with IKEA. IWAY Must requirements cover the following topics 1. Prevention of Child labor 5. Severe health and safety hazards 2. Prevention of forced and bonded labor 6. Records on working hours & wages 3. Business ethics 7. Minimum wage 4. Severe environment pollution 8. Accident Insurance 41 STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS The power of being together and especially the power of being ‘Close to you’, is what drives BekaertDeslee. The sense of community among our stakeholders shapes the development of our organization. Stakeholder commitment is of the utmost importance for our decision-making process. Moreover, as an international company, we operate in a broad scope of internal as well as external stakeholders. We are close to everyone: to our employees, our business partners, our communities and to our clients. BekaertDeslee is always around the corner. We strongly believe that our employees are our greatest asset. We foster diversity and encourage our people to take decisions and control their own destiny at work. Our employees are our most important ambassadors and we invest time to create a place where people love to work. Being closely connected with our customers and their experience, is what drives us at BekaertDeslee. Using a 360-degree approach allows us to embed customer proximity in the entire organization. We invest in deep relationships with our customers to discover their needs and to deliver tailor-made solutions that add value. We consider our suppliers as partners and try to connect with them. Long-term relationships and a strong focus on co-creation enables us to create value for all parties. 42 Preparing for this report, we inquired about the expectations and interests related to sustainability of the following groups of stakeholders: • Employees (value survey, interviews) • Trade unions (value survey, interview) • Customers (interviews, website research, sales reporting, presentations to customers on the circular economy) • Suppliers (interviews, on-line research) • Competition (executive document prepared by Sustenuto) • Shareholder Haniel (sustainability tab on the website, Round Table and bilateral meetings on CR) • The Executive Committee (interviews) • Industry associations Fedustria, ISPA and EBIA (sustainability reporting) • The CR team at BekaertDeslee (interviews and meetings) • The press and trend agencies (like trendwatching.com) that illustrate and document broad based societal expectations. We plan to use this report to get direct or indirect feedback from these stakeholders. We want to start a communication process around sustainability that will help us to prepare the 2020 Sustainability Report. 43 MATERIALITY MATRIX In order to identify the main focus areas regarding sustainability, we conducted a wide range of interviews with our stakeholders: Fair wages Health & safety Consumer health Influence on stakeholder assessments & decisions & safety Reduction of Infrastructure ecological footprint Investment Training and (do more with less) education (BD coach) Digital product development Active promotion of Negative environmental sustainable products Anti-corruption impacts policy / employees Human rights / Retirement Employee commitment Anti-corruption Plan to comply policy / BD Development of local Human rights / Supplier communities commitment to comply Employee evaluation Direct Economic benefits Discrimination & corrective actions taken Retention of people Importance of economic, environmental & social impacts of the business 44 45 1 OUR 10 MATERIAL TOPICS ASPECT ENVIRONMENT DO MORE WITH LESS BekaertDeslee engineers have successfully developed Energix, a new textile finishing process that reduces the use of raw material components, the use of water and the consumption of energy. This process change will reduce the ecological footprint of textile finishing dramatically. Since “do more with less” is not only an ecological but also an economical principle, a considerable process cost reduction is expected. Since this technological innovation can be fundamental to our business success, we do not disclose more details about Energix. The technology has been introduced in our plants in Turkey, Romania, Mexico, the USA, and Indonesia. Australia is forthcoming. The target for our engineering team is to maximize savings in all these plants. REDUCING RAW MATERIALS ENERGY WATER 46 300% 243% % REACHED vs TARGET SAVING 250% 200% 150% 121% 86% TARGET 100% 76% 56% 50% 0% ke y an ia US o ic ia es lia Tu A ex tra r Ro M on Au m In d s BUSINESS UNIT saving (raw materials, energy and water) VS undisclosed target source: energix savings 2017, monthly business reporting 47 2 ASPECT HUMAN RIGHTS SUPPLIER COMMITMENT TO COMPLY Customer requirements along the supply chain are rising. For example, IKEA, one of our customers, requires all suppliers to ensure that upstream suppliers have signed a document acknowledging and accepting the requirements in terms of human rights and working conditions. Supplier management is also an extremely relevant topic for BekaertDeslee. Textile yarn procurement accounts for 85% of the total procurement volume. The integration of CR aspects into yarn procurement is consistent with the initiative of centralizing procurement at group level. Supplier Declaration Since we consider compliance with Human Rights to be a fundamental supplier requirement, BekaertDeslee introduced a Supplier Declaration based on the principles of the Universal Declaration 75% of the suppliers signed the of Human Rights (prohibiting e.g. child labor and declaration forced labor) in 2016. 100% This project started with the aggregation of all (124) group yarn suppliers and their classification as critical or non-critical. At the end of 2017 75% of 2018 the critical yarn suppliers had signed the Supplier Declaration and the 2018 target is to reach 100%. 48 3ASPECT HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT TO COMPLY With this initiative, we ask a formal commitment from all our employees to have respect for human rights (topic 5) in all its aspects as described in the BekaertDeslee Code of Conduct. 100% of our employees have signed the Code of Conduct. We are also asking our suppliers to sign for their engagement through the Supplier Declaration (topic 2). 100%of our employees signed the engagement 49 4 ASPECT ENVIRONMENT PROMOTION OF ECOLOGICAL PRODUCTS We strongly believe that innovation, sustainability and consumer comfort can be combined as one. That is why we actively research, develop and promote ecotechnology and ecobrands. Green Series In our “green series” we have organic and GOTS certified cotton, ecological lyocell and modal from Lenzing, polyester made of recycled PET bottles and a “recycled silk” textile treatment. Purotex Probiotics Our most ecological product and a true contribution to the world of sustainable textiles is Purotex®, a textile treatment with natural probiotics that keeps the textile clean. Nature’s own technology for lasting freshness. Purotex® also reduces allergens in the sleep environment and brings relief to allergy sufferers. 50 Purotex® is a high performing natural alternative for chemical (permethrin or silver ion based) biocides that create resistance in the bugs they are fighting. These chemicals can not be removed and are a concern at mattress-end-of-life, while all natural probiotics go back to nature. In 2017 BekaertDeslee has sold 5,450,000m² of Purotex® treated mattress fabric. About one million people have bought a Purotex® 5,450,000 m2 mattress and will enjoy a clean and healthy 2017 sleep environment in the next 10 years. And 10 years from now, we will not have to worry about biocides when these mattresses are recycled or biodegraded. In 2018 we aim at an increase of 5,750,000 m2 2018 about 5%, resulting in 5,750,000m² fabric and an extra 1,15 million happy and healthy sleepers. 51 5 ASPECT ANTI-CORRUPTION & BRIBERY EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT TO COMPLY The BekaertDeslee Code Of Conduct ensures that everybody is well informed about our values and work ethic. By signing the code, every individual employee proves his or her commitment to comply to their colleagues and to the company. This code is translated in all the languages that are spoken by employees in the group and signed by 100% of our employees. BekaertDeslee Code of Conduct Contents We expect all employees to show responsibility and good citizenship in doing business and to behave in ways that demonstrate our company values. The BekaertDeslee Code of Conduct 100% reflects these values and our belief that the best working environment is built on mutual respect and trust. of our employees signed the engagement An internal control system is used by internal audit and a whistle-blower procedure is in place. 52 EXTRACT FROM OUR CODE OF CONDUCT Conflicts of interest We avoid any situation where an employee’s private interests may conflict with the interests of BekaertDeslee. We do not engage in any other remunerated activity for our own account or for the account of a third party, which could interfere with the proper execution of our employment agreement with BekaertDeslee and/or which could damage BekaertDeslee’s interests and/or image. We do not enter into relationships with customers, external suppliers or competitors that might impair our judgment in our work on behalf of BekaertDeslee. In addition, we will not engage in any activity competing with the business of BekaertDeslee. Corruption and bribery We strictly forbid engaging in corrupt practices. We will not offer, give, solicit or accept any bribe, whether cash or other inducement, to or from any person or company, wherever they are situated and whether they are a public official or body, supplier or customer, in order to gain any commercial, contractual or regulatory advantage for BekaertDeslee in a way which is unlawful according to the laws of the jurisdiction to which the employee and/or the other party are subject or in order to gain any personal advantage, financial or otherwise, for the employee or anyone connected with him/her. Human rights, forced labor and child labor We observe the principles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We strongly condemn forced labor, child slavery and all practices that exploit children or expose them to harmful or hazardous conditions. We strictly adhere to local laws regarding minimum age and other terms of employment. The minimum age for employment at BekaertDeslee shall be in accordance with the ILO Convention or the age specified by local legislation if higher. 53 6 ASPECT ANTI-CORRUPTION & BRIBERY BEKAERTDESLEE COMPLIANCE We feel committed to the values of the “honorable businessman”. These values of honesty and integrity are in the DNA of our company’s culture and a cornerstone of our corporate responsibility approach. Duties, powers & responsibilities A compliance guideline was resolved by the BD Management Board on 12.12.2016, effective as of January 1st 2017. This compliance guide defines the duties, powers and responsibilities of all employees within BekaertDeslee vis-à-vis supervisory bodies and third parties. This guideline elaborates on the principles, the organization, the duties, the compliance reporting and the sanctions and is communicated to all BekaertDeslee employees. Compliance Education 58 people in “critical functions” such as general management functions, sales functions, logistics, purchasing and finance (both HQ finance and Business Unit key financial persons) completed a specific commercial compliance e-learning training provided by Thomson Reuters. 54 EXTRACT FROM OUR COMPLIANCE GUIDELINE Compliance management The Deputy Compliance Officer is responsible to identify the Compliance risks of the local Business Unit and to systematically communicate towards the Compliance Officer via the Quarterly Financial Disclosure Questionnaire (QFRDQ). The Compliance risks have to be documented and classified accordingly. In addition, countermeasures (either planned, initiated or implemented) have to be documented as well. Therefore the following Compliance Risk Map has been created: • Anti-trust • Anti-corruption • Anti-Fraud • Data protection • Substantial litigation • Special audits by the authorities • Law and legislation (including technical compliance of the products) • Internal guidelines and directives • Environmental responsibility • Corporate social responsibility • Safeguarding company assets and reputation The Compliance Officer reports once a year to the Management Board about the risks identified, their classification and any countermeasures. 55 7 ASPECT ENVIRONMENT DIGITAL INSTEAD OF PHYSICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The BekaertDeslee Cloud is a digital platform where we provide a virtual showroom with computer simulated textile designs. The platform also contains a library with all our technologies, brands, innovations, mattress concepts and a mattress configurator. On this platform, Sales, Design and Marketing digitally collaborate and co-create with customers. With the configurator, they create a virtual representation of a mattress in 3D. 56 This service de-materializes the first phases of the development process. There is no need to produce physical samples, a clear win-win for BekaertDeslee and for the customer: • Shorter development time; • No physical samples to be made: no raw material usage, no labor, no machine time, no energy spent; • No transport of samples: reduced ecological footprint and cost; • No prototype making at the customer’s side: saving of raw materials, no labor, no machine time, no energy spent; • Much easier to share (e.g. for internal selling) than physical product; • The platform is globally accessible; companies with an international footprint can have people in different countries working on the same project simultaneously. At the end of 2017 we count 1,991 unique users on the BD Cloud. In the beginning of the same year we had 1,338 users. That is 653 new users in one year. Of course, once all BD sales and design staff and most of our customers are on-boarded, the number of new unique users will slowly stagnate. That is why we decided at the end of 2017 to start measuring the amount of projects started and the amount of configurations in these projects. Every configuration is the creation of a new bed concept. These figures show the real engagement of our customers with the BD Cloud. 1,338 USERS 0 PROJECTS 0 CONFIGURATIONS January 2017 May 2017 May 2017 1,991 USERS 1,194 PROJECTS 1,284 CONFIGURATIONS December 2017 December 2017 December 2017 57 8 ASPECT HEALTH & SAFETY MANAGEMENT REDUCTION OF INCIDENTS AND LOST WORKING DAYS Health and safety of the employees is fundamental for BekaertDeslee. It is a top priority to ensure our employee’s safety at the production units. Safety is always to be prioritized over quality, service and efficiency. Every business unit reports monthly on the past health and safety performance. Every year they make a health & safety plan with preventive measures to avoid incidents in the future. We have established a transparent 'incidents and lost working days' reporting system for our plants worldwide. Reporting The reporting system measures the absolute incidents and lost working days (LWD) as result of an incident. The results are being weighed per hours production time in order to make the results of our business units comparable. We report the '24 months moving average' to see whether there are improvements or declines in the accident rates. Our aim is to reduce the number of incidents and lost working days. In order to set variable targets to reduce the incidents and lost working days per plant we have classified the plants in A and B plants: • Incident A-plant = 24 months ratio number of incidents per 01/2016 < 10 • Incident B-plant = 24 months ratio number of incidents per 01/2016 > 10 • LWD A-plant = 24 months ratio number of lost working days per 01/2016 < 0,5 • LWD B-plant = 24 months ratio number of lost working days per 01/2016 > 0,5 In 2017, BekaertDeslee group had a 3.40 incident rate (incidents x 200.000/work hours) and a rate of days-absent due to incidents of 0.22 (days absent x 1000/work hours). The objective for 2017 was reducing the incident rate to 3,59 and the days-absent rate to 0.24. BekaertDeslee group has achieved both objectives. 58 Incidents Ratio during 24 months Incidents ratio = (number of incidents * 200,000) / exposed hours GOALS STATUS December 2017 December 2017 Waregem (BEL) 0.00 1.90 Çorlu (TUR) 8.77 6.64 As (CZE) 5.02 8.75 Winston-Salem (USA) 1.22 2.93 Tlaxcala (MEX) 3.80 2.17 Burzaco (ARG) 10.49 6.73 Wuxi (CHN) 3.99 5.79 Dandenong South (AUS) 0.00 13.71 Sant Boi de Llussanès (ESP) 5.01 3.48 Tijuana (MEX) 0.99 0.00 Sibiu (ROU) 0.69 1.21 Lodz (POL) 0.00 0.00 Tallinn (EST) 3.33 5.23 *source: monthly business reporting Valcea (ROU) 0.00 0.78 Beselare (BEL) 2.87 4.06 São Paulo (BRA) 7.35 4.69 Dongguan (CHN) 0.00 0.00 Purwakarta (IDN) 1.39 0.79 TOTAL 3.59 3.40 59 Lost working days Ratio during 24 months Lost working days = (number of working days * 1,000) / exposed hours GOALS STATUS December 2017 December 2017 Waregem (BEL) 0.00 0.68 Corlu (TUR) 0.41 0.31 As (CZE) 0.27 0.67 Winston-Salem (USA) 0.06 0.15 Tlaxcala (MEX) 0.16 0.07 Burzaco (ARG) 1.06 0.39 Wuxi (CHN) 0.09 0.15 Dandenong South (AUS) 0.83 0.53 Sant Boi de Llussanès (ESP) 0.24 0.34 Tijuana (MEX) 0.02 0.00 Sibiu (ROU) 0.08 0.22 Lodz (POL) 0.00 0.00 Tallinn (EST) 0.11 0.22 *source: monthly business reporting Valcea (ROU) 0.00 0.06 Beselare (BEL) 0.94 0.81 São Paulo (BRA) 0.06 0.05 Dongguan (CHN) 0.00 0.00 Purwakarta (IDN) 0.07 0.09 TOTAL 0.24 0.22 60 Incidents source: monthly business reporting Winston-Salem (USA) 1,2 Tlaxcala (MEX) Burzaco (ARG) RATIO DURING 24 MONTHS 1 Wuxi (CHN) Dandenong South (AUS) 0.8 Tijuana (MEX) São Paulo (BRA) 0.6 Dongguan (CHN) Purwakarta (IDN) 0.4 Waregem (BEL) Non EU 0.2 EU 0 MONTHS Lost working days source: monthly business reporting Winston-Salem (USA) Tlaxcala (MEX) 1 Burzaco (ARG) RATIO DURING 24 MONTHS Wuxi (CHN) 0.8 Dandenong South (AUS) Tijuana (MEX) São Paulo (BRA) 0.6 Dongguan (CHN) Purwakarta (IDN) 0.4 Waregem (BEL) Non EU EU 0.2 0 MONTHS 61 9ASPECT SOCIAL MATTERS CONSUMER HEALTH & SAFETY THROUGH THE VALUE CHAIN OEKO-TEX STANDARD 100 The OEKO-TEX Standard 100 was introduced in 1992. It is a worldwide, independent testing and certification system, set up to guarantee to the end consumer that the tested textiles do not contain any harmful substances that are potentially dangerous to human health. Since every product is potentially harmful if applied in high dosage, the standard defines limiting values for all the allowed substances in fabrics. In most cases, the test criteria go far beyond the applicable national and international standards. Extensive product testing and regular company audits ensure that the industry is aware of the responsible use of chemicals. The OEKO-TEX certification concept is based on the interdependency of the partners in the textile supply chain to put pressure on each other; if our supplier has OEKO-TEX certification for the raw materials he supplies, it becomes easier for us to get the certificate for the textiles and our OEKO-TEX textile certificate will help our customer to obtain a label for the mattress. Mattress textiles need to comply with product class II (no skin contact). However, BekaertDeslee complies with the requirements of product class I, the absolute highest standard, that is used for baby products that are in direct contact with the skin. 62 An OEKO-TEX certificate is granted by an OEKO-TEX accredited lab, it is valid for one year only and for a specific production location. BekaertDeslee only certified the production units in Europe because it is the consumer market in which the label resonates the most. The non-European units do not have a certificate, however, the OEKO-TEX guiding principles are applied in all the BekaertDeslee plants. In 2017, we used 299 different raw materials in Europe. For all of these raw materials, our HSEQ manager contacted the supplier and requested a valid OEKO-TEX Class I certificate. For 286 raw materials the certificate was obtained, 13 raw materials had no certification. This shows that 96% of our raw materials can be supplied with a Class I label thanks to our effort to put pressure on our suppliers. For the remaining 4% of the raw materials we do our own OEKO-TEX testing if that is considered relevant. In 2018 BekaertDeslee will start with an initiative to offer OEKO-TEX certified cut & sew covers. 63 10 ASPECT EMPLOYEES BD COACH, THE EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT BAROMETER In 2017, we introduced the BekaertDeslee Coach engagement barometer to a pilot group of employees. A very small group started and we ended the year with in total 290 people on-boarded. The idea is for the company to have an aggregated (no individual data) view on the engagement of the employees in the company as a whole, of the employees of a certain business unit or the employees of a certain department In a weekly Friday morning email, we send our employees a link to 5 easy-to-answer questions. Most of the questions are statements actually, that people agree with fully, not at all or any position in between. The answers are aggregated to a “heat-map” on 9 interesting individual drivers: readiness to be an ambassador for the company, happiness, recognition, relationship with managers, wellness, company knowledge, personal growth, relationship with colleagues and satisfaction. We also see the evolution over several weeks and months. 81% 88% 82% 65% 88% ambassadorship happiness recognition wellness personal growth 89% 68% 80% 85% relationships company satisfaction relationships with managers knowledge with colleagues 64 The response rate for the group was 49% at the end of 2017. That is considered to be low, but it has to do with the on-boarding of a large group of new people before year’s end and the fact that the mobile BD Coach app does not function on Windows phones. For 2018 the goal is a 60% response rate on average. Additional goals for specific score ranges on a company level or individual drivers are forthcoming. As a team manager, you can see the response rate and 1,413 engagement score of your team and compare that with questions pulsed your personal score and the company score. We have 82% 837 included an extract from one of the departments that was enrolled in the pilot project as illustration. The 6 users of questions answered this department have a 59% response rate and a great engagement score of 82%. The engagement score of the pilot team is -since May 2017between 65% and 68%. So far, we pulsed 41,597 questions, got 19,193 answers back and all of the personal driver categories had acceptable to excellent scores. 65 CR IN THE HEART OF THE COMPANY “'Close to you’ is also about being close to our people. The only way forward in our constantly changing world is by involving our people every day and always more. Dirk Verly, Executive Vice President & CHRO 66 67 68 CLOSE TO OUR PEOPLE ‘Close To You’ is much more than just a tagline for BekaertDeslee: it is our ambition and aspiration to be truly close to all our stakeholders, including our own people. We genuinely care about our employees and want to do more than what required standards prescribe. We want to make a difference! Being close to our employees means that we want to encourage them to be involved and have impact on the decisions and actions we take. In order to enhance ‘the power of together’ a meeting was held with all HR-departments worldwide. The meeting resulted in a list of 160 potential initiatives. All these initiatives incorporate local and global actions that help to create a happy place where people love being. 'Close to you' means involving and taking care of our employees, and that is exactly what we strive for every day. 69 CLOSE TO YOU INITIATIVES TO STRENGTHEN THE POWER OF TOGETHER, BEKAERTDESLEE INITIATIVES ARE HELD ALL OVER THE WORLD TURKEY BekaertDeslee Turkey organized a ‘Close To You’Family Festival to celebrate the 125th birthday of BekaertDeslee. All employees and their families could join for an entertaining day at BekaertDeslee. BELGIUM BekaertDeslee Belgium believes in the importance of healthy and happy employees and therefore invests in a healthy workforce. With our ‘health initiatives’ we promote employee wellbeing and happiness. BekaertDeslee has in-house showers for those who feel like an active lunch break and offers core stability exercise every Tuesday. In order to stimulate people to eat healthy, we provide free fruit and mineral water to all employees. While the company offers a number of options, many of the employees have also teamed up to go jogging or walking over lunch. Participation in any of the office-related activities allows teams and individuals that might not normally interact to spend time together which has a great effect on the workplace culture. 70 SOUTH-AFRICA BekaertDeslee South-Africa launched ‘Close To You’ during a three-day feedback session. The employees were shown all the new branding materials (logo’s, flags, paint, etc.) during an exciting tour of the plant. Customer, KAP bedding, provided a unique bed as a prize for one lucky employee ho participated in a special ‘Close to You’ competition! INDONESIA In Indonesia, BekaertDeslee celebrated its th 20 anniversary with a big party and all our Indonesian colleagues were invited! 71 AGORA MEETINGS TURKEY Every day, the employees of our Turkish plant organize 'Agora' meetings to evaluate the day-to-day work and to solve problems. During these meetings, plant performance is reported and everybody has the opportunity to share his or her thoughts. This is a great and efficient way to keep our employees well informed about what is going on in the plant and to get all coworkers involved. The location of this meeting changes every day, so that all departments within the factory are represented as hosts. At the end of this meeting, every department publishes the results of its daily KPI’s on a panel, which everyone on the factory floor can consult during the day. 72 ROMANIA The benefits of fit and healthy employees are numerous for both the employer and the employee. That’s why we organized health education at BekaertDeslee Romania. We believe that health training is essential to help understand and recognize benefits of health and wellbeing. During a presentation the employees received information about health problems and heart disease and the benefits of a healthy lifestyle were highlighted. The employees also got the chance to purchase books on specific health topics. BEKAERTDESLEE GROUP Having 26 locations all over the world, BekaertDeslee strives to engage and connect with all its employees. The ‘Close2you Magazine’ is an initiative to create employee engagement and to share news from all over the world. Three times a year enjoyable content from all locations is gathered and shared in the form of a very visual and engaging digital magazine. 73 DEFINING OUR VALUES Mid-2017, our HR department distributed a company-wide survey, asking for opinions related to company values. We had 1,435 responses, resulting in an almost unanimous grouping of values across our Business Units. BekaertDeslee sincerely believes its employees are its number one asset. Our success is based on the core values which represent the highest priorities in the company. They are the heart of the BekaertDeslee culture and are meant to inspire all employees to take action. The five selected values are deeply rooted in the history and DNA of BekaertDeslee. COLLABORATION We rise by lifting others, we join efforts and we share knowledge & best practices. ACCOUNTABILITY We take ownership, we value feedback and we care about all stakeholders. RESPECT We show respect, we foster diversity and we treat everyone with dignity. INITIATIVE We make it happen, we actively build our future and we push ourselves and others to the next level. HONESTY We communicate in a transparent way, we act with integrity and we treat people fairly. 74 75 76 SOCIAL REINSERTION MEXICO This program gives inmates the chance to work in a mattress cover production unit inside the local prison. It gives them a meaningful activity during their time in prison and helps them with the re-integration in society. An interview with Oscar Varela, Controller in our plant in Tijuana, Mexico, and responsible for our Social Reinsertion program. How are the inmates selected? The program is 100% voluntary in nature. The inmates need to apply in order to be considered for the program thus they are selected based on the following criteria: 1. Inmate’s sentence should be due to a minor crime not related to drugs, kidnapping and/or homicide. 2. Age needs to fall between 18-55 years old. 3. Ability to perform manual activities and/or skill to complete a training program. Which inmates are allowed into the program? And which are not? Inmates considered as a low threat (minor crime sentences) are authorized to take part in this program. Crimes considered under ‘medium or high’ security (homicide, rape, drug related) are not entitled to take part in this program. 77 What is their function in the company? The inmates taking part of this program are considered employees in our eyes and will undergo training as well as receive all tools needed to conduct their job. We have designated spaces (talleres/naves) where only assigned and approved work will be permitted; in addition, only a limited number of inmates will be allowed per taller/nave. The labor rate paid to the inmates is in accordance with the minimum wage set forth by the Mexican Secretary of Labor & Social Oversight (www.gob.mx/ stps). This minimum wage is revised every year and adjusted accordingly. What kind of work do they execute? Main work done by the inmates includes: cutting, sewing, quality inspection and limited supervisory roles for mattress covers, pillows and protectors. An external manager/supervisor will provide oversight for the operation and the quality of the product (we have two full time managers attending the operation daily). 78 How is the program executed; which steps are What happens to the inmates after the program? being taken to implement the program? Upon release and completion of their sentence, 1. We approach Baja California State Governmentinmates are given the opportunity to join our team as Penitentiary Labor Undersecretary to let full time employees. We’ve had many success stories them know that we are interested in the of inmates integrating themselves into our firm. training and reinsertion program for inmates. What is the Strategic System Model for Social 2. Baja California State Government requests Reinsertion? legal paperwork along with a written There is contractual agreement between statement depicting the processes BekaertDeslee & the SSPEBC (Secretary of Public to be performed during the program. Safety of the state of Baja California) specifying all responsibilities from both BekaertDeslee & the state. 3. Baja California State Government issues their recommendations or allows the requested company to begin operations at the penitentiary facility. 79 FACTS & FIGURES 80 81 OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEES 43% 1,005 57% 1,337 Employment contract BekaertDeslee (FTE) Total number of employees by employment contract (FTE*) Gender Belgium (HQ) Spain Czech Rep. Estonia Poland Romania Turkey female 60 30 45 9 8 325 115 male 103 30 29 21 17 187 178 *Full Time Equivalent 82 55% of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Total number of employees by employment contract (temporary) Gender Belgium (HQ) Spain Czech Rep. Estonia Poland Romania Turkey female 3 0 14 1 3 0 1 male 0 7 22 2 5 0 54 Expressed in FTE's (last year in heads can cause some differences especially in Belgium where a rather substantial part of women don't work full-time. Each month our HR department at our HQ in Waregem receives the total headcount of every BU (including all information regarding age, gender, etc.). Situation 12.31.2017 83 Total number of employees by employment contract (FTE) Gender US Mexico Brazil Argentina Australia China Indonesia female 185 129 27 7 24 65 40 male 121 235 51 70 67 66 98 Total number of employees by employment contract (temporary) Gender US Mexico Brazil Argentina Australia China Indonesia female 11 12 2 0 5 12 3 male 17 112 6 16 12 31 45 Expressed in FTE's (last year in heads can cause some differences especially in Belgium where a rather substantial part of women don't work full-time. Each month our HR department at our HQ in Waregem receives the total headcount of every BU (including all information regarding age, gender, etc.). Situation 12.31.2017 84 85 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN BekaertDeslee has a total of approx. 3,000 suppliers worldwide (global and regional suppliers). The main raw materials (direct spend) of BekaertDeslee are yarns and chemicals. We are sourcing our yarns mainly out of Far Eastern countries including India, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, … These suppliers (approx. 50) serve all our plants worldwide. On top of that we work together with about 70 local yarn suppliers. We believe this to be an opportunity to help the environment (reduction of shipping and storage) and to support the local communities. Chemicals are mainly coming from multinationals having local manufacturing and / or warehousing. For the chemicals we work together with approximately 100 suppliers worldwide. In addition to the raw materials suppliers BekaertDeslee collaborates with several service suppliers such as printing companies, suppliers for office supplies, booth builders, etc. For these services BekaertDeslee works with suppliers who commit themselves to responsible business and manage the social, environmental and economic impacts. The monetary value of payments to suppliers corresponds to material costs (cost of goods sold and freight costs). 86 VALUE CREATION STATEMENT 2016 2017 Turnover 310.16 336.58 Other financial result -1.99 -3.73 Other operating income 0.28 1.59 Business Performance 308.45 334.44 Cost of sales -147.69 -169.64 Other operating expenses -43.76 -47.63 Bought-in costs -191.44 -217.27 Gross Value Added 117.01 117.17 Depreciation and amortization -22.49 -23.93 Correction of deferred taxes 10.16 9.19 Net Value added 104.69 102.43 *From the consolidated income statement (in EUR million) 87 88 ABOUT THIS REPORT PERIOD UNDER REVIEW Report chronology 2018: full report on the Reporting Year 2017 Global Reporting Initiative This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: option Core Calendar year 2017 Contact Should you have any questions on our Report, please don’t hesitate to contact Francesca Derkinderen (francesca.derkinderen@bekaertdeslee.com). Online version www.bekaertdeslee.com 89 IMPRINT Forward-looking statements This Sustainability Report contains forward-looking statements. These statements are made on the basis of assumptions and expectations which, in turn, are based on the information available at the time of the publication of the report. They are therefore associated with risks and are not to be deemed to constitute guarantees of projected developments and results. Many of these risks and uncertainties are determined by factors which are beyond the control of BekaertDeslee and which cannot be reliably assessed at the present time. These risk factors include future market conditions and general economic data, the achievement of anticipated synergies as well as legal and political decisions. BekaertDeslee does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this report. GRI Standards Online Report Our Sustainability Report implements the guidelines and standards of the Global Initiative (GRI). The current GRI Standards of the GRI were used in the preparation of the report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: option Core . 90 Pictures by Amber Lee Knight Uzzell Sabin Neacsa and Alexandru Petre Page: 11, 26, 45 Page: 11, 76, 78, 79 Xavier Demets Lieven Dierickx Page: 4, 5, 11, 34, 35 Page: 14, 75 Beeldcollectief Francesca Derkinderen Page: 7, 88 Page: 3, 8, 22, 32, 33, 38, 68, 72 Michael Blevins Page: cover, 17, 30, 31, 81, 87 Publisher Printed by BekaertDeslee Schaubroeck NV Deerlijkseweg 22, 8790 Waregem Belgium Certifications 91 GRI CONTENT INDEX This report has been conducted based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI). It is our first report based on these standards however we are committed to communicate about our sustainable initiatives every year (with a full report every second year and an Interim Report in the years between). GRI 102 General disclosures 2016 page 1. Organizational profile 102-01 Name of the organization 13 14 102-02 Activities, brands, products and services 42 43 102-03 Location of headquarters 9 102-04 Location of operations 14 15 102-05 Ownership and legal form 30 31 102-06 Markets served 14 15 92 GRI 102 General disclosures 2016 page 1. Organizational profile 102-07 Scale of the organization 12 13 102-08 Information on employees and other workers 80 82 102-09 Supply chain 86 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain N/A 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 28 & 36 102-12 External initiatives 36 37 102-13 Membership of associations 34 35 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 26 29 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 72 93 GRI 102 General disclosures 2016 page 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure 30 31 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 42 43 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 83 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 42 43 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 42 43 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised N/A 6. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 30 31 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 42 43 102-47 List of material topics 46 63 94 GRI 102 General disclosures 2016 page 6. Reporting Practice 102-48 Restatements of information N/A 102-49 Changes in reporting N/A 102-50 Reporting period 87 102-51 Date of most recent report 6 102-52 Reporting cycle 87 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 87 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 88 89 102-55 GRI content index 90 93 102-56 External assurance 6 95 96
