UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability at BONOWI International Police Equipment GmbH UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress Report 2019 “Corporate sustainability at BONOWI starts with a sustainable value system of management and a principle-based approach to managing the corporate value chain. Wolfgang Bopp, CEO BONOWI IPE GmbH 1 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH Content overview 1. Chairman´s Statement 2. Management philosophy, certification and guidelines in line with the UN Global Compact 3. Corporate Responsibility and Compliance 4. Adherence to labour norms and social standards along the supply chain (external perspective) 5. Social alignment of corporate activities (internal perspective) 6. Environmental and climate protection 2 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH 1. Chairman´s Statement We are proud to have signed the UN Global Compact in 2018 and feel obliged to proactively support its mission. Our corporate activities on the strategic and operational levels are always aligned with the ten principles of the Global Compact. Since the founding of Bonowi IPE GmbH, responsible and proactive business has been part of our strategic understanding and the central premises of the alignment and the management of our company: Sustainable business secures corporate success! For more than fifteen years now, the management, quality and leadership principles of BONOWI IPE GmbH have been certified according to DIN EN ISO 9001 in order to underline our trustworthy and professional relationship towards our long-term business partners, suppliers, customers and employees. We are striving to achieve our high social and ecological aspirations by the end of 2021, not only but also thanks to our new corporate headquarters featuring health-friendly production, work and relaxation spaces fit perfectly in a climateneutral corporate building – for BONOWI, this is an major step towards a sustainably successful future and a statement of our long-term corporate planning and activity! In the following „Communication on Progress Report 2019“, our management philosophy, relevant corporate activities, specific control and governance mechanisms as well as our development goals shall be presented in a compact and transparent manner. Respectfully yours, Wolfang Bopp CEO BONOWI IPE GmbH 3 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH 2. Management philosophy, certifications and guidelines in line with the UN Global Compact BONOWI Management philosophy Our strategic and operational activities are guided by the following: • Proactive and sustainable business is the central element of corporate success • The management bears responsibility for all economic, environmental and social aspects of our business • Customer orientation and customer satisfaction are the central premises of corporate success • The development of management, quality and leadership principles in accordance with DIN EN ISO 9001 are an important component of our professionalism and continuity (since 2004) • Respect for human rights as well as labour protection and safety (along the entire value chain) have highest priority • A positive working atmosphere and a corporate culture based on diversity and openness are the basic pillars of our value system • Long-term supplier partnerships combined with a professional production and quality management approach guarantee top product quality BONOWI Corporate Principles BONOWI has aligned its corporate principles and corporate values to its own understanding of sustainable management as well as the principles of the UN Global Compact. Measures in progress Implementation During the induction training as well as during selected internal 2019/ 2020 corporate events, the BONOWI Corporate Principles / Corporate Values are presented and their content is explained. In addition, the BONOWI Corporate Principles / Corporate Values are 2019/ 2020 included in all training documents and made available in various locations of the headquarters. Support for 1-2 selected social projects in the region. 2019/2020/contd. 4 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH 2. Management philosophy, certifications and guidelines in line with the UN Global Compact Certifications and guidelines ISO 9001: Since 2004 BONOWI is certified according to DIN EN ISO 9001 and was successfully re-accredited in the year 2019. The entire corporate and management system is built based on the requirements, guidelines and directives of the ISO 9001. As required by DIN EN ISO 9001, all aspects of an integrated quality management system are described and certified. This guarantees that BONOWI is able to provide products and services that fulfil high customer expectations as well as all specific requirements from official government institutions. ISO 14001: The company BONOWI IPE GmbH is additionally certified according to standard DIN EN ISO 14001. According to this international environment management standard, BONOWI IPE GmbH complies with the worldwide acknowledged requirements for a modern and sustainable environmental management systems. All certificates are in line with the guidelines of the UN Global Compact. Measures in progress Implementation Monitor and comply with the guidelines and requirements of DIN EN 2019 and following ISO certifications to ensure top level corporate governance. An additional quality manager was appointed in this regard Training and instruction of the quality management teams in all 2019 aspects of CSR by an external advisory institute (Focus: UN Global Compact Principles, GRI Reporting as well as current guidelines/ topics in terms of sustainability) Establish the professional COP Report 2019 in cooperation with an 2019 external advisory institute Create the COP Report 2020 2020 5 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH 2. Management philosophy, certifications and guidelines in line with the UN Global Compact Guidelines for the evaluation of suppliers and cooperation partners With signing the UN Global Compact, all guidelines and documents concerning the qualification and evaluation of new and existing suppliers and cooperation partners were compared with the ten principles of the Global Compact and amended where necessary in order to establish the principles within supplier management. BONOWI always had a focus on a sustainable supplier strategy which is reflected by the longterm and fair supplier relations in place today. Regular corporate visits, meetings and site audits reinforce the partnership with the relevant manufacturers and suppliers providing the basis for a trustworthy partnership. A BONOWI ethical code of conduct is available. Measures in progress Implementation Revision of the supplier evaluation guidelines/ requirement matrix 2019 Creation of an additional letter of confirmation „Sustainable 2019 Commitment of BONOWI Partners & Suppliers“ for all partners and suppliers (purpose: documentation of adherence to economical, environmental and social standards) Application of the revised guidelines during supplier audits 2020 6 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH 3. Strategic planning and Compliance „BONOWI is convinced that a proactive compliance culture is daily prevention!“ Thanks to a proactive „Compliance culture“, all internal and external stakeholders of BONOWI are informed of the importance that the adherence to the law has for the company. Thanks to diverse measures in the sense of corporate compliance, BONOWI actively works against fraud, bribery, oppression and other forms of corruption. Should such attempts show within the scope of corporate activity or along the value chain, the management intervenes proactively with zero tolerance. The „prevention of corruption“ is a focus of the top management team. The following control measures belong to our corporate practice: • Approval of all purchase orders by the management • Approval of all partner and supplier orders by the management • Approval of relevant distribution orders by the management • Communication of compliance requirements during supplier and customer meetings • Regular dialogues and trainings of the employees • Regular dialogue of the management with key customers and suppliers Measures in progress Implementation Employee training including sign off of the updated BONOWI 2019 Compliance guidelines Confirmation and signature of the „Sustainable Commitment of 2019/ 2020 BONOWI Partners & Suppliers“ from all partners and suppliers with respect to adherence to environmental and social standards. This document also contains relevant aspects of corruption prevention. 7 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH 4. Adherence to labour norms and social standards along the supply chain (external perspective) „BONOWI stands in for conscious and active governance of the supply chain!“ To make sure that all suppliers adhere to the principles of the UN Global Compact, to which BONOWI IPE GmbH feels obliged, the supply chain was designed in a very transparent manner securing BONOWI the necessary insights along with the ability to take action whenever necessary with its national or international suppliers. In recent years BONOWI has introduced numerous standards as well as governance and control mechanisms that are in place to provide information, transparency and security in the supply chain: • Preferred selection of suppliers from the EU • Avoidance of suppliers from countries not fulfilling labor law requirements • Suppliers must fulfil statutory and ISO-specific certification requirements • Predominantly personal care of business relations (e. g. proactive dialogue with business and project partners) • Regular visits and audits as well as reaccreditations of relevant certificates (once per year) • Control of adherence to environmental and labour standards • Contracting with regional workshops and plants employing the disabled Measures in progress Implementation Confirmation and signature of the „Sustainable Commitment of 2019/ 2020 BONOWI Partners & Suppliers“ from all partners and suppliers to adhere to environmental and social standards: • Presentation of BONOWI Corporate Principles / Corporate Values along with a written confirmation of the document by all suppliers • Control by an internal check list Regular (partly unannounced) inspections to evaluate adherence to 2019/ 2020 social standards. Violations are documented and must provably be removed afterwards. 8 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH 5. Social alignment of corporate activities (internal perspective) „Employee orientation exceeding the legal requirements!“ BONOWI considers itself a company with high social focus. This becomes very clear while looking at the fair payment structure, the creation of new jobs and their scope as well as looking at the social benefits provided which significantly exceed statutory requirements. BONOWI considers every individual employee an asset contributing to the customer value. Furthermore, labour protection and work safety are always a priority. Using numerous measures, the statutory requirements are knowingly and purposefully exceeded. BONOWI is characterised by high employee satisfaction and a positive corporate culture (results of a comprehensive analysis by an external advisory institute). Good working atmosphere, respectful cooperation, low employee turnover as well as a low number of sick leaves are indicators for this. Selected management initiatives are listed below: • Employment (wages and holidays significantly above minimum wage, no short-term contracts) • Recruitment constantly increasing since 2017 • Supervision of work times, assurance of reasonable overtime (electronic time registration, overtime compensation as free time or remuneration, provable avoidance of night and weekend work) • Regular team meetings (to agree all topic areas) • Yearly employee feedback & development planning (since 2018) • Employee profit-sharing in successful financial years (in 2018 and 2019 / uniform performance bonus for all employees and management levels) Measures in progress Implementation Regular training concerning BONOWI Corporate Principles/ Corporate 2019 and Values subsequent Development of a commission model to govern and motivate 2019/ 2020 employees, tied with economic, environmental and/ or social objectives Implementation company pension scheme and additional health 2020 insurance Build new corporate headquarters with „health-friendly work and rest 2021 places“ 9 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH 6. Environment and climate protection „Environmentally-friendly business is self-evident for BONOWI“ Environmentally-friendly business, energy and resource efficiency has significant importance for BONOWI and is rooted in the BONOWI corporate values. Not only to adhere to our corporate philosophy but foremost to contribute to the protection of our environment and solve today´s climate protection challenges. An integrated energy and resource management concept is a part of its sustainable economic strategic development. Having sustainable environmental management as a key objective, the company has been DIN ISO 14001certified for several years now. The following measures and activities support the implementation: • Clear guidelines and requirement specification for all sourcing activities • Regular customer participation and supplier dialogue • Regular material analyses • Avoidance of forbidden materials • Avoidance of wastefulness (production, packaging) • Targeted selection of forwarders and transport companies Indicative large-scale project: Construction of new, climate-neutral corporate headquarters Guided by the principles of the UN Global Compact and the EU Strategy, BONOWI decided in the year 2018 to build a new, climate-neutral corporate headquarters to purposefully reduce its CO2 emissions by improving energy efficiency and using environmentally-friendly energy sources – while further improving the work environment. Measures in progress Implementation All suppliers must sign the „Sustainable Commitment of BONOWI 2019/ 2020 Partners & Suppliers“ document Construction of new, climate-neutral corporate headquarters 2021 • CO2-neutral, energy efficient thanks to floor heating panels • Energy efficiency in production 10 UNGC Communication on Progress Report BONOWI IPE GmbH BONOWI International Police Equipment GmbH Management: Wolfgang Bopp & Oliver Wehnl Address: Dekan-Laist-Straße 32 ▪ 55129 Mainz ▪ Germany Phone number: +49-6131-906680 Website: www.bonowi.de 11
