NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2019 NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2019 Building Up Trust between generations Building up Trust between generations / 01 About This Report The National Pension Service (NPS) has published a Social Responsibility Management Report annually since 2012 to transparently disclose its relevant activities and performances to the stakeholders. This publication is the seventh report, which includes issues related to social responsibility management that stakeholders are interested in, along with various activities and plans that the institution is implementing to actualize social values. Reporting Period and Scope The NPS Social Responsibility Report 2018 highlights social responsibility management activities and performances from January to December 2017, and important management activities from 2018 are also included. There are not any critical changes in the reporting scope, boundary, and measurement methods compared to those of the previous reporting period. Any revisions of information from previous reports are indicated in the text. Reporting Principles and Standards This report was developed in accordance with the Core Options of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards while also reflecting ISO 26000 and the Ten Principles of UN Global Compact (UNGC). A third-party assurance was carried out by an independent agency to enhance suitability and credibility, and the assurance statement can be found in the appendix. Inquiry for Report For any further information or inquiries, please contact us below. More details are also available on the homepage (http://www.nps.or.kr). Cover Story Social Value Planning Department, Social Value Realization Group, NPS Address : 180, Giji-ro, Deokjin-gu, Jeonju-si, Jeollabuk-do, Republic of Korea Tel : +82-63-713-6889 Fax : +82-60-900-3382 Email : saint420@nps.or.kr “Building a Rich Forest based on Trust” The cover of the report portrays the NPS guiding the people through a journey toward building a rich forest by planning their strong future through pension service. 02 / 국민연금 사회책임경영보고서 2018 02 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Overview 02 About This Report 04 CEO Message 06 About NPS 08 Social Value Implementation System 10 Materiality Assessment 12 CSR Highlights Sustainable Business NPS, a Life-long Partner of the Public 16 Strengthen Business Competitiveness to Secure the Public Trust 18 Sustainable Business Performance of NPS Sustainability Issues NPS, a Leader of Social Value Creation Trust Trust 27 Promote Anti-corruption & Ethical Management 30 Conduct Human Rights Management Passion 33 Strengthen HR Management 34 Creating a Good Company Culture to Work for Sharing 37 Promoting Social Contribution Activities 40 Strengthen Creation of Good Jobs Responsibility 43 Endeavor to Conserve Environment 45 Reinforce Responsible Investment 46 Prioritizing Public Safety Fairness 49 Expanding Win-Win Growth Culture 51 Create a Fair Trade Culture Appendix 54 Management Report 58 Social Responsibility Management Performance 62 Global Initiatives 64 GRI Standards Index 66 Independent Assurance Statement 67 Awards and Memberships CEO Message We will soar as an institution that builds public trust and leads social values. Dear valued stakeholders, The National Pension Service (NPS) has operated the National Pension Scheme to secure stability in the post-retirement lives of the public since 1987. Over the past 30 years, NPS has become a comprehensive welfare service institution based on trust and care of the citizens. As a result of our efforts in providing ‘more pension funds to more people’, as of August 2018, we accomplished 21.9 million members in the system and 4.7 million recipients. Moreover, the National Pension Fund amount was accumulated to KRW 650 trillion and became one of the top three pension funds in the world. The NPS was awarded ‘the Pension Fund Investor of the Year’ for achieving the annual profit rate of 5.6% and accumulated profit of KRW 314 trillion. In addition to the solid operation of the fund, we are contributing to the national economy by introducing the stewardship code and strengthening investment in social responsibility. The NPS set a slogan for social values as ‘National Pension that Adds Value to Our Lives’ and endeavors to create social values connected to its business in order to achieve social responsibility as ‘the Best Partner for Happiness in the 100-year Life Span Era’. In particular, we plan to carry out sustainable growth by respecting the government’s political guidelines related to social values and reflecting the core values of government affairs including job creation and human rights management into social value strategies. 04 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Overview Social Value Materiality CEO Message About NPS Implementation System Assessment CSR Highlights Trust, We will grow into a trusted institution. The NPS became the most outstanding institution in ethical management by receiving 1st Place in the Anti-corruption Initiative Assessment of Public Institutions for two consecutive years, and 2nd Place in the Comprehensive Integrity Score (1st among relevant institutions) as a recognition for sophisticating its anti-corruption/integrity implementation system and spreading integrated culture. We are also preemptively promoting human rights management by engaging in pilot projects of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea to fulfill our responsibilities of protecting and respecting national human rights. Passion, We will build an organizational culture where one can work with joy and passion. The NPS contributes to create social value through work-life balance and life quality enhancement by expanding flexible working hours (flextime) and flexible work arrangements. We established joint labor-management organizations to practice open management and created a labor-management culture of shared growth to form advanced labor-management relations. Sharing, We will create shared values through business-driven social contribution. The NPS executes shared value-creating social contribution activities by providing support for pension insurance payments and overseas transfer of the pension system to achieve ‘Happy Community, Making a Peaceful World’. In addition, the NPS began participating in the job-sharing activity by reducing working hours of all employees and thus hired new employees and transitioned every part-time employee to full-time. This shows NPS’s efforts in promoting employment stability and creating a society without discrimination. Responsibility, We will fulfill our social responsibility entrusted by our nation. In July 2018, the NPS announced the introduction of ‘Stewardship Code’ that reinforces exercise of voting rights held by institutional investors. This set of principles not only enhances long-term profit of a fund, but also strengthens transparency and independence of the exercise of voting rights on national fund, thereby enabling us to fulfill social responsibility as a public pension. The NPS also carries out environmental responsibility by practicing environmental management and expanding eco-friendly living culture through construction of eco-friendly offices and investment on eco-friendly companies. Fairness, We will exercise shared collaboration and build a fair society. The NPS practices win-win management by aiding small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in forming the foundation for fair competition and identifying benefit-sharing related to business in order for them to achieve market competitiveness for practical growth. Moreover, we develop investment guidelines considering the level of compliance with win-win growth and invest in funds specialized in SMEs/ventures. Therefore, we are able to support investment and sales routes of the SMEs by accelerating their growth. Based on the trust and faith of the people built for the last 31 years, the NPS aims to create social values to contribute to national happiness and development, beyond simply playing a role of a comprehensive welfare service institution. We will keep working toward becoming a trusted institution with social responsibility as a public service provider. Sincerely, 2018 Chairman & CEO National Pension Service Building up Trust between generations / 05 About NPS About NPS The NPS has contributed to social stability and welfare of Korea by providing pension payments in regards to old ages, disabilities and deaths since its foundation in 1987. As of August 2018, the total number of subscribers has reached 21.9 million and the pension service was provided to 4.7 million recipients. The amount of fund reached KRW 650 trillion, making it possible for us to provide various welfare services. Organizational The NPS established the Social Value Creation Organization under the Chairman Structure in June 2018 and operates thirteen divisions, one organization, one center, the IT Headquarters, and the Compliance Division based on the Headquarters. The subdivisions include 109 local offices, the Disability Assessment Center, the Center for International Affairs, and the National Pension Research Institute. Executive Auditor Auditor's Office Planning & Coordination Office International Affairs Center Executive HR Innovation Office Planning Social Value Director General Administration Office Realization Group National Pension Public Communications Office Research Institute Regional Local Branches Customer Support Office Divisions (7) (109) Executive Subscription Support Office Chairman & CEO Pension Director Pension Payment Office Social Insurance Information System Main CenterRetirement Planning Support Office Regional Retirement Planning Secretary Retirement Support Centers (109) Office Planning Support Disabled Support Office Executive Welfare Disability Assessment Center Director Basic Pension Office IT Division IT Strategy Office Executive Fund NPS Investment Management Director Compliance Officer NPS Foundation of NPS/Implementation of National Pension Scheme Enhancement of Reputation of NPS/The Era of Pensions for All Koreans Milestones Dec. 1986 Enacted the National Pension Act Apr. 1995 Established the National Pension Research Center Sept. 1987 Founded the National Pension Corporation July 1995 Expanded subscriptions to agricultural and fishing Jan. 1988 Implemented the National Pension Scheme villages (toward worksites with 10 or more employees) Apr. 1999 The Era of Pensions for All Koreans began Jan. 1992 Expanded the Scope of National Pension Scheme (subscription expanded in urban areas) (toward worksites with 5 or more employees) Nov. 1999 Established the NPS Investment Management Jan. 1993 Commenced payment of the Special Old-age Center Pension Benefit 1987-1994 1995-1999 06 / 국민연금 사회책임경영보고서 2018 Sept. 18, 1987 Mar. 2 1995 Signboard-hanging 06 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORTCeremony 2018 of NPS Presentation for Farmers and Fishermen’s Pension Overview Social Value Materiality CEO Message About NPS Implementation System Assessment CSR Highlights Name of Competent Foundation Foundation Location of Head No. of Organization Ministry Date Base Office Employees Article 24 of the 180, Giji-ro, Deokjin-gu, 5,739 National Ministry of Health September, National Pension Jeonju-si,Jeollabukpersons Pension Service and Welfare 1987 Act do, Republic of Korea (As of December 31, 2017) NPS Value System Mission Vision Core Value Secure stability in lives The Best Partner for of the public through Happiness in the 100-year sustainable pension payment Life Span Era and welfare services Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Major The NPS contributes to the stable lives of the people by providing pension payment and plays a role of a Business ‘comprehensive welfare institution’ that covers all areas of social security by operating and supporting Sectors old-age basic pension, retirement planning service, and activities for the disabled. Manages and maintains records of Guides to claiming pension payment subscribers Provides pension payment Imposes pension premiums Manages changes tobeneficiaries Issues certificates Provides support services for beneficiaries Subscribers Operates a social insurance support project, Pension Management ‘Durunuri’ Payment Executes policies of national pension fund Provides retirement planning services management Aids the disabled for disability assessment Manages domestic/overseas stocks, bonds, and daily activities and alternative assets Runs NPS Silver Loans Fund Manages fund/accounting transparently Welfare Performs work capacity assessment toward Management Discloses management performance properly Services national basic living security recipients Concludes and executes social security Conducts research on pension scheme and agreements social security Manages the interests of foreign beneficiaries Conducts research on plans for efficiency of International Conducts transfer of advanced system and Research fund management Affairs international cooperation Propagate key trends of pension scheme Enhancement of the Public Trust/Stability Growth as a Comprehensive Welfare Service Institution Period of Scheme Jan. 2011 Consigned the affairs in relation to collection of contribution to the National Health Insurance Service (NHIS) July 2003 Expanded the Scope of National Pension Scheme to worksites with 5 or more employees Apr. 2011 Performed the disability rating assessment (of all levels) in (from January 2006) accordance with the ‘Act on Welfare of Persons with Disabilities’ Oct. 2011 Initiated the activity-supporting projects for the disabled July 2007 Renamed as ‘National Pension Service’ Dec. 2012 Began the work ability assessment of the national basic living Jan. 2008 Established the Disability Assessment Center security recipients Apr. 2008 Initiated the Civil Service Annuity Service (CSA) July 2014 Commenced the basic pension support services Apr. 2009 Established the International Center July 2015 Relocated the Head Office to Jeonju, Korea (for foreigners only) Dec. 2015 Commenced the retirement planning service toward all Koreans Feb. 2017 Relocated the NPS Investment Management to Jeonju, Korea 2001-2010 2011-2018 May 14, 2009 July 22, 2015 Opening Ceremony of the International Center Ceremony of the Head Office Relocation Building up Trust to between Jeonju generations / 07 Social Value Implementation System Social Value Strategy Reestablishment of The NPS reestablished the social value strategies connected to its management goals in consideration of governmental policies Strategies for Social Values/ related to social values and initiatives for social responsibility management. The ‘National Pension that Adds Values to Our Lives’ Social Responsibility was set as our social value slogan. We reflected social values not only connected to our business, but also those required at Management public institutions including job creation, human rights, and public engagement. Mission Secure Stability in Lives of the Public through Sustainable Pension Payment and Welfare Services Vision Best Partner for Happiness in the 100-year Life Span Era Social Value National Pension that Adds Values to Our Lives Slogan National Pension for Fund Management Strengthening Welfare Services Realizing Sustainable Strategic Goals Everyone Trusted by the Public Recognized by the Public Social Values Social Value Realization Goals Pension that cares for vulnerable social Fund that enhances long-term profit Welfare service that secures Institution that realizes a groups and prepares for the future and strengthens responsibility stable lives community with harmony ➊ Resolve pension-neglected areas ➍ Increase stability of profits ➏ Expand retirement services to all ➒ Create sound jobs ➋ Provide pension service with ➎ Strengthen responsible investment Koreans ➓ Regional development – Win-win growth 12 Social Value consideration and acceptance ➐ Strengthen tailored welfare for the Public safety and environmental Realization ➌ Enhance sustainability of the pension disabled protection Strategies system ➑ Secure economic independence and Practice responsible management life stability through engagement and communication Establish a company-wide Bases for Expand job-related Spread and internalize Performance management system implementation system Implementation areas of action (committees/exclusive organizations) social values based on social values Establishment of Exclusive The NPS established the ‘Social Value Realization Group’ to strengthen its role as the decision-maker and a control tower for Organization for Social policies in regard to realizing company-wide social values. The Social Value Strategy Committee was formed to collect strategies Values and major policies related to social values. Moreover, we plan to efficiently conduct tasks for social value creation by operating subcommittees for job creation, human rights management and social contribution and the Social Value Consulting Committee composed of independent experts. CEO Social Value Strategy Committee Social Value Consultants Manage/examine plans related (Chairman : Chief Director) (Independent expert pool) to social values Plan/mitigate/examine social values in overall Subcommittees Social Value Realization Group (Job creation, human rights management, etc.) (Exclusive) Compose parts exclusive for each area Job creation, ethical management, win-win growth, regional shared growth, Ethical/Human Rights Job Creation Win-win Growth Regional Shared Growth Social Contribution social contribution, etc. Management 08 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Overview Social Value Materiality CEO Message About NPS Implementation System Assessment CSR Highlights The Future of NPS that achieves Social Values Realization Tasks The NPS selected the ‘Four Realization Goals for Social Values’ by analyzing the relationship between its business and social values in and Performance order to solve social issues. We deducted 12 realization strategies connected to our midand long-term management goals and identified Indicators execution tasks and performance indices for each area through intensive and in-depth discussion at each department Realization Goals Social Issues Realization Tasks Performance Indices As Is (~2017) To Be (2023~) Increased concerns about Resolve pension-neglected New subscribers from the socially 3.3 million persons 3.6 million persons or post-retirement poverty due to area vulnerable group more lack of preparation NPS, a Life-long Partner of the Public Sustainable Business Increase in portion of old-age/ Provide pension service Customer satisfaction score 87.5 93 or more disabled recipients with consideration and Pension that cares acceptance for vulnerable social Anxiety/conflict in Enhance sustainability of Sustainability of the pension Current system Improve scheme and groups and prepares maintaining/improving the pension system scheme for the future enhance sustainability the scheme Needs for enhancing longIncrease stability of profits Overachieving the actual value 100% 100% term profits contributing to profit rate financial stability Fund that enhances longStrengthen responsible Establish/execute principles of Introduce/execute term profit and strengthens investment recipient responsibility (newly introduced) stewardship code responsibility Insufficient preparation for Expand retirement service Score of awareness of retirement 92 94 retirement to all Koreans planning Uniform support for disabled Strengthen tailored welfare Rate of disability assessment in98.0% 98% or higher for the disabled time Welfare service that secures stable lives Lack of earning security for Secure economic Achieving 70% rate of legal payment 94.7% (66.3%) Achieve 100% (70.0%) basic living independence and life of basic pension stability Lack of trust in public Practice responsible Comprehensive integrity score Grade 1 Grade 1 institutions management through (highest grade) engagement and communication NPS, a Leader of Social Value Creation Sustainability Issues Organizational culture index 87.5 91 or higher Human rights management system Build basis for Sophisticate human human rights rights management management Growth without employment Enhance quality of Human resources index 4.2 4.4 Lack of jobs employment and work Institution that realizes a Create sound jobs No. of job creation 6,147 persons 10,000 persons or more community with harmony Concentration in Seoul Capital Regional development – Sustainability management index AAA AAA (highest grade) Area Win-win growth Conglomerate-oriented economy Rate of preferred purchase of SMEs 81.5% 85% or higher Concerns about disasters Public safety and Rate of greenhouse gases reduction 28.68% 30% or higher Environmental pollution environmental protection Rate of information security/facility Zero Zero safety Building up Trust between generations / 09 Materiality Assessment Materiality Test Process The NPS developed this report in consideration of the 4 reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): ‘sustainability context’, ‘materiality’, ‘stakeholder engagement’, and ‘completeness’. In addition, we identified major issues related to social responsibility management through the analysis of international standards, media research, benchmarking, analysis of internal data and stakeholder surveys and derived final issues to be reflected in the report. Step 01 Creating the Issue Pool The pool of 27 issues were comprised based on the economic, environmental and social impacts of management activities of the NPS through the processes of analyzing international standards, media research, benchmark of advanced companies, and internal data. Analysis of Analysis of International Standards Media Research Benchmarking Internal Data Pool issues through the analyses Identify interests and concerns Check material issues in the Internally Identify important of global initiatives including GRI of the stakeholders by analyzing industry by benchmarking social sustainability issues by analyzing Standards, UN SDGs, and ISO 5,305 articles related to the social responsibility management reports previous reports, management 26000 responsibility management at the of advanced domestic/overseas assessment reports, and internal NPS companies documents Step 02 Prioritizing Social Responsibility Management Issues In order to prioritize the potential issue pool, we quantified the results collected from the analysis of international standards, best practices, media research, expert evaluation, and internal/external stakeholder surveys. Through this process, we developed the Materiality Test Matrix regarding issues of interests from internal/external perspectives. Summary of the Stakeholder Survey •Identify actual/potential issues related to social responsibility management Purpose •Survey the awareness of social values and human rights management of the NPS Targets Key stakeholders (employees, subscribers/recipients of national pension, partners, local communities, research institutes, and others) Period Oct. 23 2018 – Nov. 6 2018 (approx.. 2 weeks) Participants 1,694 out of 8,923 persons of internal/external stakeholders Process Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Derive Major Issues related to Survey the Rate of Awareness Study of Human Rights Social Responsibility Management for Execution of Social Values Management • Conduct Materiality Test on 27 issues in • Conduct Materiality Test on 13 areas of Social • Perform surveys that identify correlation and economic, social and environmental sectors Value Framework Act in connection to business importance of the 10 Areas of Human Rights of the NPS Management in relation to the NPS • Strengthening customer information protection, • Human rights protection, providing health • Customer human rights protection, antistable operation of pension scheme, exposure welfare, and strengthening exposure were discrimination in employment, and of fund management, and strengthening ethical selected as major issues establishing human rights management management were selected as major issues system were derived as high-priority issues ▶S  tudy on human rights management is ▶S  urvey results were applied in the stage ▶ Results of the importance analysis were used as result of identifying awareness and of prioritizationexternal human rights used to identify execution tasks for social checking status of internal/external human management values of the NPS rights management 10 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Overview Social Value Materiality CEO Message About NPS Implementation System Assessment CSR Highlights Step 03 Materiality Test Results The NPS derived 10 material issues through the Materiality Test and developed relative contents by considering the aspects and scope of the report. The results are reported in two parts: ‘NPS, a Life-long Partner of the Public’ for the key performances through business and ‘NPS, a Leader of Social Value Creation’ for performances of the social responsibility management. Material Issues 2. Anti-corruption/Ethical management 1. Stable operation of the pension scheme 4. Performing social contribution Publicness of fund management activities 3. Publicness of fund management Stakeholder 5. Strengthening customer information protection 5.0 concerns 7. Contributing to local 6. Strengthening human community development resources management 8. Creating a company culture that is good to work for 9. Creating a Win-Win Growth culture 10. Efforts for environmental conservation 3.0 3.0 5.0 Business correlation Key Reporting Issues Internal External Reporting Scope Priority Material Issues Topic Reporting Local Governmental Correlation to Report Summary Scope Customers Partners Communities Institutions 1 Stable operation of the National pension Performance pension scheme for everyone of sustainable NPS, a Life-long business operation Partner of the 3 Publicness of fund Fund management Public of the NPS management trusted by the public 2 Anti-corruption/Ethical AntiPromoting anti-corruption/ NPS trusted management corruption ethical management by the public NPS, 6 Strengthening human Employment Strengthening human NPS that works a Leader of resources management resources management with passion Social Value and joy Creation 8 A company culture that is A company culture that is good to work for good to work for 4 Performing social Local Implementing social NPS that leads contribution activities Communities contribution activities shared value creation 7 Contributing to local Indirect Strengthening sound job community development Economic creation Impacts 10 Efforts for environmental Emissions Efforts for environmental NPS that fulfills conservation conservation social responsibility 5 Strengthening customer Customer Prioritizing safety information protection Privacy of the public 9 Creating a Win-Win Growth Procurement Creating a Win-Win NPS that creates culture Practices Growth culture fair society Building up Trust between generations / 11 CSR Highlights CSR Highlights The Quadruple Win including ‘Best Practice in Asia-Pacific Region’ At the Regional Social Security Forum for Asia and the Pacific hosted by the International Social Security Association (ISSA), the NPS was awarded the ‘1st Prize for Best Practice in the Asia-Pacific Region’ for its provision of one-stop private affairs service through the Social Insurance Information System. Moreover, we received Grand Prizes for ‘expanding pension subscription of part-time workers’ and ‘providing service through mobile devices,’ and the Excellence Prize for ‘retirement planning service through connection with relevant institutions’, thereby being globally recognized for 4 our superiority in the operation of the National Pension Scheme. Awards NPS to Introduce Stewardship Code In July 2018, the NPS introduced the Stewardship Code, which is a guideline for exercising voting rights of institutional investors to enhance long-term profits of the fund and to secure independence and transparency of the shareholder’s rights. The Stewardship Code allows the institutional investors, including the NPS, to work as a deputy by actively engaging in companies’ decisionmaking processes, playing a role of shareholders, and transparently disclosing its activities to the public and customers. It is expected to have positive outcomes of enhancing soundness of governance and values of companies in a long-term perspective. Achieved 1st Grade in the Anti-corruption Initiative Assessment for 2 Consecutive Years The NPS enhanced the awareness and standard of integrity through focused improvement of integrity-vulnerable areas in the previous year and endeavored to spread the culture of integrity company-wide by running various events. We operated the internal checking system to prevent corruption and accomplished to receive 1st Grade in the Anti-corruption Initiative Assessment held Highest Grade for by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission (ACRC) for 2 consecutive years. In addition, the Anti-corruption Initiative NPS earned 2nd Grade in the comprehensive integrity level, which is considered the highest, among Assessment the large-scale public institutions (3,000 employees or more). We will operate a more robust ethical 1st Grade (2 consecutive management system and a systematic organization to build a company culture of integrity. years) 12 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Overview Social Value Materiality CEO Message About NPS Implementation System Assessment CSR Highlights Recognized as Excellent Public Institution for Job Creation The NPS accomplished to hire 50 new employees in 2018 by conducting job-sharing activity through overtime reduction as the first public institutions in Korea. We also work on creating jobs in common fields including the NPS Café 36.5 Cooperative Union and private opening of retirement planning instructors. As a recognition for our efforts, we received not only the Grand Prize in the Job Creation by the Public Institution for 2 consecutive years, but also the ‘Deputy Chairman Prize of the Job Grand Committee directly under the President of Korea’ in the Public Institution Job Contest 2017, ‘Excellent Prize in Job Institution in Job Creation/Support 2017’ and ‘Deputy Chairman Prize of the Job Committee 2018’ Creation by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. 31st Anniversary Ceremony and the Charter of Human Rights Management The NPS held the ‘31st Anniversary Ceremony’ in September 2018 with about 250 employees 31st Anniversary in attendance at the Jeonju Head Office. Through this event, we were able to look back at our Ceremony performances of 31 years and announce the Charter of Human Rights Management that highlights dignity and values of human beings. In particular, our labor-management jointly hosted the Human Rights Announcement Ceremony to state the institution’s will for active practices and to emphasize Charter of various agenda including needs for forming social debate organizations to improve the National Human Rights Management Pension Scheme, transparency of fund management, strengthen expertise and independence, and achieve social values. Nominated as the ‘Top 1 Public Institution in Social Contribution’ by University Students The NPS was selected as the ‘Top 1 Public Institution in Social Contribution’ for 8 consecutive years at the University News Network Awards in October 2017. The survey was completed by 1,203 university students nationwide and 25.7% of the respondents evaluated the social contribution level of the NPS as the ‘highest’. This is a significant result as the efforts of the NPS were acknowledged Top 1 Public Institution by the 20’s who are the future pension recipients. Based on such outcome, we plan to grow into an institution that is more highly recognized by the public through our social contribution activities. consecutive years Building up Trust between generations / 13 Sustainable Business , a Life-long Partner of the Public Strengthen Business Competitiveness to Secure Public Trust NPS Value Chain 14 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 The NPS has published the social responsibility management reports since 2012 to share its activities, performances, and future plans of social responsibility management with stakeholders. Through this publication, we reported key issues and opinions of the stakeholders more in-depth. NPS Performance of Sustainable Business Operation Subject 01. National Pension for Everyone Subject 02. Fund Management Trusted by the Public Subject 03. Strengthening Public Recognition of Welfare Services Building up Trust between generations / 15 Strengthen Business Competitiveness to Secure the Public Trust NPS Value Chain We are contributing to the happiness of the public through our pension and welfare services. The business performance accumulated as of August 2018 is reported, Subscriber while the social responsibility management performance as of the end of Management 2017 is reported. Subscriber support Premium measurement and management The NPS manages 21.9 million subscribers through 109 branches nationwide. National Pension Subscribers 2,18 million persons Workplace-based subscribers 1.37 million persons Individual subscribers 7.4 million persons Voluntary subscribers 0.3 million persons Continued optional subscribers 0.4million persons National Pension Fund Management Stock Investment KRW 247 trillion Bond Investment KRW 332 trillion Alternative Investment KRW 69 trillion The NPS manages funds considering both profitability and stability. Profit Rate Profit 2.25% KRW 314.1 trillion Responsible Investment Reserve Fund KRW 6.4 trillion KRW 650.9 trillion Accumulated Average Rate of Return 5.6% 16 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Life-long Partner of the Public Strengthen Business Competitiveness to Secure the Public Trust Sustainable Business Performance of NPS Pension Payment Pension We provide stability in post-retirement life payment that through the National Pension which is a lifehelps lives of long salary in the 100-year life span era the public Amount of Amount of Highest Pension Benefit Paid Monthly Pension Benefit KRW 19.868 trillion KRW 2.046 million Welfare Service Supports We endeavor to provide stable postdisability retirement lives for the public and welfare assessment, for the disabled. activities for disabled, No. of Recipients of Welfare Service work capacity Post-retirement Service for the Disabled assessment for basic living 3.0 million person 1.7 cases security recipients, (educational service) (disability assessment) retirement planning services, 0.7 million person 92,535 person and services for (consultation service) (activity-support beneficiaries) the disabled No. of National Pension Recipients 4.7 Old-age Pension 3.8 million persons Bereavement Benefit 700,000 persons million persons Disability Pension 70,000 persons Lump-sum Allowance 120,000 persons Social Responsibility Management Strengthening preventive ethical Win-win growth of Shared management of local activities and execution capacity partners communities Sustainability management index | AAA Purchase rate of SMEs | 81.5% Private job creation | 6,147 Corruption-preventive policy | Grade 1 SMEs investment including | KRW 7.4 trillion Voluntary activity per employee | 10.9 hours assessment venture investment Support for operating NPS Café 36.5 Cooperative Union Excellent Job Creation Institution Public Institution Service Quality Index Deputy Chairman Prize of the Job Committee in the Public Institution 1st in Public Sector in the Service Quality Index for 6 Consecutive Years Job Contest (Ministry of Economy and Finance) (Excellent Institution in the Non-Face-to-Face Sector for 14 Consecutive Years) Building up Trust between generations / 17 Sustainable Business Performance of NPS Subject. 01 National Pension for Everyone The NPS strives to relieve blind spots of subscription and improve pension benefits and services in order to offer ‘more pension to more people’. As of August 2018, subscribers and cases of income tax reports went beyond 21.9 million and 18.4 million, respectively. However, we are trying to resolve various remaining blind spots of pension for low-incomers and the socially vulnerable group, including day laborers and part-timers. Preparation for a Happy Future – Subscription Support Koreans residing in Korea aging from 18 to 60 are eligible for subscribing to the National No. of National Pension Subscribers (Unit: 10,000 persons) Pension, and they are managed in four groups : workplace-based insured, individually insured, 2,182 2,187 voluntarily insured, and voluntarily & continuously insured. The NPS runs the ‘Farmers and 2,157 1,989 2,074 Fishermen’s Pension Premium Aid System’ that provides partial financial aid to farmers 1,626 and fishermen for their pension fee and the ‘Durunuri Social Insurance Program’ to the lowincome workers at small-size workplaces with 10 or less employees. Moreover, we offer such 750 443 programs as credit, supplementary pay, and refund to enable subscribers to extend their membership. 1988 1995 1999 2011 2013 2015 2017 2018. 8 Expansion of National Pension Coverage Mandatory Mandatory Voluntary Voluntary Date of implementation Scope of Coverage Workplace-based Insured Individually Insured Voluntarily Insured Voluntarily & Continuously Insured 1988. 1. Worksites with 10 or more employees All employees and Those who are not Those who are not Currently or formerly 1992. 1. Worksites with 5 or more employees employers including insured through subject to mandatory insured people who want to coverage but willing to continue to participate in 1995. 7. Farmers’ and fishermen’s villages foreigners workplace,including selfemployed or farmers and acquire insured status the National Pension after 1999. 4. Urban areas including housekeepers the mandatory age of 60 fishermen and students under the has passed Worksites with 5 or less employees age of 27 2003. 7. (until Jan. 2006) Life-long Salary in the 100-Year Life Span Era – Pension Benefits Pay The National Pension is a system that assures earnings through the social insurance for postNo. of National Pension Recipients (Unit: 10,000 persons) retirement life, along with risks such as disability and death. The NPS reliably pays pension 466 benefits to the recipients and continuously improves the benefit systems and services to 448 414 302 protect rights and interests and to enhance convenience of the recipients. 211 105 Old-age Pension 0.2 3.5 Life-long pension benefits are paid to those who had paid pension premium for 10 1989 1993 2003 2007 2011 2016 2017 2018. 8 years or longer from their age of 62 (born between 1957 and 1960) when incomes are decreased or lost. *Born in 1961–1964 : 63 years old, in 1965 – 1968 : 64 years old, after 1968 : 65 years old Rate of Recipients to Population (Unit : 1,000 persons) Disability Pension Over the Age of 62 9,503 Disability pension benefits are provided to those who had been subscribers for a 9,206 certain period of time when the illness or injury is diagnosed and if any physical or 8,718 3,991 3,758 (42.0%) psychological disability remains after recovery depending on the level of disability. 3,409 (40.8%) (39.1%) Bereavement Benefit Bereavement benefits are paid to subscribers or recipients who had been subscribed for a certain period of time and fulfills requirements upon the death of the recipient. 2016 2017 2018.8 Population Over 62 Recipients 18 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Life-long Partner of the Public Sustainable Business Strengthen Business Competitiveness to Secure the Public Trust Performance of NPS Operational Performances of the Pension Scheme Relieving Blind Spots by Aiding Subscription of Socially Vulnerable Groups The NPS intends to contribute to stability in retirement lives and welfare enhancement of the No. of New Subscribers from Workplaces with public by securing more pension benefits through provision of better systems and supports Lower than 10 Employees 3.03 for the socially vulnerable group. We took such actions as utilizing day laborers’ income data of the National Tax Service (NTS), improving work process, and strengthening instructions for 2016 2.71 2017 insurance fee support to increase subscription of the socially vulnerable group. As a result, million persons million persons the number of new subscribers from workplaces with lower than 10 employees exceeded 3 No. of New Subscribers who are Day Laborers 1.05 million in 2017, which is a 40% (300,000 persons) increase compared to the previous year. 2016 0.75 million persons 2017 million persons Providing Pension Benefit Service Tailored to Recipients The NPS provides pension recipients enough information about the pension to offer | Pension Recipients | Pension Benefit Amount them every right of national pension. First, we are expanding an assessment service for 4.66 19.868 unclaimed pension in connection with systems of the government and relevant institutions and enhancing convenience of claiming by utilizing mobile applications. Instructions for million persons KRW trillion tailored claims are strengthened at the embassies and domestic legal aid centers for the pension information neglected group including foreigners, divorced, and bereaved. Moreover, 7.6% Achieved the the NPS is reinforcing monitoring of payment decision-making process to provide accurate highest rate of pension payments, checking any changes in recipients using public data, and taking pension claims Increased by preventive actions for dishonest receipt through the corrupted receipt prevention system. 11.8% As a result of these efforts, we are stably paying pension benefits of KRW 1.7 trillion to 4.66 Accuracy of pension payment million recipients every month in which 42% of the total population over 62 are among the decisions Increased by (As of December 2017) beneficiaries. Protecting Interests by Rationally Improving the Nation-driven System The NPS continuously improves systems and services to enhance protection and benefits Income Standard for Durunuri Pension of the subscribers and benficiaries. For the workers at small-scale workplaces, we expanded Premium Support supports for low-incomers in pension subscription by increasing income standard (KRW 1.4 million -> 1.9 million) of Durunuri Pension Premium support, and we also minimized cases that the recipients not able to take pension refunds by extending the expiration period from 5 KRW 1.4 million KRW 1.9 million to 10 years. Moreover, we reasonable amended the pension benefit system by excluding the period that the marriage was not involved when paying the partial pension. Claim Period of Pension Refund (Prescription) 5 years 10 years Building up Trust between generations / 19 Sustainable Business Performance of NPS Subject. 02 Fund Management Trusted by the Public The National Pension Fund has achieved KRW 3.14 trillion of operational profit from its beginning in 1988 until the end of August 2018. This consumes 48.3% of the total reserve, and the average accumulative profit rate was recorded at 5.6%. Our performance in fund operation is recognized by many overseas media outlets, thus winning ‘Global Real Estate Investor of the Year’ at the IPE Real Estate Global Conference & Awards hosted by the IPE RE in May 2017 as the first National Pension Fund in Asia. National Pension Fund Management National Pension Fund is a responsible preparatory fund to stably pay pension benefits and is composed of incomes and operational profits of pension premium. The amount that is left Chairman & CEO after benefit payments and operational expenditures is accumulated and invested in stocks, bonds, and alternative assets. As of August 2018, the amount of fund stands at about KRW NPS Investment Management Management Director Support Office 650.9 trillion, from which KRW 314.1 was raised by operational profits. Stock Management Office New York Management Strategy Office Branch National Pension Fund Raised Bond Management Office Overseas Securities Premium Profits Operational Profits Benefit Payment, etc. Fund Amount Raised Office London Risk Management Alternative Branch KRW + KRW 177.8 trillion = Center Investment Office 650.9 trillion 514.6 trillion 314.1trillion Overseas Alternatives Office *As of August, 2018 Singapore Compliance Officer Branch Stable Operation of Fund in Accordance with the 5 Principles The NPS complies with the 5 Principles such as stability, profitability, publicness, volatility, and Asset Allocation (Unit : %) managerial independence in order to manage the fund according to the purpose and management goal. Most of the fund is operated through the financial investment to contribute to the stability of Welfare and other sectors excluded Short-term funds for bond included pension with high profits. The NPS pursues diversification in investment by considering trends in growth of assets based on a long-term financial prospect, and therefore, percentage of bond out Bond Stock Alternative of total assets decreased from 86.7% in 2005 to 50.9% as of the end of August 2018, while the percentage of stocks and alternative assets increased from 12.9% to 49.4%. 0.5 3.7 7.8 9.9 10.8 Stably manage within the scope in which profit Stability 12.4 14.4 23.5 29.9 38.6 volatility and risks of loss of the assets are allowed Pursue highest possible profit to relieve burden of Profitability the future generation (subscribers) 5 Publicness Manage while considering ripple effect on the global economy and financial market Principles 86.7 81.6 68.6 60.0 50.6 Volatility Manage to facilitate payment of pension benefits Managerial Manage to prevent violation to the fund Independence management principles due to other purposes 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 20 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Life-long Partner of the Public Sustainable Business Strengthen Business Competitiveness to Secure the Public Trust Performance of NPS Fund Management Performance Introducing Stewardship Code and Strengthening Responsible Investment Growth into the World’s Top 3 Pension Fund On July 30 2018, the NPS introduced the ‘Stewardship Code’ to enhance long-term profits and to strengthen independence and transparency of the voting rights. The Stewardship | Fund Amount | July 2018 Code is a voluntary guideline made to fulfill responsibility as a fund manager and encourage KRW Introduction of active practice of voting rights. The NPS plans to regularly perform assessments with 650.9 trillion Stewardship financial and non-financial (ESG) information as indicators* for decision-making. If any Code damage to corporate values is found, we plan to request fact checking and corrective action plans, thereby promoting responsible actions as a shareholder. * Specific indicators include: [Environmental] 12 indicators including carbon emissions and air pollutants emissions, [Social] 21 indicators including wage standard, employment standard, and suppliers support, and [Governance] 19 indicators including separation of CEO from Chairman of the Board. Strengthening Infrastructure to Support Fund Management The NPS is strengthening its professionalism and transparency to build an organizational structure in preparation for the era of future fund valued at KRW 1,000 trillion and for trusted fund management. Restructuring of organization for each alternative asset is in consideration to reinforce global competitiveness of the fund management in which the competitiveness is enhanced by improving wages/treatment and MBO/contract renewal standards. Moreover, the NPS opened the Fund Building to the public and is strengthening managerial transparency by amending voting rights guidelines and expanding scope of disclosure of meeting notes and investment information. Leaping toward a Global Pension Fund The National Pension Fund operates overseas offices in London, New York, and Singapore to perform various tasks including exploring overseas investment opportunities and building network with overseas pension funds. In addition, the National Pension Fund is becoming a global fund service by identifying overseas landmark real estates and large-size infrastructure assets instead of limiting its boundary to the domestic market to maintain a stable profit rate. United Kingdom Canada Germany London Poland Office France Spain China United Korea States New York Office Singapore Brazil Office Australia Labels NPS Overseas Offices Alternative Investment Assets Building up Trust between generations / 21 Sustainable Business Performance of NPS Subject. 03 Strengthening Welfare Services that is Recognized by the Public The NPS is a comprehensive welfare service institution that covers all areas of social security and provides welfare services including retirement planning service, disability assessment, supports for activities of the disabled, and basic pension. We will provide essential welfare services to the public based on our experience and expertise we’ve built for 30 years. First Step toward a Happy Post-retirement – Retirement Planning Service The NPS has been providing retirement planning services to the public after building the Professionals of NPS Retirement (As of the end of August 2018) Main Center of Retirement Planning Support and 109 regional branches in December 2016 Planning Service in accordance with the Act on Supporting Preparation for Later Life. Residents of Korea can | CSA | CFP receive services such as diagnosis, consultation, training, alignment with relevant institutions and follow-up in regards to retirement planning by visiting each regional branch or accessing 3,309 persons 31 persons through the internet (My Pension*) and mobile web (National Pension on My Side). | AFPK | Social Workers * csa.nps.or.kr 753 persons 1,999 persons Beginning of Happy Society – Disability Welfare Service The NPS, based on its expertise and infrastructure for disability assessment accumulated for 30 Management Performance of (As of the end of August 2018) years, performs disability application assessments, activity support for the disabled, and work Welfare Service for the Disabled capacity assessments for basic living security recipients. We will strive to protect rights and | Disability Assessment | Assessment Support Service interests and improve quality of lives of the disabled by advancing the disability assessment system in response to changes in the welfare environment caused by revocation of disability ratings and 166,685 persons 50,479 cases establishment of a comprehensive support system. | No. of Beneficiaries | Annual Usage Rate of for Activity Support Activity Support 92,535 persons 87.7% Support for Post-retirement Basic Living – Basic Pension Service The NPS operates the basic pension system for supporting stable living and welfare of the elders. Operational Performance of Basic (As of the end of August 2018) The basic pension is paid to the elders who are 65 or older (70% lower income percentile) with Pension Service maximum of KRW 200,000 (as of August 2018). We provide services for aiding application to the | Population Aged 65 or older | Recipients elders of vulnerable group who are potential recipients and help those who have difficult in mobility by visiting them. 7.55million persons 5.06million persons | Basic/National Pension Dual Recipients 1.9million persons 22 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Life-long Partner of the Public Sustainable Business Strengthen Business Competitiveness to Secure the Public Trust Performance of NPS Welfare Service Performance Offering Consumer-oriented Retirement Planning Service The NPS offers various retirement planning services to support the public for their healthy Retirement Planning (As of the end of August 2018) and stable post-retirement lives. We provide specialized services such as action training, job Service Sector matching, and community activity support to those in their middle-age (from 50 to 64) and are about to enter old-age. Moreover, we built a basis for establishing an alignment platform 4 of retirement planning with relevant institutions by forming councils to provide high-quality Consecutive Years Korea Master retirement planning services. Furthermore, the NPS operates a complete service model that Brand Awards offers comprehensive services from diagnosis and consultation to continuous follow-up for for 4 Consecutive Brand internalization of services. Awards Years Enhancing Quality of Welfare Services for the Disabled The government is promoting renovation of the disability rating by improving the existing Improved Rate of Treating (As of the end of 2018) method of service based on Grades 1 to 6 in order to provide necessary services for the Disability Assessment on disabled. Therefore, the NPS is assisting the early adaptation of the business through systematic Time preparation such as standards for medical decision, support for comprehensive decision| Disability Pension | Disability Assessment making tool, and reform of information alignment system. Moreover, we are improving kidney failure assessment process using hemodialysis information of the National Health Insurance 94.4 % 99.6 % Service (NHIS), strengthening support for human rights of the disabled with the 119 business, and reinforcing verification of the investigation of support activities, thereby working to enhance convenience and protection of rights and interests of the disabled. Internalizing Operational Support for Basic Pension The NPS is expanding the recipients 'who cannot receive because they are not aware of by Increase in Receipt (As of the end of August 2018) operating the application guidance system thorougly. We are strengthening tailored consulting Rate of Basic Pension to the elders who reach age of 65 and increasing activities for public benefits and interests by offering visit and mobile services. On the other hand, we are preventing any loss in welfare | Receipt Rate | Monthly Payment finances by conducting site surveys to the targets with high possibility of inappropriate receipts. 67.1% KRW 963.6 billion (based on 70% of receipt rate) Building up Trust between generations / 23 Sustainable Issues , a Leader of Social Value Creation 01 Trust NPS Trusted by the Public 02 Passion NPS that Works with Passion and Joy 24 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 03 Sharing NPS that Leads Shared Value Creation 04 Responsibility NPS that Fulfills Social Responsibility 05 Fairness NPS Building a Fair Society Building up Trust between generations / 25 Trust NPS Trusted by the Public Business In order to achieve a transparent, fair society and trusted government, transparent information disclosure and human rights management is included in ethical management in addition to the existing antiRelevance corruption/clean policies. In alignment with recent social issues, social interests in the National Pension has grown as well as the public demand for securing fairness in HR affairs, employment, and contract. Our The NPS continuously promotes anti-corruption/clean policies company-wide and enhances its ethical implementation capacity by increasing internal evaluation scores for anti-corruption/clean actions and Approach conducting ethical training and campaigns. We received outstanding evaluation results in the pilot business for human rights management of public institutions and are promoting human rights management in phases based on the standard manual for public institutions’ human rights. Our Plan • Sophisticate anti-corruption/clean implementation system and create a clean ecosystem • Advance human rights management and internalize rights relief procedures Key Anti-corruption Comprehensive Establishment Performances Initiative Assessment held by the ACRC Integrity Score of Human Rights Management 2 Implementation st grade for Grade 2 System 2 consecutive (highest grade years among public institutions) 26 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Promote Anti-corruption & Ethical Management Promote Anti-corruption & Ethical Management Sophisticating NPS-type Ethical/Anti-corruption System Operating Systematic Ethical Management for Trustworthy NPS Integrity-Up Help Desk The NPS systematically promotes ethical management by setting long-term roadmaps and detailed execution tasks based on ethical mission, ‘establishing a pension welfare institution trusted by the public through creation of [Clean NPS]’. Establishment of Pension/Welfare Service Institution Trusted by Mission the Public through the creation of [Clean NPS] Midto Long-term Spread NPS ethical Build prevention-oriented system Form effective promotion activities Strategies management model • Purpose Conduct one-stop consultation by forming designated Sophisticate ethical/ Practice effective ethical/ Strengthen self-inspection and team related to the integrity (Improper Solicitation and anti-corruption system human rights management expedite best practices Graft Act) Implementation • Equip with ethical/clean system • Perform preventive activities including • Spread self-assessments and best • System Directly connect to ‘Help Desk’ when clicked, using popTasks • Sophisticate system including settling the vulnerability improvement practices up page in the work system Improper Solicitation and Graft Act and • Tailored training/clean activities, etc. activating whistle-blowing • Enhance stakeholder accessibility Improving System for Enhancing Ethical Execution and Operating a Reporting System that Secures Anonymity Operating an Anonymous Whistle-blowing Channel The NPS plays a leading role as the first public institution in adapting the culture of preventing improper solicitation in the society by strengthening penalty standards and establishing a regulation of ‘free-of-charge for external lectures ❶ Submit whistle❷ Real-time blowing document notification related to work’. Moreover, we increased the points allotted to anti-corruption/integrity practices and relevant internal managerial evaluation and created various incentives for the employees with high mileage of integrity, thereby promoting enhancement of motivated practices of the employees. Meanwhile, the NPS runs a systematic whistle-blowing system to vitalize reporting of improper solicitation and corruptive behaviors of employees. In order to secure anonymity, the system is run by an external agency, personnel of Whistle-blower the Auditor’s Office are obligated to sign pledges for protecting whistle-blowers, and manuals of stages for protecting ❹ Check results ❸ Take actions whistle-blowers are distributed to all employees. Practicing Effective Ethical Management Conducting Preventive Ethical Activities such as System Improvement for Corruption-vulnerable Areas External Integrity Level by ACRC of the Institution (fund management) The NPS identifies vulnerabilities in corruption-related areas including fund management, HR affairs, and budget execution and promotes suitable improvements in the system as means of preventing ethical activities. 2016 8.66 2017 9.44 Category Details Fund • Reinforce inspection of individual stock trade All employees of the NPS Investment Management Management • Sophisticate System Introduce monitoring system of daily trades of domestic stocks, supplement checklist for self-inspection of fund management employees HR Affairs • Enhance possibility of prediction and eliminate factors of improper solicitation through disclosure of HR-related document Prior (transferences) and post (promotions) disclosures • Execute works with solicitation potential including transference, promotion, and appraisal at externally isolated places Internal Integrity Level by ACRC Budget • Expand scope of disclosure for task implementation expenses Execution (Departments at Head Office → All departments such as regional branches) 2016 Grade 3 2017 Grade 2 Contract • Transparency of Contract Share order plans of all contracts regardless of the amount & Budget • Integrity of Contract Spread ethical/clean culture to the entire supply chain by expanding the scope of compliance with clean Execution contracts to subcontractors Building up Trust between generations / 27 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Operating Systematic Trainings to Internalize Ethical Awareness of Employees The NPS operates on/offline training systems to enhance ethical awareness of the employees. Regular online trainings on ethical/clean knowledge and the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act are conducted to all employees, and other programs related to job position such as regular, managerial, and specialized ones are provided frequently. Category Details • Improper Solicitation and Graft Act, whistle-blowing All employees (6,534 persons × 1.5h) Online • Ethical/clean knowledge Basic theories (5,536 persons × 1h), in-depth theories (500 × 0.5h) • Regular New employees, promoted employees, etc. (766 persons × 1h) • Managerial CEO, executive directors, branch directors, department heads, etc. (236 persons × 1h) Offline • Specialized Fund managers, contract accounting personnel, etc. (384 persons × 1h) • In-depth Courses In-depth training such as integrity experts (14 × 560h) Operating Programs to expand Ethical Culture The NPS internally nurtures integrity experts to build capacities of relevant personnel in charge of solicitation prevention at the Head Office and local branches. We strengthen capacity of integrity through mock trials, self-developed training contents, and e-learning training. Moreover, such programs as the Integrity Meeting, Integrity Junior Board, Integrity Anti-corruption/Integrity Training Newsletters, and Integrity Golden-bell are operated to spread the culture of integrity. Integrity Nuri Cultural Festival In September of 2018, the NPS held the ‘3rd Jeonbuk Integrity Nuri Cultural Festival’ with 18 public institutions and private organizations in Jeonbuk Innocity to build ‘Clean World, Clean Korea’. The festival, under the topic of ‘Our Integrity, Our World’, had about 1,000 participants including employees, local residents, and students and was held for 3 days with the theme of 3 colors: white (transparently), blue (purely), and green (cleanly). White_Transparently Held the opening ceremony including a pledge ceremony to practice integrity, held a rock concert as well as a recruitment booth for expansion of employment opportunities for regional students Opening Speech Integrity Rock Concert Integrity Recruitment Booth Blue_Purely Held Integrity lectures, integrity market, integrity comedy concert, integrity movie screening, integrity golden bell, integrity mentoring program, etc. 청렴포토존 Integrity Market Integrity Golden Bell Green_Cleanly Held integrity green farming experience, and private-public joint integrity campaigns Integrity Green Farming experience Private-public Joint Integrity Campaign Integrity Essay Contest 28 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Promote Anti-corruption & Ethical Management Operating Internal Assessment Systems Operating an Independent/Professional Auditing Committee for Internal Assessments Increasing Effectiveness of Internal Assessments through Various Channels The NPS operates an effective internal assessment system that both internal and external experts are engaged in. The Auditor’s Office, independent experts (non-executive directors, etc.), and compliance officers monitor overall process Category Execution Key Performances of business implementation including planning, progress and follow-up management, and the employees play roles of Integrity Enhance convenience of Proposals including ombudsman through the anonymous whistle-blowing channel. Ombudsman the public and consult system improvement with them on improving (30 cases) In 2017, we formed the Audit Planning Department to strengthen strategies and planning functions for audits and the system for corruption strengthened our audit expertise by securing professional auditors including lawyers, accountants, and disability prevention assessment experts. Moreover, we offer educational support to acquire certificates related to audit expertise and Auditor Engage in major decisionBoard of directors operate mandatory trainings for the auditors in order to continuously enhance their professional capabilities. making discussions, play (8 times), Fund a role of the assessor Management Committee (8 times) Strengthening Preemptive Audit Activities on High-risk/Corruption-vulnerable Areas Non-executive Comprehensive Managerial advices Director assessments through The NPS strives to prevent risk factors in management through efficient audit activities using the IT system. Branches conduct self-inspection on 16 items related to careless management on a monthly basis. After analyzing the results, the Compliance Prevent and expose Inspections of legal Auditor’s Office notifies disciplinary warnings to any improper cases and takes preemptive corrective actions through Officer legal/operational risks violation, investment items the IT-based Pension Clinic System. Furthermore, regular audits are conducted to verify validity and effectiveness when establishing business plans, thereby enhancing effectiveness and reducing budgets. We also perform focused Helpline Report improper Internal/ business, corruption/ external reporting inspection on corruption-vulnerable areas including employment, confidential information breach, budget execution and irregularity information protection to continuously improve unreasonable customs and systems. Category Auditing Activities Key Performances Employment • Special inspections on employment condition for the • No major flaw related to corruption was found last 5 years Developed regulations for evasion of recruiters Including illegal employment (joint with the Ministry of Health and Welfare) Confidential • Audits on operation of prevention system for • Encrypted all confidential documents, expanded Information confidentiality breach toward retirees scope of inspecting NPS email (1 month → 6 months Breach before retirement) Budget • Audits on operation of Hi-pass cards of office vehicles • Materialized operational guideline for Hi-pass card, Execution improved vehicle management Information • Examine use of unauthorized programs and • Supplemented security control system and practical Protection effectiveness of prevention plans manual for cyber risk responses Results of Internal/External Evaluation of Integrity/Ethical Management 2015 2016 2017 ACRC Integrity Measurement Grade 3 Grade 3 Grade 2 Results (8.08 pts) (8.16 pts) (8.54 pts) ACRC Anti-corruption Plan Grade 2 Grade 1 Grade 1 Assessment Results Self-Integrity Rating 9.246 pts 9.675 pts 9.761 pts AAA AAA AAA KoBEX SM (94.9) (93.8) (94.43) Building up Trust between generations / 29 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Conduct Human Rights Management NPS Human Rights Implementation System Establishing Human Rights Management System CEO Building the Basis for Implementing Human Rights Management 4 public institutions* including the NPS participated in the pilot business of the ACRC for human rights management Human Rights Management Committee and played a proactive role in spreading human rights management of public institutions by applying standard manual Internal External for human rights management. Through the pilot business, we were able to create basis for human rights management members members by developing human rights guidelines (draft) prior to other institutions and establishing future implementation Human Rights Management directions of the NPS through the human rights impact assessment. Department (Social Value Realization Group) *National Pension Service (NPS), Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS), Busan Port Authority (BPA), Jeonnam Development Corporation (JNDC) HR Innovation Office General Administration Office Forming Human Rights Management Organization · Relieve discrimination in · Secure industrial safety · Manage supply chain responsibly The NPS formed the Social Value Realization Group and assigned human rights personnel to execute and recruitment · Secure labor rights · Protect human rights of local supervise duties and organized the Human Rights Management Committee composed of various stakeholders as residents · Restrict forced labor an implementation system. The Human Rights Management Committee deliberates and votes on human rights management guidelines and human rights violation relief procedures, and all departments not only abides by the human Customer Support Office Auditor’s Office rights management guidelines but practices them. · Protect human rights of employees · Investigate human rights · Protect human rights of customers violations · Monitor human rights violation · Prevent human rights violation Enacting and Declaring the Charter of Human Rights Management The NPS enacted the Charter of Human Rights Management after reflecting opinions of the experts such as the Human Rights Management Committee and held the labor-management joint declaration ceremony of the charter during the 31st Anniversary event. The charter states the stakeholders of NPS including employees, subscribers, recipients, local communities, and partners and reflected key points for protecting their human rights. NPS Human Rights Management Committee Charter of Human Rights Management of the NPS We, through the sustainable pension benefits and welfare services, endeavor to enhance life stability and welfare of Category Member Name & Affiliation the public and pursue human-oriented human rights management. We hereby enact the Charter of Human Rights Internal Planning Director Planning Director (Park) Management and pledge to practicing the charter for respect for humanity and protection for all stakeholders of the Members (Park) NPS in all management activities: Labor Union Deputy Chairperson (Hwang) Head of Human General Manager of the Rights Management Social Value Realization Dept. Group (Kim) I. We will support and comply with the international VI. We prohibit child/forced labor and comply with the labor External Human Rights Expert Professor (Jeong) standards and norms related to human rights such principles related to health, safety, and working hours Members as the [Universal Declaration of Human Rights] and set by the International Labour Organization and the Subscriber Manager at UNGC (Lee) the [Guiding Principles for Business and Human nation. Representative Rights of the United Nations]. VII. We treat our partners fairly for responsible supply Recipient Kim Representative II. We strive to prevent human rights violations, and chain management and support them to practice actively take relief actions if any violations occur. human rights management. Partner Café 36.5 (Kim) Representative III. We prohibit any means of discrimination in gender, VIII. We strive to prevent violation of human rights of the Local Community Lawyer (Park) age, race, disability, religion, political inclination, and residents in local communities. Representative background, while respecting diversity. IX. We comply with domestic/overseas laws related to IV. We secure freedom of association and collective environment and strive to protect the environment bargaining. and prevent pollution. V. We secure industrial safety and rights to health by X. We disclose managerial information transparently and creating safe and healthy work environment. strive to protect personal information acquired in the process of business implementation. 30 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Conduct Human Rights Management Conducting Human Rights Impact Assessment The NPS conducted the ‘Human Rights Impact Assessment of Institution Operation’ as a pilot project of the ACRC. The ‘Checklist for Human Rights Impact Assessment of Institution Operation’ on the ‘Public Institutions Human Rights Management Manual’ was used as an assessment tool. A professional agency utilized the data used in the Social Responsibility Management Report and media research results as bases, and as a result, “Establishing Human Rights Management System” and “Responsible Supply Chain Management” among the 10 issues of human rights management were deducted as items in need of supplementary actions. After the pilot project, we are taking corrective actions for these issues. The NPS plans to perform the human rights impact assessment, which creates and conducts the self-checklist by exploring businesses related to human rights. The results of the assessment will be publicized on the homepage after reporting to the top management through deliberation at the Human Rights Management Committee. Promoting Practical Human Rights Management Strengthening Employees’ Human Rights Protection The NPS developed a comprehensive management system for protecting employees in order to effectively implement employee protection programs operated at each department. Meetings with the Head Office department are held biannually to check implementations regarding ‘Creating a Safe Work Environment’, ‘Operating the Risk Management System’, and ‘Protecting Human Rights of Employees’, and corrective actions are taken for any inadequacies. The NPS amended the ‘Employee Protection Safety Manual’ to protect employees responding to customers and strengthened plans to relieve human rights violations such as abusive language and sexual harassment and emotional stress for the consultants at call centers. Appointment Ceremony of the Human Rights Management Comprehensive Operation of Employee Protection (Customer Support Office) Committee (Sep. 10 2018) Creating a Safe Work Environment Operating the Protecting Human Rights of (Customer Support Office, Risk Management System Employees General Administration Office, (Customer Support Office, Planning & (Customer Support Office, Disability Support Office) Coordination Office) HR Innovation Office) · Consultation booths to respond to · Work-related legal consulting system · Healing programs assaults · Response system to abusive language · Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) · Recording system · Response system for grievances · Work helpdesk · CCTVs and emergency bells · Protection plans for pregnant · Psychological therapy programs · Office mobile phones employees Operation of the Human Rights Committee Receipt and Sharing of Opinions (Branches) Developi ng Relief Procedure for Human Rights Violation The NPS develops reasonable relief actions for human rights violation by considering domestic/overseas cases and relief procedures of relevant institutions. We secured reporting channels for human rights violation by efficiently using the existing channels including Red Whistle and sexual harassment-related grievance consultants, and prepared other relief procedures for separate human rights violation. We continue to improve our relief procedures by thoroughly monitoring the results of the implementation. Responsible Supply Chain Management Major partners of the NPS include those related to goods purchases/services (including subcontractors) and service managers of the fund management. The NPS reflects ‘stability of employment’ which is one of many human rights issues in the assessment standard when selecting service providers for responsible management of supply chains. We plan to strengthen activities for effective human rights protection including introduction of automatic legal alert system for employees of the partners (call centers) who suffer emotional pain due to malicious complaints. Building up Trust between generations / 31 Passion NPS that Works with Passion and Joy Business Recently, minimizing gaps of human resources caused by large-scale retirement of the baby-boomers and cultivating future talents for stable growth and development of an organization have emerged as Relevance important issues in business management. In particular, most public institutions put a lot of effort into human resources management including HR, training, and welfare in order to recover from regional limitations such as losing experienced employees due to relocation. Moreover, they are endeavoring to create good workplaces by improving work methods and organizational culture, thereby securing overall competitiveness. Our The NPS focuses on developing capacities of employees in accordance with the 3 aspects of reliable talent for NPS: the creator, the expert, and the communicator. Our tailored trainings including nurturing strategic Approach leaders in response to future changes, high-quality training courses, and female leadership building are offered to strengthen capacities of the employees. Moreover, we try to realize an organizational culture with work-life balance by communicating with employees, improving the welfare system, and expanding a familyfriendly system. Our Plan •Shifting paradigm to a horizontal work process in HR operation •Strengthening training infrastructure by founding the Talent Development Center •Establishing an exemplary labor-management model to public institutions Key Family-friendly Certified Institution No. of Employees using Flex-time Training Performances Performances KRW consecutive years 957,000 persons Training budget Dec. 2008 – Nov. 2019 32.7% from previous year 4.67 Satisfaction Rating Increased by 0.02 from previous year 32 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Strengthen HR Management Strengthen HR Management Establishing the HRD System Resetting HRD Strategies To nurture talents for pension welfare that can achieve NPS values, the NPS set ‘Trusted People of NPS’ as a slogan and proposed the 3 aspects of reliable talents as ‘Creators who innovate with new ideas,’ ‘Professionals who keeps growing and creating outcome’, and ‘Communicators who care and relate’. Moreover, we are promoting a new system of human resources development (HRD) strategies aligned with the managerial strategies to cultivate pension welfare experts who can actively respond to changes in business. Training Goal Cultivating Pension Welfare Experts That Can Achieve NPS Values Slogan | Trusted People of NPS Creators who innovate Professionals who keeps Communicator Talent with new ideas growing and creating outcome who care and relate Aspects New Professional Sharing Nurture strategic leaders Strengthen expertise Establish a virtuousExpand training HRD for sustainable growth in providing high-quality cycle of GWP where infrastructure for efficient/ Strategies in preparation for future tailored service the organization and systematic talent changes employees grow together cultivation Strengthening Talent Cultivation and Capacity Building Job Expertise to Create Future Growth Engines The NPS strives to nurture strategic leaders who can achieve sustainable growth in preparation for future changes. First, we focus on quality enhancement by expanding job training for stable operation of the existing business and operate tailored training courses to strengthen core job capacities needed to respond to changes in business environment and to implement new growth businesses for the future including retirement planning services and fund management diversification. Professionals Cultivation Necessary Capacities Performances Existing Job training by rank •New employees : basic theory on job application •216 courses Capacity building of employees at the Head Office /career •Field workers : practical knowledge on laws/ Business •6,623 persons guidelines •Workers over 1 year experience : case-oriented indepth understanding Capacity building by •Job-related laws, guidelines, and cases •Twice a year; 18 persons expert professors •Teaching technique, planning and presentation skills Growth Expanding retirement •Knowledge related to retirement planning including •21 times; 638 persons Business planning service finance and health, skills for consultation and lecturing Diversification of fund •Capacities for management by asset and global •335 persons including managementfor management overseas study Drastic changes in ICT •ICT related to the 4th Industrial Revolution •105 persons Training for new recruits environment Transferring global schemes •Foreign language skills, understanding of global •61 persons in 12 areas etiquette and cultures of various countries Building up Trust between generations / 33 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Creating a Good Company Culture to Work for Efforts to Enhance Employee Satisfaction Expanding a Family-friendly System Improving Overtime Work The NPS works toward creating an organizational culture that allows all employees to work happily through a work and •Reduced overtime by 1 hour through laborlife balance. We set guidelines to prohibit work through the social media before and after working hours and encourage management agreement employees to get off work on time by running a ‘Family Day’ every Wednesdays and Fridays as a means to minimize •“Reduce unnecessary work,” one of 3 work innovation ideas overtime work. Moreover, we run various types of flexible working systems including customized working hours in which employees can choose times for work and the short-hour working system which secures basic working conditions while having shorter work hours than regular employees. In addition, the NPS expanded childcare facilities by opening more childcare centers and strengthened children nurturing Work-life Balance Policy system for employees through childcare holidays (twice a year), and shortened working hours for male employees (1 hour per day). As a result, the NPS was selected as the Family-friendly Certified Institution for 11 consecutive years as a •Childcare holidays, childcare hours recognition for its efforts to lead a balanced system of work and life. •‘Get-off on Time’ Day, compulsory lights-out •Vitalization of flexible working hours (flex-time, part-time) Improving the Welfare System that Reflects Employees’ Needs •Holiday use encouragement system, annual leave The NPS actively collects opinions of its employees through various communication channels including meetings saving system •Prohibition on work request before or after working and surveys to realize the welfare system that employees truly desire. We enhanced convenience and welfare of the hours employees by arranging intercity buses to stop at the Head Office for those that commute to work and improving the operation of cafeteria. Moreover, we upgraded the systems for flexible use of annual leaves by introducing hourly leave use and annual leave saving system. Expanding Female Leadership and Nurturing Capacity Operating the Welfare System that Reflects Employees’ Needs The NPS introduced a female-friendly system in all areas from employment, promotion, to appraisal followed by an increase in the portion of female employees. During employment, we offer preferential treatment to female employees who had career breaks in addition to strengthening other policies such as prohibiting unfair treatment in performance Social gatherings for evaluation for those who were on parental leave and reducing the required time needed for promotion for the lowsame hobbies ranked employees. Moreover, various training programs tailored to talents and capacities of female employees including Non-payment trainings are conducted for female managerial positions as well as mentoring for the reinstated employees who are 4th Childcare welfare grade or lower. Based on these efforts, 58 among 149 female employees were promoted to the high-rank positions in centers system 2017. The female managers of 2nd grade or higher works as the Subscription Support Officer Manager, HR Department Head, and Assessment Department Head. Summer Gym vacation Recruitment Promotion/Evaluation Training Recruitment •Preferential treatment •Reduction of time •Establishment of •Expansion of flexible to female employees required for promotion courses to nurture working hours with career breaks in low-ranked female high-rank •Expedition of (merits, discontinue employees managers (6 persons) organizational culture of foreign language and mid-level managers An Excellent Institution for Top-Quality •Prohibition of unfair for work-life balance requirement, reduction (7 persons) treatment during Work-Life Balance of written test •Creation of a femaleperformance evaluation •Training for reinstated subjects) friendly culture for employees on employees who are 4th •Certified as Family-friendly for 11 years in a row including accepting parental leave grade or lower through •Only public institution to receive the Presidential salary class during the (15 employees W-Mentoring Award parental leave for the promoted during the (21 persons) third child leave) 34 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Creating a Good Company Culture to Work for Establishing New Cooperative Labor-Management Relations Policy that Actively Respects Labor The NPS recovered from difficult environment through joint efforts of labor-management and plans to strengthen its publicness including social value creation based on the new cooperative labor-management relation. The NPS performed a joint declaration of labor-management for its 30th anniversary since foundation to strengthen public pension, recover trust of the public, innovate fund governance, and realize social values based on mutual respect and cooperation of labor and management. Moreover, we are continuously expanding laborers’ engagement in management with open management such as [Labor-Management Joint Innovation Promotion Group], composed of equal number of labor and management, to renovate the National Pension Scheme and other institutional operations. Labor-Management Joint Announcement for 30th Foundation Anniversary Realizing Labor-Management Joint Social Values In June 2018, as the first public institution in Korea, all employees of labor and management began participating in reducing overtime working hours, thereby recruiting 50 new employees. This is a rare occasion even in private corporations as the employees agreed to accept reduction of total wage and engage in sharing nationwide suffering from insufficient jobs. As a recognition for this effort, the NPS received the Excellent Award in the Public Institution Job Contest held by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. In addition, through the ‘Full-time Transfer Council’ of labormanagement, we decided on transferring part-time employees to full-time using a large-scale direct employment method, and this is considered as a best practice of full-time transfers. We also contribute to the local community by hosting labor-management collaboration activities including the Jeonju International Film Festival and other local sports events. Furthermore, our labor and management conducted a joint announcement of the Charter of Human Rights Management and showed our desire to practice human rights, thereby realizing social values. Establishment of the Labor-Management Joint Committee Labor-Management Joint Announcement of the Charter of Human Rights Management A Major Step Toward Laborer Protection We are operating the ‘Comprehensive Plans for Employee Protection’, ‘EAP’, and ‘1355 Call Center Operational Development Plan’ and strengthening human rights of the laborers through the ‘Basic Plan for Preventing Sexual Harassment/Assault’ and ‘Grievance Treatment Committee’. Joint Goals of Labor-Management 국민이 ‘Pension of the 신뢰하는 ‘국민의by연금’ Public’ Trusted the Public Expectations for recovering trust of the public through the efforts of all employees Building new cooperative labor-management relation Labor Union Social NPS Values Strengthening Responsibilities for Active Respect for Labor Realization Managerial Performance •[Open Management] Expand engagement of •Agreement on benefit-sharing of all employees laborers in management through reduction of working hours •Labor-management joint announcement •Strengthen laborer protection Building up Trust between generations / 35 Sharing NPS that Leads Shared Value Creation Business The government highlights the social roles of public institutions located in local communities to develop the potential of communities to achieve balanced growth and to build a basis for independent growth of Relevance the nation. Therefore, public institutions are recognizing the importance of local society development and social contribution activities and promotes those related to their businesses, thereby creating social values through shared growth with the communities Our As the best comprehensive welfare service provider, the NPS focuses on promoting shared value creating social contribution by establishing social contribution implementation strategies that reflects its business Approach nature. Based on the main social contribution brand, ‘NPS Adding Love’, we perform tailored social contribution activities that the stakeholders of subscribers, recipients, the disabled, and local communities can notice. Moreover, the NPS strives to fulfill job creation which is the toppolitical task of the government by transferring of part-time employees to full-time, benefit-sharing through reduction of overtime work, and creating high-quality jobs in private/local communities. Our Plan •Establish a social values realization model in accordance with the business nature of the NPS •Realize social values by expanding a culture of sharing through collaboration with the local communities •Strengthen creation of and support for NPS-type jobs Social Contribution Social Contribution Public Institution Key Mileage Performance Sector Grand Prize at Job Performances 167,030pts 17,783 persons Creation Award Increase by approx. No. of Social Contribution Grand Prize in the Public 10,000 pts from previous year Participants Institution Sector at the Job 59,909 hours Creation Award Length of Social Contribution Activities 36 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Promoting Social Contribution Activities Promoting Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Promotion System Social Contribution Promotion Strategies Social Contribution Brand The NPS implements social contribution activities customized for subscribers, recipients, the disabled, and local communities through the social contribution brand, ‘NPS Adding Love’. The NPS contributes to the happiness of the public by establishing a social contribution strategy system that suits the institution’s purpose of foundation and nature of business . Our social contribution activities focus on creating various shared values instead of conventional NPS Adding Love contributions including donations and one-time volunteering. ‘NPS Adding Love’ expresses the social contribution spirit of the NPS that ‘Happiness grows when love and sharing is added.’ Slogan A Joyful Community that Builds a Heartwarming World Social Strengthen supports for Promote social contribution activities Contribution independence of customers in Expand sharing culture using core capacities Strategies alignment with businesses Key •Strengthen rights of pension receipt •Overseas social contribution activities •Share/communicate with employees Promotion •Support stability of life for recipients •Pro bono •Internal/external expansion activities Tasks •Enhance will of the disabled for •Social exchange with local independence communities Implementing Tailored Social Contribution in Alignment with Businesses Adding Love for Subscribers Pension Premium Aid for Low-income Subscribers (accumulative) The NPS performs a tailored social contribution activity that reduces blind spots of National Pension in order to attain a happy society. In 2017, we paid pension premiums worth KRW 51 million for 239 low-incomers who have difficulties in | No. of Beneficiaries 2,264 persons acquiring pension receipt rights due to a short period of subscription and provided KRW 30 million to 72 single parents living in public facilities. In addition, the NPS paid insurance premiums worth KRW 240 million for 93 persons of the | Amount of Aid KRW 850 million low-income group who have insufficient period of subscription but reached the age of pension benefit receipts through monthly installments. Moreover, we provide pension premiums and childcare services for single parents who are vulnerable both socially and economically. Consensus Traveling Program (accumulative) Adding Love for Recipients 6times, 480participants The NPS conducts love-sharing services to the recipients in the vulnerable group including low-income single seniors Approx. KRW 260 million and old-age/severely disabled persons who need assistance for happy post-retirement lives. To contribute to relieving issues of old-age such as solitude, depression, and illnesses, we conduct Consensus Travelling Programs for lowincome single seniors who have difficulties in participating in cultural and social contribution activities of goods | Heart-connecting Social Volunteering (accumulative) donations, phone calls, and cleaning. Furthermore, we provide the ‘Didim Seed Savings Accounts’ to children of basic living security recipient families who receive bereavement benefits and offer scholarships to socially vulnerable 23,432 participants recipients or their children and grandchildren to encourage growth as responsible adults. Approx. KRW 1.6 billion | Independence Support for Children Receiving Bereavement Benefit (accumulative) 4,575 participants Approx. KRW 1.82 billion Provision of Financial Aids for Love-sharing Activity Consensus Traveling Program for the Single Seniors Building up Trust between generations / 37 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Adding Love for the Disabled Consensus Travelling Program with the Disabled (accumulative) We promote various welfare activities to enhance emotional stability and motivation for independence of the disabled. The NPS traveled with 534 disabled people who have difficulties in mobility and economical limits to Gwangmyeong 92 times Cave and Dacheongho Lake. Through the financial resources raised by monthly deductions from employee wages since 4,088 participants 2012, we supported 12 disabled children with expenses for rehabilitation worth KRW 29 million. Moreover, we operate the ‘Arms Around Shoulders Volunteering Group’ where people with disability take care of people with more severe disabilities, along with employees of the NPS, and perform with musical instruments, arts, and dialogues in regional | Rehabilitation Expense Aid for Children disability welfare institutions. (accumulative) 75 participants KRW 190 million Consensus Travelling Program with the Disabled onsensus Travelling Program with the Disabled (chocolate making activity) Promoting Social Contribution Activities Using Core Capacities Adding Love for the Local Community Vitalizing Traditional Markets (2017) The NPS conducts various social contribution activities with the help of organizations nationwide to contribute to local communities. We set up sisterhood relationship of 1 branch-to-1 family in 39 farmers and fishermen’s villages and KRW 314.5 million support farming, operating regional product markets, and environmental inspections. In addition, we practice tailored volunteering activities that are actually helpful to recipients in alignment with welfare institutions in the communities. | Performance of Social Contribution in Jeonbuk The activities include volunteering for New Year and Chuseok holidays, hosting activities instead of yearly closing Province ceremonies, and holding blood donations. Furthermore, the NPS performs with local businesses in supporting sales of social contribution goods and marketing 552 times for public institutions in Jeonju Innocity through cooperation with Jeonju Shinjoongang Market. (4,731 hours) Purchasing Goods from Local Communities Kimchi Making Festival with Relocated Institutions and Local Supporting Farming Residents 38 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Promoting Social Contribution Activities Expanding Overseas Volunteering Activities Overseas Volunteering Activities As the world’s top 3 pension fund, the NPS, promotes social contribution activities by expanding overseas, beyond Korea. Starting with Vietnam in 2013, we transferred our National Pension Scheme to other developing countries including Cambodia, Mongolia, Nepal, and Indonesia, and established a foundation for introducing the Korean pension system in Cambodia, Indonesia, and Kyrgyzstan through legal amendments. Moreover, we not only supported Overseas improvement of schools by providing school supplies, desks, and chairs, but also aided multinational families to visit Acquire know-hows for expanding/ their motherlands as our efforts to practice global sharing activities. developing the pension scheme, protect rights and interests of Koreans NPS Strengthen reputation through system transfer, reinforce rights and interests of Koreans such as insurance premium exemption by signing agreements Global Social Contribution Activities Talent Sharing (Pro Bono) Volunteering Group Pro Bono Volunteering Group Employees with expertise in the areas such as language, photography, performance, sports, and magic perform talent sharing activities. 27 talent sharing groups composed of 421 employees conducted love-sharing activities with local 27groups residents in diverse areas including woodworking shop, magic & bubble show, health management, English learning 421members guide, and senior photoshoots. Manufacturing ‘Love Desks’ by the Talent Sharing Group Building up Trust between generations / 39 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Strengthen Creation of Good Jobs Establishing a Company-wide Managerial System for Job Creation The NPS executes a company-wide job creation implementation system in accordance with the NPS characteristics to carry out the job creation policy of the government. Company -wide The Best Partner for Happiness in the 100-year Life Span Era Vision Job Increase Jobs, Enhance Quality, Reduce Gaps Vision Implementation Establishing a Company-wide Enhancing Quality of Expanding High-quality Creating NPS-type Strategies Job Management System Employment Internal Jobs Private Jobs •Form the job implementation •Transfer to Full-time using •Divide jobs through •Vitalize private business system and an executive direct hiring method promotion of work-life through new core Major organization balance business approach Tasks •Prohibit discrimination •Establish process for through treatment •Expand recruitment •Establish big data-based collecting opinions of the improvement job alignment system public / employees /experts Enhancing Quality of Employment Hiring of Local Talents The NPS operates a capacity-focused employment system based on the National Competency Standards (NCS) and contributes to regional job creation through allocation of local talents. As of December 2017, the percentage of local 16.9% talents among new recruits is 16.9%, and we strive to offer employment opportunities to each social group including high school graduates, female with career break, disabled, and men of national merit. Meanwhile, the NPS complies with the principle of minimizing part-time employees, and we directly recruited 1,231 part-time employees as full-time, which became a best practice case for transference into full-time. Job Sharing through Labor-Management Agreement Deciding to transition into Full-Time In December of 2017, the NPS developed financial resources to hire 50 new employees through job sharing followed by the reduction of overtime work of all employees of labor and management as the Korea’s first public institution. This is a rare occasion even in private corporations as the employees agreed to accept reduction of total wage and engage 1,231persons in relieving nationwide suffering from insufficient jobs. As a recognition for this effort, the NPS received the Excellent Award in the Public Institution Job Contest. Job Sharing through Reduction of Overtime for All Employees 50 persons 40 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Strengthen Creation of Good Jobs Creating NPS-type Private Jobs Job Creation in the Private Sector The NPS contributes to creating private jobs in alignment with its core business including expanding the social security 6,147persons contract agreement, establishing the smart alert system, and commissioning fund management. In particular, we try to offer the public more diverse services including political support for job creation and development of the job matching system by establishing big data based on National Pension information accumulated for 30 years. Moreover, we are creating job opportunities by contracting works related to fund payment and assets savings to domestic financial institutions and also contributing to direct/indirect job creation to the domestic economy of securities/in-kind through responsible investment/SOC investment/venture investment. Creating Jobs by Vitalizing the Social Economy The NPS promotes business using our various infrastructures to vitalize social economy and create local jobs. We built the ‘NPS Café 36.5’ to lease it free of charge to marriage immigrants and females with career breaks and conducted the ‘PC-sharing with Love’ business that donates unused PCs. Moreover, we contribute to the local economy through social contributions and use of traditional markets by purchasing goods needed for business operation. Contribution to Job Creation through NPS Big Data Support for Governmental Policy on Jobs Job Matching System based on Big Data •The NPS was nominated for NIA Big Data Flagship •The NPS offers job information to support employment (held by the Ministry of Science and ICT and the policies of the local governments by analyzing National Information Society Agency (NIA)) in 2017 worksite information and volatility data including by developing nationwide map of jobs that offers employee turnover of the NPS. 50 kinds of useful information including number of employed persons by region, average income of the employed, and status of female employees with career breaks based on the big data. Jobs Alignment Job seekers NPS Retirement Planning Service Center Web EDI Job Information System 78.2 cases of Companies Alignment information system with (recruiters) analysis employment insurance Job database (NPIS) Big data system Job Big data-based Job information Mapping Business Prime Minister’s Map, open sources, Award etc. Building up Trust between generations / 41 Responsibility NPS that fulfills social responsibility Business Environmental management promotion of companies and public institutions are more emphasized each year. The government is accelerating the settlement of environmental management of public institutions by Relevance implementing the environmental information disclosure scheme. Meanwhile, efforts to sophisticate the safety/ security system in response to natural disasters such as earthquakes and storms and intelligent cyber attacks is necessary. Due to the nature of the NPS, disasters not only impact on health and safety of the public, but also malfunctions of the pension service, and therefore, it is essential to take comprehensive responsive measures ranging from prevention, preparation to follow-up. Moreover, reinforcing security such as preemptive security management activities for information is necessary for the public’s relief. Our The NPS actively promotes environmental management activities related to the NPS in order to engage in solving environmental issues on a global level. Our environmental management is practiced through building Approach of eco-friendly structures and investments in eco-friendly companies, and we are also promoting various energy reduction activities in our daily lives as an active response to climate change issues. In addition, the NPS enhances stability of the pension service by systematically managing disasters into natural and social disasters. Furthermore, we are strengthening customer privacy protection by establishing high-end information security management system. Our •Promote sustainable environmental management through GHG reduction and energy conservation Plan •Establish Safe-NPS Security System against disasters/catastrophe/cyber threats Key GHG Reduction Amount Ministry of Health and Welfare Reinforcement of Facility Safety Performances 3,820 tCO eq Selected as an Excellent Institution for response Management Appointed as the national 2 training against Civil infrastructure of ICT center Defense Drill/cyber treats Overachieved 4.7% Strengthened capacity of response to higher than target amount social disasters 42 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Endeavor to Conserve Environment Endeavor to Conserve Environment Promoting Sustainable Environmental Management Direction of NPS Environmental Management Strategies The NPS promotes environmental management activities related to the institution in order to engage in solving environmental issues including climate change and resource depletion that are intensifying globally. First, we practice such actions as building and operating eco-friendly structures, purchasing eco-friendly products, and investing in eco-friendly companies. Moreover, we also take active actions to spread eco-friendly culture including activities for energy conservation. Environmental Management Strategies Practice environmental preservation by reducing use of energy and resources Create a •Respond to climate change through GHG reduction sustainable •Construct and certify eco-friendly building structures environmental •Perform company-wide energy saving activities ecosystem Create eco-friendly ecosystem through fund investment •Evaluate environmental factors of investment targets •Invest in green funds including new and renewable energy power generation and waste treatment facilities. Implementing Energy Saving Activities The NPS promotes activities to save energy and resources in order to engage in responding to climate change. In particular, we attain energy conservation by replacing lights with high-efficiency LED, supplying eco-friendly vehicles, and purchasing green products. In 2017, we surpassed the goal with the rate of LED supply submitted to the government by 13.52%, which is 93.52% in total, and we also surpassed the supply rate of compact and eco-friendly cars by 6.25% (56.25% in total). 2017 Supply Rate of 2017 Supply Rate of 36,593 32 LED Light 34,221 Eco-friendly Vehicles Installment of Rainwater Extractor 18 (reducing waste vinyl emissions) Supply Rate Suppy Rate Electric vehicles 93.52% 56.25% Hybrid vehicles Total No. of No. of LED Vehicles under Eco-friendly Lights Lights Evaluation Vehicles Purchase Rate of Green Products GHG Reduction Efforts In accordance with the greenhouse gases (GHG)/energy management policy of the public sector, the NPS set a 84.6% reasonable standard of GHG emission amount for GHG reduction at 30% or more by 2030 and is implementating goals and plans. Since 2011, we have managed emissions at all branches and office buildings by establishing the Surpassed purchase rate recommended by the government (80%) performance management system for GHG emissions. We put various efforts to save energy consumption by assigning an energy saving keeper at each building. As a result of our efforts, we surpassed the amount of GHG reduction proposed by the government by 4.68% in 2017. Reduction Emission Reduction Rate of achieving Unit Base emission Reduction Reduction rate target amount amount amount reduction targets (tCO2eq, %) amount(A) target rate (B) (F=E/A) (C=AxB) (D) (E=A-D) (G=E/C) Total 13,320 24.00 3,197 9,500 3,820 28.68 119.49 Building up Trust between generations / 43 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Certification of Eco-friendly Structure The NPS conducts environmental impact assessments on conservation of energy and resources, reduction of pollutant emissions, and creation of pleasant residential environments during the whole process of a building a structure ranging from material production, design, construction, and discard. Through this process, the NPS motivates constructing ecofriendly structures, sets reasonable plans for energy saving, and reflects energy saving technology, thereby enhancing the value of the structures. The reduction effect of energy use at the Jeonju Head Office Building, along with the NPS Investment Management, is maximized using high-efficiency materials and element technologies, and as a result, the building received Grade 1 for energy efficiency. Moreover, the Wonju Building Office established in December 2017 can supply 21% of estimated energy consumption by installing renewable energy equipment such as the geothermal power generator. Environmental Factor Assessment of Investment Target Companies The NPS developed the ESG assessment indices considering environmental factors and applies the indices when investing in companies. The environmental factors among the ESG indices are composed of ‘climate change’ items Certificate of Installment of New and Renewable Energy such as the GHG management system, carbon emissions and energy consumption and ‘clean production’ items such Equipment as clean production management system, water/chemical substances usage amount and chemical substances/air pollution/wastes emission amount. In addition, we also reflect the ‘eco-friendly product development’ items such as eco-friendly product development goals and processes, eco-friendly patents, eco-friendly certifications, and eco-friendly product development. ESG Assessment Indices Considered for Responsible Investment Environmental Index Details Climate GHG management system, carbon Change emissions, energy consumption Environmental Social Governance Clean Production Clean production management system, water/chemical substances uses, E S G chemical substances/air pollutants/ HR management Shareholders’ rights wastes emissions Climate change Composition and Industrial safety activities of the board of Eco-friendly Eco-friendly product development goals & processes, eco-friendly Clean production Subcontracting directors Product Development patents, eco-friendly certifications, Audit system product eco-friendliness improvement Product safety Eco-friendly product Partner risks development Fair competition Dividends Expanding Green Fund Investment | Green Fund Investment The NPS promotes Green Fund that invests fund budgets in the environmental infrastructure business to increase KRW 198 billion opportunities for renewable energy investment. The Green Fund works in a way that sets environmental infrastructure Contract in 2017, Execution in 2018 assets including new and renewable energy power generation and waste treatment facilities as the priority target for investment and investing in environmental infrastructure. The NPS plans to manage the fund worth KRW 20 million after selecting a contract agency for management of the Green Fund and strategically promote the Green Fund by exploring new business related to the environment. 44 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Reinforce Responsible Investment Reinforce Responsible Investment Creating a Sustainable Environmental Ecosystem through Fund Investment Systemizing Strengthening In accordance with the Clause 4 of Article 102 (Management and Operation of Fund) of the National Pension Act, the Responsible Professionalism of Investment Responsible Investment NPS regulates considering EGS factors related to investment targets in order to enhance stable profits in a long-term Service contract for when managing funds. The Responsible Investment Team of the NPS Investment Management manages the support ESG assessment and domestic stocks : factor analysis responsible investment system to assist the decision-making of responsible investment by providing integrated information of financial data and ESG research results to the Fund Management Department. • Select ESG assessment • Select and evaluate indices contract agency for fund management • Status of contracted Aug. 2014 Dec. 2016 Dec. 2016 Mar. 2018 July 2018. management Managed the virtual fund for Developed provisions Established the Amended guidelines Introduced principles responsible investmentStrategy related to responsible assessment system related to expanding regarding recipient Office of the NPS Investment investment in the and improved rights of the committee responsibility of the Contribution to enhancing long-term, Management Fund Management assessment indices for specialized in execution National Pension Fund stable profit rate of the fund Guidelines ESG of domestic stocks of voting rights Mar. 2013 Nov. 2015 July 2017 Dec. 2017 Established the Responsible Introduced new benchmark Developed assessment Studied on responsible Investment Team at the indices for the socially methods for investment and the Management Strategy Office of the responsible investment fund controversial ESG issues Stewardship Code of NPS NPS Investment Management (Stock Management Office) Vitalizing Responsible Investment and Introducing the Stewardship Code The NPS applies necessary procedures gradually and in phases regarding responsible investment after collecting opinions of the stakeholders and experts and creating sympathy. In 2017, we enhanced the ESG related stability of the portfolio by improving the ESG assessment system and are developing the basis for analyzing impacts of ESG factors on profits through the management of virtual responsible investment fund. In 2018, the NPS expanded/reformed the existing Committee Specializing in Executing Voting Rights to the Committee Specializing in Recipient Responsibility and endeavors to fulfill the responsibility of a good manager of the public pension by introducing principles of Public Hearing on Implementation Plans for the Stewardship responsibility of the National Pension Fund recipients (Stewardship Code). Code Principles related to Responsibility of National Pension Recipients • Institutional investors shall disclose specific policies aiming to create consensus with the investment for implementing responsibility of the recipients target companies. that manage/operate assets of others including customers and beneficiaries. • Institutional investors shall disclose policies on voting rights including guidelines/procedures/detailed • Institutional investors shall develop and disclose standards for loyal execution of voting rights and also * Please refer to the link below for details effective and specific policies related to ways for disclose specific contents and reasons for executing regarding the ‘Principles related to resolving conflicts of interests that may or actually voting rights to identify suitability of the execution. Responsibility of National Pension occur during the process of fulfilling responsibilities Recipients’ of recipients. • Institutional investors shall regularly report customers and beneficiaries regarding activities • Institutional investors shall monitor investment to execute voting rights and fulfill responsibility of target companies regularly to maintain and increase recipients. values of the investment assets by enhancing midto long-term values of the companies. • Institutional investors shall be equipped with capabilities and expertise needed for active and • Institutional investors shall develop internal guidelines effective implementation of recipient responsibility. http://fund.nps.or.kr/jsppage/fund/ regarding period, procedure, and methods of activities mpc/mpc_08.jsp to fulfill recipient responsibility when necessary, while Building up Trust between generations / 45 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Prioritizing Public Safety Director of Disaster Management Division Enhancing Safety through Systematic Disaster Management Chairman Deputy Director Enhancing Safety through Systematic Disaster Management Planning Director The NPS not only enhances stability of pension service, but also fulfills needs for safety of the government and Disaster Management Aide the public, by preventing predictable disasters in advance and strengthening response capacities for unannounced (Head of Emergency Planning Dept.) disasters. Disasters are categorized into two scopes (natural disasters, social disasters) for systematic management, and specific execution tasks are set and promoted. Control & Command Dept. (Head of Planning & Coordination Office) Goal Creating NPS that is safe from disasters and incidents HR Administration Dept. (Head of HR Innovation Office) Direction Preventive response to Safety management of facilities that NPS responsible for safety of of Pursuit unannounced disasters are easily accessible employees and the public General Disaster Response Dept. (Head of General Administration Office) •Set comprehensive plans for •Provide non-stop pension service •Strengthen protection plans for IT Disaster Response Dept. disaster/safety by strengthening activities for ICT health/safety of employees (Head of IT Strategy Office) Execution •Strengthen capacity for disaster disaster prevention •Expand activities to enhance Tasks response through integration of •Eliminate factors of public public safety in alignment with the PR Administration Dept. manual and drills anxiety by strengthening facility government (Head of Public Communications Office) •Establish cooperative system with safetygovernment local communitiesmanual and drills Performances of Strengthening Capacity Strengthening NPS Capacity to Respond to Disasters for Disaster Response Disaster Response Activities and Internalizing Safety Awareness Key Contents Performance The NPS performs various safety inspections including monthly Safety Inspection Day events, professional agency Safety Inspection Self-inspections All departments, 1,536 inspection, supplementation of disaster management manual, and ICT specialized inspection. In addition, we improve (Safety Inspection Day) times capabilities of employees for disaster response by executing e-learning of disaster management, expert contracting, Fire protection facility inspections by 39 branches, 546 times and self-training and by promoting disaster response drills. Moreover, we put effort into internalizing safety awareness outside agencies Regular inspections and supplements 6 sectors including ICT of employees by sharing methods for disaster responses through distribution of visual materials. of disaster management manuals by emergency response sector manual ICT regular/special inspections 87 times Dependable Safety Management of Facilities Educational Performances The NPS established the disaster recovery system by designating the ICT Center as the national infrastructure e-Learning 328 persons facility in order to respond to social disasters that may interrupt pension services due to computer malfunction. External training for facility management personnel 24 persons To minimize damages from disasters, we set protection goals and target scopes and are taking actions such as Self-safety training All departments, 989 time operating the disaster recovery system, increasing personnel for real-time protection of facilities, securing manual for disaster response risk management, and running a 24-hour comprehensive control center. Moreover, we achieved Training Performances Head Office disaster response 100% rate of insurance application by applying for building insurances at 116 branches and consultation centers. We 19 departments, 4 times improvement training are strengthening the safety management of the building offices by enhancing earthquake-resistance of elevators, 44 departments, 1,973 Civil Defense Drill training persons improving safety of elevators, and conducting safety inspections on construction sites. Joint fire protection training with 27 office buildings and relevant institutions branches 39 office buildings, 77 Self-fire protection drills times Joint training for strengthening ICT 7 times disaster capacity and verifying recovery 46 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Prioritizing Public Safety Category Implementation Items Performances Strengthening •Applied earthquake-resistant design at 24 buildings out of 40 60% application rate of earthquakeearthquake(including Wonju building competed in December) resistant design resistance in •Conducted earthquake-resistance assessment of 2 buildings before the 56.3% completion rate of earthquakeoffice buildings obligation of earthquake-resistant design resistance assessment Completed in 9 buildings out of 16 targets •Additional certifications of earthquake-resistant indication system at 5 26% certification rate of earthquakeoffice buildings (Ministry of the Interior and Safety) resistant indication system •Certified 10 buildings out of 39 (average 5% of public institutions) Safety of elevators •Performed regular safety inspections at 39 office buildings (monthly) Improved elevator safety and achieved Installed noncontact safety devices on 6 elevators in 5 buildings zero safety incidents Elimination of •Completed elimination of asbestos (1 branch) 69.2% approval rate of eliminating asbestos Completed 9 branches out of 13 targets asbestos building structures Safety at •Ordered organization/inspection team/construction company joint safety Achieved accident/disaster-free construction sites inspections on sites (10 times) construction Safety Enhancement Activities for the Socially Vulnerable Group using Business The NPS achieves social values by performing safety enhancement activities for the socially vulnerable group using its own business. For instance, when investigating the rights of receipt, we target people of old-age with a high rate of death and severely disabled recipients and conduct field services every 1 to 3 years by analyzing living conditions during the consultation process. Moreover, we offer residential safety supplies and improve facilities of senior citizen community centers for the elderly and the recipients with difficulty in mobility. Furthermore, we actively promote protection activities for the safety of the vulnerable group through our business by making greeting calls to protect single seniors from lonely death, and as a result, we received the Award of Ministry of Health and Welfare as the Excellent Institution for Protecting Single Seniors. Managing Top-Level Information Security Strengthening the Information Security Management System Cyber Threat Infringement Incidents The NPS endeavors to establish a defect-free information security management system through annual investigations held by the National Intelligence Service (NIS) to protect personal information of the public including the National Pension Management Achieved ZERO System, which was selected as the national infrastructure. Moreover, we are equipped with a global-level management system for 6 consecutive due to the acquisition of the ISO 27001, which is the international security management system for information assets and IT years as of the organizations. ZERO end of 2017 Strengthening Responses to Cyber Threats through Preemptive Security Activities The NPS established the best cyber protection system with an up-to-date security infrastructure to respond to drastically changing Personal cyber threats. We created a safe working environment where information is protected from external hacking threats by separating Information the office network from the internet. Moreover, we are strengthening response capabilities of cyber risk through site-oriented Management security trainings and drills and also thoroughly preventing security incidents by reinforcing effective security inspections such System (PIMS) as the Cyber Security Inspection Day and preemptive prevention of breach threats. Through our efforts for capacity building of Certification professional human resources, we achieved outstanding performance in the Hacking Defense Competition run by the government for 3 consecutive years and were selected as an Excellent Institution for Cyber Risk Response for 2 consecutive years. Strengthening Personal Information Protection Management Personal Information Breach Incidents The NPS is sophisticating the management system of personal information protection by reinforcing management procedures Achieved ZERO and preemptively identifying and eliminating risk factors. In order to protect customer privacy, we conducted regular monitoring of access to personal information and we did not find any incidents of illegal access to personal information for 2 consecutive years. for 7 consecutive In addition, we have not had any personal information breach for 7 years by complying with legal procedures for information years as of the collecting agreement, eliminating third-party breach factors, and deleting expired and unnecessary personal information. Due ZERO end of 2017 to the effort in strengthening information protection, the NPS passed the certification assessment of the Personal Information Management System (PIMS) for 3 consecutive years and in 2017, we acquired the highest grade in the ‘Inspection of Personal Information Protection Management Standard’ with ’99.4 points,’ conducted by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. Building up Trust between generations / 47 Fairness NPS, Building a Fair Society Business Policies of shared growth/collaboration for SMEs in the past were limited to charitable supports including social contribution and purchasing of goods. However, they are being expanded to new technology Relevance development and entrance into new markets through joint efforts with SMEs, followed by fair sharing of outcomes and profits. Therefore, public institutions are striving to explore and implement more diverse and high-level projects of shared growth/collaboration. Our The NPS has obstacles in performing shared growth as it is a quango that executes public services including pension scheme and fund management. So, we are putting our utmost effort into effectively promoting WinApproach Win Growth with ways of finding businesses for Win-Win Growth, proceeding with joint efforts with partners, and evenly sharing performance. Our • Building a foundation to promote exemplary execution of governmental policies Plan • Operating programs for shared collaboration that heightens connectivity to major businesses of the NPS • Expanding product purchasing and supporting sales routes of SMEs • Creating an ecosystem of Win-Win Growth for development of shared collaboration Key Win-Win Growth Assessment of Public Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership Specialization of SMEs and Performances Institutions (KCCP) Ventures Improvement General Certified for implementing KRW 7.5 trillion profit-sharing Total amount of small Hosted by the Ministry of capitals, growth capital, SMEs and Startups and venture capital 48 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Expanding Win-Win Growth Culture Expanding Win-Win Growth Culture Establishing Win-Win Growth System NPS Win-Win Growth Implementation System CEO’s Partner Meetings The NPS formed a Win-Win Growth Implementation System by reflecting SMEs’ needs for ‘expanding market’ and the institutional characteristics of ‘strengthening its own business’, and thus creating Win-Win Growth with SMEs and an ecosystem of shared growth/collaboration. Win-Win Realizing sustainable fund management through shared collaboration with SMEs Growth Goal Implementation Strengthening competitiveness Creating an SME-friendly Vitalizing the social Strategies through shared growth/collaboration ecosystem economy •Promote NPS-type benefit-sharing •Responsible investment, •Support for growth of social Implementation task venture fund, etc. companies Tasks •Support growth of IT companies •Support sales routes of the •Support for growth of traditional by disclosing big data of NPS SMEs Supporting SMEs for Competitiveness Enhancement Promoting Benefit-Sharing Tasks of the NPS 1355 Call Center The NPS promotes supporting big data partners by designing the NPS-type benefit-sharing system to strengthen competitiveness of SMEs with potential impacts on business performance. For instance, regarding the 1355 Call Center, Selected as ‘Korea’s we are implementing cooperative benefit-sharing of service standards with the contracted company and endeavoring to Outstanding Call Center’ achieve a shared goal of enhancing customer satisfaction by sharing consultation methods and providing performancefor 13 consecutive years related pay upon selection as the best call center. As a result, 1355 Call Center was selected as ‘Korea’s Outstanding Call Center’ in the KSQI research for 13 years in a row. We are also promoting benefit-sharing in 6 projects including Cheongpung Resort and IT outsourcing. Through these efforts, the NPS acquired a certification of ‘Benefit-sharing Company’ from the Foundation of Collaboration Among Companies in the Farming and Fishing Industry in October of 2017. Types Collaboration Contents Benefit-sharing Service •Promote vitalization through shared efforts by contracting including rate of room Monetary compensation standard operation and customer satisfaction at Cheongpung Resort upon achieving preemptive collaboration •Promote SLM related to IT outsourcing and comprehensive maintenance contract indices •NPS block development for efficient sharing of big data Joint execution of patent Technology •Patent assessment through plans for unidentified measures for personal information application and future development in process business Shared value •NPS supports Café 36.5 for operation and networking with external administrative Extension of free lease creation institutions and the café donates portion of profits. Supporting Growth of IT Partners Related to Big Data of NPS In accordance with the technological development followed by the 4th Industrial Revolution and needs for innovative growth of the public institutions, the NPS implements big data business based on the National Pension information. In this process, the NPS provides supports growth of the IT partners through resource-sharing including data and server. Building up Trust between generations / 49 , a Leader of Social Value Creation Creating a Good Ecosystem for SMEs to Manage • Growth Capital Fund Expediting Implementation of Win-Win Growth for Responsible Investment A fund that recovers investment budgets by promoting actual The NPS intends to actualize a society of shared growth by investing in companies or funds that have positive impacts growth of middle-standing enterprises or SMEs with high growth potential through minority investment without acquiring control of on society or environment, beyond simply pursuing profit. Our fund operation works toward promoting Win-Win Growth the business. of listed companies by establishing guidelines for responsible investment that concerns environmental, social and • Venture Capital governance (ESG) issues and fulfilling social responsibility by investing in small capitals (small caps), growth capital A fund that invests in unlisted stocks while offering management funds, and venture capital funds. In addition, we endeavor to support market expansion of SMEs by exceeding our consulting and actively engaging in governance goal of the purchase rate for prioritized purchasing products including those of SMEs and other social enterprises recommended by the government. Social · Establishing ESG-related · Enhancing execution capacity of compliance with Win-Win Growth Responsibility Investment guidelines (Oct. 2017) with listed companies · Stock Small caps investment · Small caps KRW 6.11 trillion (23.6% increase from previous year) SMEs/Venture · Alternative Growth capital/ · Growth capital KRW 0.74 trillion ( 22. % increase from previous year) Specialization venture capital fund · Venture capital KRW 0.66 (10.5% increase from previous year) Facilitating Social Economy using NPS Capacity Supporting Growth of Social Enterprises in Local Communities The NPS promotes businesses using its various infrastructures to vitalize the social economy and create local jobs. The ‘NPS Café 36.5’ was created in the Head Office building to secure economic activities of the socially vulnerable group including basic living security recipients, marriage immigrants, and women on career break. Through the profit-sharing contract with the NPS, the Café 36.5 donates a portion of the profit to other socially vulnerable groups and is in the process of introducing this representative social, economic model of the NPS to other public institutions in the Jeonbuk Innocity. Supporting Quantitative Growth Supporting Qualitative Growth Key Performances •Plan strategies at each branch •Declare the relationship of shared •Revenue of KRW 620 million (2016: (independent consulting) growth/collaboration between NPS KRW 590 million) External/internal customer-centered and the Café (respect opinions from •Employee wage of KRW 2.14 million strategies the Café) (2016: KRW 1.79 million) •Improve the environment using social •Support the multicultural females to •Certified as a social enterprise that contribution budgets acquire certificates, etc. provides job opportunities (Sep.) Supporting Growth of Small Businesses at Traditional Markets The NPS contributes to the revitalization of traditional markets and development of local communities by expanding its successful experience and know-hows from Seoul Mangwon Market to Jeonju Shinjoongang Market. The customized service for in-house events, which first started as an improvement project for shopping delivery at Mangwon Market, was applied to Shinjoongang Market. The target customers were expanded from residents to corporations and we are putting in our efforts toward customized product development and promotion. As a result, Jeonju Shinjoongang Market is capable of professionally supplying social contribution goods in the Jeonbuk Provice. Securing a Stable Market Supporting Qualitative Growth Key Performances •Expand the existing social contribution •Provide feedback on goods of Jeonju •Increase in revenue of Shinjoongang business Shinjoongang Market Market call center Purchased goods worth KRW 320 •Play a mediator’s role for the KRW 350 million (2016: KRW 301 million (2016: KRW 270 million) institutions moving to Jeonju Innocity million) •Encourage participation of other public •Attracted the youth-specialized market institutions based on business experiences with the NPS (Sep.) Revitalizing Traditional Markets 50 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Trust Passion Sharing Responsibility Fairness Creating a Fair Trade Culture Creating a Fair Trade Culture Efforts for Fair and Transparent Contract Signing Improving the System to Create a Clean Contract Environment Rate of Information Disclosure The NPS promotes the improvement of various systems to sign agreements fairly. Weexpanded targets of disclosure 2016 71% 2017 95% from contracts worth KRW 50 million to all tenders. The system was improved to conduct technical evaluations through professional institutions for large-scale business contracts. Also, we amended the regulations to sanction [24%p increase compared to the previous year] original subcontractors through contract cancellation if any misconduct including bribery is reported so that a clean environment for contracts could be established. Operating a Transparent Contract Process All biddings held by the NPS are operated through a fair bidding process through the electronic system. We are establishing a clean contract process by disclosing it to its entirety, ranging from the initial phase to contract signing. Performance of Electronic Bidding System Since 2018, we began to con duct preemptive reviews in the stages of technological development to prevent unfair 100% rate of electronic bidding practices. We also developed a system that sends ‘integrity text messages’ to the contracted companies after the for 3 consecutive years contract is signed in order to spread our desire for integrity. (2015 to 2017) Work Improvement Process for Integrity Contracts • Integrity Message Thank you for your service with the NPS. The employees Disclose order plans Disclose specifications Disclose contract details Other integrity activities of NPS do not receive or request bribery or gifts. For any cases of such occurrence, please report to us and •Beginning of every year •All bids •Disclose details of contract •Request for integrity pledge actively cooperate with us to establish a clean contract •Every quarter •Private contracts for agreement (every month) •Transmission of integrity culture. patents SMS messages (Reporting channel : NPS Helpline www.redwhistle.org) Efforts to Strengthen Communication with Contract Companies The NPS operates on/offline communication channels to effectively handle difficulties of the SMEs in collaboration. We have online channels including SMEs Difficulty Resolution Center, Helpline for unfair trade, reporting center for contract inconvenience, and SNS and offline channels including Cheongpung Resort Managerial Strategy Meeting, IT Outsourcing Operation Committee, Café 36.5 Operation Committee, and contract company meetings to collect issues and proposals. Through these communication channels, we are effectively improving every system, and for instance, we offered SMEs bidding opportunities by dividing large-scale printing contracts into smaller ones. IT Outsourcing Operation Committee Contract company meeting Café 36.5 Operation Committee Building up Trust between generations / 51 Appendix Management Report Social Responsibility Management Performance Global Initiatives 52 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 GRI Standards Index Independent Assurance Statement Awards and Membership Building up Trust between generations / 53 Appndix Management Report Establishing Sound Governance Composition and Operation of the Board of Directors Performance of Board Operation The board of directors plays a role of the top decision-making body with authority of reviewing major operational strategies and goals and supervising the overall operation of the institution. The NPS conducts balanced operation of Name Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018. 8 the board by considering representativeness, expertise, and distinctiveness while complying with the National Pension No. of board times 15 10 11 7 Act (Article 30). As of August of 2018, the board is composed of 12 persons including 5 chairmen and executive meetings directors and 7 non-executive directors. The board is operated efficiently through the ‘Managerial Administration Board No. of items cases 46 42 39 29 Management system’ that records and manages the overall process. Participation Executive % 96.4 92.5 90.5 97.2 (As of July 2018) rate directors Category Name Affiliation and Position Remarks Non% 97.1 84.3 77.9 75.7 executive Executive Sung Joo Kim NPS Chairman & CEO Chairman directors directors Jeongbae Park NPS Executive Director for Planning Executive director * Board meetings : Regular meetings on decision-making of major Yongkuk Kim NPS Executive Director for Pension Operations Executive director items (Feb., Oct.) and tentative meetings upon request from the Younghee Nah (female) NPS Executive Director for Welfare* Executive director chairman or the board. Insik Cho NPS Executive Fund Director & Chief Investment Officer Executive director Non-executive Youngbae Kim Vice Chairman of Korea Employers Federation User representative directors** Younggak Park Director of Korea Federation of SMEs User representative Sungkyeong Lee Secretary General of Federation of Korean Trade Unions Laborer representative Wookdong Kim Vice Chairman of Korean Confederation of Trade Union Laborer representative Jeonghwa Kang (female) Chairman of Consumers’ Union of Korea Local subscriber representative Jongbaek Park Lawyer at Korean Bar Association Local subscriber representative Geunhyeok Ryu Head of Pension Policy Department of Ministry of Health and Welfare Ex officio directors * Position of Executive Director of Welfare was created as a result of the efforts in expanding welfare business. Followed by the appointment of a female director, the total number of directors increased from 11 to 12. ** Non-executive directors include 2 user representatives, 2 laborer representatives and local subscriber representatives, and 1 ex officio director who is the Head of the Pension Policy Department in Ministry of Health and Welfare. Legislation for appointing a recipient representative in the board is in progress considering the 4.4 million recipients of National Pension. Professional Committees The NPS, with the expertise of non-executive directors, operates professional committees in each area under the board: Management Subcommittee, System Subcommittee, Fund Subcommittee, Social Responsibility Management Subcommittee, and Customer Rights Protection Subcommittee. Professional committees appoint committee members by considering the items of the board meeting as well as the expertise of the non-executive directors, and preemptive deliberations on items with high priorities are assessed before submission. Participation Rate of Female Directors Board of Directors Social Responsibility Customer Rights Management System Fund 17% Management Protection 2016 9% Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee 2017 1 executive director + 1 executive director + 1 executive director + 1 executive director + 1 executive director + 2 non-executive directors 2 non-executive directors 2 non-executive directors 2 non-executive directors 2 non-executive directors ※ 2017 Performance : Management, System (2 times each) / Fund, Social Responsibility Management, Customer Rights Protection (1 time each) 54 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Social Responsibility Independent Management Report Management Performance Global Initiatives GRI Standards Index Assurance Statement Strengthening Engagement of Non-Executive Directors The NPS is expanding the engagement of non-executive directors for reasonable decision-making. First, we use the board management system to conduct a precise follow-up management process for key managerial suggestions, amendment decisions and additional reporting items and preemptively notify key issues through realtime deliberation by the practitioners using a visual meeting system. Moreover, we are enhancing the efficiency of operating non-executive directors by sharing information about items and pending issues through SNS, SMS and emails and implementing preparation measures. In addition, we are raising the comprehension of the pending issues through participation in various field management including branch field experience and internal institution events and expediting knowledge and experience of the non-executive directors to field employees through face-to-face communication with the employees. Field Management Engagement Promotion Process Operational Field Management Schedule Mediation Activity Evaluation Plan Establishment Activities (Feb to Dec. 2017) (Feb. 2017) (Jan. 2017) (Feb. to Dec. 2017) • Comprehend schedules of major • Mediate schedules of non• Intimate field management • Field management monitoring annual events executive directors activities of non-executive • Sharing activity results • Develop operational plans for • Mediate schedules of field directors • Feedback from each office annual field management • Notify schedules of relevant including managerial suggestion offices/branches (consulting) Appraisal and Rewards Besides the salary, the NPS annually provides differentiated payment to executive directors after the appraisal of performance evaluations. For the performance evaluations, external management evaluation of public institutions conducted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance as well as the internal ethical management practices and efforts for managerial improvement are measured and reflected in the result of the annual comprehensive assessment. Basic salaries of the executive directors are in compliance with the government’s guideline: 80% of the CEO’s, and the records (benefits for meeting participation, lecture fees, etc.) of compensation paid to the executives and non-executive directors in 2017 are disclosed on the homepage of the NPS. No. Date Key Items Participation Rate 1 Jan. 4 2017 Partial amendment of regulations on rewards (draft) 72.7% 2 Jan. 24 2017 [Decided] 2017 business operation plan (draft), 2016 budget carried forward (draft), 2017 1st additional correction of budgets (draft) 80% [Reported] Plans to enhance trust of National Pension, results of special audit 3 Feb. 28 2017 [Decided] Amendment of HR regulation (draft), 2016 FY account closing (draft), amendment of fixed asset management regulation (draft) 90% [Reported] 2016 business performance, 2016 annual audit report, plans to prevent HR turnover due to office relocation 4 May 30 2017 [Decided] Amendment of the HR regulation (draft), contract agreement for commissioned collection of refund/supplementary insurance premium 70% [Reported] hanges in plan for relocation of the 2nd office building 5 Amendment of [Decided] Amendment of regulations on rewards (draft) 80% regulations on rewards (draft) Standard of operation of meeting room in the Southern Seoul Regional Office (draft), plans to strengthen fund information [Reported] management 6 Aug. 9 2017 [Decided] Composition of Executive Nomination Committee (draft), agreement on management performance of CEO (draft) 90% 7 Oct. 27 2017 Midto long-term management goals of NPS (2018 – 2022), 2017 2nd additional correction of budgets (draft), partial amendment 90% [Decided] of regulations on wage management (draft) [Reported] Implementation status of 4th NPS financial calculation 8 Nov. 28 2017 [Reported] System for using governmental aids in wages, results of inspections of government offices 81.8% 9 Dec. 7 2017 Composition of executive nomination committee (draft) 72.7% 10 Dec. 26 2017 [Decided] Partial amendment of organization regulation (draft), 2018 budget (draft), partial amendment of HR regulation (draft), plan for partial 90.9% selling of land of Boryeong building office (draft), regulations on operation/abolition of Basic Old-age Pension Support Center (draft) 11 Dec. 27 2017 Partial amendment of HR regulations (draft), partial amendment of regulations on rewards (draft) 90.9% Building up Trust between generations / 55 Appndix Sophisticating the Risk Management System Multiple Risk Management System that Reflects Characteristics by Risk Type Company-wide Management Tools by Risk Type The NPS manages company-wide risks by type: business risks (system operation), investment risks (fund management), and operational risks (institution operation) due to increase in risk factors followed by increases in subscribers, Risk Types Management Tools recipients, and fund size. In particular, we developed risk management plans in stages for systematic management of Investment Comprehensive Risk Management System risk factors and respond to financial/non-financial risk factors of the NPS preemptively and efficiently by establishing a Risks Investment Limit Check System monitoring system for each specific area. Internal Control System Foreign Currency Payment Limit System Preemptive Compliance Review System Business risks Investment risks Operation risks Risk Factors (system operation) (fund management) (institution operation) Business Eligibility/Wage Management System · Regular verification/inspection · Regular verification/inspection · Inspection through preemptive Risks Pension Clinic System Management and feedback on faulty and and feedback of the relevant suitability checks and regular Personal Information Protection proper treatment in accordance department on risk limitation monitoring including budget Monitoring Method with regulations/guidelines allocated by the Fund execution through internal Information Security System Management Committee control e-Audit System Management Subscription/Benefit/ NPS Investment Management General Administration/HR/ Department Information/Auditor’s offices Compliance Officer Auditor’s Office Operational Managerial Disclosure Check System Risks Internal Accounting Management System · Self-inspection of departments · Regular monitoring such as the · Diagnose internal control Service/Authority Management System · Establish and operate voluntary e-Audit system and investment standard Corporate Credit Cards Monitoring System Management risk limit inspections inspection system · Establish implementation Stage management system · Learning and sharing of activities Monitoring Risk Management As the risk factors increased due to the expansion of investment diversification such as overseas/alternative investment, the NPS subdivided the fund investment risks into credential risks, active risks, focused risks, and operational risks and responds to the financial environment by establishing management plans by specific type. Moreover, we developed a response process for changes in indices by using ‘NPS Risk Awareness Indices,’ which was self-developed by integrating domestic/overseas financial market indicators, currency, and credential indicators in order to respond to the intensifying volatility in financial market. In 2017, the risk factor surpassed 60 twice due to expansion of volatility in the domestic financial market caused by geopolitical risks such as North Korea. Accordingly, we formed an emergency response team to conduct real-time monitoring of financial indicators until the market was stabilized. Indicators and Inspection Items of Fund Investment by Risk Types Responsive Measures by Stage According to NPS Risk Awareness Indices Type Risk Indicators Inspection Items Category Risk Indices Inspection Items Responsive Measure Market risk Market VaR Inspection and feedback on daily limits Normal 60 or below Regular movement Analysis and report of crisis of market scenario Credential Credit VaR Daily inspection and feedback risk EDF early warning Portfolio adjustment Beginning 60 to 80 Market begins to respond Team leader-level TFT begin risk system of risk as risk emerges response Active risk Tracking Error Regular inspection and feedback Focused risk Comprehensive Deliberation/decision-making of the Intensified risk 81 to 100 Negative status that • Office head-level TF begins risk exposure Investment Committee, feedback government authority response National risk level and limit adjustment begins to respond • Review fund plans and assess management (Investment Committee) asset distribution Regulation Operational risk Supplement after preemptive verification by item and Recovered Drop down to Recovery to normal • Inspect status of asset allocation operational Legal risk Contract review and legal risk management 60 or below status without risks intensification Reputation risk Reinforcement of email control 56 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Social Responsibility Independent Management Report Management Performance Global Initiatives GRI Standards Index Assurance Statement Stakeholder Communication Establishing a Strategic Communication System with Stakeholders Suitable to the Nature of NPS The NPS strategically manages stakeholders by reestablishing them into ‘major-type’, ‘cooperative-type’, ‘impact-type’, and ‘sharing-type’ based on interests and impact. We identify key issues related to social responsibility management in accordance with tailored communication channels by stakeholder group and segment the ‘the public’ into current customers and the future generation, thereby diversifying tailored communication channels. We will continuously manage so that various concerns and requests of the stakeholders can be reflected in our social responsibility management. Internal External Category Major-type Cooperative-type Impact-type Sharing-type National Assembly, Public Employees, Partners, contract companies, government, media, Stakeholders local communities, global Subscribers & Future Labor Union academia, communities recipients generation relevant institutions Build basis for smooth business ‘Grand Prize of Korea Internet Key Deliver key messages by Achieve Win-Win Growth by promotion by strengthening Communication Award’ Characteristics expanding internal sharing vitalizing the social economy policy communication through public-oriented and Performance communication channels and realizing social values support system communication Communication Efforts by Stakeholder Groups Category Sharing Channels Key Messages Key Communication Activities · Junior Board · Distribute value system Distribute value system posters and create bulletin board for core values · Labor-management Employees Value sharing, · Share rapidly Share CEO inaugural speech and New Year’s address on SNS, post CEO consensus, etc. Major-type Council cooperative labor· Hope Tree management · Establish cooperative labor-management relations Distribute value system posters and create bulletin · CEO Consensus relations board for core values · Field Management Labor Union · Create jobs proactively Agreed on reduction of working hours for strengthening work-life balance and jobsharing as the first public institution of Koreaetc. · Vitalize social economy Operate joint consultative group to vitalize ‘Café 36.5’ Partners · Win-Win Growth Conduct benefit-sharing scheme to strengthen competitiveness of contract agencies for · S ocial Responsibility Cheongpung Resort Cooperative-type Management Establish shared · S cheme training ecosystem, · Support Growth of Shinjoongang Market Cooperate and communicate with merchants at Jeonju Shinjoongang · Meetings Local Market (applied the shopping delivery model successful in Mangwon Market) strengthen · S ocial Economy communities · Support for Innocity Season 2 Formed council of NPS-Jeonbuk National University-Local government (created cooperative Consultative Organization financial infrastructure in deteriorated areas of Jeonbuk) exchange · L ocal market network Global · Overseas training for global society schemes Conduct tailored training of schemes for countries in demand of communities pension schemes by building partnerships with developing countries National · System improvement through political cooperation System improvement through political cooperation · B riefings, conferences Assembly, Strengthen support for legislation including exploring the policy agenda to explain bills and provide document Impact-type · P ress conference Expand political media development (discussion with aides of members of the National Assembly, expand media briefings) · Institutional meetings cooperation, expand · P olicy network network Government, academia, · Strengthen political communication Strengthen political network by holding 32 institutional meetings · L ocal market network (successful execution of pilot project to reorganize the Disability Rating System) etc ·N ational Pension Advisory Current · Youtube live broadcast Live broadcast of major events to recover public trust (first live broadcast) Panel Recover trust customers · SNS events Facilitate communication with the public through ‘What we want from the CEO’ in celebration of CEO’s · SNS, events (live broadcast) of the public (subscribers, inauguration Sharing-type · Public proposal contest recipients) Consumer-focused advertisement Create advertisement focused on content that the public wants to know about · Ambassadors Enhance Future · NPS visiting group Conduct site visiting programs for university students (expanded in 2018 due to high demands) · Pension training understanding of customers · Brand webtoon that is easy to understand Serialized 4 episodes of webtoon on Kakao Page · Pension visit groups · Webtoon for scheme the scheme (youth) · Expand visit training Financial knowledge lectures to middle school students (5 schools, 16 times), pension instruction training tailored to elementary/middle/high school students (683 times) Building up Trust between generations / 57 Appndix Social Responsibility Management Performance Statement of Financial Position (Unit : KRW million) Economic Performance Category 2015 2016 2017 Current assets 200,503 204,571 230,617 Non-current assets 803,524 843,404 853,117 Total assets 1,004,027 1,047,975 1,083,734 Current liabilities 95,120 98,281 132,503 Non-current liabilities 999,854 1,071,568 1,095,639 Total liabilities 1,094,974 1,169,849 1,228,142 Deficit -89,897 -92,232 -109,276 Other components of earnings -1,050 -29,642 -35,132 Total Equity -90,947 -121,874 -144,408 Liabilities and Total Equity 1,004,027 1,047,975 1,083,734 Comprehensive Income Statement (Unit : KRW million) Category 2015 2016 2017 Profit(sales) 15,769,090 17,681,265 19,739,157 Net sales 15,769,090 17,681,265 19,739,157 Sales cost 15,185,949 17,071,376 19,107,073 Selling and administrative expenses 559,058 594,020 625,857 Operational profits 24,083 15,869 6,227 Other profits 113 26 Other expenses 3,725 3,930 4,093 Other gains and losses -20,137 -19,615 -22,218 Finance income 4,859 4,071 4,264 Finance expenses 628 529 404 Equity method income Profit (loss) before income tax 4,565 -4,134 -16,198 Corporate tax 73 562 Net profit (loss) for the term 4,565 -4,207 -16,760 Other inclusive gains and losses (after tax) 66 -28,591 -5,490 Total inclusive gains and losses 4,631 -32,798 -22,250 Net profit 0.03 -0.02 -0.08 Capital turnover ratio -17,338.77 -14,507.82 -13,669.02 Economic Value Distribution (Unit : KRW million) Category 2015 2016 2017 Customer (pension payment) 15,184,010 17,068,159 19,083,886 Employees (wage, severance pay, welfare benefits) 371,732 409,293 435,853 Government (taxes & dues) 28,609 31,195 31,457 Local community (social contribution expenses) 877 772 588 Suppliers (goods purchased from SMEs) 98,540 82,746 59,656 58 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Social Responsibility Independent Management Report Management Performance Global Initiatives GRI Standards Index Assurance Statement GHG Emissions Environmental Performance Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Base emissions tCO2eq 5,624 12,165 13,320 Scope 1 tCO2eq 1,443 1,679 2,130 GHG emissions Scope 2 tCO2eq 2,564 6,894 7,370 amount Total emissions tCO2eq 4,007 8,573 9,500 GHG reduction amount tCO2eq 1,617 3,592 3,820 GHG reduction rate % 28.75 29.53 28.68 Other Environmental Data Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Energy consumption TOE 3,333 1,488 3,413 Water usage tons 57,578 68,253 78,255 Wastes emissions tons 311 283 258.85 Labor Union Membership Social Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Performance No. of membership targets persons 5,340 5,824 6,038 No. of members persons 3,890 4,184 4,442 Membership rate % 72.84 71.84 73.56 Ethical Management Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Sustainability Management Index (KoBEX) grade AAA(94.9) AAA(93.8) AAA(94.43) Comprehensive Integrity Level (ACRC) grade 3 3 2 Self-integrity survey pts 9.32 9.68 9.76 No. of ethical management trainees persons 18,158 21,771 20,666 Local Community Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Private job creation persons 6,828 5,906* 6,147 Social contribution mileage pts 126,150 157,556 167,030 Length of volunteering activities per employee hours 12.6 11.2 10.9 * The data for private job creation in 2015 and 2016 were amended due to changes in the assessment standard of the government. Building up Trust between generations / 59 Appndix Social Responsibility Management Performance Win-Win Growth Social Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Performance Win-Win Growth assessment of public institutions grade To be improved To be improved General Rate of purchase from SMEs % 82.5 85.4 81.5 Investment in SMEs such as ventures KRW 100 million 69,693 60,283 74,321 Human Resources Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Total number of employees (including executives) persons 5,230 5,668 5,816 Total number of employees (excluding those away from work for persons 5,055.50 5,534.5 5,745 parental leave, etc.) Employment Full-time persons 5,049.50 5,261 5,475 by type Indefinite contract persons 6 273.5 270 Part-time/Temporary persons 170 157 122 New New full-time employment persons 206 291 322 recruitment Part-time employment persons 22 (11) 18 (9) 18 (9) (exchange to full-time employment) Indirect employment persons 706 718 736 Gender (Regular employees Male employees persons 2,837 2,901 2,968 + Employees under indefinite contracts) Female employees persons 2,218.50 2,633.50 2,777 Ages Under 30 years old persons 603 701.5 766ㅤ 30 – 50 years old persons 3,208.5 3,365.5 3,397.5 After 50 years old persons 1,244 1,467.5 1,581.5ㅤ Female employees Female managers** persons 172 199 232 Ratio of female employees % 43.9 47.6 48.3ㅤ Ratio of female managers % 17.05 19.01 21.2 Socially vulnerable group Disabled employees (ratio) persons (%) 195 (3.65) 198 (3.49) 201 (3.43) Veterans(ratio) persons (%) 421 (8.42) 424 (8.32) 458 (8.28) Retirement Regular retirement persons 46 15 21 Voluntary retirement persons 3 12 11 * Female manager : Including executives and 1~3 level employees New Recruitment of Full-time Employees Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Female employees persons 96 180 190 Disabled employees persons 2.5 5 Non-metropolitan area persons 80 113 140 HQ relocation area persons 26 47 54.5 High school graduates persons 26 50.5 46 Total new hires persons 206 291 322 60 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Social Responsibility Independent Management Report Management Performance Global Initiatives GRI Standards Index Assurance Statement New Recruitment of Part-time/Temporary Employees Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Interns persons 130 157 190 Counsellors, etc. persons 607 306 261 Contract workers persons 368 471 296 Total persons 1,105 934 747 HR Development Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 No. of trainees persons 62,400 87,744 74,724 Training budget per employee KRW 1 million 825 841 957 Satisfaction level points 4.64 4.65 4.67 Flexible Working Hours Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Part-time Recruited persons 22 38 18 Converted persons 84 83 91 Flexible working Flex-time work persons 618 728 1,025 hours Intensive work persons 24 35 39 Support for Childbirth and Childcare Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Support Infertility leave persons 14 13 12 for (one day each for infertility treatment and egg retrieval) pregnancy Fetus check-up leave persons 148 133 130 (more than once a month during pregnancy) Childbirth leave prior to and post multiple births persons 1 3 1 (120 days for multiple gestation) Reduction of working hours during the period pregnancy persons 121 100 103 (2 hours/day reduction for pregnancy under 12 weeks and over 36 weeks) Childcare Reduction of working hours during childcare support (daily work time is reduced by 4 hours for employees raising r children persons 79 82 82 under the age of 19) Infant childcare leave persons 192 182 175 (one day a month for childcare of infants less than three years old) Maternity Maternity leave persons 139 129 131 leave (90 days for single child and 120 days for multiple children) Childbirth leave for one’s spouse persons 76 74 89 (five paid days) Parental Male (maximum 3 years) persons 15 29 26 leave Female (maximum 3 years) persons 367 392 391 * Childcare time) expanded to 1 hour/day for male employees with children aged 1 or below Building up Trust between generations / 61 Appndix Global Initiatives The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN) suggests roadmaps to accomplish sustainable UN SDGs environment, social integration, and economic prosperity by 2030. The NPS highly supports the UN SDGs and continues to broaden social value realization in the overall management and perform various activities for implementing the SDGs. No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Quality Gender Equality & Well-Being Education Enhancement of Female Human Rights • Pension premium business to secure • Confirm survival of single seniors when • Maintain relationship with recipients • Provide scholarship to recipients of • Promote expansion of national pension benefit rights of the economically checking recipient rights and deliver food through regular phone calls socially vulnerable group and their children pension subscription for females with vulnerable group (Durunuri Pension and supply career break premium support, pension premium loans, • Provide senior recipients opportunities for • Educational support to local students etc.) • Provide living/food supplies instead of various social engagement including selfregarding finance and 토딩 • Introduce female-friendly system in pension benefit for recipient with difficulty improvement and volunteering all areas including female leadership • Strengthen core job capacities to nurture in mobility building, promotion, appraisal, and • Pursue enhancement of employees’ strategic leaders, respond to changes in training through expansion and health through stress management and business environment, and promote new capacity building of female managers environmental improvement for civil growth business in preparation for next 30 service and emotional labors years of the NPS Affordable and Decent Work Industry, Reduced Sustainable Clean Energy and Economic Innovation and Inequalities Cities and Growth Infrastructure Communities • Execute the Green Fund that invests in • Provide pension insurance premium aids • Increase investment in social infrastructures • Lead vulnerable subscribers in scheme • Aid global entry of Korean financial environmental infrastructure assets to to low-income workers at workplaces with including SOC through National Pension Fund blind spots to the National Pension institutions by expanding their use in expand investment opportunities for new less than 10 employees Scheme through and Didim Seed Savings savings of overseas assets and renewable energy • Vitalize local society and economy and Account, etc. • Create jobs in the finance industry of promote business for cooperative, shared • Develop welfare service models and • Support for reasonable use of resources Korea by expanding private contracting for growth with SMEs/micro enterprises • Comply with mandatory employment of the programs that contribute to lives of the and securing of sustainable energy fund management (invigorating traditional markets in disabled, prioritize employment of national public including sophistication of big dataJeonbuk, contributing to the revitalization merits, and guidelines for protecting based retirement planning service • Create jobs in the private sector by of universities/the economy through contract workers resolving job miss-matching and reregional events for International Seminar • Strengthen safety of facilities including the approach to retirement planning service on Public Pension, and promoting NPS-type • Endeavor to conduct blind recruitment, disaster recovery system at ICT Center, and disability welfare service through big recruit youth/high school graduates and integrated disaster management system, performance sharing scheme in accordance data local talents, expand female managers, and earthquake-resistance upgrade in with the nature of institution) and eliminate discrimination to high school office buildings graduates/contract workers/temporary workers Responsible Climate Peace, Partnerships for Production and Action Justice and Strong the Goals Consumption Institutions • Achieved 1st Rank in Korea Master • Surpass GHG reduction goals through • Promote systematic operation of ethical • Transfer the National Pension Scheme to Brand Award for high-quality energy conservation practices management system, preventive ethical developing countries such as Vietnam, retirement planning service (result of activities, and distribution of best practices Cambodia, Mongolia, Nepal, and Indonesia • Established ESG-based assessment consumers survey) customized for stakeholders since 2013, and practice global love for process including GHG data to humanity through improvement of school • Expand channels for providing secure effectiveness of responsible • Build position as a leading institution for environments and cultural exchanges pension information by cooperating investment considering environment anti-corruption/ethical management by with the government and financial getting Grade 2 of the comprehensive integrity level (highest among assessment institutions targets) and Grade 1 in the Anti-corruption Initiative Assessment for 2 consecutive years by the ACRC 62 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Social Responsibility Independent Management Report Management Performance Global Initiatives GRI Standards Index Assurance Statement In October of 2012, the NPS subscribed to the UNGC ‘UN Global Compact’, which is an international agreement of the UN, and since then, the NPS has been complying with the Ten Principles in the Four Areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-corruption. Category Details Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Rights Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 3 collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The NPS subscribed to the Principles for Responsible Investment PRI (PRI) of the UN in 2009 and has been complying with the Six Principles since then. Category Details Principle 1 We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. Principle 2 We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. Principle 3 We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. Principle 4 We will promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry. Principle 5 We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. Principle 6 We will each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles. Building up Trust between generations / 63 Appndix GRI Standards Index Topic No. Title page Comment Universal Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization 6 Standards profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7, 16~17, 18~23 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 102-4 Location of operations 6, 16~23 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6 102-6 Markets served 6, 16~23 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, 60 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 60~61 102-9 Supply chain 48~51 Significant changes to the organization and No significant 102-10 its supply chain change 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 56 102-12 External initiatives 62~65 102-13 Membership of associations 67 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4~5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 27~29 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 54~55 Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 57 engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 59 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 57 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 57 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 10~11 Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 58 practice statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 10~11 102-47 List of material topics 11 102-48 Restatements of information 2 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 2, 64~65 Standards 102-55 GRI content index 64~65 102-56 External assurance 66 64 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Social Responsibility Independent Management Report Management Performance Global Initiatives GRI Standards Index Assurance Statement Topic No. Title page Comment Topic-specific Indirect 103 Management Approach 36 Standards Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 37~39 Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 40~41 Procurement 103 Management Approach 48 Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 40~41, 49~50, 60 Anti-corruption 103 Management Approach 26 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 28, 59 policies and procedures Emissions 103 Management Approach 42 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 43, 59 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 43, 59 Employment 103 Management Approach 32 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 33~35, 40~41 60~61 Local 103 Management Approach 36 Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 37~41 impact assessment, and development programs Customer 103 Management Approach 42 Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 47 customer privacy and losses of customer data Building up Trust between generations / 65 Appndix Independent Assurance Statement on ‘2018 NPS Sustainability Report’ KFQ was engaged by NPS to provide limited assurance on the 2018 NPS Sustainability Report (further 'the Report'). Our Responsibility and responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. Independence We conducted its assurance based on completeness of the data and information provided NPS. NPS is responsible for all contents within the Report including the reporting principles and standards. KFQ does not have any other interest in NPS’s business activities, nor does it take any responsibility for stakeholders other than NPS in its assurance conclusions. We have also no biased opinion on stakeholders of NPS. Assurance This Assurance was planned and performed according to the Type 1 and Moderate level based on AA1000 AS (2008), Standards AA1000 APS (2008) and GRI Standards. KFQ assessed the appropriateness of the guideline according to the GRI Standards Core Option and the Report quality assurance principles based on NPS’s social responsibility management activities and outcomes for NPS headquarter and all domestic sites. Assurance KFQ designed procedures to have reasonable assurance of critical errors or inappropriate information and the reliability Procedures of the contents of the Report. (Document Review) In accordance with the GRI Standards, we look into non-financial information on a sustainability aspects based on the quantitative data provided by the NPS. We also confirmed that the financial information has been appropriately extracted from the internal documents and the financial statements of the business report of the following system (http://dart.fss.or.kr). (On-site verification) KFQ visited NPS headquarters and conducted interviews with key personnel responsible for providing the report materials. We assessed the reliability of social responsibility management activities and performance data, verifying the materiality evaluation procedures and results, and the effectiveness of the reporting procedures and descriptions in the report. * Some environmental performance (baseline emissions) is under discussion with the MOE. Therefore, it is necessary to review the figures for the next year's report. Conclusion Based on the verification activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that the Report meets the GRI Standards ‘Core Option’. According to the principles of AA 1000 APS 2008 and AA 1000 AS 2008, inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information were assessed and we could secure reasonable grounds to provide Type 1 level of assurance with the following confirmation: • Stakeholders Inclusiveness NPS divides the stakeholder value into four types and nine stakeholders related to the major issues of sustainable management. • Sustainability Context NPS is continuously responding to the economic and social impacts of stakeholders, such as establishing a stable operating basis for pension systems due to implement stewardship codes, establish a human rights management system, and be awarded an excellent public job creation agency. • Materiality NPS established issue pools and reviewed by internal guidelines and external assessment criteria (internal guideline, GRI Standards, UN SDSs, media coverage, benchmark, and issue analysis) incompliance with the materiality assessment process. As a result, NPS appropriately reflected that ten key topics derived from the process along with key performance in 2017. • Completeness NPS applied reporting scope, boundary and temporal criteria. KFQ confirms that the Report is suitable for stakeholders to assess sustainability performance. Recommendation In order for NPS to develop sustainable management, it is necessary to build a systematic management framework for responsible and core issues raised by stakeholders. It is recommended that NPS strengthens the awareness of its employees of the ethical management system, which is being emphasized throughout the world. February 2019 Seoul, Korea CEO Yoon Seok Un Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 66 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018 Social Responsibility Independent Management Report Management Performance Global Initiatives GRI Standards Index Assurance Statement Awards and Memberships Membership to The Korean Organizations Korea Insurance Korea National Social Security Research Institute Council on Social Welfare Association Korean Academy of Social PPI Korea Employers Federation Welfare (Pacific Pension Institute) The Korean Association of The Korean Association for Korea Development Public Finance Survey Research Institute IPC Korea Association The Korean Economic (International Pensions of welfare Policy Association Conference) Russel 20-20 Seoul Economist The Korean Labor (20-20 Investment Club Economic Association Association) Korea International Korean Pension Korea Labor Institute Finance Association Association 180, Giji-ro, Deokjin-gu, Jeonju-si, Jeollabuk-do, Republic of Korea 54870 Customer support and inquiry 1355 Homepage http://www.nps.or.kr Facebook facebook.com/proNPS Building up Trust between generations / 67 Tel : +82-60-713-6889 Social Value Planning Department, Social Value Realization Group, NPS This report used soy ink while avoiding to use special colors and coating to minimize environmental impacts. 02 / NPS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT 2018
