Connections That Matter 2018 Millicom Integrated Report Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix OUR PURPOSE: To build the digital highways that connect people, improve lives, and develop our communities. Connections That Matter Purpose-Driven Connectivity Millicom drives business success through connections that matter. Connections that open doors to knowledge. Connections that help individuals become part of the digital economy and businesses realize financial opportunities that would otherwise go untapped. Connections that contribute to increased productivity in the markets and communities where we operate. We are in this business for the long haul, not simply for short-term gain. As we create vital digital highways and connectivity, we lead responsibly to foster an environment where our employees, customers, and communities can prosper and reach their full potential. We strongly believe that we can harness innovation to create a brighter future in our markets. Our digital highways can help our communities overcome obstacles to access the digital world and technological breakthroughs. When our customers and the communities in the countries we serve are able to address these challenges successfully, we all benefit. For information on our business strategy, please see pages 9–15. 2 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our third integrated Annual Report combines our corporate responsibility and financial reports to provide all our stakeholders with a clear and comprehensive overview of our business and activities in 2018. It conveys our business strategy, our commitment to contribute to the positive social and economic growth of the communities we serve through our products and services, and our responsible business practices and leadership throughout our operations. Our reporting also aligns with our commitment to transparency, and reflects the interests of key stakeholders, with whom we engaged closely in 2018. Note: Our Latin America (Latam) segment includes our Honduras and Guatemala joint ventures as if they were fully consolidated, as this reflects the way our management reviews and uses internally reported information to make decisions about operating matters, and also to provide increased transparency to investors on those operations. What’s Inside This Report Overview 02 Our brands and services 92 Directors’ Financial and Operating Report 03 Market overview 93 Management responsibility statement 04 Chairman’s message Financial statements 06 Chief Executive Officer’s message 95 Consolidated financial statements 08 Our year in numbers 102 Notes to the consolidated financial Strategy statements 09 Our business strategy 190 Independent auditor’s report 16 Corporate responsibility strategy 195 Disclaimers 22 Enterprise risk management Appendix: Corporate responsibility 26 Living our Purpose spotlight 198 Wrapping up a great five years Performance 199 Our performance 31 Responsible leadership in action 201 Privacy and freedom of expression 38 Our people 202 Child rights and online protection 46 Corporate responsibility fundamentals 202 Acting with integrity: 50 Our financial performance anti-corruption compliance 204 Reducing our environmental footprint Governance 205 Diversity 58 Chairman’s report 205 Taking care of our people 59 Corporate governance framework 206 Responsible supply chain management 60 Shareholders and shareholders’ meeting 206 Social investment 62 Board of Directors and Board committees 207 Independent limited assurance report 65 Board profile – skills and experience 68 Board program 71 Board committees 71 I. Audit Committee 75 II. Compliance and Business Conduct Committee 77 III. Compensation Committee: Remuneration Report 84 Millicom CEO and Executive Team 1 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our Brands and Services Through our Tigo and Tigo Business™ brands, we provide a wide range of digital services, including high-speed data, cable TV, voice and SMS, Mobile Financial Services, and business solutions. 48 million MOBILE B2C CUSTOMERS IN OUR LATAM AND AFRICA SEGMENTS 10+ million CUSTOMERS USING THE 4G NETWORKS WE PROVIDE IN ALL OUR MOBILE MARKETS 11 million HOMES PASSED IN OUR LATAM SEGMENT 4+ million Tigo Sports CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS AND COUNTING Tigo Music Tigo Money Tigo ONE tv Mi Tigo Tigo Shop Tigo Sports Tigo Music Tigo Money Tigo Business Tigo Sports Tigo Music Tigo Money Tigo ONE tv Mi Tigo Tigo Shop 2 Tigo ONE tv Mi Tigo Tigo Shop Tigo Business 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix HONDURAS GUATEMALA CHAD NICARAGUA EL SALVADOR PANAMA COSTA RICA COLOMBIA TANZANIA BOLIVIA PARAGUAY Market Overview and LATAM Opportunities for Growth Bolivia Mobile and Cable #1 in Pay TV Colombia For millions of customers and thousands of employees, the Tigo brand symbolizes everything Mobile and Cable we stand for as a company. We’re proud of how highly respected the Tigo name has become Costa Rica locally and globally, and how our presence represents opportunities for employment and Cable socio-economic growth in our markets. #1 in Pay TV El Salvador Latin America (Latam) is one of the fastest developing regions in the world, giving us Mobile and Cable remarkable growth potential and the ability to participate and accelerate that development #1 in Mobile and Pay TV by connecting people with high-speed, high-quality communications. Guatemala Mobile and Cable Our main focus in the region is on high-speed internet. We see pent up demand here due to #1 in Mobile and Pay TV lower 4G and broadband internet penetration than in more developed markets. We have Honduras dedicated ourselves to bridging that gap by connecting more than 3 million new 4G mobile Mobile and Cable users and adding more than 1 million homes to our HFC network over the past year. We have #1 in Mobile and Cable also pursued merger and acquisition opportunities when they fit our strategy. We added the Nicaragua Cable largest cable operator in Panama to our family in December 2018, and we entered discussions with Telefónica S.A. to acquire its mobile operations in Panama, Costa Rica and Nicaragua, Panama Acquisition of Cable Onda announcing an agreement in February 2019, with regulatory approvals pending in order to #1 in Cable complete this transaction. Paraguay Mobile and Cable As we expanded our footprint in Latam, we also wanted to accurately define how Millicom’s #1 in Mobile and Cable core business positively contributes to economic growth in our markets. In the link below, we proudly share findings from a Socio-Economic Impact Report commissioned by Millicom and AFRICA carried out by Copenhagen Economics, one of Europe’s leading economic consultancies. Chad Mobile Economic Impact #1 in Mobile https://www.millicom.com/media-center/socioTanzania economic-impact-report/ Mobile 3 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Former Chairman’s Message Transformation and growth. Those two words define Millicom’s trajectory in 2018. 2018 was a watershed year for Millicom. The company returned to solid top line growth as the strategy of monetizing mobile data, building our cable network, preparing for convergence, and growing B2B continued yielding positive results. Details of the effective execution of these four key strategic building blocks are contained in the strategy section on pages 9 to 15 of this report. We accelerated the build and deployment of high-speed data networks in Central and South America, and acquired Cable Onda in Panama during the last quarter of 2018. We continued to focus on customer service and experience which included the implementation during the year of Net Promoter Score (NPS) as a key performance indicator measuring each customer touch point and segment. Working in emerging markets influences our approach to business growth. In these developing economies and societies we must integrate our business strategy and corporate responsibility efforts to create shared value and promote sustainable development for all our stakeholders. Details of our corporate responsibility plan and stakeholder engagement are included in pages 16 to 21 of this report. We can’t accomplish all our goals without the dedication and skills of our people. During the year, we continued nurturing our strong company culture, which our people refer to as “Sangre Tigo”. Millicom understands the need to remain vigilant in the area of governance, compliance and business ethics. We believe Millicom and our Tigo brands should, and can, lead the way in these areas in all our markets. The Governance section of this report (pages 57 to 93) sets out Millicom’s framework, approach and commitment to strong corporate governance. During 2018, we strengthened our Anti-Bribery Anti-Corruption policies and resources and enhanced our Anti-Money Laundering tools, systems, processes, and training to allow Millicom to more rapidly assess potential problems. We also incorporated compliance factors into executive incentive programs and developed a three-year strategic plan to enhance our Information Security programs. Leadership for our company drives its success. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to thank Mauricio Ramos, our CEO, and his executive team for their dedication and drive, and for inspiring every colleague to make The Digital Lifestyle™ a reality for millions of customers in ways that benefit all our stakeholders. As I step out of my role as Board Chair in early 2019 and pass the mantle to José Antonio Ríos García, I am confident Millicom’s leadership will continue to position the business to create shareholder value, rewarding employment opportunities, and prosperity for the communities where we operate. Tom Boardman Former Chairman of the Board of Directors For information on our business model, please see pages 9–15. 4 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix “ I remain impressed by the dedication of our employees, and the clear and ethical purpose evident in the strategic and operating decisions the company makes every day. ” Chairman’s Message Since joining the Board in May 2017, I have witnessed firsthand the strong, steady leadership of Tom Boardman, as well as the great strides Millicom has made in executing its strategy. On behalf of the Board, I thank Tom for all he has done to advance the company’s vision, mission and purpose. In January 2019, Tom passed the baton of Millicom’s Chairmanship to me. Given the company’s increased focus on Latin America, I look forward to drawing on my own experience both in the telecommunications sector and in the region, to help Millicom’s team as they strive to advance the company’s purpose and create value for shareholders. Having already visited several of Millicom’s operations, I remain impressed by the dedication of our employees, and the clear and ethical purpose evident in the strategic and operating decisions the company makes every day. Our robust business strategy and corporate responsibility framework have laid a solid foundation for even greater success moving forward. I welcome the opportunity to serve as the company’s Chairman and look forward to doing my part to ensure continued success and growth for all our stakeholders. Thank you. José Antonio Ríos García Chairman of the Board of Directors 5 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Chief Executive Officer’s Message I’m very pleased to share this year’s integrated report, because it highlights the most important and exciting ways Millicom manifested its purpose in 2018. That purpose remains clear: We build the digital highways that connect people, improve lives, and develop our communities. We believe our core products and services make a positive impact on the lives of people in the countries we serve. By creating the infrastructure for digital communications and economies, we directly influence the development and advancement of these countries and the quality of life of our customers. We simply do not want anyone to be left behind, and our success as a company depends on that. And 2018 was very successful on many fronts. We exceeded our goal to cover 10 million homes with our cable network, and we also hit our target of 10 million 4G customers. We were equally successful at delivering our service revenue and EBITDA growth targets, and we generated more than enough cash flow to continue to fund our network investments and to pay an attractive dividend to our shareholders. Consistent with our strategic plan, we also made great strides to increase our focus on Latin America, and we capped the year by completing our U.S. listing, allowing our shares to begin trading on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange in January 2019. This strong performance can only occur by first having a clear understanding of the overarching factors critical to our success. Our business model must adopt and integrate rapid technological innovations to make these advancements both affordable and accessible in our markets. We also understand that as a market leader, we have an obligation to ensure the technology we provide is being used responsibly and has the best possible outcome for the communities we serve. That is why we continue to promote initiatives that protect children online, promote digital literacy among vulnerable populations, and support privacy, freedom of expression and gender equality. This includes our renewed commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. With that as our backdrop, we see Millicom as an essential bridge between investors who want to invest capital in developing economies and the individuals and businesses who will benefit from that capital. 2018 proved to be a year that overwhelmingly demonstrates how that bridge provides benefits in both directions. I am delighted to highlight some of the most significant accomplishments Millicom made toward living our purpose and advancing our mission in 2018. Mauricio Ramos Chief Executive Officer 6 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix 2018 Highlights » Strategic Success: The strategy we introduced in 2015 and have continued to refine ever since keeps working. We delivered a successful year both operationally and financially. We closed 2018 ahead of our target of 10 million homes passed, while adding more than 400,000 new HFC customer relationships. We also increased the number of our 4G smartphone data customers by more than 3 million, which means that more than 10 million customers now enjoy our 4G networks available in all of our eight mobile markets. Our financial performance returned to steady growth. Millicom’s revenue, EBITDA and returns on capital in 2018 improved on an organic basis, in contrast with the mixed performance in the broader telecommunications sector. » A cquisition of Cable Onda in Panama: Taking advantage of our healthy free cash flow generation and our Cable Onda https://www.youtube.com/ strong balance sheet in 2018, we made our largest watch?v=ZhNqenbymlE acquisition since 2014, entering a new country with a fast-growing economy. » U.S. Listing: As a result of our recent listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market in the U.S., our shares now NASDAQ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=trade in the most developed market in the world SRJ8BBuvPk&feature=youtu.be under the ticker TIGO. CEO Mauricio Ramos during the » Updated Corporate Responsibility (CR) Framework: In 2018, we took an in-depth look at public announcement of ways we could better focus our CR activities to reflect emerging issues, the topics our Millicom’s acquisition of Cable stakeholders care most about, and the challenges we are uniquely positioned to solve. Onda in Panama » Corporate Culture and Talent Development: We paid special attention to maintaining and enhancing our strong company culture and took the time to better map and develop our talent. Our dedication to our people has been recognized. For the second consecutive year we were among the top 25 employers in Latin America across industries, and received “Great Place To Work” awards in many of the countries where we operate. We are truly excited about our accomplishments in 2018 and optimistic about our future. The long-term plan we have shared with the Board of Directors reflects our view that there is enormous potential for growth over the next five years. I am confident that we have the right team in place to deliver on our promises and to continue to earn the trust of all our stakeholders. Thank you for joining us on this journey. Millicom begins trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market in the U.S. under ticker symbol TIGO 7 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Financial & Operational Indicators Equity free cash flow* Return on invested capital* (US$m) (%) $306 $326 +6.6% Year-over-year 18.2 change 16.2 13.1 $141 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 4G smartphone HFC Revenue data users generating units (m) (m) 10.5 +47.2% Year-over-year 6.2 +20.9% Year-over-year growth growth** 7.2 4.4 3.7 3.4 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Corporate Responsibility Indicators Employees who have Strategic suppliers acknowledged the Code who signed the Code of Conduct of Conduct 91% 89% Connected women (participants in digital inclusion Connected schools training programs) 1,300+ 117,000 *Equity free cash flow and Return on invested capital are non-IFRS measures. Please refer to page 196 for description of non-IFRS measures **Year-over-year growth excludes contribution from the Panama acquisition. 8 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our Business Strategy: The Engine That Drives Our Purpose 9 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Overview Strategy Strategy PerformancePerformance Governance Financials Appendix Our Business Strategy: The Engine That Drives Our Purpose In 2018, a relentless focus on our business model for growth resulted in robust financial and social returns. The following carefully crafted strategies, executed with discipline, have helped us build a world-class organization that benefits shareholders and brings value to emerging markets and societies. Monetize Mobile Data Build Cable Prepare for Convergence Provide Best Go Digital Customer Experience Accelerate B2B Monetize Data A sound mobile data monetization strategy will continue to translate incremental growth into additional revenues through: » Expansion of our 4G/LTE network; » Transition to a postpaid subscription model; and » Products and services that stimulate data usage. 10 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Build Cable Cable now represents 36 percent of our Latam service revenue with demand for high-speed data from both the business sector and individual customers driving continued revenue growth. To meet this demand, we are: » Accelerating the expansion of our hybrid fiber-coaxial (HFC) network; » Targeting acquisitions that complement our organic build­out, such as Panama’s Cable Onda, which increases In 2018, we continued our cable exposure and significantly enhances our B2B capabilities; and » Adding content and services to drive further growth in to roll out our cable network, Average Revenue Per User (ARPU). exceeding our goal of Prepare for Convergence reaching 10 million homes. As we evolve from being a traditional mobile operator to a more comprehensive service provider, we are expanding our We also added more than ability to offer convergent services that include both mobile and cable services to customers of all sizes. The deployment 400,000 new HFC customer of IT solutions to efficiently market and support convergent solutions will help us: relationships. » Differentiate ourselves in the marketplace; » Generate new revenue streams; » Increase customer satisfaction and loyalty; » Reduce customer churn and costs; and » Prepare for future network deployments such as 5G. 11 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Accelerate B2B Since launching in 2012, Tigo Business has enjoyed exceptional growth among its three primary audiences: multinational corporations, large local companies, and small and medium size businesses (SMBs). To accelerate this growth, we have made B2B fundamental to our strategy by: » Differentiating the Tigo Business brand through excellent service and frontline execution and » Selectively evolving our portfolio into Information and Communications Technology (ICT)-managed services. “ Business customers Go Digital rely on Tigo’s unique Increased digitization of our processes and operations in 2018 drove efficiencies that benefit the company and ring network for high customers alike. This transformation will continue as we: quality and secure » Provide superior digital journeys for our customers that will ensure we become or remain the operator of choice; services across the » Create new tools and an enhanced operational model so region. ” our teams can do their work more efficiently; and » Offer next generation user-experience platforms that seamlessly integrate content across linear and on-demand Santiago Londoño channels. By the end of 2018, one such platform, Tigo Vice President, B2B Latam ONEtv, was already present in half of our Latam markets. 12 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix “ We mapped out Best Customer Experience At Millicom, living our purpose means much more than just offering a wide our customer variety of products and services. It means knowing our customers and employing a truly customer-centric mindset that provides the products and journey to digitize services they want while taking care of their needs efficiently and effectively. We place our customers at the center of everything we do, and our purpose all touch points at the heart of every product and service we offer. and offer a digitalWe care deeply about the journey each customer takes with our products and services. As we offer our customers more services and solutions and first experience. ” transition from a prepaid transactional to a postpaid subscription model, building long-term customer relationships becomes even more essential. Competition for subscribers has increased, and we need to carefully consider Miguel Garay our choices of products and services, and the development and delivery of Vice President, Customer Experience those services to ensure they fit with our business objectives. To understand our customers holistically, we have introduced standardized experience metrics across all markets to monitor customer engagement, local and regional trends, and consumption patterns. This helps us deliver a consistently positive experience for all, regardless of their levels of engagement. Customers can also share and receive feedback significantly faster and more easily with us. 13 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our Customer Experience Strategy in Action in 2018 How well do we meet our customers’ needs? Are we keeping our promises to them? Is the entire process as fast and easy as it could be? As a company, we strive to answer these and other questions by addressing the entire customer experience journey. To prioritize customer care, in 2018 we: » Created and implemented a regional playbook in each country that lays out our internal commitments and external promises to customers; » Rolled out a new platform to manage E-care transactions, which increased to 80 percent the number of transactions we respond to within a specified timeframe; and » Implemented Net Promoter Score (NPS) as a key performance indicator, measuring each customer touchpoint and segment via transactional NPS, as well as relational NPS. The standardization of metrics in all markets is designed to provide an ideal and unified experience across the region. Through NPS evaluations, we have found that our customers are more satisfied as a result of these changes, and we have also improved our bottom line: We reduced our overall customer care costs by 9.5 percent from 2017. Starting in 2018, NPS has been included in the global compensation metrics for our Millicom and Tigo leadership, as well as market-level directors and managers. This decision to join NPS with the company’s financial indicators demonstrates our dedication to place our customers at the center of everything we do. 14 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Sports, Content and Mobility: Tigo Sports We are witnessing new consumer habits and growing expectations on the part of customers, where availability, opportunity and quality top the list of With state-of-the-art studios entertainment priorities. in most countries, today Tigo In the case of Tigo, our response is to focus not only on building networks, Sports is the leading sports but also on the generation and distribution of quality content through Tigo broadcaster in Paraguay, Sports and Tigo ONEtv. Guatemala, Colombia, Costa When Tigo Sports first aired in 2014, it marked a defining moment for Rica, Bolivia, and El Salvador. Millicom, as a broadcaster and content provider in Latin America. The channel is now available in each of our mobile markets in Latin America allowing subscribers to follow the latest headlines 24/7, and match coverage live and on-demand across an all-sports programing schedule that includes: soccer, rugby, futsal, handball, tennis, tabletennis, polo, athletics, mixed martial arts, and fitness. Tigo Sports and the 2018 FIFA The 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™ created the perfect convergence of World Cup Russia™ mobility, content, and sports. The growing mobile penetration in Latin »A  ddition of more than 900,000 active users during America, as well as the adoption of smart mobile devices, provided users in the World Cup the region with a digital, mobile and interactive experience for the first » 7 2.5 million minutes of live programming time. We took this opportunity to offer our customers a new experience, to »A  verage of 55 sessions per user during the month of live the passion of the 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™ from their smartphone June of our Tigo Sports App and Web and tablet, through our exclusive Tigo Sports App. We also launched the channel Tigo Sports+ in Paraguay to expand our transmission channels during the World Cup. In addition to having exclusive rights for the transmission of various matches country by country, the broadcasts were 100 percent HD. Tigo Sports Russia 2018 https://youtu.be/FVYoHgLrHzU 15 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix The Essential Connection: Corporate Responsibility and Strategic Success An integrated approach to external affairs and stakeholder engagement “ Our CR program helps us ‘walk the talk’ by directly addressing the wider impacts our business operations have on Working in emerging markets influences our approach to business growth. However, achieving society. It guides our efforts to support this requires a multi-pronged approach with all stakeholders, including policy-makers, regulators, socio-economic progress in the markets multilateral organizations, and NGOs. In these developing economies and societies, the we serve with technological expertise. integration of our business strategy and corporate responsibility efforts is required to create It informs our actions to protect those shared value and promote sustainable development for all our stakeholders. who may become vulnerable by using To ensure all efforts are unified and point toward our ultimate purpose, our external affairs our services. And it helps us identify team oversees regulatory affairs, government relations, corporate responsibility, and corporate the best ways to solve larger societal issues wherever and whenever we can. communications. This structure provides a holistic approach to risk management, stakeholder Together, these efforts help us maintain engagement, and communications, and enhances integrated analysis and strategic decisionour license to operate and build trust ” making. with key partners. We believe progress is inseparable from the adoption of digital tools. Digital technology has the Rachel Samrén power to transform lives, helping people move out of poverty and into the mainstream economy, EVP, Chief External Affairs Officer enhancing quality of life through improved access to health, education, financial services, and employment. As we continue to build digital highways, we promote the adoption of these rapidly developing digital tools that can impact every aspect of life and which allow individuals and communities in the countries where we operate to enjoy their full potential. The opportunities for our business to grow depend on stable and well-functioning governance systems in the countries where we operate, a growing customer base that can afford our products and services, a committed and talented workforce, and our ability to demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Our commitment and approach to corporate responsibility empower, protect and enhance the capabilities of our customers, our staff, and our suppliers, and create sustainable value. In essence, doing business the right way, “future-proofs” our business and provides opportunities for growth. Photo Caption To Come: Minvel eumquia dolore nus. Ariatas sectend igentib ustioriam ut eostis vendant es quodit occulla cipiet. Minvel eumquia dolore nus. Ariatas sectend igentib. 16 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Engagement For years, we have worked with a variety of local and international partners, such as the GSMA, UNICEF and the Global Network Initiative (GNI) multistakeholder initiative to acquire a deeper knowledge of the challenges we face and how best to tackle them in our markets. Since 2012, we have also conducted biennial materiality assessments that engage broader groups of stakeholders. In 2018, in preparation for developing an updated Five-Year Corporate Responsibility Plan, we engaged even more in-depth and broadly with all our key stakeholder groups to better understand their concerns and priorities and ensure our CR strategy and reporting remain relevant and responsive to newly emerging topics in our industry. Customers Investors As an integral part of our work, Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a global nonprofit consultancy organization, conducted a comprehensive materiality assessment which comprised over 25 internal interviewees, Stakeholders including our senior and middle management across multiple business functions and markets, a wide range of stakeholders covering our shareholders, communities, customers, and employees, and BSR’s vast Communities Employees network and deep expertise in corporate responsibility. The Materiality Assessment confirmed that we were on the right track with the key issues that we have covered since 2014. BSR’s research also identified opportunities to accelerate the impact digital highways have on the economic and social value created by Millicom’s core purpose, and to leverage Millicom’s core assets: our employees and our strong reputation in communities. 17 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Responsible Leadership in Action CR Fundamentals Ethics Environment “ Purpose: Sustainability is not Build Digital Highways Empowering that connect people, Protecting Women improve lives Children and develop Inclusion communities Supply Chain something you do on Human the side. In the long Rights run, it is the only way you create wealth for ” Connecting Communities shareholders. Kinnevik AB Our Updated CR Framework With fresh and thorough input from our extensive stakeholder engagement process, we updated our Corporate Responsibility (CR) framework to show the strong connection between our core business purpose, the essential elements of our CR work and our commitments to protect children online, empower women, and connect communities. With our purpose at its center, our framework has two core elements: 1) Corporate Responsibility Fundamentals, and 2) Responsible Leadership in Action. CR Fundamentals Corporate Responsibility Fundamentals groups the areas that are a prerequisite for the health of our business and the societies in which we operate. To position ourselves in a fast-paced and competitive digital world, we must handle our everyday interactions with high integrity and ethics and zero tolerance for any form of corruption. We must also carefully consider our actions in the physical world and continue to do business with suppliers that have strong environmental and human rights standards and practices; build more environmentally friendly, efficient and resilient digital highways; become and remain the employer of choice; and build an organization where people feel empowered and encouraged to be the best version of themselves. Initiatives in these areas help us use the resources we depend on wisely and responsibly and, through our influence across the value chain, create a positive ripple effect throughout our markets. 18 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Responsible Leadership in Action Responsible Leadership in Action identifies the areas that differentiate Tigo in our markets. The expansion of our networks and the adoption of a digital lifestyle in emerging markets, significantly supports access to education, work, and health. Through our flagship programs for children, women, and communities, we tap into our specific knowledge, resources, and core “ You would not build a business activities, putting them in the service of shaping digital spaces that allow people to connect and prosper. Why these three pillars? Because by addressing each with distinct school without doors. approaches and carefully crafted initiatives and partnerships, their combined impacts offer potential synergies for prosperity and social By the same token, resilience. For example, we seek to help as many children as we can to we work so that the safely explore, learn, and grow through digital tools. We take concrete steps to educate children, parents, teachers, and caregivers on the risks and digital spaces we make opportunities of digital technology, and we strive to protect their rights throughout our value chain. We train women and girls on digital literacy accessible are also safe and entrepreneurship to empower and enable them to take advantage of the digital world. Finally, because we believe connected communities are for new generations of stronger communities, we help them prosper by building digital highways, ” providing digital education and equipping them with access to technology. digital citizens. Topics in each category will align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), and are embedded throughout our whole organization. Our CR team works closely with other departments to support Mauricio Ramos them in the successful execution of the strategy. To learn more about Chief Executive Officer governance of CR at Millicom, see pages 89 90 of the Governance section of this report. 19 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix CR Goals and Five-Year Plan Our updated five-year corporate responsibility plan lays out the company’s goals and benchmarks for 2019 2023. Our employees, customers, and investors increasingly show interest in how we add environmental, social, and economic value for all stakeholders. Our new plan helps us address their expectations. We also know our CR activities unlock business opportunities, such as the untapped potential for cost savings, efficiencies, enhanced network resilience and customer solutions, while reducing our energy consumption and carbon footprint. Our flagship programs designed to empower women, protect children and connect communities, promote the access and use of digital services in a safe, productive, and life-enhancing manner. Summary CR Five-Year Plan: 2019 2023 CR Fundamentals Ethics Environment » Build a strong corporate culture that seeks » Enhance standardization of data management compliance excellency; an ethics business and reporting of baselines and targets to culture, where employees at all levels are achieve cost savings and the reduction of our committed to doing what is right, upholding carbon footprint. the company’s values and standards. » Environmental impact assessments of all » Have a Compliance & Ethics Program that is operations executed by 2021, including issue central to the business strategy, effectively prioritization and remediation plans. embedded in the business processes and » Increase and measure waste revenue streams, procedures, and focusing on the actual impact and reuse and recycling of consumer devices. the company’s program has in the countries » Develop and implement a comprehensive it operates in, on our employees, customers, strategy for climate change mitigation and stakeholders and communities. resilience for Tigo operations and customers. » All operations are recognized by local authorities and/or international organizations Inclusion in their fight against corruption. » Build an inclusive work environment that is representative of our workforce, the markets Supply Chain where we operate, and the customers we serve. » Enhance due diligence processes by including » Promote a culture of inclusion through policies, sustainable procurement criteria for procedures, and regular training, and activities strategic suppliers. Extend related training to that foster employee collaboration. procurement team. » Enhance employee wellness and growth » Train all suppliers with Group spend of more through policies, programs, and practices than US$1million by 2023, and measure their designed to fulfill their aspirations for progress on corrective action plans through a professional and personal development. sustainable procurement platform and audits. 20 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Advancing Human Rights » Continue our efforts in preventing access to online child sexual abuse material through » Consolidate and enhance human rights policies our networks by continuous implementation and practices covering privacy, freedom of of blocking mechanisms region-wide, and expression, supply chain, and vulnerable groups advancing industry initiatives. to meet United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights standards. Empowering Women » Develop and deploy a Human Rights Impact » Conduct assessments in Latam markets on Assessment (HRIA) toolkit for all Latam socio-economic conditions and technological markets by 2019. capabilities of women and girls who are the » Roll out human rights training in all Latam beneficiaries of our programs to measure markets by 2020. benefits achieved through trainings. » Protect customer rights to privacy and freedom » Continue our programs to reduce the gender of expression in accordance with Global gap in the use of mobile technology. Network Initiative’s (GNI) principles and obtain » Implement regional strategy to advance positive assessments of policies and practices. digital literacy with educational programs on basic and advanced digital knowledge and Responsible entrepreneurial skills. Leadership in Action Connecting Communities » Measure impacts of connectivity in Protecting Child Rights communities targeted by our programs to assess improvements in socio-economic » Continue our Child Online Protection education conditions of beneficiaries, and optimize program to reach more children, adolescents, program content and resource allocation. parents, teachers, and caregivers. » Continue bringing internet connections to » Expand Child Online Protection training for our schools and public institutions in vulnerable employee volunteer program by creating online communities throughout Latin America, training platform in all our operations. through collaborative partnerships with local » Conduct research programs in each market government and NGOs. on the use of technology by children and adolescents to tailor content and adapt child online protection training based on results and insights. 21 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Enterprise Risk Management Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program remains a critical part of our business strategy. We have carefully aligned our approach to balancing risk with reward with our business objectives to protect our stakeholders and deliver sustainable value. Risk Landscape and Appetite As an international mobile and cable services company operating in emerging markets across Latin America and Africa, identifying and managing risk plays a significant role in our decision-making process. Our markets expose us to an inherently higher degree, and potentially different sets of risks than similar companies operating in larger, more established and mature economies. In addition to risks associated with our geographical footprint, rapid change in mobile telephony and cable technology can have a significant impact on the demand for our services, and our ability to generate sufficient returns on the investments we make. As a consequence of these factors, we have a higher risk appetite than many of our peers in the telecommunications and cable industry, and a wider risk profile than many international businesses. We accept the risks inherent in our businesses and markets to the extent that opportunities for sufficient returns exist and on our ability to adopt appropriate systems and controls to manage those risks. 22 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Risk Management Framework and Approach We approach risk management consistently across the entire business, identifying and managing risks strategically at the Board and Senior Management levels and through indepth processes and at transaction level by key business unit leaders and staff in our operating countries. We embed risk management processes in our operations both geographically (by country) and functionally (by business area), developing and implementing action plans that seek to balance risks with returns, within pre-determined risk appetite levels. The pyramid below illustrates Millicom’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework. Governance and oversight » Strategy and risk appetite » Policy, roles, and responsibilities » Effectiveness of risk management Process » Risk identification » Assessment and measurement of current and target risk levels » Prioritization » Risk treatment and mitigating actions/ contingency planning » Monitoring, escalation, and reporting Culture and compliance » Training and awareness » Behavior, performance, and reward » Assurance We classify key risks into six broad categories: » Strategic » Financial and competition » Operations and execution » Political and regulatory » Governance, compliance, and reputational » People and culture 23 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Evolution of risk Our senior leadership team remained unchanged during 2018, a key enabler in executing on our in 2018 strategy and driving both short-term and longerterm initiatives, including those on leadership, In 2018 Millicom continued to experience a degree culture and succession planning. of regulatory and macro-economic uncertainty in In preparation for our U.S. share listing, we refined many of the countries in our footprint. The ongoing the way in which risks are identified, measured shift in our business profile to Latin America, and assessed, introducing a more consistent including the addition of Cable Onda in Panama, further increased our exposure to the region. methodology and processes that strengthens However, while many countries in Latin America our resilience and reduces uncertainty. Our risk experienced economic, political or currency and internal control programs are aligned in our volatility in 2018, our key operating countries Sarbanes-Oxley implementation plan. remained relatively stable. While we manage and monitor many more Information and network access security, including risks within the Millicom risk universe, we have protection of customer data and cyber security highlighted here the areas of risk that were a key in general, continue to increase in importance focus for Millicom in 2018. for all consumer-based businesses. We continued to invest in this area (detailed on page 91 in the Governance section) in 2018. 24 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Risk Mitigation strategy Competition and Customer Experience: Competition Our evolution from a prepaid to a subscription based business continues to stabilize for subscribers has increased in post-paid higher ARPU and enhance the quality of our customer base. See page 14 for information on how customers, with quality of service, innovation and we have invested in processes to improve customer experience and gain insights. converged offerings as key differentiating factors. Financial and Macro-Economic: Unfavorable macroWe carefully analyze the timing and amounts of cash flows required to service our economic conditions may reduce customer ARPU and debt while balancing operational cash flow needs, and we repatriate cash as quickly impact our financial results and cash flows. as possible. Political and Regulatory: Lack of transparency and We monitor elections in the countries where we operate and review potential predictability in regulation, and regulatory and tax rulchanges in regulations on an ongoing basis. We implement efficiency programs ings can lead to associated penalties and reputational in all aspects of our business to offset the impact of newly introduced or expected damage, as well as operational change requirements. changes in taxes and regulations. A number of countries in our footprint held Indirect taxation and regulatory pressure through tarplanned government elections during 2018. To date, the outcome of these elections iffs, taxes and service penalties continued to increase in has not had a noticeable impact on our businesses. 2018, a trend that we expect to continue in the future. Technical Transformation and Convergence: Failure to Millicom has evolved from a traditional mobile operator to a provider of a comprehenset up business structures and models that facilitate sive range of services through fixed line, mobile, satellite, and MFS platforms. To learn efficient and effective operations could negatively more about our business strategy and goals to prepare for convergence see pages impact competitive positions, and business value. 9 15. Portfolio Management: The acquisition or retention of We carefully consider opportunities to acquire, merge, or divest businesses in light businesses either poorly aligned to strategy, or which of market dynamics, portfolio balance, and long-term value creation. We have been are overpriced, risk bringing lower than required return managing this risk, in part by selling some operations in Africa and expanding our on investment, and inefficient allocation of capital and footprint in Latin America through the purchase of Cable Onda in Panama. resource. Networks and Infrastructure Resilience: Disruptions to Our network resilience controls and mitigating activities include network redundancy, service, or compromised ability to restore services to as well as business continuity management plans which are tested on a regular basis. customers in acceptable time frames, can cause loss of revenue, increase expenses, and have a negative impact on customer experience. Cyber Security and Data Protection: Information secuWe have processes in place to regularly assess threats and vulnerabilities to security rity and data protection increasingly place a burden of breaches. Learn more on page 30 about the initiatives we implemented in 2018 to compliance and responsibility on companies like ours improve protection of critical systems, and ensure compliance with relevant data who retain, handle, and process sensitive customer protection rules. data. Spectrum and Licenses: The availability of licenses We often negotiate renewals/retention in the initial allocation contracts and we careand spectrum is limited, closely regulated, and often fully consider opportunities to acquire new spectrum based on spectrum quality, fit expensive. Not obtaining these from regulators or third with network needs, and customer demand. During 2018, we successfully obtained parties at a price we deem to be commercially acceptand renewed the spectrum we need to continue to operate our businesses, including able, or at all, remains a risk. acquiring new spectrum in El Salvador and Paraguay. People, Workplace and Well-being: Our geographical We manage the health, safety, and well-being of staff based on international standfootprint sometimes exposes employees to situations ards, industry best practice, and advice and support from local authorities. To learn which may threaten their personal security. more about our approach to employee health, safety, and security see page 44. Compliance and Ethics: A lack of accountability and Through clear policies, training and monitoring activities, we ensure that all our discipline in ensuring sufficient anti-bribery, antistaff remain aware of the risks to them as individuals and to the company and corruption, and anti-money laundering procedures know how to act if faced with risk in these areas. See pages 75 76 for more inforand controls could result in potential penalties, fines, mation on our anti-money laundering, anti-corruption and other business ethics reputational damage, and operational restrictions. action items in 2018. 25 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Living Our Purpose Spotlight Interview with Marcelo Cataldo General Manager of Colombia Operations Q: What role does Colombia play in Millicom’s regional strategy and growth plans? A: Colombia already represents 30 percent of revenue for Millicom in Latam region. Despite strong competition for our services in the country, we see a large upside opportunity to capture market share. Q: What are your goals for Tigo in Colombia? A:Connect every Colombian. By successfully executing our core business strategy, we are poised for even greater growth by: » I ncreasing 4G penetration from its current 30 percent and capitalize on the country’s significant innovation appetite. » R aising residential internet penetration from its current level near 40 percent. » T ransitioning customers from prepaid transactional (currently at around 80 percent) to a recurring subscription model. Q: How do you see these business objectives connecting to Millicom’s purpose and corporate responsibility initiatives? A: By increasing our overall penetration of internet users, we will give each Colombian an important tool to access the world. Building digital highways also advances the socioeconomic development of Colombia, bringing the latest innovations to our democracy and fast-growing economy. We’re proud of how our 2018 achievements have contributed to Colombians’ quality of life. 26 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Significant Accomplishments in Colombia in 2018 » Provided data transmission services for three major elections, including the Presidential election, which helped 19 million Colombians vote across 1,000 different cities. TigoUne received a letter of congratulations from the Colombian government for delivering results in fewer than three hours. » Served as technology partner for the Central American Olympic Games. » Launched Tigo ONEtv, an integrated linear and nonlinear TV choice that has so far garnered 20,000 customers, and is gaining momentum. » First to introduce unlimited mobile data plans. » Achieved 50 percent occupancy in our new datacenter in less than a year. Q: I ssues around transparency, corruption, and inappropriate use of the internet are sometimes raised as red flags by the investment community and other stakeholders when doing business in Latin American countries like Colombia. How do you respond to these? A: I am proud that Millicom holds itself to the highest standards of accountability and transparency and is a model for other companies working in the region. We have taken a leadership role in protecting children’s rights, freedom of expression, and anti-corruption issues. In 2018, our Colombia operation: » Ranked as one of the top five companies in Colombia in an assessment conducted by the Global Transparency Survey (GTS). » Ranked as one of 24 most transparent companies in Colombia and the only telecommunications company to receive a certificate from Colombia’s Secretary of Transparency. » Conducted TigoUne research in partnership with Universidad EAFIT in Medellin to assess the risks and opportunities in the use of information and communications technology by children in their day-to-day lives (see pages 34 35 for more). » Launched Contigo Conectados in Spanish ( https://contigoconectados. com/) using TigoUne research. This new CR campaign focuses on education, cyberbullying, excessive internet use, safety, social capital and participation, health, and the digital gap through proactive mediation, social innovation, and enhancing digital competencies. Q: What’s ahead for Millicom’s Colombia operations? A: We’re excited about the opportunity to carry on Millicom’s mission to provide the best, most secure digital highways. We want to be the first choice for customers in all our markets. Looking ahead to 2019 in Colombia, we want to connect ten new cities for the fixed business, increase our ability to reach more individuals in rural areas, and grow our 4G footprint. 27 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Living Our Purpose Spotlight Santiago Londoño, Vice President B2B shares updates on Tigo Business Q: What did 2018 hold for the Tigo Business brand? first phase of moving to a cluster working model, in which all A: By helping thousands of businesses transform and grow with our applications can be hosted and replicated across the region within secure, high-speed business broadband services, we continued our Tier III datacenters, integrated through the expansive South evolution to become the strongest player in the region, solidifying American ring network. This in turn helps us achieve business our positioning as the #1 brand in five out of the eight countries continuity management plans to help minimize any disruption or we operate in. In 2018, we strengthened the brand’s ability to compromised ability to restore services in acceptable timeframes. serve multinational companies, large local businesses and small Q: Can you share some of the 2018 Tigo Business initiatives that and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) through three notable helped SMBs succeed? initiatives: a fiber ring that connects Latam countries, network A: In 2018, we rolled out our first SMB convergent offer in Bolivia. resilience and several exciting SMB initiatives. For a fixed monthly price, customers there can take advantage Q: How has the new fiber ring benefited all Latam countries, of “Soluciones a tu Medida” by purchasing a service package including our new customers in Panama? based on individual needs. This package includes internet, HFC, A: Expanded in November 2018, our fiber ring which connects 12 mobile, and cloud solutions. With year-over-year growth of ten countries from Mexico to Argentina provides a high-performance percent, the SMB segment represents an exceptional opportunity infrastructure that allows us to offer a single, connected network. for Tigo Business to expand. It also supports our social purpose This expansive, integrated network resulted in increased to help communities and economies prosper. Increasingly, availability, greater transport capacity between countries, unified commercial success depends on being connected, offering online regional support, and network resilience to natural disasters and distribution and sales channels, enabling web-based customer emergencies. With this new capability, Millicom can now widen communications and service, and operating business-critical its communications services, datacenter, cloud, and co-location functions in the cloud. to companies wanting to connect their offices or branches throughout the region. Coffee Cup, El Salvador https://youtu.be/N1kro5OKTME Q: W hy and how have you prioritized network resilience? A: Tigo Business customers need reliable, consistent connectivity because their livelihoods depend on uninterrupted access to the Business Forum, Guatemala https://www.youtube.com/ tools and services they need to succeed. In 2018, we began the watch?v=eJLJnkWbkwE 28 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Living Our Purpose Responsible Leadership in Action Spotlight CR Fundamentals Respecting Human Rights and Ethics Environment Purpose: Build Digital Highways Empowering that connect people, Protecting Women improve lives Children and develop communities building a Culture of Privacy Inclusion Supply Chain Human Rights Connecting Communities At Millicom, part of building digital highways for our customers includes retaining, handling and processing sensitive data. As companies like ours face increasing levels of scrutiny and regulation around information security and data protection, we are focused on building a culture of privacy both internally at Millicom and in our markets. Internally, we have created a cross-functional task force to make sure these initiatives are being applied throughout the company. In 2018, we created a Global Privacy Policy and worked on compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the EU. The launch of the policy was followed by a company-wide Privacy Day Awareness Campaign stressing the policy’s key elements and the importance of strong privacy practices. The policy implementation includes the designation of privacy champions in each business function at corporate and operational level, the implementation of our Privacy Management Tool to manage personal data processing activities and reporting, and mandatory online trainings for new hires and on an annual basis for the entire organization. This past year, we also built on our global Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) conducted in 2017 and developed operation-level HRIAs. We did this by partnering with Business for Social Responsibility to customize and improve the tools used to assess human rights issues related to our business. In 2019, we will deploy an HR impact assessment toolkit in all our markets, and enhance employee training on human rights and the use of these tools. We also participate in the Global Network Initiative (GNI), a collaborative network of NGOs, businesses, and academics who adopt a set of principles which are designed to promote privacy and freedom of expression when faced with government pressure to hand over user data, remove content, or restrict communications. Every two years, the GNI conducts an external assessment of company policies and practices to determine whether the company is making a good faith effort to meet those GNI principles. Our first assessment was conducted in Q4 2018. We will disclose the results from the assessment within six months of its completion. We recently revised our Policy for Law Enforcement Assistance and Major Events and adopted a new Governance Process for Human Rights Risks Related to Freedom of Expression and Privacy to strengthen our assessment of such risks and our commitment to protect our customers’ rights. You can also review our Law Enforcement Disclosure Report here. In 2018, Millicom also accepted an invitation to serve on the Freedom Online Coalition (FOC) Advisory Network, comprised of governments that have committed to work together to support internet freedom and protect fundamental human rights – free expression, association, assembly, and privacy online – worldwide. 29 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Living Our Purpose Spotlight A Commitment to Data Security for our Customers We take data security seriously and know our customers do too. Our processes for network and IT systems development include regular assessments of threats and vulnerabilities to security breaches, as well as the deployment of resources to mitigate those risks. The following key initiatives kicked off in 2018: » Formalized the Global Information Security Office (GISO): The office assumed responsibility for strategy, tactics, and oversight of all information security efforts within the broader Millicom environment. » Developed a Global Security Operations Center: With 24/7 monitoring and analysis, the center consolidates and centralizes all local security operations management into a single, all-encompassing global information security operations center. Initial locations were rolled out in 2018, and we will complete deployment in late 2019. » Created a Global Vulnerability Management Program: To provide better insight into the technical security risks of the company, this program identifies and tracks risks and vulnerabilities within all operations. We initiated the program in 2018 and expect full rollout by the end of Q3 2019. » Developed a Global Identity and Access Management Program: Millicom initiated steps to centralize all business and critical access provisioning to more effectively manage user access, especially with respect to U.S. regulatory requirements. Phase One will address all regulatory requirements by the end of Q3 2019, with remaining deployment running through mid-2020. For additional details about our approach to data security, see page 91 in the Governance section. 30 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Performance: Responsible Leadership in Action 31 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Connecting Communities: Schools in El Salvador Internet connectivity has become an essential part of educational success. We support the ICT Alliance for the Americas and its efforts to Women, Children and connect all schools in Latam through joint action by 2030. As an example of that support, we are providing internet connectivity to 350 public Communities education centers in El Salvador. In 2018, we also delivered 25,000 tablets across more than 1,450 public education centers that have benefited As a company, we do more than just offer communications services. Our approximately 66,000 students. purpose is to build digital highways that connect people, improve lives, and develop communities. This purpose guides the actions that we take and Learning to Code in Bolivia how we conduct our business responsibly. To help Bolivian children access digital knowledge This larger, overarching purpose puts us in a unique position to act as and future employment opportunities, Tigo agents of positive change in the lives of our customers and communities we Bolivia has implemented a program with local serve. Our approach to connectivity and the building of digital highways go partner COGNOS-COGNOTEC, to teach coding skills to primary and secondary school students hand in hand with setting our corporate responsibility programs and goals. in public schools. This program was launched in For example, gender inequality and poverty are risk factors in the countries 2017. To ensure continuity and capacity building, where we operate because they limit the market for our products and schools commit to continue with the program services. By educating women and giving them digital tools to enhance after the first year. This allows the inclusion of 45 new schools every year and the continuity of the their livelihoods, we seek to unleash their confidence and power to create courses. By the end of 2018, 38,267 children and durable prosperity in their communities. Similarly, our public education adolescents had received this training. efforts and engagement with youth provide social benefit and new opportunities to children in Latin America, while helping us cultivate the informed, connected, and self-sufficient customer base we aspire to serve. 32 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Key Activities and Accomplishments In 2018, we leveraged varied opportunities to create value and benefits for In 2018, our gender both Millicom and the communities we serve. Each initiative described in this section underscores how Empowering Women, Connecting Communities, and parity efforts in Protecting Children remain essential chapters in Millicom’s story. Guatemala received Empowering Women: Our “Conectadas” Initiative recognition again Gender equality expands economic growth, promotes social development, and enhances business performance. Digital financial services can increase the by the Equals in participation of women in the workforce and create opportunities for women in the formal market economy. According to the UN1, the full incorporation Tech Awards. Of 357 of women’s capacities into labor forces would add percentage points to most nominations from 80 countries, we national growth rates double digits in many cases. Connectivity can also help women bypass social restrictions and lead to better outcomes for their own livelihoods and their children’s health and education. ranked among the Females comprise half of our potential consumer base and available talent pool for employment. In 2018, we stepped up our commitment to women’s top five finalists in empowerment by committing all country operations to the Connected Women the Leadership II Category and Initiative. This program from Groupe Spéciale Mobile Association (GSMA) strives to reduce the gap in the use of mobile and internet between men and women by 2020. By providing women with our technologies and services, we unlock opportunities and knowledge that allow families, communities, and among the top 15 economies to prosper and thrive. overall. As we strategically promote digital highways and connectivity, this gamechanging initiative helps narrow the gender gap. In El Salvador alone, “Mujeres Conectadas” (Connected Women) trained 30,000 women on how to use smartphones, protect children online, and manage finances with Mobile Financial Services (MFS). Our goal by 2020: increase the total number of women trained in El Salvador to 100,000 and arrive at 50/50 gender parity. Furthermore, our Women’s Digital Inclusion program in Guatemala in partnership with the NGO Sheva, provides training to women and girls to reduce the digital gender gap, teaching them about the advantages of using mobile technology in their day-to-day lives. Training content includes online safety, privacy, and responsible use of social networks, among other areas. By the end of 2018, 23,848 women had been trained. The program began in Guatemala in 2017. Due to its success, it will be rolled out to all other Latam Tigo operations in 2019, complementing the digital inclusion programs already underway or serving as the initial program on this topic. 1 https://sdgcompass.org/sdsg/sdg-5/ 33 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Protecting Children As information and communication technologies rapidly penetrate all regions of the world, the use of these technologies increasingly informs children’s experiences. While these tools provide opportunities for learning, participation, and creativity, global concern has coalesced around how to reduce the risk of harm children face online. When developing online technologies, networks, services, and policies, service providers, parents, teachers, and others need to better understand the ways young people use the internet. Protecting children has long been a cornerstone of our commitment in corporate responsibility to help them lead safer, healthier lives, with access to more opportunities through education and inclusion. Because of the nature of our business, online protection is an aspect where we can make a significant difference and maintain a leadership role. Through carefully designed programs, we bring years of dedication to this cause and leverage partners who share the same values. Consultations and Outreach Too often children and adolescents are excluded from the design and planning phase of digital technology projects that will most impact them. In 2018, Millicom changed that by partnering with several local “ In Colombia, universities and organizations in Central and South America to conduct research and direct outreach to children and adolescents to acquire a better understanding of the risks and opportunities that the internet and TigoUne contributed communications technology pose for them. In Colombia, Millicom partnered with EAFIT University in Medellin to launch substantially to the a first-of-its-kind assessment on internet and communications technology production of useful and (ICT) use in children’s day-to-day lives that included participation from 485 children aged nine to 16, plus the review of hundreds of best practices and appropriate knowledge more than 5,000 scientific articles. With help from more than 500 local Tigo employee volunteers, Millicom to promote the creative will use the results of the research to design and implement a nationwide and responsible use of program to advance the safe and productive use of technology. The study identified many opportunities for parents, grandparents, and ICT among young teachers to better engage with children on their internet use, as well as ways ” children and teens can use the internet to advance creativity and positive people. connections, all while minimizing risk. For example, our research shows the greater the use of the internet for educational activities, the less likely a child will be to send or request messages with sexual content and the increased likelihood they will not meet people they have encountered on the internet. Maria Isabel Villa, Ph.D. Communications. EAFIT University 34 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Engaging Everyone in the Going to the Source: Consultations with Children Responsible and Creative Use and Adolescents of the Internet by Children A long-standing premise of our work with children has been to protect and inspire them as they learn to use the internet safely and creatively. This is Our 2017 2018 study with EAFIT University in key in helping them become responsible digital citizens and thrive in an Colombia revealed some startling findings about children and adolescent internet use and the risks they interconnected world. To inform the design of upcoming initiatives, we decided face on line: to reach out to them directly with the objective of better understanding how » 7 5 percent of children and adolescents connect to they regard and use technology as a tool for their voices to be heard and take the internet via mobile phones versus 28 percent via part in decisions that affect the societies in which they live. laptop or computer. The greater the use of a handheld device in a private room, the more With our “Crianza Tecnologica” partner, Paniamor Foundation, we conducted exposure a child has to sexual images or videos. consultations in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Colombia, and Guatemala. The study » The average daily duration of connection for a included 157 adolescents between 14 and 19 years of age from public and nine-year-old is 1:46 hours and for a sixteen-year-old private schools, and enabled participants to identify the main issues affecting is five hours. them and alternatives to address and mitigate those issues through responsible » 9 7 percent of children use the internet for school work; ICT use. Key findings of the consultations show us that adolescents see the almost 50 percent spend time in a virtual world. internet and technology as a platform to participate in society and have their » T he greatest risk identified to children and adolescents voices heard. Even though they feel that because of their age they are not related to internet and communications technologies included in many conversations on important social issues, the internet allows is excessive use; 43 percent of children surveyed have tried, unsuccessfully, to go online less. them to have an awareness on these issues that also motivates them to take » 3 0 percent of those surveyed have met strangers part in finding solutions. through the internet and 17 percent have met Such findings will help us create relevant and effective initiatives aimed at strangers in person. supporting this key demographic. “ Technologies allow us to inform ourselves on what is happening in the world, be more critical and express ourselves. ” Paniamor Foundation Consultation Participant 35 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Beyond Online Protection: Protecting Child Rights The opportunities for helping children fulfill their potential are large. This is why we have collaborated with governments and nonprofits in other important ways, such as the mobile birth registration program which, in Tanzania alone, has given more than 2.1 million children since 2013 the basic right to an identity and the ability to access health care, education, and social protection. To ensure that our company respects child rights, we continue developing both partnerships and internal capabilities to positively impact children’s lives in as many ways as we can. Building on a previous assessment conducted by UNICEF, in 2018 we completed and deployed in all our Latam operations the Mobile Operator Child Impact Assessment (MOCRIA). This tool, developed jointly with UNICEF in 2016 is publicly available and allows ICT companies to assess how and where our business may affect children and better understand our impact on child rights. For example, we can more clearly see the potential risk of child labor in our supply chains, or consider the impact of our marketing on children. Based on implementation of the tool, we created specific action plans and new procedures to deal with these impacts in 2018, including the establishment of Responsible Marketing Guidelines for Millicom. These new guidelines embed our values related to transparency and protecting children in our marketing and communications policies and procedures. 36 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix “ This agreement is an UNICEF Partnership Against Violence We remain committed to protecting the rights of children and adolescents in our Latam markets as they develop and grow into active participants example of how the in digital economies and societies. We believe we can best solve complex problems through partnerships in which each party focuses on their private sector can strengths. For several years, we have worked closely with UNICEF to provide thought leadership and share best practices industry-wide on how to articulate sustainability prevent violence against children. In May 2018, we renewed our strong commitment to work with UNICEF in Latam through an updated threestrategies that center year collaboration agreement aimed at preventing violence and protecting on childhood and children and teens in the region. As part of the agreement, Millicom supports programs related to the youth. In a region that promotion of child rights, the safe use of technology, and violence prevention against children and teens across our markets in Latin America. is becoming more During the first year of the renewed partnership, Millicom supported projects in Paraguay, El Salvador and Guatemala and hosted a two-day digital, the online and workshop with UNICEF and other subject matter experts to help the telecommunications industry understand its impact on children’s rights, and offline prevention and explore opportunities to scale and deepen the impact of our joint programs. protection of the most In Guatemala and El Salvador, Millicom supported the creation of new child helplines in both countries, through which children can seek advice on vulnerable ones, who online risks like cyberbullying, grooming, and harassment, and also receive assistance in cases where their rights are being violated. are usually the children In Paraguay, the company supported a program that aims at using technology in classrooms and developing young leaders in the safe and teens, have to be and responsible use of the internet. This program is being continued during 2019. priorities for us. ” Stefan Stefansson Responsible for UNICEF’s Private Sector for Latin America and the Caribbean. 37 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Performance: Our People Make Our Purpose Happen 38 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Performance: Our People Make Our Purpose Happen With a global workforce of more than 21,000 individuals, over the past 25 years Millicom has become one of the largest employers in many of the “ Our culture and our countries where we operate. Rooted in the dedication, agility, and skills of our people, we have brought connectivity to some of the most challenging and diverse markets in the world. Representing more than 50 nationalities, Tigo people are our our enthusiastic ambassadors live our purpose in the work they do and inter­ actions they have within their communities every day. absolute competitive Millicom strives to be the employer of choice in all our markets a company advantage. ” where people want to work because of the opportunities to learn, grow, and interact in a positive work environment and contribute to a greater purpose. It all starts by finding the right people and developing them in the right positions. To do this, we assess our talent based on present and future needs, Susy Bobenrieth ­offering advancement opportunities based on merit and performance. Chief Human Resources Officer Other elements of our approach include: » C reating a positive and inclusive work culture; » P roviding employees with a sense of purpose in their jobs; and » Ensuring our employees are safe, since many of them work in countries where security issues are a concern. In this section, you will find highlights of key 2018 accomplishments related to our human capital. 39 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Key 2018 Activities and Accomplishments Our “Sangre Tigo” Culture and Employee Engagement Pride runs deep at Millicom, and it shows in the passion employees bring to work and the loyalty of long-serving team members. Many of our senior-level executives started in field sales or as customer service representatives. They stay with us because they believe in what we do and see room for professional growth and development. We use the descriptor “Sangre Tigo” as a reference to the key values, practices, behaviors, and beliefs that are shared by all our employees across the board. Sangre Tigo helps us to define the beating heart that enables our organization to grow. Because of our strong company culture, we have earned our place as a top 25 employer in Latin America for two years in a row and were a recipient of “Great Place To Work” awards in many of the countries where we operate. Culture Survey We believe that a strong cultural reference closely aligned to our business strategy, gives us a strong competitive advantage. It needs to continue to evolve with the business, industry, and our markets. In 2018, our Top Leadership Team came together to shape and determine this framework. They defined the specific attitudes and behaviors most relevant to our customers, employees, communities, and investors, that together make up Sangre Tigo’s DNA. We also conducted a company-wide survey to better understand and define our culture in which more than 11,000 employees took part. The results helped us identify both cultural positives as well as improvement areas. In 2019, all our offices will work on evolving our cultural framework. We plan to appoint more than 100 internal ambassadors across Latam to spread the message and educate our organization towards our desired Sangre Tigo culture. 40 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Sangre Tigo Culture at Work in Our Communities Sangre Tigo is inseparable from giving back to our communities through our time and personal involvement. Our employees put in the passion and hard work while we provide the spaces, resources, and connections to meet the needs of our communities, leveraging everyone’s power to make a difference. We continue our core program on volunteering by focusing our efforts in Child Online Protection, which provides guidance to children, adolescents, teachers, parents, and caregivers on how to navigate digital technologies safely and productively. For example, our Colombia operation started deploying over 500 volunteers in the last quarter of 2018 to provide such training, designed and developed according to the findings of the study described on pages 34 35. Furthermore, in 2017 Tigo Guatemala began its local implementation of our Tech Teaching Program based on the regional Crianza Tecnologica content, training 60 Tigo volunteers on online protection for children and adolescents. This group of volunteers led a program of educational talks aimed at primary school teachers that allowed us to reach a total of 771 teachers during that year. The next step was to adapt the contents of the program to pedagogical materials that teachers could use in their classes. We worked closely with the Ministry of Education and a group of experts in the design of the content and materials. The key messages focused on the risks associated with social networks and the internet and were presented in easy-to-use formats for classroom education. A first group of 150 teachers who received this training, were able to directly impact 4,395 children. By 2019, the goal is to train a further 1,000 teachers, which will allow us to directly reach more than 25,000 students from first to sixth grade at primary school. In El Salvador, Tigo employees dedicated 2,000 volunteer hours to working in their communities, supporting essential projects such as constructing houses and providing education on child protection online. Stepping Up in Difficult Times In June 2018, the Volcan de Fuego eruption in central Guatemala affected 1.7 million people, destroying homes, infrustructure and agriculture. An army of 130 Tigo volunteers responded swiftly to the crisis and co-ordinated relief efforts around-the-clock to provide aid, food, water, medicines, and blankets to those most in-need. Our flagship programs co-exist with a readiness to help our communities in other areas of need at critical times. 41 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Rewards and Incentives We reward our employees based on merit and perfor­ mance, striving to develop transparent, standardized packages and procedures across the organization. In 2018, our global rewards group implemented a new variable pay design for the top leadership of the company, that includes short-term incentive (STI) and long-term incentive (LTI) pay. The changes have had a positive impact on our com­ pany’s strategy; thus the Compensation Committee has agreed that no changes are required to the design of these programs for 2019. Approximately 370 employees receive part of their annual compensation package in Millicom shares via our Deferred Share Plan (DSP) or Performance Share Plan (PSP) equity compensation plans. To learn more about our remuneration policy, see pages 79 to 83. Standardized EOE Practices and Sensitivity Training In 2018, we standardized Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE) practices. We also designed and implemented behavioral interviewing standards, which help determine which applicants are the best fit for Millicom. In addition, we have a structured recruiting process, where the decision-making is based on the assessment shared by different members of a relevant team, rather than on HR or the hiring manager alone. We plan to continue sensitivity training programs with all employees to help them understand how to communicate and interact in ways that make everyone feel included. We also discuss what inclusion really means and share ways to recognize and break through social barriers. 42 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Responsible Leadership in Action CR Fundamentals Ethics Environment Purpose: Build Digital Highways Empowering that connect people, Protecting Women improve lives Children and develop communities Supply Inclusion Chain Human Rights Connecting Communities Diversity and Inclusion At Millicom, we take diversity and inclusion seriously across all Because we believe our differences unite us, we also actively recruit levels throughout our operations. individuals with physical disabilities and hearing impairment at To support gender equality, we continue to close the pay gap and our facilities, adjusting work environments to accommodate their we strive to develop and promote women from within, as well as needs. This includes everything from adding ramps to the primary facilitate mobility between our operations and corporate offices. entrance at a call center to expanding aisle space in offices. We A few examples highlight our diversity and inclusion efforts in 2018: invite you to learn more about Tigo Guatemala’s exemplary inclu­ sivity efforts in this video. » Gender Pay Gap Analysis: We conducted a comprehensive gen­ der pay gap analysis at our headquarters and across all Latam Diversity and Inclusion operations to ensure equal remuneration between men and https://www.youtube.com/ women. In operations where we identified issues, we will imple­ watch?v=9CwUBmXvi7I) ment corrective actions. » Leadership Training in Costa Rica: We have selected women Global Policy to Promote a within Millicom who have demonstrated strong leadership po­ tential and enrolled them in the highly regarded INCAE Business Positive Work Environment School in Costa Rica for additional, advanced training. In an effort to promote a positive work environment with freedom » Mentoring Program in El Salvador: We implemented a women’s to express beliefs and acceptance of diverse backgrounds, we mentoring program called Empoderate, where female managers created a global policy in 2018. After first training the Executive mentor potential future female leaders using the VitalVoices.org Team on the new policy, we shared the policy with general mentoring framework. managers and their direct reports. As part of our implementation of the new policy, we have set key performance indicators that include more diversity, especially as it relates to gender equity and individuals with disabilities. 43 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Workforce Health, accreditations, which means 100 percent of all Millicom operating entities are aligned to OHSAS and ISO Safety and » A standards  pproximately 80 percent of employees based in Miami Wellness Updates attended educational sessions facilitated by the Miami Police Department during Millicom’s 2018 annual Safety Many of our employees live and work in emerging markets and Security Matters week. Training sessions included where security issues including civil unrest, armed and Active Shooter, First Aid, Fire Marshal and Warden, organized criminal activity, and terrorism may threaten Managers’ Roles and Responsibilities, Travel Safety & personal security. When intense political and civil unrest Security, Environmental Awareness, Occupational Health, spread across Nicaragua in 2018, more than 200 individuals and Stress & Well-being were shot and killed, and over 2,000 were wounded. » F or the third straight year, we improved our supplier Millicom did not suffer the loss of any employees or business due-diligence and vetting processes and conducted activities during that time, in part because of the sound comprehensive compliance audits for those suppliers controls put in place. considered to be at greatest risk of significant health, Millicom manages the health, safety, and well-being of its safety, and security issues employees based on international (OHSAS) standards and » A  combined $1.8 million in savings from 2017 through industry best practices, with advice and support from local our extended integrated services approach to the authorities. management of non-financial risk areas. Our central security and safety team empowers and trains While we are proud of our 2018 health and safety operational teams, and every market has a professionally accomplishments, we also understand there is always more trained and certified physical security and health and safety work to do. In 2019, as we prepare for transition to the new officer. All third-party vendors and partners must abide by ISO Health and Safety 45001 standard, we will address our security and safety standards. several specific observations from external audits related In 2018, we successfully operated our businesses with a to increased engagement from all levels of management, reduced number of health and safety-related incidents, further engagement of appropriate staff committees, and both employee-related, as well as with contractors and increased support for well-being, mental health and travel. outsourced service providers. No employee fatalities occurred in 2018. Other statistics from this past year include: » 80 percent reduction in the overall number of fatalities, with two fatalities reported among contractors, down from a total of ten in 2017 » 71 percent decrease in Lost Time Incident Rate for incidents causing greater than three days’ absence from work, with Total Incident Rate remaining stable from 2017 » Our Costa Rica, El Salvador and Guatemala operations achieved externally verified health and safety A colleague in El Salvador attends our annual international health and well-being program. 44 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Talent Acquisition, Growth and Development 2018 marked the second year of a five-year strategic initiative to enhance the ways in which we attract, grow, and develop talent within Millicom. As part of the program, we map the skill sets and capabilities of our current team, fill our bench with top candidates, and grow talent from within the company. In 2018, to fill open positions for critical jobs, we were able to promote internal candidates about 70 percent of the time. The program also includes preparation for executive succession, emergency plans, and focus on key countries. Tracking talent and creating succession plans strengthens our pipeline with diverse leaders across functions and levels. For pivotal job families, we are developing a career framework and curricula that addresses ideal career progressions and identifies the capabilities and resources needed to grow our business. To the extent that turnover happens, we strive to better understand how, when, and where it happens. We believe our new CR framework will assist with recruitment and retention because it gives employees a sense of purpose and the feeling they are making a contribution to something greater than themselves. Consolidation of Operations and Organizational Effectiveness and Efficiency To align our structure across countries and drive operational excellence, innovation, and productivity, in 2018 we continued the consolidation of corporate functions, primarily to Miami. We also implemented an empowered organization and efficiency model in Latin America and created the Business Transformation Office (BTO). These actions make it easier for us to identify areas where we can become more efficient and share Best Management Practices (BMPs) across all our operations for the benefit of employees and customers. In 2018, we also created a function to boost team and business performance by applying organizational effectiveness capabilities such as change management to the company. We started with deploying a change management framework for critical Millicom projects, and training and coaching change leads as part of our Change Management Subject Matter Expert program. 45 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Performance: CR Fundamentals 46 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Corporate Responsibility Fundamentals: Responsible The Building Blocks for Leadership in Action CR Fulfilling Our Purpose Fundamentals Environment Ethics Purpose: Build Digital Highways Empowering that connect people, Protecting The way we conduct our business is an essential building block to our Women improve lives and develop communities Children Supply success and expansion in the markets we serve. With a large regional Inclusion Chain footprint, we recognize our responsibility to minimize our impact on the Human Rights planet, build trust with key stakeholders and partners, and model Connecting transparency. Communities From reverse logistics to proactive supply chain management, we minimize the potential for harm while maximizing positive impacts and efficiencies. In 2018, we took significant steps toward this objective. This section contains key activities and accomplishments related to our environmental stewardship and supply chain management. Other CR fundamentals related to human rights and business ethics are covered in the Responsible Leadership in Action, and Governance sections of this report. Hybrid cooling system in TigoUne operations Titanium datacenter 47 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Key 2018 Activities and Accomplishments Reducing our Environmental Footprint Energy costs, power outages, and increased regulations and costs related to disposing of e-waste can affect our business continuity and growth. Apart from our goal of being responsible stewards of the environment, we know that by reducing waste and operating less carbon-intensive networks, we are optimizing our business and serving our customers with improved connectivity and services. Energy efficiency measures in our operations enable us to achieve stable operational expenses while our network expands. The benefits of securing network growth while managing the proportional increase of energy consumption and its related costs include the ability to provide our customers with affordable service and improved coverage, and maintain a competitive advantage in our markets. In 2018, we stepped up the collaboration among our CR and technical teams to leverage their vast pool of knowledge of the technologies and practices that enhance efficiency gains. This led to the development of the 2019–2023 Corporate Responsibility plan for our environmental performance. The Plan lays out the work we will do, focused on capability building, energy and resource efficiency, and carbon footprint reduction. Find details of our 2018 environmental key performance indicators on pages 204–205 of the Appendix. Reverse Logistics and Global E-Waste Program Implemented in All Operations Our approach to e-waste includes reverse logistics as a central element, as it helps us recover equipment that can be repaired and reused in the network. Because of the nature of our business, the growth of our markets and the pace of technological changes, we handle great quantities of such equipment and therefore regard e-waste as an ongoing concern and opportunity. One focus area during 2018 was our Cable business. As it continues to grow in all of our markets, so does the importance and complexity of reverse logistics processes to properly track our Customer Premises Equipment (CPEs), which are important assets for the company, and quickly recover them when necessary as we upgrade our service. We have achieved significant improvements in two key aspects: » Home recollection (making sure we recover equipment no longer in use by a customer); and » Laboratory recovery rates (repairing and refurbishing equipment as needed for redeployment to the network, thus reducing the need to buy new equipment). The equipment that, due to obsolescence or deterioration, cannot be reintroduced to the network is processed by our approved e-waste vendors. This is the final step of a layered approach that effectively enables waste minimization and recovery of whole pieces of equipment and/or valuable materials that can then be recycled. We have been consistently increasing the amounts of recycled e-waste as a result of effectively rolling out the program in all operations. 48 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Commitment to Tier III Datacenters “ The training has had a huge positive impact in our business. Thanks to this, By setting up the first Tier III certified state-of-the-art datacenter in Bolivia and we initiated an internal evaluation with the acquisition of Cable Onda, we continued the progress we have made process through which many in recent years in Paraguay, Colombia, and Africa to modernize our datacenters. improvement opportunities were The goals for this program include: identified, leading to the creation and ” » Increase data protection measures; » Automate facility operations; institutionalization of our CR policies. » Optimize use of datacenter resources; and » Increase energy efficiency up to 40 percent for the new datacenters. Rafael Ayala, General Manager In 2019, we plan to add new cutting-edge datacenters in Nicaragua, Honduras, Ayala Quintanilla S.A DE C.V (participatand El Salvador to fulfill the goal of having at least one highly energy efficient ed in the 2017 supplier training) datacenter in each of the countries we serve. Millicom Datacenters www.youtube.com/ First-in-Class CR Training for watch?v=1QBwd_2_2-g Key Suppliers For the second straight year, Millicom sponsored Supply Chain a third-party program that has now trained more than 200 key suppliers on critical CR issues, such Management as Ethics, Privacy, Child Rights, Diversity, Health and Safety and Environmental Stewardship. A cross-functional team of procurement and CR Millicom’s commitment to corporate responsibility extends to its supply chain. staff, together with external subject matter Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to conduct themselves experts, developed and conducted the 2018 program. The training, which was enhanced with the highest standards of honesty, fairness, and ethics and sets baseline through lessons learned during the 2017 expectations in the areas of health & safety, environment, fair labor and program, provided one-on-one follow-up to compliance. As part of our supplier qualification process and contractual ensure our suppliers understand the high process, suppliers must acknowledge that they will act in accordance with the expectations and standards they need to meet Code of Conduct. Once the relationship is established we ask our suppliers to to do business with us, as well as the obtain a threshold score for their CR performance under Millicom’s sustainable opportunities available for vendors willing to walk the talk on corporate responsibility. In 2018, procurement platform EcoVadis. we also worked with each supplier to develop In 2018, we expanded the internal team responsible for supply chain corrective action plans they will implement in management to enhance the evaluation of our suppliers. With EcoVadis, we 2019 and beyond to address areas of can target our suppliers’ performance in key CR areas such as Environment improvement. Stewardship, Labor & Human rights, Ethics, and Sustainable Procurement, and customize practical means of evaluating the extent to which CR is embedded in suppliers’ business, products, and services. Moreover, our supplier portfolio in EcoVadis increased 28 percent from the previous year. Also, absolute response rates for suppliers, increased from 47 percent in 2017 to 64 percent in 2018. Supplier performance in EcoVadis is measured by the development of Corrective Action Plans, which impact their overall scores. For 2019, we will focus our efforts on working closely with our suppliers to continue improving current scores. We will also continue tailoring the platform to our business priorities and use other tools, such as the Supplier Training program, to further drive the pursuit of win-win, sustainable practices. 49 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Performance: Our Financial Performance in 2018 50 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Chief Financial Officer’s Message We entered 2018 with positive operational momentum, and this was sustained throughout the year and allowed us to report solid financial annual results, as we continued to execute on our strategy, which focuses on capturing the broadband opportunity in our Latin American markets. A key measure of our financial success in 2018 is the Group’s return on invested capital (ROIC), which rose to 18.2% in 2018, up strongly from 16.2% in 2017, driven mostly by increased operating efficiency in Latam, and by a reduction in the amount of capital allocated to Africa and to passive infrastructure, such as mobile towers. In our Latam segment, I am pleased to report that organic service revenue growth improved noticeably to 4.3% and exceeded our initial target of 2% to 4% for the year. EBITDA growth also improved to 3.5%, in line with our target, even as a number of one-off items affected reported growth by 1.0 percentage point. As we can see from these solid 2018 results, our strategy is now beginning to produce faster organic growth, while also generating cash flow in excess of what we need to fund our internal growth plans and to pay an attractive dividend to our shareholders. Against this backdrop and considering also our healthy balance sheet, we took the bold step of accelerating the company’s growth in 2018 by acquiring Cable Onda, Panama’s leading cable operator. The acquisition also accelerates the reconfiguration of our revenue mix, which is becoming increasingly subscription-based. This is enhancing the predictability and sustainability of the company’s financial performance and gives us increased confidence in our ability to deliver even faster growth over the medium term. Following our acquisition of Cable Onda in December 2018, our leverage ended 2018 at 2.5x on a proportionate net debt to EBITDA basis, above our target of around 2.0x, which we view as prudent when considering that the company operates in emerging markets where political and macroeconomic risks are high. We are confident that by executing our strategy, delivering efficiencies, and investing carefully, we will continue to create value for shareholders over the long term. This chapter provides a summary of the financial and operating performance of our Latin American and African segments through selected performance indicators which are based on our management reporting, presenting Guatemala and Honduras joint ventures as if fully consolidated. For more extensive details on Millicom’s financial performance please refer to pages 95 to 189. Tim Pennington Chief Financial Officer 51 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our 2018 Financial Performance in Latin America During 2018, we continued to invest to rapidly expand both the reach Cable services, as well as mobile market share gains. Guatemala and capacity of our 4G mobile and hybrid fiber-cable (HFC) networks and Paraguay performed well and sustained above average levels of to meet strong pent-up demand for broadband services in the region. profitability, while Colombia and Honduras showed very encouraging We are seeing these investments pay off, as organic service revenue signs of improvement throughout 2018. Among our six largest growth accelerated to 4.3% year-over-year in 2018 from 0.9% growth markets, El Salvador was the only one to disappoint, but we took in 2017, exceeding our targets. Importantly, growth improved in most meaningful steps throughout 2018 to improve our operating and country markets and in both our Mobile and Cable business units. financial performance in 2019. In Mobile, which accounts for 63% of Latam service revenues, EBITDA growth for the Latam segment improved to 3.5% in 2018 organic service revenue growth improved to 1.3% year-over-year from 2.8% growth in 2017 on an organic basis. A number of onein 2018 from a decline of 2.3% in 2017, fueled by the addition of offs affected both years and reduced our reported growth by about 3.2 million 4G customers. Our studies show that a typical customer 1.0 percentage point in 2018. consumes about 30 40% more data after they upgrade from 3G Capex in Latin America totaled US$954 million in 2018. Although to 4G, and the ARPU from that customer increases approximately we spent almost US$50 million less than the $1.0 billion we had 10%. At year-end, we had more than 10 million 4G customers, planned, we exceeded our network expansion plans in both Mobile which is still only about one-third of our total mobile customers in and Cable, as we remained focused on expanding both coverage the region, implying that we still have a long way to go to bring and capacity to enhance customer experience and reduce churn. mobile broadband services to all our customers. By year-end, our 4G networks already covered approximately 65% In Cable, which generates about 36% of our Latam service revenue, of the population in our markets, up from 56% at the end of 2017. organic service revenue growth accelerated to 10.0% in 2018, from Good 4G network coverage is allowing us to continue to deploy 7.3% in 2017. Over the past year, we expanded our HFC network to more capital toward our Cable build, and network investment was cover an additional 1.3 million homes, and we added 406,000 net split approximately 68% Cable and 32% Mobile in 2018. Customer customer relationships, while driving ARPU growth of 1.4% in reported premise equipment deployed to support the growth of our Cable dollar terms, even as currencies broadly weakened throughout the year. customer base accounted for more than 30% of our total capex in the region, indicating that an important part of our capex is successBy country, organic service revenue growth accelerated in Bolivia, driven and variable in nature, thereby enhancing the predictability Colombia, Guatemala, and Honduras, and remained stable in of our financial performance. Paraguay, while EBITDA grew in our five largest markets. Our performance in Bolivia was particularly robust, driven by the rapid expansion of our HFC network and strong pent up demand for 3% 7% Other El Salvador 12% 5,069 Paraguay LATAM 1% Other US$48m Service Revenue Revenue by 36% 25% Organic growth +4.3% country Cable Guatemala 2,077 US$1,808m 10.0% Growth 63% Revenue by Mobile service* US$3,214m 1.3% Growth EBITDA Organic growth +3.5% 30% Colombia Our Latin America (Latam) segment includes our Guatemala 11% and Honduras joint ventures as if they were fully consolidated. Honduras Service revenue, EBITDA and organic growth are non-IFRS measures. Please refer to page 196 for description of 11% non-IFRS measures. Bolivia *Other service revenue not allocated to the BusinessUnits includes revenue from tower rentals and contact center services. 24% AFRICA Chad 2% 1% Other 52 526 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN Service T E G R AT E DRevenue Cable US$3m US$12m REPORT Revenue by 15.9% Growth Organic growth +0.9% country Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our markets in numbers Others US$37m CABLE Service revenue US$m Colombia Customer relationships Organic growth 3.5% 1,674,000 2018 2017 $1,553 $1,614 As of year end 2018 Mobile US$624m 41,000 EBITDA US$m Revenue by 2% Growth Net additions Organic growth 4.4% service* Cable US$892m +3% 2018 $494 4% Growth 2017 $469 YOY Growth EBITDA margin % MOBILE 2018 29.7 4G smartphone data users 2017 27.0 2,688,000 As of year end 2018 673,000 Net additions +25% YOY Growth Others US$1m CABLE Service revenue US$m Customer relationships Organic growth +5.5% Paraguay Cable 406,000 2018 2017 $632 $622 US$207m As of year end 2018 19% Growth 38,000 EBITDA US$m Revenue by Net additions Organic growth +5.1% service* 2018 $332 +10% 2017 $318 YOY Growth Mobile US$423m EBITDA margin % 0% Growth MOBILE 2018 48.8 4G smartphone data users 2017 48.0 988,000 As of year end 2018 322,000 Net additions +48% YOY Growth Others US$1m CABLE Service revenue US$m Bolivia Cable Customer relationships Organic growth +11.1% US$149m 57% Growth 389,000 2018 2017 $597 $549 As of year end 2018 Revenue by 158,000 EBITDA US$m Organic growth +7.3% Net additions service* 2018 $232 +69% 2017 $217 YOY Growth Mobile US$446m EBITDA margin % MOBILE 1% Growth 2018 37.8 4G smartphone data users 2017 39.1 1,741,000 As of year end 2018 351,000 Net additions +25% YOY Growth Earnings release pdf *Others includes revenue from tower rentals and contract center services. 53 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our markets in numbers Others US$3m CABLE Service revenue US$m El Salvador Customer relationships Organic growth –4.6% Cable 273,000 2018 2017 $371 $398 US$127m As of year end 2018 –2% Growth (38,500) EBITDA US$m Revenue by Net additions Organic growth –14.2% service* –12% 2018 $133 2017 $155 YOY Growth Mobile US$242m EBITDA margin % –5% Growth MOBILE 2018 32.9 4G smartphone data users 2017 36.6 596,000 As of year end 2018 285,000 Net additions +92% YOY Growth Others US$1m Cable CABLE Service revenue US$m Customer relationships Organic growth +6.2% Guatemala** US$184m 485,000 21% Growth 2018 $1,200 As of year end 2018 2017 $1,182 124,000 EBITDA US$m Revenue by Net additions Organic growth +5.6% service* 2018 $689 +34% 2017 $665 YOY Growth Mobile EBITDA margin % US$1,014m MOBILE 4% Growth 2018 50.2 4G smartphone data users 2017 50.1 2,870,000 As of year end 2018 902,000 Net additions +46% YOY Growth Others US$5m CABLE Service revenue US$m Honduras** Cable US$87m Customer relationships Organic growth +1.8% 16% Growth 165,000 2018 2017 $555 $566 As of year end 2018 Revenue by 14,000 EBITDA US$m Organic growth +3.4% Net additions service* 2018 $268 +9% 2017 $265 YOY Growth Mobile US$463m EBITDA margin % MOBILE –1% Growth 2018 45.8 4G smartphone data users 2017 45.3 1,197,000 As of year end 2018 646,000 Net additions +117% YOY Growth *Others includes revenue from tower rentals and contract center services. **Our Latin America (Latam) segment includes our Guatemala and Honduras joint ventures as if they were fully consolidated. 54 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our markets in numbers CABLE Costa Rica Customer relationships 264,000 Cable As of year end 2018 US$151m 1% Growth 16,500 Revenue by Net additions service +7.0% YOY Growth CABLE Panama Customer relationships 100%Cable 476,000 As of year end 2018 Revenue Generating Revenue by Units (RGUs) service 923,000 As of year end 2018 Millicom’s acquisition of Panama was closed on December 13, 2018 55 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Our 2018 Financial Performance in Africa Our consolidated Africa operations comprise Tanzania, including Zantel, and Chad, and these deliver around 9% of Millicom’s Group revenue, predominantly from Mobile services. Millicom’s strategy in the region is focused on accelerating and growing mobile data adoption, strengthening our Mobile Financial Services (MFS) capabilities, and growing B2B. In 2018, we added 1.3 million B2C mobile subscribers bringing the total to about 16 million, a year-on-year increase of 8.6%. Our efforts to drive digitized payments and innovations with our Mobile Financial Services (MFS) has also brought a positive outcome. The number of customers using MFS grew 4.6% 3% 7% and reached more than 7 million 12% accounting for 45% of our B2C Mobile customer base as Other El Salvador 5,069 Paraguay of year-end 2018. LATAM 1% Other The region’s financial results showed a meaningful US$48m improvement in 2018, following Service a more Revenue Revenue2017. challenging by 36% 25% Organic growth +4.3% country Cable Guatemala 2,077 US$1,808m Organic service revenue growth improved to 0.9% 10.0% Growth 63% year-over-year from a decline of 5.5% Revenue by Mobile in 2017, while organic EBITDA growth reachedUS$3,214m service* 4.0% in 2018 from a decline of 12.1% 1.3% Growth EBITDA in 2017. The improvement was underpinned by more favorable operating conditions Organic growth +3.5%in 30% Tanzania. Colombia Our capital investment in Africa totaled US$40 million for 11%the full year 2018, and the region Honduras generated US$91 million of operating free cash flow, consistent with our strategic objective 11% of ensuring that the Africa segment be self-sufficientBolivia and fund its internal growth and capital requirements. 24% AFRICA Chad 2% 1% Other 526 Cable US$12m US$3m Service Revenue Revenue by 15.9% Growth Organic growth +0.9% country Revenue by service* 97% 143 Mobile EBITDA US$510m Organic growth +4.0% 0.8% Growth Service revenue, EBITDA and organic growth are nonIFRS measures. Please refer to page 196 for description 76% of non-IFRS measures. Tanzania *Other Service Revenue not allocated to the Business Units includes revenue from tower rentals. 56 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Governance: Governance and Business Ethics 57 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Governance: Governance and Business Ethics Doing the Right Things for the Right Reasons Chairman’s Report Millicom’s Board of Directors (“the Board”) and its committees dealt with many significant strategic, operational and compliance matters during 2018. These included further enhancement of governance structures related to the Group’s joint ventures, ongoing development of compliance and control programs, oversight of the process of acquiring the Cable Onda (Panama) operation, and preparation for re-listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market in the U.S.. Role of the Board Strength through Diversity, Teamwork and The Board is responsible for approving Millicom’s strategy, Sharing financial objectives, and operating plans and for oversight of Millicom’s diversity of people in our operating countries, governance. The Board also plans for CEO succession and offices, and headquarters is a key strength. We value reviews plans for other senior management positions. different perspectives, encourage the sharing of alternate viewpoints, and promote equal opportunity. Board Changes These remain core elements that contribute to Millicom’s We welcomed Mr. Lars-Åke Norling to the Board in corporate culture. September 2018. Mr. Norling brings significant experience in leadership and digital transformation in the We are proud of our success in fostering strong work place telecommunications business. environments and the accolades received in this respect. I would like to thank Alejandro Santo Domingo for his Compliance long-standing role as a Director of the Board and his During 2018, we continued building and refining our contributions to both the Board and the Compliance and compliance program, supported by the Executive Business Conduct Committee during his tenure. Gratitude Committee and our Ethics and Compliance team. also goes to Simon Duffy for his role and valuable On behalf of the Board, I would like to reconfirm our contributions to both the Audit Committee and Board over commitment to a culture of compliance and strong internal recent years. Both Mr. Santo Domingo and Mr. Duffy control that leads to strength and success. We are proud to stepped down from the Board in May 2018. be a leader in our dedication to ethics and compliance in our In November 2018, Millicom also announced the proposed markets. We look forward to engaging with you and thank election of José Antonio Rios García as new Chairman of the you for being part of the Millicom journey. Board, as well as Pernille Erenbjerg and James Thompson as new Directors of the Board, replacing myself and Anders Jensen. As the company passes the baton to these new leaders, we look forward to many years of continued success Tom Boardman in delivering on our mission as a company. Former Chairman of the Board of Directors 58 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Corporate Governance Framework Background on June 16, 1992, and registered with Millicom’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Millicom International Cellular S.A. the Luxembourg Trade and Companies’ Stockholm in the form of Swedish (“Millicom” or the “Company”) is a public Register (Registre du Commerce et des Depository Receipts and on the Nasdaq limited liability company (société Sociétés de Luxembourg) under number Stock Market in the U.S. as from January anonyme) governed by the Luxembourg B 40 630. The Millicom Group comprises 9, 2019. law of August 10, 1915 on Commercial Millicom and its subsidiaries, joint Companies (as amended), incorporated ventures and associates. Millicom’s Corporate Governance Framework is primarily based on the following legislation, principles and regulations: Publication Authority Philosophy Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Guiding Principles Comply or Explain Luxembourg Law Legislation Comply EU Directives and Regulations Legislation Comply Nasdaq Stockholm Issuer Rule Book Regulation Comply Nasdaq Stock Market Rules Regulation Comply U.S. Securities Laws Regulation Comply Good Stock Market Practice Guiding Principles Corporate Citizenship Millicom governance deviated in 2018 in relation to the Swedish Code in the following areas: Code requirement Millicom practice Explanation 1.5–A shareholder, or a proxy representative of a Minutes are signed by the chairman of While this represents a deviation shareholder, who is neither a member of the board the shareholders’ meeting (who is not a from the Swedish Code, Millicom nor an employee of the company is to be appointed member of the Board or an employee of follows Luxembourg Law in to verify and sign the minutes of the shareholders’ the Company), the meeting Secretary connection with procedures and rules meeting. and an appointed Scrutineer. for its shareholders’ meetings. 9.7–Vesting of share-related incentive programs to Deferred share incentive plans contain The Company believes that this be no less than three years. vesting of 16.5%–30% of granted vesting schedule ensures alignment shares after one year, 16.5%–30% between the interests of the after two years, and 40%–67% after Company’s shareholders and its three years. employees. Within these frameworks, the Board has governance. The Code complements Compliance with Applicable Stock developed and continuously evaluates laws and regulations and sets its good Exchange Rules internal guidelines and procedures, as practice level above regulatory There has been no infringement of further described below, to ensure requirements. The Swedish Corporate applicable stock exchange rules and no quality and transparency of corporate Governance Board states that selfbreach of good practice on the securities governance practices within Millicom. regulation is often preferable to market reported by Nasdaq Stockholm’s mandatory legislation and therefore disciplinary committee or the Swedish Swedish Corporate Governance Code allows companies to deviate from its Securities Council in 2018. The Swedish Corporate Governance rules, following a “comply or explain” Code (the “Swedish Code”) promotes philosophy. positive development of corporate 59 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Corporate Governance Structure Millicom’s Corporate Governance structure comprises the following three levels: 1. Shareholders and representatives Shareholders’ meeting Nomination Committee of shareholders. 2. Board of Directors and Committees Board of Directors appointed by the Board from among its members. C  ompliance and Business Compensation Committee Audit Committee Conduct Committee 3. CEO and Executive management, Chief Executive Officer Internal Audit and its main functions managing governance, risk, compliance and ethics (including security), corporate responsibility, controls. Executive Management Team C  ompliance and Business Control Risk Management Corporate Responsibility Business Ethics 1. S  hareholders and shareholders’ extraordinary general meeting must be • Approval of a Share Repurchase Plan. meeting convened to amend any provisions of On the same date, an Extraordinary The shareholders’ meeting is the highest the Articles of Association. General Meeting (“EGM”) was held decision-making body of Millicom and a At the 2018 AGM, which was held on during which several amendments were forum for shareholders to exercise May 4, 2018, the following key items made to the Articles of Association. influence. Each shareholder has the right were decided: to participate in the shareholders’ On January 7, 2019, an EGM was held at meeting and to vote according to the • Approval of the 2017 Consolidated which the following key items were number of shares owned. Shareholders Financial Statements and distribution decided: unable to attend in person may exercise of a dividend of US$2.64 per share; • Resignation and election of two their rights by proxy. • Election and re-election of the Directors Directors; Millicom’s Articles of Association (as until the date of the 2019 AGM; • Amendment to the Articles of amended on May 4, 2018) set the Annual • Reappointment of Ernst & Young Association of the Company General Meeting of Shareholders (“AGM”) (“EY”) as the external auditor; regarding the procedure for to be held within six months of the close nomination of directors. of the financial year in Luxembourg. • Approval of remuneration to the Board and auditor and procedures Millicom’s Articles of Association are for the Nomination Committee; available in the “Governance” section of Millicom’s website. Unless otherwise • Approval of guidelines for the required under Luxembourg law, an remuneration of senior management; and 60 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Nomination Committee Nomination Committee On behalf of: Position Ms. Cristina Stenbeck Kinnevik AB Chairman Mr. John Hernander Nordea Investment Funds Member Mr. Scott Cobb Southeastern Asset Management Member The Nomination Committee is the Nomination Committee rules and Under the terms of the Nomination appointed by the major shareholders of procedures of the Swedish Code of Committee charter, the Nomination Millicom. It is not a committee of the Corporate Governance shall be applied Committee consists of at least three Millicom Board. The Nomination for the election of Directors to the Board members, with a majority representing Committee’s role is to propose decisions of Directors of the Company, as long as the larger shareholders of the Company. to the shareholders’ meeting in a such compliance does not conflict with The current Nomination Committee was manner which promotes the common applicable mandatory law or regulation formed during July 2018, in consultation interests of all shareholders. The or the mandatory rules of any stock with larger shareholders of the Company Nomination Committee has a term of exchange on which the Company’s at June 20, 2018 and in accordance with office typically commencing at the time shares are listed. Nomination Committee the resolution of the 2018 AGM. of the announcement of the interim proposals to the AGM include: The table below sets out beneficial report for the period January to • Election and remuneration of Directors ownership of Millicom common shares, par September each year and ending when of the Board, and Chairman of the value US$1.50 each, by each person who a new Nomination Committee is formed. Board; beneficially owns more than 5% of Millicom At the January 7, 2019 Extraordinary common stock at December 31, 2018. • Appointment and remuneration of the General Meeting, it was resolved that external auditor; and the articles of association of the company be amended to stipulate that • Proposal of the Chairman of the AGM. Number of % Shareholder shares Shareholding Kinnevik AB 37,835,438 37.2 Dodge & Cox 8,128,305 8.0 Southeastern Asset Management 5,852,130 5.8 Footnote: Except as otherwise indicated, the holders listed above (“holders”) have sole voting and investment power with respect to all shares beneficially owned by them. The holders have the same voting rights as all other holders of Millicom common stock. For purposes of this table, a person or group of persons is deemed to have “beneficial ownership” of any shares as of a given date which such person or group of persons has the right to acquire within 60 days after such date. For purposes of computing the percentage of outstanding shares held by the holders on a given date, any security which such holder has the right to acquire within 60 days after such date (including shares which may be acquired upon exercise of vested portions of share options) is deemed to be outstanding, but is not deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the percentage ownership of any other person. Promoting Board Diversity of Board candidates, considering the judgment; and candidates’ commitment Millicom’s Nomination Committee Company’s needs and current Board to the boards of other publicly-held recognizes the importance of diversity composition. This determination will companies. for promoting strong corporate include knowledge, experience, and skills In its work, the Nomination Committee governance, competitive advantage, and in areas that are critical to understanding applies rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate effective decision-making. The the Company and its business; richness of Governance Code as its diversity policy, Nomination Committee is responsible views brought by different personal and the ambition to further improve for periodically determining the attributes such as gender, race, age, and gender diversity is included in the appropriate skills, perspectives, nationality; and other personal Nomination Committee charter. experiences, and characteristics required characteristics, such as integrity and 61 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix 2. B oard of Directors and Board Independence of the Board committees The Chairman convenes the Board and Board of Directors Chairman, Deputy Chairman and six members leads its work. The Chairman is accountable to the Board and acts as a direct liaison between the Board and the management of the Company, through 1  00% Non-Executive Directors José Antonio Ríos García the CEO. Together with the CEO, meeting Pernille Erenbjerg agendas are set and the Chairman acts Odilon Almeida as the communicator for Board decisions Janet Davidson Tomas Eliasson where appropriate. Lars-Åke Norling Independent from the Company and its Roger Solé Rafols Role of the Board Executive Management James Thompson Millicom’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) is responsible for approving 1  3% Millicom’s strategy, financial objectives, Not independent of the major shareholders Lars-Åke Norling and operating plans, and for oversight of governance. The Board also plans for management succession of the CEO and reviews plans for other senior management positions. As set forth in the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board must comprise at Powers and Limitations of the Board deliberating and voting on any least six members. The 2018 AGM set Borrowing powers–The Board has matters that pertain to such contract the number of Directors at eight, unrestricted borrowing powers on behalf or transaction at any meeting of the comprising a Chairman and seven of, and for, the benefit of Millicom. Board of the Company; and members (all of whom are NonTime and age limit–No age limit exists II. any such personal interest shall be fully Executive Directors). for being a Director of Millicom. Directors disclosed to the Company by the The Board selects the CEO, who is can be elected for a maximum period of relevant Director, officer or employee. charged with the daily management of six years before either re-election or If any Director or officer of the Company the Company and its business. The CEO ending service. Directors are generally should have any personal interest in any is responsible for recruiting, and the elected annually. There are no transaction of the Company, the Director Chairman of the Board is responsible for restrictions on the maximum continuous shall make known to the Board such approving, the senior management of period that a Director can serve. personal interest and shall not consider the company. The Board reviews and Directors hold office until their or vote on any such transaction, and approves plans for key senior successors are elected. such transaction and such Director’s or management positions, and the Board Restrictions on voting–No contract or officer’s interest therein shall be reported supervises, supports and empowers the other transaction between the Company to the next general meeting of senior management team, and monitors and any other person shall be affected shareholders. their performance. In accordance with or invalidated by the fact that any the Swedish Code, the division of work Director, officer or employee of the between the Board and the CEO is set Company has a personal interest in, or is out in “The Rules of Procedure, a director, officer, or employee of such Instruction to the CEO, and Reporting other person, except that: Instruction”. I. such contract or transaction shall be Further details on the roles and activities negotiated on an arm’s-length basis of the various committees, as well as on terms no less favorable to the their responsibilities and activities, are Company than could have been set out later in this section. obtained from an unrelated third party and, in the case of a Director, the Director shall abstain from 62 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Share Ownership Requirements The Corporate Secretary is also a may give cause to question the The Directors are not required to be confidante and resource to the Board and individual’s independence of the shareholders of the Company. Share senior management, providing advice Company or its Executive Management. ownership of Directors is included in the and counsel on Board responsibilities and Factors that are considered include Director biographies set out on the logistics, and plays a leading role in the whether the individual: following pages. Company’s corporate governance. • is the CEO, or has been the CEO, of the Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Company or a closely-related company within the past five years; The Chairman is elected by the AGM. If the The CEO is responsible for leading the Chairman relinquishes the position during development and execution of the • is employed, or has been employed, by the mandate period, the Board is to elect a Company’s strategy with a view to the Company or a closely related Chairman from among its members to creating shareholder value, together company within the last three years; serve until the end of the next AGM. with the management team. The CEO is • receives a not insignificant responsible for day-to-day activities of remuneration for advice or other Deputy Chairman of the Board the Company and management services beyond the remit of the If elected, the Deputy Chairman of the decisions, both operating and financial. Board position from the Company, a Board acts as a sounding board and The CEO acts as a direct liaison between closely-related company or a person provides support for the Chairman. The the Board and management of the in the executive management of the Deputy Chairman convenes Board Company and communicates to the Company; meetings in accordance with the Board on behalf of management. • has, or has within the last year, had a Company’s Articles of Association, and significant business relationship or The CEO also leads communication on leads its work in the event the Chairman is other significant financial dealings with behalf of the Company to shareholders, unavailable or is excused from Board the Company or a closely-related employees, government authorities, meetings. The Deputy Chairman may act company as a client, supplier or partner, other stakeholders, and the public. as an intermediary for other Directors if either individually or as a member of there are conflicts among Board members Board Membership, Balance and the Executive Management, a member or between the Chairman and the CEO, as Independence of the Board or a major shareholder in and when necessary. The Deputy a company with such a business The Nomination Committee and the Chairman leads the annual processes for relationship with the Company; Board periodically review the size and evaluation of the performance of the balance of the Board to determine • is or has within the last three years Board and of the Chairman. Additional whether any changes are appropriate. been a partner at, or has, as an roles and responsibilities of the Deputy employee, participated in an audit of Chairman can be determined by the At the AGM, held annually within six the Company conducted by, the Board. months of the end of the financial year, or Company’s or a closely-related at any other general meeting of Corporate Secretary company’s current or then auditor; shareholders, shareholders may vote for or The Corporate Secretary is appointed by against the Directors proposed by the • is a member of the executive the Board. The role of the Corporate Nomination Committee or may elect management of another company if a Secretary is to ensure that Board different Directors. member of the board of that company members have the proper advice and is a member of the executive The Board has adopted the qualification management of the Company; or resources for performing their duties to guidelines of an “independent director” shareholders under the relevant legal as defined by the Swedish Code, and frameworks. The Corporate Secretary is with consideration of specific also responsible for organization and independence requirements of the coordination of Board and Committee Nasdaq Stock Market rules. A director’s meetings, and ensuring that the records, independence is determined by a or minutes of those meetings, reflect the general assessment of all factors that proper exercise of those duties. 63 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix • has a close family relationship with a person in the executive management Gender of the Board or with another person named in the Male points above, if that person’s direct or indirect business with the Company is 75% of such magnitude or significance as Female to justify the opinion that the Board member is not to be regarded as 25% independent. In accordance with the Swedish Code: • The majority of Millicom’s Board must be independent from the Company and its Executive Management (all Millicom Directors meet this criteria); and • at least two of those independent Directors must also be independent from the Company’s major shareholders (seven of Millicom’s Tenure of Directors Directors meet this criteria); and 1st year • not more than one member of the Board may be part of the executive 3 management team of the Company or 2nd year any of its subsidiaries (no members of the Executive Team sit on the Board). 2 In addition, in accordance with Nasdaq 3rd year Stock Market rules: 1 • The Audit Committee must have at 4th year least three members, all of whom meet the Nasdaq Stock Market and SEC’s 1 relevant definitions of independence. 5th year 1 Nationalities American 3 Swedish 2 Spanish 1 Danish 1 Brazilian 1 64 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Board Profile: Skills and Experience Mr. José Antonio Ríos García Ms. Pernille Erenbjerg Mr. Odilon Almeida (Venezuelan and American) (Danish) (Brazilian) Chairman, Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director (FIRST APPOINTED: MAY 2017) (FIRST APPOINTED: JANUARY 2019) (FIRST APPOINTED: MAY 2015) Mr. José Antonio Ríos García was re-elected Ms. Pernille Erenbjerg was elected as a new Mr. Odilon Almeida was re-elected to the to the Board in May 2018 and was elected member of the Board of Millicom in Board in May 2018. He is a member of the as the Chairman of the Board in January January 2019. She is the Deputy Chairman Compliance and Business Conduct Committee. 2019. He is also a member of the Audit and a member of the Audit Committee. Mr. Almeida (1961) is the President for Western Committee and the Compensation Pernille Erenbjerg (1967) is a Danish citizen Union Global Money Transfer. He leads Committee. and formerly (until December 2018) the Western Union’s global consumer omniMr. Ríos (1945) is a U.S. citizen and currently President and Group Chief Executive Officer channel business across more than 200 the Chairman and CEO of Celistics of TDC, the leading provider of integrated countries and territories. With a 15-year tenure Holdings, a leading provider of distribution communications and entertainment at Western Union, he most recently (2016) was and intelligent logistics solutions for the solutions in Denmark and Norway. Before the President of the Americas and European consumer technology industry in Latin being appointed President and Group Chief Union. His global business leadership and America. Prior to joining Celistics in 2012, Executive Officer, Pernille served as TDC’s board experience at Western Union, Millicom, he was the International President of Chief Financial Officer and as Executive BankBoston (now Bank of America), The Global Crossing, the telecommunications Vice President of Corporate Finance. Coca-Cola Company and Colgate-Palmolive, company later acquired by Level 3 Pernille currently serves on the Boards of has given him deep knowledge of corporate Communications. Nordea, the largest financial services group governance, general management, in the Nordic region, and Genmab, the technology platforms, regulatory and Between 1999 and 2001, Mr. Ríos served as Danish international biotechnology compliance as well as consumer insights of member of the Global Management company. Pernille holds an MSc in Business developed and emerging nations. Committee of Telefónica and President and Economics and Auditing from Copenhagen CEO of Telefónica Media, and prior to Mr. Almeida holds a Bachelor of Civil Business School. joining Telefónica he served as Vice Engineering degree from the Maua President of Hughes Electronics Ms. Erenbjerg brings years of experience Engineering School in São Paulo, Brazil, a Corporation, was the founding President from operating a converged provider of Bachelor of Business Administration Degree and CEO of Galaxy Latin America (DirecTV communication and entertainment services, from the University of São Paulo, and an Latin America), and served as Chief as well as from driving transformational MBA with specialization in Marketing from Operating Officer and Corporate Vice processes in complex organizations, both the Getulio Vargas Foundation, São Paulo. President at the Cisneros Group of organically and through M&A. He advanced his education at IMD Companies for 14 years. Lausanne, The Wharton School, and INDEPENDENT from the Company, its Harvard Business School. Mr. Ríos brings to the Millicom Board his Executive Management, and its major significant experience in leading a variety shareholders. Mr. Almeida strengthens the Millicom of consumer technology businesses in Latin Board with decades of experience from MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT America including the telecommunications the financial services and Fintech sectors, JANUARY 31, 2019: Ms. Erenbjerg does not and electronics industries. and a leadership style anchored in growth hold any Millicom shares. acceleration and business turnarounds INDEPENDENT from the Company, its involving retail and digital transformation, Executive Management, and its major organic growth and successful M&A. shareholders. INDEPENDENT from the Company, its MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT Executive Management, and its major JANUARY 31, 2019: 1,623 shares. shareholders.  MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT 65 JANUARY 31, 2019: 3,176 shares. 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Board Profile: Skills and Experience–continued Ms. Janet Davidson Mr. Tomas Eliasson Mr. Lars-Åke Norling (American) (Swedish) (Swedish) Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director (FIRST APPOINTED: MAY 2016) (FIRST APPOINTED: MAY 2014) (FIRST APPOINTED: MAY 2018) Ms. Janet Davidson was re-elected to the Mr. Tomas Eliasson was re-elected to the Mr. Lars-Åke Norling was elected to the Board in May 2018. She is the Chairman of Board in May 2018. He is the Chairman Board in May 2018 and commenced in the the Compliance and Business Conduct of the Audit Committee. role in September 2018. He is the Chairman Committee. of the Compensation Committee and a Mr. Eliasson (1962) is Executive Vice member of the Compliance and Business Ms. Davidson (1956) is a Supervisory Board President, Chief Financial Officer of Conduct Committee. member of STMicroelectronics. She held Sandvik. various managerial positions in Alcatel Mr. Norling (1968) is an Investment Previously Mr. Eliasson was the Chief Lucent (1979 2011) including the role as Director and Sector Head of TMT at Financial Officer and Senior ViceChief Strategy Officer, Chief Compliance Kinnevik. Prior to that, he was the Chief President of Electrolux, the Swedish Officer, and Executive Vice President, Executive Officer of Total Access appliances manufacturer. Quality & Customer Care. Communications (dtac) in Thailand where Mr. Eliasson has also held various he executed a digital transformation and She has been a Member of the Supervisory management positions in Sweden and led a turnaround of the company’s financial Board of STMicroelectronics since June, abroad, including ABB Group, Seco Tools performance. He has also been EVP of 2013 and serves on its Audit Committee AB and Assa Abloy AB. Developed Asia for Telenor as well as Chief and Strategy Committee. She has also been Executive Officer of DigiTelecommunications recognized by Working Woman Foundation Mr. Eliasson holds a Bachelor of Science Malaysia and of Telenor Sweden. with one of its first Women Enabling Science Degree in Business Administration and and Technology awards in 2001. In 1999, she Economics from the University of Mr. Norling holds an MBA from Gothenburg was inducted into the Academy of Women Uppsala. School of Economics, an MSc in Engineering Achievers of the YWCA of the City of New Physics from Uppsala University, and an Mr. Eliasson brings to the Millicom Board York, which honors women of high MSc in Systems Engineering from Case his significant experience as a CFO for achievement. Western Reserve University, USA. multinational and global Swedish She brings to Millicom’s Board her long companies, roles including governance He brings to Millicom’s Board his extensive experience in the telecommunications and and oversight over financial reporting, experience in leading telecommunications IT sectors.Ms. Davidson received a Bachelor internal control and risk management and media businesses and digital of Science degree in physics from Lehigh processes and procedures within global transformation in emerging markets. University, a Master of Science degree in finance functions. INDEPENDENT from the Company Electrical Engineering from Georgia Tech, INDEPENDENT from the Company, its and its Executive Management, but and a Master of Science in Computer Executive Management, and its major NON-INDEPENDENT from the major Science through Bell Laboratories. shareholders. shareholders due to his significant INDEPENDENT from the Company, its affiliation to Kinnevik AB. MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT Executive Management, and its major JANUARY 31, 2019: 3,763 shares. MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT shareholders. JANUARY 31, 2019: 507 shares. MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT JANUARY 31, 2019: 2,518 shares.  66 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Board Profile: Skills and Experience–continued Mr. Roger Solé Rafols Mr. James Thompson (Spanish) (American) Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director (FIRST APPOINTED: MAY 2017) (FIRST APPOINTED: JANUARY 2019) Mr. Roger Solé Rafols was re-elected to Mr. James Thompson was elected as a the Board in May 2018. new member of the Board of Millicom in January 2019. He is a member of the Mr. Solé (1974) is the Chief Marketing Audit Committee and the Compensation Officer of Sprint Corporation, a leading Committee. American telecommunications company. James Thompson (1961) is a U.S. citizen Prior to joining Sprint in 2015, he spent and currently a Managing Principal at seven years at TIM Brasil (owned by Kingfisher Family Office, where he manages Telecom Italia) as Chief Marketing Officer a portfolio focused on value-oriented and previously as Marketing Director. investment strategies. Previously, he was a Before TIM Brasil, he was the Marketing Managing Principal at Southeastern Asset Director for Vivo in Brazil (owned by Management, where he was responsible for Telefonica and PT) and previously the the operations of the firm and was a senior Head of Innovation and VAS. member of the investment team that was Mr. Solé holds a BA and MBA in Business responsible for firm-wide investment Administration from ESADE Business & decisions. Between 2001 and 2006, Law School in Barcelona. Mr. Thompson opened and managed Southeastern Asset Management’s London Mr. Solé brings to the Millicom Board his research office. He holds an MBA from in-depth knowledge of the Darden School at the University of Virginia, telecommunications sector, marketing and a Bachelor’s degree in Business and convergence of traditional Administration from the University of North telecommunications products with Carolina. innovative products and services. Mr. Thompson brings to the Millicom Board INDEPENDENT from the Company, its his extensive experience from investment Executive Management, and its major management, and will contribute significantly shareholders. to the Board’s discussions on Millicom’s MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT long-term strategy and capital allocation. JANUARY 31, 2019: 1,623 shares. INDEPENDENT from the Company, its Executive Management, and its major shareholders. MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT JANUARY 31, 2019: 6,941 shares.  67 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Board Program The Board’s annual program includes: 1 2 3 Company strategy and Operating and financial Governance and strategic direction; performance review; compliance matters; 4 5 6 External affairs; Corporate culture; External financial reporting; 7 8 9 Risk management; Dividend policy; Acquisitions and divestments; 10 11 Evaluation of CEO and Human Resource matters, self-evaluation; and including compensation, health, safety, and well-being. Summary of Board Activities in 2018 The Board of Directors has an annual program which consists of specific areas of focus on which the Board has a role to oversee and advise the Company. Specific projects and topics arise in the normal course of business which are added to the program of the Board, certain of which are dealt with by specific Board committees. 68 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Summary of Areas of Focus in 2018 Activity/issues covered Board actions Reports of committees • The Board regularly reviewed reports from its Audit, Compliance and Business Conduct, and Compensation Committees on recent activities. • Discussion of Nomination Committee Director appointment proposals. Operational review • Priorities and challenges for each of the Latin American and African businesses were regularly presented and discussed by the Board, including development of cable and mobile data businesses, efficiency measures, and capital expenditure allocation. • The Board discussed and approved the 2019 budget. Strategic review • The Board dedicates at least one Board meeting every year to discuss strategy. • The Board discussed with the Executive Team industry and geographic trends and the operational and financial strategy for each region, including the portfolio strategy. Organizational structure • The Board was involved in the process of review of performance of the Executive Team, and the management organizational and reporting structures. Review and approval of capital • Issuance of the US$500 million bond. structure and dividend • Additional financing in several markets. • Recommendation of a dividend of US$2.64 per share to the 2018 AGM. Review and approval of corporate • Revisions to the Corporate Policy Manual (including Board and Committee charters). governance • Updates to the Authority matrix. • Election of Committee members. Mergers, acquisitions, disposals, and • The Board discussed acquisition and disposal developments across the Group, including joint ventures approval of transactions such as the acquisition of Cable Onda in Panama. Review and approval of financial • 2018 Annual Report including the 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements of the reports Group, and interim consolidated financial statements. • Standalone financial statements of Millicom International Cellular SA (the parent company). Risk management • Review of the key risks facing the Group and approach to managing risks. • Setting of risk appetite. External affairs • Review of the external affairs strategic framework, and implementation activities. • Periodical reviews of the political situation per market with a specific focus on election periods and advice on risk management required in relation thereto. • Review of regulatory and engagement challenges with advice from the Board on best-practice engagement strategy. • Review of the state of government relations in our markets and internationally. Millicom’s non-financial performance • Review of main non-financial performance and trends, including corporate responsibility. • Recommendation for continued focus in line with existing non-financial focus areas. Listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market in • Review and approval to list Millicom’s shares on the the Nasdaq Stock Market in the the U.S. U.S., and related filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 69 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Induction and Training Millicom provides Incoming Board areas that support their understanding activities during the year against the members with information on their of Millicom’s business and operating Board’s mandate as determined in the roles and responsibilities, operating environment. Board Charter (and those of its various procedures and information on committees). Millicom Directors also participate in an Millicom’s business and industry. Access annual visit to one of Millicom’s The evaluation of the Board’s to governance documents, policies, and operations (Bolivia in 2018), to learn performance during 2018 was procedures, as well as meeting materials about the characteristics of the local conducted internally through a and Company information, is provided market, conduct field trips to see aspects questionnaire, prepared with the through a secure online tool, in meetings of the business in operation, and interact assistance of an external advisor, to set with the Executive Management with local management. assess the Board’s performance against team, and in ongoing dissemination of its key duties, the Board’s composition, information. Board Effectiveness and processes, as well as the Training programs covering key topics The Board conducts an annual performance of individual Board such as anti-bribery and corruption, performance review process, wherein members. The results of the evaluation ethics, independence, and insider trading each Board member’s personal were presented to the Nomination are provided. The Board regularly performance is also reviewed. The review Committee. receives detailed reports on specific process involves an assessment of the Board’s and its committees’ actions and Board Meetings/Attendance at regularly scheduled meetings of the Board in the 2018 Financial Year Director Meeting Attendance % Mr. Tom Boardman 7/7 100 Mr. Odilon Almeida 6/7 86 Ms. Janet Davidson 7/7 100 Mr. Tomas Eliasson 6/7 86 Mr. Anders Jensen 5/7 71 Mr. Lars-Åke Norling 3/3 100 Mr. José Antonio Rios Garcia 7/7 100 Mr. Roger Solé Rafols 6/7 86 Attendance 47/52 90 Former Directors (until May 2018): Mr. Simon Duffy 2/2 100 Mr. Alejandro Santo Domingo 2/2 100 Overall attendance 51/56 91 70 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Board Committees to the preparedness of the Group for treasury, tax, risk management, revenue The Board and each of its Committees listing of the Company’s shares on the assurance, and compliance. Further work have written approved charters which Nasdaq Stock Market in the U.S.. We remains to be done as the Group continues set out the objectives, limits of authority, provided oversight over implementation to standardize and implement best organization, and roles and projects of new accounting standards, practices both in controls and assurance. responsibilities of the Board and its regular reporting, internal control, risk I would like to thank my fellow Committees. The charters can be found management, and internal audit Committee members for their dedication on our website www.millicom.com/ activities. The Committee convened and commitment to the activities of the our-company/governance. Details of the eight scheduled meetings during the Audit Committee and look forward to roles and responsibilities, activities in year and covered internal audit, and continuing our mandate through to the 2018, and Directors’ emoluments are set internal control activities during all 2019 AGM. out on the following pages. meetings. I. Audit Committee The Committee also reviewed and Mr. Tomas Eliasson discussed actions and activities around the Chairman of the Audit Committee 2018 was a very active year for the Audit important regulatory updates and Committee, with specific attention paid upcoming changes in financial reporting, Audit Committee Membership and Attendance ar regualrory scheduled meetings in 2018 Audit Committee Position First appointment Meetings/Attendance % Mr. Tomas Eliasson Chairman* May 2014 8/8 100 Mr. Tom Boardman Member May 2016 8/8 100 Ms. Janet Davidson Member July 2018 3/4 75 Mr. Lars-Åke Norling Member May 2018 2/3 67 Mr. Simon Duffy Member (until May 4, 2018) May 2016 3/4 75 Overall attendance 24/27 89 *Designated as having specific accounting competence per EU Directive. Appointment and Role of the Audit related, and certain other types of Business Controls, Chief Risk Officer and Committee complaints or concerns, as well as representatives from Ernst & Young (“EY”), The Audit Committee is comprised solely compliance with related laws and the Company’s external auditor, are of non-executive Directors, the majority regulations. invited to attend Committee meetings. of whom were independent Directors in The Audit Committee focuses particularly The agenda for meetings is prepared by 2018 (in 2019 all are independent). on compliance with financial requirements, the Audit Committee Chairman in Members are appointed to ensure there is accounting standards and judgments, conjunction with the Chief Financial a mixture of relevant experience of both appointment, oversight and independence Officer. Each meeting includes a private finance and broader commercial matters. of the external auditors and appointment session, attended only by Audit Committee The Board is confident that the collective and oversight of certain other accounting members and the external auditor, to experience of the members enables them firms that may be retained from time to provide an opportunity for open dialogue to act as an effective Audit Committee. time, transactions with related parties without management presence. The Committee is also satisfied that it has (including major shareholders), the the expertise and resource available to it At each regularly scheduled meeting, the effectiveness of the Internal Audit to fulfill its responsibilities. Audit Committee receives reports from function, the Group’s approach to risk the Chief Financial Officer, the external The Board has delegated to the Audit management, and ensuring that an auditor, the Head of Internal Audit, the Committee the responsibilities for efficient and effective system of Head of Business Controls, and the Chief oversight of the robustness, integrity, internal controls is in place. Risk Officer, together with reports from and effectiveness of financial reporting, Ultimate responsibility for reviewing and other officers of the Company as risk management, internal controls, approving Millicom’s Annual Report and required. More particularly, the Audit internal audit and the external audit Accounts remains with the Board. Committee has received from the process, pre-approval of certain audit external auditor the required and non-audit services provided by the The Chief Executive Officer, Chief information in accordance with external auditor, establishment of Financial Officer, Group Financial Luxembourg regulations. procedures pertaining to accountingController, Head of Internal Audit, Head of 71 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Summary of Areas of Focus and Actions in 2018 Governance • Reviewed and amended the Audit Committee Charter. Financial reporting • Reviewed key accounting and reporting issues at each meeting. • Reviewed and approved each quarter’s earnings release, the 2017 annual earnings release and summary financial statements, and the 2018 half year earnings release and interim financial statements. • Reviewed and discussed transition impact of IFRS 15 (“Revenue from Contracts with Customers”) and IFRS 9 (“Financial Instruments”) as well as activities around implementation of IFRS 16 (“Leases”) and other changes in the financial reporting landscape and accounting policy changes/ updates. External auditor • Received reports from the external auditor at each meeting covering important financial reporting, accounting and audit issues. • Received reports from the external auditor in compliance with EU regulations. • Reviewed and approved all non-audit services rendered by the external auditors. • Approved the 2018 external audit strategy and fees. • Considered the results of control testing performed by the external auditor. • Considered the performance of the external auditor and independence, including monitoring of the nature and value of non-audit services, as well as approving these fees. • Received reports on the preparedness of the Group for the U.S. listing. Internal audit activities • Approved the 2018 and 2019 internal audit plan. • Reviewed internal audit findings arising from the delivery of the 2018 audit plan. Financing, treasury and tax • Reviewed the Group’s tax strategy and structure and approved the tax policy. • Approved the updated Group treasury and related policies, including the policy on financial risk management. Risk management • Provided guidance and oversight over risk management processes. • Reviewed alignment of top risks with strategy. • Reviewed regular risk reports and remediation plans. Internal controls • Reviewed the remit and proposed activities of the Business Controls team. • Reviewed the Group’s Sarbanes-Oxley implementation plan related to the U.S. listing and received regular progress reports from the implementation team and external advisors. • Received the summary findings of internal control self-assessments performed in the year against the 2018 internal targets. Fraud management • Reviewed fraud policies and quarterly fraud reports, as well as proposed actions to remediate identified cases. Revenue assurance • Received quarterly updates on revenue assurance activities. • Reviewed trends and actions taken to minimize loss and revenue leakage. Related party transactions • Reviewed related party transactions that were performed at each meeting. Listing on the Nasdaq Stock • Oversight of re-listing Millicom’s shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market in the U.S., and related filings Market in the U.S. with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). • Review internal and third party assessments to evaluate Group’s readiness to re-list on the Nasdaq Stock Market in the U.S.. 2018 Meetings • The review of the effectiveness of • The completeness and compliance of all internal financial control; structural disclosures made in the During 2018, the Audit Committee had eight financial statements; and regular meetings, mainly coinciding with key • The transition impacts of the new dates in Millicom’s external reporting: revenue recognition standard, IFRS 15, • The financial reporting implications of and of IFRS 9 for financial instruments. the U.S. listing. Financial reporting • The review of the implementation A summary of all related party The Audit Committee reviewed earnings project around the upcoming adoption transactions was presented quarterly. releases for each quarter and financial of the new lease accounting standard, statements, having received reports from IFRS 16; management and the external auditor. In 2018, attention was mainly focused on: • The appropriateness of and application of the Group’s accounting policies and • Significant accounting issues where practices; judgment has been applied; • Compliance with financial reporting standards and other financial reporting requirements; 72 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix The significant issues considered by the the recoverable amount, be it under been recognized as an adjustment to Audit Committee in relation to the the “value in use” or the “fair value the opening balance of retained financial statements for the year ended less cost of disposal” model, is profits as at January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018 were: subjective and requires significant comparative financial statements judgment. In addition, the Group also have not be restated in accordance 1) Acquisition of Cable Onda–also refer tests its investments in joint ventures with the transitional provisions in to note A.1.2. of the consolidated and associates in case of an IFRS 15. The Group developed new financial statements impairment indicator. The Audit accounting policies compliant with On October 7, 2018, the Company Committee received analysis from IFRS 15, tailored to the services and entered into an agreement to acquire Management as to their assessment products sold. a controlling 80% stake in Cable Onda, of the recoverable amounts of the 7) Capitalization and assets useful the largest cable and fixed Group’s non-current assets, as well as lives–also refer to notes E.1.1. and telecommunications services provider the results of the sensitivity analysis. E.2.1. of the consolidated financial in Panama. The selling shareholders The Audit Committee also received statements retain a 20% equity stake in the analysis from the external auditor, company. The transaction completed including their view of significant The assessment and timing of on December 13, 2018 after receipt of assumptions such as discount rates. whether assets meet the regulatory approvals and consent from Following consideration, the capitalization criteria set out in the Cable Onda’s bondholders. Millicom Audit Committee agreed with relevant accounting standards, the concluded that it controls Cable Onda Management’s proposal that estimation of appropriate useful since completion date and therefore impairment losses had to be economic lives and the assessment of fully consolidates it in its financial recognized on our operation in Zantel. whether any impairment indicators statements with a 20% nonare present, such as redundant controlling interest. The purchase Except for the above, the results of assets, as well as the identification accounting remains provisional as of the annual impairment testing and the classification of leases, all December 31, 2018. showed that sufficient headroom require judgment. In addition, exists for the Group’s other Management regularly review and 2) Africa divestment–also refer to note operations. benchmark its assets useful lives with A.1.3. of the consolidated financial 5) Tax provisions and contingencies– peers. Once a year, Management statements also refer to note G.3.2. of the presents its conclusions to the Audit During 2018, disposals of the consolidated financial statements Committee. operations in Senegal and Rwanda 8) Investigation by the International were completed, and our operations The Group operates in many Commission Against Impunity in in those countries were countries where the tax and legal Guatemala (CICIG) and Tanzania deconsolidated. system is less mature and may be less share ownership issue–also refer to predictable. There are a number of 3) Tower sale and leaseback–also refer note G.3.1. of the consolidated matters therefore relating to tax to notes C.3.4. of the consolidated financial statements contingencies which require financial statements judgment as to the likely probability On July 14, 2017, the CICIG disclosed During 2018 and 2017, Millicom of cash outflow or the potential an ongoing investigation into alleged entered into tower sale and leaseback amount of any outflow. The Audit illegal campaign financing that transactions in Paraguay, Colombia Committee therefore received regular includes Comcel, our Guatemalan and El Salvador whereby Millicom reports from the Group Tax Director joint venture. sells its passive infrastructure to tower as to the status of each of these companies and leases back a portion matters, the likely outcome, the In June 2016, Millicom was served by a of the towers and ground, and provision required, if any, and third party seeking monetary damages receives related services. These proposed disclosure in the financial and seeking to exert rights as a transactions require management statements. Analysis of judgmental shareholder of MIC Tanzania Public judgment in respect of the asset tax matters was also presented by Limited Company. classification on the balance sheet the external auditor. On July 26, 2018, the Court of Appeal and as to whether the leaseback 6) Revenue recognition–also refer to of Tanzania, the country’s highest qualifies as a finance or operating note B.1. of the consolidated financial court, reaffirmed in a ruling that MIC lease or as a service agreement. statements Tanzania Public Limited Company The above accounting treatments remains owned and controlled by Judgment is required in assessing the Millicom. Late 2018, the opposing and decisions were discussed with the application of revenue recognition Committee. party has filed for a review of the principles. This includes the ruling by the same Court of Appeals, 4) Impairment testing–also refer to application of revenue between which already ruled in our favor. note E.1.6. of the consolidated multiple deliverables, such as the sale Millicom considers the success of this financial statements of a handsets with service in a review as remote and therefore bundled package, or managed continues to control and fully Under accounting standards, the services contracts that have complex consolidate MIC Tanzania Public Group is required to test goodwill and contractual agreements. The Group Limited Company. indefinite life intangible assets has adopted the new revenue annually and, where there are recognition standard, IFRS 15, using The Audit Committee has been indicators of potential impairment, the modified retrospective approach. updated at least quarterly on the also test the carrying value of other Hence, the cumulative effect of progress of these cases. non-current assets. Assessment of initially applying the Standard has 73 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Management Disclosure Committee external audit findings and Internal Audit’s This feedback allows the Committee to knowledge of the business. monitor and assess the performance of To assist with all matters relating to the external auditor in making a earnings releases and financial In December 2017, the Audit Committee recommendation to the Board regarding statement disclosures, the Group has a ratified the Internal Audit Plan for 2018, external auditor appointment. Disclosure Committee comprised of which included reviews focusing on senior management from finance, legal, Mobile, Home and B2B revenue streams, Auditor independence communications, investor relations and information security, IT & network The Audit Committee has established other functions as and when required. resilience, key financial processes, policies to maintain the independence of The Disclosure Committee identifies and compliance and ethics activities and the external auditor and to govern the considers disclosure matters in market large business and technology change provision of audit and non-audit services. releases which contain material financial programs. Follow-up audits were also During 2018, and as a result of the and other price sensitive information. built into the Internal audit plan, to Company’s re-listing on Nasdaq, the provide independent assurance that Risk management approval process of non-audit services and management actions from previous audit related services has been reviewed The Audit Committee received regular audits had been addressed to comply with SEC independence rules reports on the Group’s risk management effectively. The plan was primarily and the latest EU and local regulations. framework and process, changes to executed by the in-house Internal Audit Under these rules, the Audit Committee significant risks at both operational and team based in London, Luxembourg and has pre-approved a list of services that can Group level and how these are Miami, with specialist support provided be rendered by the audit firm. If services to managed. Further information is set out by one of the “Big 4” accounting firms. At be rendered are pre-approved in nature, in the risk management section of this each meeting, the Audit Committee these can be approved by management Annual Report. received an update on Internal Audit when requested (following an established activities, progress against the plan and In addition, the Audit Committee authority matrix) and then presented to results of the audits completed in the reviewed financial risk, tax risk and the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis period, including associated strategy, treasury policy and risks, and for formal approval. If services to be recommendations and management Group insurance cover. rendered are not pre-approved in nature, action plans where findings had been these should be pre-approved by the Internal control identified. Chairman of the Audit Committee when The Audit Committee reviewed the Fraud risk and whistleblowing requested and then submitted to the next Company’s internal control framework. full audit committee for formal approval. A The Audit Committee received and The Audit Committee remained focused schedule of all non-audit engagements reviewed quarterly fraud reports in on the need to promote the with the external auditor is reviewed at accordance with the Group’s Fraud policy. development of internal controls, both each meeting. The Group provides an ethics helpline financial and non-financial. which is administered by an independent For the year ended December 31, 2018, the In preparation for the U.S. listing, the third party and is available to all Audit Committee approved fees for audit Company commenced a program to employees, contractors and third parties. services of US$6.7 million, together with comply with the internal control over fees for non-audit work of US$0.9 million. External Audit effectiveness financial reporting requirements of the Under independence rules, the current U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Group The quality and effectiveness of the audit partner will rotate off for the audit Head of Business Controls together with external audit is of great importance to of the consolidated financial statements the Group’s external advisors made the Audit Committee. A detailed audit as of December 31, 2019. progress reports on the Sarbanes-Oxley plan is prepared and discussed with the program. Audit Committee at the start of each Audit tendering annual audit cycle, outlining the key risks Regular updates were provided on the EY was first appointed auditor of the and proposed geographic coverage. Group’s program of Internal Control Self Company for the year ended December 31, Assessment and the status of ongoing Audit quality is assessed by reference to 2012 following a competitive tender. control improvement projects. the standard of the reports received by Based on the EU audit regulations and the Audit Committee, the caliber of applicable Luxembourg law, EY would Internal Audit senior members of the audit team and have to rotate off by 2032 (20 years) at The execution of the 2018 Internal Audit the level of challenge provided to the latest, with mandatory tender in Plan provided Executive Management and Management. Also, feedback is received 2022 (after ten years). the Audit Committee an independent by the Audit Committee from view on the effectiveness of Millicom’s Management. In addition, on a regular internal control environment and basis the performance of the external governance processes. It was developed auditors is reviewed by Management to ensure alignment with the strategic both centrally and in each of Millicom’s risks of the Millicom Group, along with operating countries against a set of 17 consideration of the overall Group criteria ranging from knowledge of the strategy, input from senior management business, to timeliness of communication across multiple geographies and functions, and quality of reporting. 74 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix II. Compliance and Business Conduct corporate governance and supporting a employees and third parties on Committee strengthened control environment, a standards of business conduct by The Board of Millicom is committed to more concentrated approach to operationalizing compliance as part of strengthening corporate governance managing compliance risks across the everyday business decision-making, and and supporting the success that comes organization and enhanced ability to reinforcing the importance of doing with a robust culture of compliance and comply with changes to the company’s business the right way, under the living strong internal controls. The Board regulatory expectations. theme “I Am Compliance”. believes that Millicom can lead the way The Board’s objective is to reinforce a I want to thank the members of the in its dedication to ethics and culture of compliance that is practiced Compliance and Business Conduct compliance in all its markets. The Board wholeheartedly by every employee, Committee, the Company’s oversees and regularly reviews Millicom’s across all ranks, with no exceptions. The management team and Millicom’s Board Ethics & Compliance program to ensure Board will continue to exercise and Chairman for their unwavering it continuously focuses on three essential independent review over proposed commitment and dedication to the pillars. Company systems are reasonably corporate actions as we receive the Ethics and Compliance program in 2018 designed and managed to prevent, outcomes of investigations of and for the great progress we made this detect, and respond to compliance misconduct and non-compliance. year. We will continue on this important misconduct and non-compliance with journey in 2019. applicable laws.During 2018, Millicom The Board reinforced the need to build a continued building and enhancing the culture of recognition for the right Ethics and Compliance program, actions and an appropriate balance with Mr. Odilon Almeida supported by the Executive Committee disciplinary steps to address instances of Chairman of the Compliance and the Ethics and Compliance team. misconduct and non-compliance. To and Business Conduct Committee assist Millicom’s employees and all On behalf of the Board, I would like to external parties with whom the reconfirm our commitment to strong Company interacts, Millicom educates Compliance and Business Conduct Committee Membership and Attendance 2018 First Committee Position appointment Meetings/Attendance % Mr. Odilon Almeida Chairman November 2015 6/6 100 Mr. Lars-Åke Norling Member May 2018 2/2 100 Ms. Janet Davidson Member May 2016 6/6 100 Mr. Tom Boardman Member (until January 7, 2019) May 2016 6/6 100 Mr. Alejandro Santo Domingo Member (until May 4, 2018) November 2015 1/3 33 Overall attendance 21/23 100 Appointment and Role of the • oversees allocation of resources and Summary of Committee Activities Compliance and Business Conduct personnel to the Compliance area; in 2018 Committee The Committee convened, as planned, • assesses the Group’s performance in Millicom’s Compliance and Business six times during the year. The Committee the Compliance area; and Conduct Committee oversees and makes Chairman prepares the agenda in recommendations to the Board regarding • ensures that the Group maintains conjunction with the Chief Ethics and the Group’s compliance programs and proper standards of business conduct. Compliance Officer and reports are standards of business conduct. More provided on the status of the Ethics & Management representatives invited to specifically, the Compliance and Business Compliance Program and any attend the Compliance and Business Conduct Committee: compliance related issues including Conduct Committee include the Group investigations resulting from cases • monitors the Group’s Compliance CEO, the Chief Compliance and Ethics brought through the Company’s ethics program, including the activities Officer, General Counsel, Group CFO, the line or otherwise, anti-money laundering, performed by the Compliance Team Chief External Affiars Officer, and Head and information security issues. The CEO and its interaction with the rest of the of Internal Audit. and Executive Team have been organization; demonstrably committed and continue • monitors the investigations resulting to be actively involved in fostering a from cases brought through the culture of ethics and compliance from Group’s ethics line or otherwise; the top, across all our lines of business. 75 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Summary of Areas of Focus and Action Items in 2018 Program elements • Third party management Through a centralized due diligence program • Anti-corruption Program Compliance policies and procedures were reviewed and new ones developed to cover emerging areas of risk and to strengthen the company’s Anti-corruption program. • All compliance policies and procedures, revised and new, were communicated to the whole organization. • Training on company compliance policies was provided to all employees with bonus award for select managers dependent on completion rates. • Independent Assurance Reviews of the Company’s Compliance framework by group internal audit were conducted throughout the year and remediation actions were taken. • Communication campaigns were launched throughout the year on various compliance subjects. • Compliance Risk Assessment Establish Pro-active Compliance risk management process. Regularly monitor, collect and analyze data to confirm results. • Resources: hired two new compliance officers. • All GMs were given a set of Compliance KPIs to meet during year to be eligible for year-end bonus award. Reporting & Investigations • “SpeakUp” Campaign Encouraged employees to use the system to report issues of non-compliance with our policies and values. • Strengthened investigation process by building an investigations team, developing investigations resources in the operations, and publishing a Global Investigations Policy. • Incentives programs Compliance factors were incorporated into executives’ incentives program. Bonus awards are now dependent upon achievement of all compliance KPIs. Global Anti-money laundering (AML) • Implemented a robust Know Your Customer (KYC) tool in certain countries with the plan program to implement globally. • Enhanced current monitoring and implemented a new system in certain countries. • Training: provided AML training to several operations, including targeted groups such as upper management, MFS, and operation’s teams. • Deployed new review processes for dealers and agents in several operations in Latam and Africa that included adherence to local regulations, level of training, and AML program compliance. • Added additional resources for AML department’s functions in operations. • External assessments with remediation actions were developed for all Latam operations Information Security program • Developed a strategic 36-month plan to mature the corporate and local Information Security programs, as well as address any technology-control related Sarbanes-Oxley requirements. • Approval of requisitions for new hires for the Security program. • Initiated deployment of the Global Security Operations Center (GSOC). An industry leading partner has been selected and the initial operational integrations have begun. • The development of the enterprise-wide Identity and Access Management (IAM) program has begun. All critical Sarbanes-Oxley requirements have been identified, including account management, segregation of duties, and management attestation. Strategic roadmaps have been developed and the process of vendor selection has begun. 76 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix III. Compensation Committee In 2018, the Compensation Committee We pay employees competitively top 50 roles and other senior executives continued to focus on the review of compared to other opportunities they to maintain significant holdings of Millicom’s reward strategy to ensure that might have in the respective local Millicom shares. This incentivizes our top senior management compensation market. We also offer competitive leaders to take a longer-term view on reflects company performance closely. benefits to promote the health and positive business performance in happiness of our employees, and create alignment with company and We have designed our employee and a fun and invigorating work culture. We shareholder interests. executive compensation programs to believe in pay for performance. support three goals: I would like to thank my fellow A portion of compensation is tied to Compensation Committee members for 1) Attract and retain great talent; performance for all top executives, their dedication and commitment to the 2) Support our culture of including the senior teams at each of our activities of the Compensation entrepreneurship and performance, operations. The proportion of overall pay Committee and look forward to with an increased focus on pay based tied to performance is higher for continuing our mandate through to the on geographical / line of business employees at more senior levels in the 2019 AGM. accountability; and organization, reflecting their opportunity for higher impact on company Mr. José Antonio Ríos García 3) Align employee interests with performance. We use equity awards to shareholder interests. Chairman of the Compensation align employee and shareholder interests. We require employees in our Committee Compensation Committee Membership and Attendance in 2018 First Committee Position appointment Meetings/attendance % Mr. José Antonio Rios Garcia Chairman May 2017 6/6 100 Mr. Tom Boardman Member May 2016 6/6 100 Mr. Anders Jensen Member May 2017 6/6 100 Overall attendance 18/18 100 77 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Appointment and Role of the and retain executives, within the context Chairman with the entire Board. The Board Compensation Committee of Millicom’s international talent pool, considered that the CEO provided strong The Compensation Committee reviews which primarily consists of telecom, leadership for the Company during 2018. and makes recommendations to the media, and FMCG companies. The results of the review and evaluation Board of Directors regarding the Remuneration of the CEO requires Board were communicated to the CEO by the compensation of the CEO and the other approval. Guidelines for remuneration of Chairman. senior managers as well as management senior management, and share-based The Compensation Committee comprises succession planning. incentive plans for employees are three members. approved by the shareholders at the The Board, based on guidelines by the AGM. Main Activities of the Committee Compensation Committee, proposes the remuneration of senior management. The evaluation of the CEO is conducted during 2018 The objective of the guidelines is to by the Compensation Committee. The The Compensation Committee met six ensure that Millicom can attract, motivate evaluation criteria and the results of the times in 2018. evaluation are then discussed by the Summary of Areas of Focus and Action Items in 2018 Bonus and performance reports • Received and reviewed senior executive performance reports and Executive Committee individual payouts STI/LTI (cash /equity). • Reviewed and approved the 2018 variable compensation target and performance results. Compensation review • Reviewed and approved the peer group for executive benchmarking. • Approved all payments for Executive Committee members, including base pay increases. • Reviewed executive remuneration and governance trends and developments. • Reviewed executive benchmarking for the CEO and all Executive Committee members. • Approved changes to CEO and Executive Committee compensation elements based on market competitiveness. Share-based incentive plans • Reviewed and approved the 2018 Share Plan Rules. • Approved the 2015 LTI (PSP) vesting. • Reviewed and approved all equity grants. • Reviewed the treasury shares’ balance reserved for share-based incentive plans and the period they cover. • Reviewed shared ownership guidelines and the compliance of each covered executive. • Reviewed performance and projections of outstanding LTI plans. Global reward strategy and • Reviewed Remuneration/C&B Philosophy & Strategy. executive remuneration review Variable pay design • Reviewed and approved the Variable Plans Redesign (STI/LTI) for 2019 including pay our vehicle for JVs. • Discussed and approved STI/LTI redesign for 2019. • Reviewed and approved STI and LTI performance measures for 2019. Other • Reviewed and approved exceptional items, new hire equity grants, etc. • Reviewed LTI retirement eligibility clause. • Reviewed COC (Change of Control) / Reviewed GSMT severance plan payout. • Reviewed final MICSA budget for upcoming year. Compensation Committee • Reviewed and updated Compensation Committee Remit and Obligations. governance • Review and approved the Compensation Committee annual meeting cycle and calendar. • Reviewed the Compensation Commitee charter. • Introduced an oversight dashboard. • Reviewed of composition of the Compensation Commitee. • Reviewed and approved an external compensation consultant. 78 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Remuneration Guidelines business and personal performance, up Other benefits Other benefits can The Board proposes to the AGM to two times that target. The variable include, for example, a car allowance, guidelines for remuneration and other amounts or percentages are considered medical coverage, and in cases of employment terms for the senior to be competitive within market ex-patriate assignments, housing management. The annual base salary standards at total compensation levels. allowance, school fees, home leave, and and other benefits of the CEO is The variable remuneration shall be other travel expenses. proposed by the Compensation based on the performance of the Pension The Executives are eligible to Committee and approved by the Board. Executives in relation to established participate in a global pension plan, in goals and targets along with Millicom’s Remuneration Policy accordance with market standards. The financial performance (see table below). Remuneration packages for members of global pension plan is secured through the Executive Team at Millicom comprise Use and relative weighting of financial premiums paid to reputable insurance an annual base salary, an annual bonus, performance target measures under the companies. share-based compensation, social variable compensation rules are equal to Deviations from the guidelines In security contributions, pension all employees regardless of seniority. special circumstances, the Board may contributions, and other benefits. Bonus Variable STI share-based remuneration deviate from the above guidelines, such and share-based compensation plans Portion of the STI is paid in the form of as additional variable remuneration in (see note B.4.1 to the consolidated deferred shares with a three-year the case of exceptional performance. In financial statements) are based on pro-rated vesting, strengthening our pay these instances the Board of Directors actual performance. Share-based for performance and retention will explain the reason for the deviation compensation is granted once a year by incentives. at the following AGM. the Compensation Committee. Long-term share-based incentive plans Payment for loss of office If there is a Base salary The Executives’ base (LTIPs) The aim of the LTIPs is to company-initiated termination, other salaries are competitive and based on complement and support Millicom’s than for cause, of the Millicom each individual Executive’s long-term business view and strategy. Executives that are part of our Executive responsibilities and performance. The plans and the amounts need to be Committee (e.g. the CEO and his/her Variable STI (Short-Term Incentive) competitive in order to attract and retain direct reports), a notice period of 6 12 cash remuneration The Executives key executives. These incentives are months potentially applies. may receive variable remuneration in targeted for a selected group of addition to base salary. The maximum employees only, approximately the top target variable remuneration in any 50 roles and have a three-year cliff Executive’s contract is 100% of the base vesting. salary and, in case of exceptional Bonus measurements Rationale Weighting Personal performance The individual goals and objectives of Millicom management and employees are 30% critical in achieving its financial objectives and in long-term value creation. Service Revenue Recurring revenue is a key growth measure used by the Group as it seeks to monetize 20% opportunities in all countries and all business units. EBITDA EBITDA is used as a measurement of ongoing earning power/value creation in the 20% Group and is used as a measure of how well management controls the operational cost of growing revenue. Operating Free Cash Flow Operating Free Cash Flow is a measure aligned to return on invested capital and is 20% used to measure how efficiently management are generating cash flow. Net Promoter Score The Net Promoter Score is an index that measures the willingness of customers to 10% recommend a company’s products or services to others. Total 100% 79 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Executive Team Remuneration Other Executives Compensation of the Executive Team 2018 CEO CFO (9 members) Cash Compensation (US$ ‘000)* Base salary 1,112 673 3,930 Bonus (for 2018 performance) 1,492 557 2,445 Pension 247 101 962 Other benefits** 66 63 805 Termination benefits — — 301 Total salary and benefits 2,918 1,393 8,444 Equity Compensation (number of shares)*** Performance share plan(i) 34,154 17,716 41,710 Deferred share plan(ii) (for 2018 performance) 25,011 9,339 40,988 Total shares (number) 59,165 27,055 82,698 Value of shares(iii) (US$ ’000) 3,628 1,665 5,053 (i) Amounts relating to the 2016 performance share plan based on the actual performance over the three-year period. The value of shares is based on the closing market value of Millicom shares in US$ on December 28, 2018 of US$62.53. These shares will vest on March 1, 2019. Final performance metrics subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee on March 5, 2019. (ii) Amounts relating to the 2019 deferred share plan (awarded in 2019 based on 2018 results). The value of shares is based on the average Q4 closing market value of Millicom shares of US$59.65. These shares will vest over three years from the award date with a vesting schedule 30%/30%/40%, dependent on continued service of the employee. (iii) The value is calculated on the basis described above which differs from the value calculated for the IFRS financial statements. *Other Executives Cash Compensation includes Daniel Loria, former CHRO and Rodrigo Diehl, EVP Strategy. ** Other Benefits include relocation support when applicable with an average amount of US$25K. *** Other Executives Equity Compensation includes Rodrigo Diehl, EVP Strategy during 2018. Other Executives Compensation of the Executive Team 2017 CEO CFO (9 members) Cash Compensation (US$ ‘000)* Base salary 1,000 648 3,822 Bonus (for 2017 performance) 707 455 1,590 Pension 150 97 629 Other benefits 64 15 1,193 Termination benefits — — — Total salary and benefits 1,921 1,215 7,233 Equity Compensation (number of shares)* Performance share plan(i) 11,865 6,230 10,044 Deferred share plan(ii) (for 2017 performance) 10,688 6,877 24,040 CEO Dividend Share Award 1,179 Total shares (number) 23,732 13,107 34,084 Value of shares(iii) (US$ ’000) 1,588 877 2,280 (i) Amounts relating to the 2015 performance share plan based on the actual performance over the three-year period. The value of shares is based on the closing market value of Millicom shares in US$ on December 29, 2017 of US$66.91. These shares will vest on March 1, 2017. Final performance metrics will be approved by the Remuneration Committee on March 5, 2018. (ii) Amounts relating to the 2017 deferred share plan (awarded in 2018). The value of shares is based on the closing market value of Millicom shares in US$ on December 29, 2017 of US$66.91. These shares will vest over three years from the award date, dependent on continued service of the employee. (iii) The value is calculated on the basis described above which differs from the value calculated for the IFRS financial statements. *Other Executives compensation includes Daniel Loria, former CHRO. 80 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Share-based Incentive Plans The share-based incentive plans currently corporate performance of the previous year high-potential employees and employees in consist of a Deferred Share Plan (DSP) and a and the awards vest over three years, 30% key roles (by nomination exception) under Performance Share Plan (PSP). after one year, 30% after two years and the plans set out in the following table. In 40% after three years. Shares granted under addition, the rules of the plans set out certain The 2019 DSP (2018 results) corresponds to the 2018 PSP vest at the end of a three-year criteria and conditions in which new the portion of the STI paid with the DSP that period, whereby vesting is subject to certain employees can be awarded sign-on awards. will be granted in Q1 2019 based on 2018 company performance conditions. The CEO In countries where Millicom has a local performance. The 2018 PSP (LTIP) and CFO are participating in the Group’s partner, in certain cases, the same eligibility corresponds to the grant of PSP made in Q1 2018 PSP, with target opportunities as per the and rules apply for the incentive plans, except 2018, that covers performance of 2018 – 2020 table below. For the 2018 year, equity-based that instead of being granted awards and vests in Q1 2021. Shares granted under incentive plans were offered to Executives, denominated in Millicom shares, the the 2019 DSP are based on personal and other senior management, as well as to executives receive deferred cash awards. Maximum shares awarded Basis for LTIP Eligibility Participants for 2018 calculating award Comment 2019 Deferred Share Plan CEO, CFO, other 231 297,856 20–50% on base (DSP) Executives and other salary (global) senior management* 2018 Performance Share CEO, CFO, other 48 237,196 400% CEO Plan (PSP) Executives and other 175% CFO (global) senior 35%–160% Global senior management on base salary, as management per 01.01.18 team *A limited number of high-potential employees and employees in key roles can be nominated by exception. Specific rules of each plan are set out below. Vesting under all plans is conditional on the participant remaining employed by the Group at each vesting date. Additional vesting criteria are noted under each plan. Vesting period Additional vesting criteria LTIP (terms and conditions) 1 year 2 years 3 years 2019 Deferred Share Plan (DSP) — 30.0% 30.0% 40% 2018 Performance Share Plan (PSP) Achievement of Service Revenue CAGR, Operating Free — — 100% Cash Flow CAGR and Relative Total Shareholder Return targets measured over the three-year vesting period. Measurements used for PSP performance measure Weighting Operating Free Cash Flow (OFCF) with a specific 3-year CAGR target 50% Service Revenue with a specific 3-year CAGR target 25% Relative Total Shareholder Return (RTSR) vis-vis a peer group of companies 25% (no award is made for performance below peer group median. Achieving TSR performance at media of pre-determined peer triggers 25% of the relative TSR component) 81 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix CEO Compensation The 2018 components of the CEO remuneration package were: At target • an annual base salary of US$1.15 million; US$000 • variable cash remuneration with a target of 100% of base salary; • participation in Millicom’s share-based compensation plans and; • other standard benefits, as described under the senior 30% management remuneration principles earlier in this report. Cash $2,562 Beneﬁts $ 51 CEO Earnings Opportunity from 2018 Award Levels Shares $5,750 The tables below provide estimates of the potential future 1% remuneration for the CEO based on the TOTAL $8,363 69% remuneration opportunity granted in the 2018 financial year. Potential outcomes are based on different performance scenarios. Assumptions underlying each scenario are described below. Fixed • Fixed income consists of base salary, employment benefits and company 17% pension contributions. • Base salary is at December 31, 2018. Fixed $1,463 • Benefits and Pension are valued using the figures in the total Variable $6,900 remuneration for the 2018 financial year table detailed below. TOTAL $8,363 • Pension contributions are made at 15% of base salary as at December of the preceding year. 83% Base Benefits Pension Total Fixed (US$ ’000) (US$ ’000) (US$ ’000) (US$ ’000) Mauricio Ramos 1,150 66 247 1,463 Variables on target • Values are based on what the CEO would receive if performance was in line with Incentive Performance Targets. • The target STI award opportunity is 200% of base salary, of which half is paid in cash, and the remaining half is paid via the Deferred Share Plan (DSP) At maximum US$000 • The target award opportunity for the LTI, the Performance Share Plan (PSP), is 400% of base salary for the CEO, assuming relative total shareholder return (RTSR) performance being at peer group median and the CAGR for both Service Revenue and Operating Free Cash Flow 24% (OFCF) to be at target. Cash $ 3,712 0.3% Variables at maximum Beneﬁts $ 51 • The maximum STI award opportunity is 400% of base salary, of which Shares $11,500 half is paid in cash and the remaining half is paid via the Deferred Share Plan (DSP) TOTAL $15,263 75% • The maximum award for performance under the PSP is 800% of base salary, where relative total shareholder return outperforms the peer group median by 20% and the CAGR for both Service Revenue and OFCF to be at 120% of target. 10% Fixed $ 1,463 Variable $13,800 TOTAL $15,263 90% 82 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Details of Share Purchase and Sale common shares in the Company in order 2018 Activity to align their interests with those of our Global Senior Management Level % During 2018, Millicom’s CEO, Mauricio shareholders. All Share Plan participants CEO 400 Ramos, acquired 15,400 Millicom shares. in the Global Senior Management Team CFO 200 (including all Executives) are required EVPs 100 Shareholding Requirements to own Millicom shares to a value of Millicom’s share ownership policy sets a percentage of their respective base General managers and VPs 50 out the Compensation Committee’s salary as of January of the calendar Unless this requirement is met each year, requirements on Global Senior Managers year. no vested Millicom shares can be sold by to retain and hold a personal holding of the individual. Share ownership and unvested share awards granted from company equity Other plans (number of shares) CEO Executives Total December 31, 2018 Share ownership (vested from equity plans and otherwise acquired) 122,310 84,782 207,092 Share awards not vested 172,485 339,726 512,211 December 31, 2017 Share ownership (vested from equity plans and otherwise acquired) 80,159 55,888 136,047 Share awards not vested 148,324 299,067 447,391 2018 Remuneration for the Chairman, Committee reviews and recommends The remuneration of Directors comprises Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive the Directors’ fees, which are approved an annual fee and shares denominated Directors by the shareholders at the AGM or EGM. in Swedish Krona (SEK) or U.S. Dollars Decisions on annual remuneration of Fees are set based on the role (USD). Director remuneration for the Directors (“tantièmes”) are reserved by (Chairman, Deputy Chairman), and for period is as follows: the Articles of Association to the general participation in and roles of Chairman of meeting of shareholders. Directors are the Audit Committee, the Compliance therefore prevented from voting on their and Business Conduct Committee, and own compensation. The Nomination Compensation Committee. Remuneration Remuneration 2018 2017 Board and committees SEK 000’s SEK 000’s Directors Mr. Tom Boardman (Chairman) 1,470 (ii) 2,150 Mr. José Antonio Rios Garcia 1,075 1,075 Mr. Odilon Almeida 1,050 1,050 Ms. Janet Davidson 1,050 — Mr. Lars-Åke Norling 772(iii) — Mr. Tomas Eliasson 1,250 1,250 Mr. Anders Jensen 650 (ii) 950 Mr. Roger Solé Rafols 850 850 Former Directors (until May 2018): Mr. Simon Duffy — 1,050 Mr. Alejandro Santo Domingo — 950 Total in SEK 000’s SEK 8,201 SEK 10,275 Total (US$ ’000)(i) US$943 US$1,122 (i) C ash compensation converted from SEK to USD at exchange rates on payments dates each year. Share based compensation based on the market value of Millicom shares on the 2018 AGM date (in total 6,591 shares). Net remuneration comprised 51% in shares and 49% in cash (2017: 52% in shares and 48% in cash). (ii) From the period from the 2018 AGM to the date of the EGM in January 2019. (iii) From the period from September 1, 2018 to the 2019 AGM on May 2, 2019. 83 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Millicom CEO and Executive Team CEO Position Role and responsibilities Mr. Mauricio Ramos CEO • Leading the development and execution of the Company’s strategy. • Day-to-day activities and management decisions, both operating and financial. • Liaison between the Board and Management of the Company. • Leading the Executive Team. Mauricio Ramos, born in 1968, joined Millicom in April 2015 as Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Before joining Millicom, he was President of Liberty Global’s Latin American division, a position he held from 2006 until February 2015. During his career at Liberty Global, Mauricio held several leadership roles, including positions as Chairman and CEO of VTR in Chile, Chief Financial Officer of Liberty’s Latin American division and President of Liberty Puerto Rico. Mauricio is also a Member of the Board of Directors of Charter Communications (U.S.). He is a dual Colombian and U.S. citizen who received a degree in Economics, a degree in Law, and a postgraduate degree in Financial Law from Universidad de Los Andes in Bogota. Mr. Mauricio Ramos Chief Executive Officer MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT JANUARY 31, 2019: 122,310 shares Millicom’s Executive Team supports the CEO in the day-to-day operation and management of the Group, within their specific areas of expertise. Millicom’s Executive Team meets on at least a monthly basis and more frequently when required. Millicom’s Executive Team is as follows: Executive Team Role Responsibilities Mr. Tim Pennington Chief Financial Officer Finance and financial planning. Reporting financial performance, including external financial reporting. Budgeting and forecasting, monitoring expenditures and costs. Implementation and enhancement of related controls. Risk management. Mr. Esteban Iriarte Chief Operating Officer–Latam Operations and development of the Latin American businesses. Mr. Mohamed Dabbour Head of Africa Division Operations and development of the African businesses. Mr. Xavier Rocoplan Chief Technology and Information Officer Networks, information technology and procurement within the Group. Ms. Rachel Samrén Chief External Affairs Officer Government relations, regulatory affairs, corporate communications, and corporate responsibility. Mr. Salvador Escalón General Counsel Legal and corporate governance matters including oversight, identification, and management of legal cases and issues of the Group, as well as legal aspects of mergers and acquisitions and other corporate transactions. Ms. Susy Bobenrieth Chief Human Resources Officer Human Resource matters including talent acquisition and management, compensation, diversity, and inclusion. Mr. HL Rogers Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Compliance matters including ethics, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, and related compliance programs. Also, corporate security and information security. 84 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix The profiles of the CFO and Executive Team members are provided below: Mr. Tim Pennington Mr. Esteban Iriarte Mr. Mohamed Dabbour Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer, Latin America Head of Africa Division Tim Pennington joined Millicom in June Esteban Iriarte was appointed as Executive Mohamed Dabbour joined Millicom in 2014 as Senior Executive Vice President, Vice President, Chief Operating Officer 2008 and has held a broad variety of roles Chief Financial Officer. (COO), Latin America in August 2016. in the Africa region including Chief Financial Officer in Chad in 2009 and Chief Previously, he was the Chief Financial Previously, Esteban was General Manager Financial Officer in Ghana in 2011. Prior to Officer at Cable and Wireless of Millicom’s Colombian businesses where, being appointed as Head of the Africa Communications plc, Group Finance in 2014, he led the merger and integration division, he held the position of Chief Director for Cable and Wireless plc and, of Tigo and the fixed-line company UNE. Financial Officer, Africa since August 2015. prior to that, CFO of Hutchison Prior to leading Tigo Colombia, Esteban Telecommunications International Ltd, Prior to joining Millicom, Mohamed worked was head of Millicom’s regional Home and based in Hong Kong. Tim was also Finance for BESIX, the largest Belgian construction B2B divisions. Director of Hutchison 3G (UK), Hutchison company. He started his career at Whampoa’s British mobile business. From 2009 to 2011, he was CEO of Amnet, PricewaterhouseCoopers in Brussels as a a leading service provider in Central Senior Accountant. He also has corporate finance experience, America for broadband, cable TV, fixed line, firstly as a Director at Samuel Montagu & Mohamed holds an Executive MBA degree and data services, acquired by Millicom in Co. Limited, and then as Managing Director from London Business School. 2008. of HSBC Investment Bank within its MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT Corporate Finance and Advisory In 2016, Esteban joined the Board of JANUARY 31, 2019: 4,525 shares Department. Directors of Sura Asset Management. Sura is one of Latin America’s leading financial He is a British national and has a BA groups. (Honours) degree in Economics and Social Studies from the University of Manchester. Esteban is from Argentina and received a degree in Business Administration from the MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT Pontificia Universidad Catolica Argentina JANUARY 31, 2019: 15,933 shares “Santa Maria de los Buenos Aires”, and an MBA from the Universidad Austral in Buenos Aires. MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT JANUARY 31, 2019: 19,309 shares 85 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Mr. Xavier Rocoplan Ms. Rachel Samrén Mr. Salvador Escalón Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, and Information Officer Chief External Affairs Officer General Counsel Xavier Rocoplan started working with Rachel Samrén joined Millicom in July 2014 Salvador Escalón was appointed as Millicom in 2000 and joined the Executive and manages the Group’s External Affairs Millicom’s General Counsel in March 2013 Committee as Chief Technology and function, which encompasses government and became Executive Vice President in Information Technology Officer in relations, regulatory affairs, corporate July 2015. December 2012. communications, and corporate Salvador leads Millicom’s legal team and responsibility functions. Xavier is currently heading all mobile and advises the Board of Directors and senior fixed network and IT activities across the Her focus is on driving Millicom’s global management on legal and governance Group as well as all Procurement & Supply engagement with particular responsibility matters. Chain. for special situation strategies. He joined Millicom as Associate General Xavier first joined Millicom in 2000 as CTO Rachel’s background is in the risk Counsel Latin America in April 2010. In this in Vietnam and subsequently for South management consulting sector, most role, he successfully led legal negotiations East Asia. In 2004, he was appointed CEO recently as Head of Business Intelligence at for the merger of Millicom’s Colombian of Millicom’s subsidiary in Pakistan (Paktel), The Risk Advisory Group plc. Previously, she operations with UNE-EPM a role he held until mid-2007. During this worked for Citigroup as well as nonTelecomunicaciones S.A., as well as the time, he launched Paktel’s GSM operation governmental and governmental acquisition of Cablevision Paraguay. and led the process that concluded with the organizations. From January 2006 to March 2010, disposal of the business in 2007. Xavier was Rachel currently serves as Chairman of the Salvador was Senior Counsel at Chevron then appointed as head of Corporate Board of Directors of Reach for Change and Corporation, with responsibility for legal Business Development, where he managed Zantel. matters relating to Chevron’s downstream the disposal of various Millicom operations operations in Latin America. (e.g. Asia), the monetization of Millicom She is a Swedish national and holds a BSc in infrastructure assets (towers) as well as International Relations from the London Previously, he was in private practice at the numerous spectrum acquisitions and School of Economics and a MLitt in law firms Skadden, Morgan Lewis, and license renewal processes in Africa and in International Security Studies from the Akerman Senterfitt. Latin America. University of St Andrews. Salvador is an American national and has a Xavier is a French national and holds MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT J.D. from Columbia Law School and a B.B.A. Masters degrees in engineering from Ecole JANUARY 31, 2019: 2,627 shares in Finance and International Business from Nationale Supérieure des Florida International University. Télécommunications de Paris and in MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT economics from Université Paris IX JANUARY 31, 2019: 14,712 shares Dauphine. MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT JANUARY 31, 2019: 26,935 shares 86 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Ms. Susy Bobenrieth Mr. HL Rogers Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Executive Vice President, Chief Ethics and Officer Compliance Officer Susy Bobenrieth, a global Human Resource HL Rogers joined Millicom in August 2016 professional, joins Millicom with over 25 as Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. As years of experience in major multi-national the leader of Millicom’s Compliance companies that include Nike Inc., American function, he is committed to maintaining a President Lines, and IBM. world-class compliance program. As an ex-Nike executive, she has extensive Previously, he was partner in the international knowledge and proven results Washington DC office of international law in leading large-scale organizational firm Sidney Austin LLP, where he transformations, driving talent represented individual, corporate, and management agenda, and leading teams. government clients in compliance issues She is passionate about building great and complex litigation. businesses and winning with highThroughout this period, HL Rogers performing teams. developed a wealth of experience in setting Susy was raised in the USA by her Chilean up and managing compliance programs, immigrant parents and is one of eight strengthening compliance policies and children. procedures, as well as conducting training and development. He has also assisted She has deep international experience many large corporations in negotiations having lived and worked in Mexico, USA, with authorities in multiple jurisdictions. Brazil, the Netherlands, and Spain. She received a degree from the University of HL clerked for Judge Thomas Griffith of the Maryland, University College in 1989. United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 2005. He MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT received his Juris Doctorate from Harvard JANUARY 31, 2019: no shares Law School in 2004 and has published several articles on compliance and ethics matters within the corporate setting. In 2001, HL received his BA degree in English from Brigham Young University. MILLICOM SHAREHOLDING AT JANUARY 31, 2019: 741 shares 87 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Management Governance covers both financial and non-financial International Financial Reporting The Group seeks to ensure that controls across 15 core business Standards as adopted by the European governance activities are embedded in processes. The control manual was Union. Due to its inherent limitations, the daily operations of all businesses and updated at the start of the year. Each internal controls over financial reporting in the Group’s corporate functions. The country has its own dedicated, local may not prevent or detect role of the Group’s governance functions Business Control team responsible for misstatements. is to set policies and procedures in monitoring and development of the local Cable Onda was acquired on December accordance with our obligations and internal control environment. 13, 2018 and the first assessment of international best practice. These Monitoring Systems Internal Controls over Financial functions then ensure policies and A process of internal control selfReporting will take place in 2019. procedures are embedded in our assessment is operated and requires businesses and monitor compliance. Management has assessed the self-certification of the operation of key effectiveness of internal control over Each function has clear reporting lines controls. Self-certified responses are then financial reporting as of December 31, through to the Executive Management subject to review and challenge by the 2018 and concluded that it was Team and the CEO. Reporting is also to Group Business Controls team and effective. The foregoing assessment the Board committees, as previously Global Process Owners. The results are does not constitute and is not meant to described, based on the responsibilities also compared to findings from Internal be an assessment of Millicom’s internal of each committee. For instance, the and External Audit. Where controls are control over financial reporting for Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer found not to be operating effectively, purposes of the U.S. Securities Exchange reports directly to the relevant Board action plans are designed with Act of 1934, as amended, requirement committee with a dotted line report to responsibilities and timescales assigned which is not yet applicable to Millicom. the CEO. for remediation. Risk Management In addition, the Group has a dedicated Self-assessment results are reported to The risk function is tasked with Internal Audit function to provide the Audit Committee and the Executive identifying, analyzing, measuring, and independent assurance over all Team. The results enable an assessment monitoring of Millicom’s risks. The Chief businesses and corporate functions of the relative maturity of our internal Risk Officer is responsible for providing through a program of risk-based internal control environment by both business risk owners at central functional and audits. Internal Audit reports to the process and by country. In 2018, three country level with methodology and Audit Committee of the Board and to self-assessment exercises were tools to support the approach to Executive Management. Improvements performed (2017:3). balancing risk with return, and reporting are identified, management actions are Fraud Management and Reporting to the Executive Team. The Audit assigned and implementation progress is Business Control has responsibility for Committee, on behalf of the Board, is monitored. fraud risk management. Education responsible for oversight of risk Business Control activities continued, including an management activities. The Board has overall responsibility for awareness campaign aligned with Our risk assessment processes and the the Group’s system of internal control, International Fraud Awareness Week, in principal risks managed by the Group are which is designed to manage, rather November. set out in the Risk Management section than eliminate, the risk of failure to A quarterly fraud report is prepared by of this annual report. achieve business objectives and can only each operation. A summary of this is provide reasonable, but not absolute, Ethics and Compliance presented to the Audit Committee along assurance against material The Millicom Ethics and Compliance with the key actions taken. Quantitative misstatement or loss. The concept of function has overall responsibility for the and qualitative thresholds have been reasonable assurance recognizes that group-wide Millicom Ethics and agreed to govern the reporting of the cost of control procedures should not Compliance program with robust individual fraud incidents to the Group exceed the expected benefits. anti-bribery and anti-corruption, CFO, CEO, and the Audit Committee. anti-money laundering (AML) and Responsibility for maintaining effective Internal Control over Financial Information Security programs. internal controls is delegated to the CEO Reporting and the Executive Team with oversight Millicom aims to be a Compliance Leader The Management of Millicom is provided by the Audit Committee. in all its markets. Our Ethics & Compliance responsible for establishing and Millicom continued to invest significantly Program is intended to prevent and maintaining adequate internal control during the year to further strengthen its detect misconduct and protect the over financial reporting. Internal control internal control framework including interests of shareholders, employees and over financial reporting is a process preparatory work for the U.S. secondary the public, and is executed by an efficient designed to provide reasonable listing. Within the Millicom control compliance function focused on the most assurance regarding the reliability of framework, operational and functional important risks. financial reporting and the preparation management teams perform controls. of financial statements for external Key controls are documented in the reporting purposes in conformity with Millicom internal control manual, which 88 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Management and Governance of was given to reinforcing everyone’s control self-assessments in quarterly Compliance Activities compliance duties and embracing the Local Compliance Committees. The Millicom Management team is understanding of Compliance being in Corporate Responsibility committed to the highest level of ethics the Culture, not just a policy. This is the third year that Millicom has and compliance. This requires that every We launched group-wide e-learning on integrated corporate responsibilityemployee is responsible for understanding the Millicom Code of Conduct & related performance data and the important legal and ethical issues Anti-Corruption policy. The purpose of information in our annual financial and that affect our business. Our commitment the training was to heighten attention to operational report to demonstrate how to compliance begins with each and every key risk areas such as improper managing responsible growth and key one of our employees and our third parties payments, gifts and hospitalities, risks support the successful delivery of acting with Integrity. This means more donations, managing third parties, our business strategy. than just complying with the law; it means relationships with Government Officials, acting in an ethical manner as described Millicom’s Corporate Responsibility and approval and recording of expenses. in the company’s Code of Conduct. team sets CR strategy, drives policies and This training was part of the Company’s processes for CR governance, guides and The performance of all our senior Anti-Corruption Program, enhancing coordinates CR performance across management is measured by employees’ ability to identify warning business functions, and publishes Compliance KPIs, requiring continual signs of bribery, to understand and apply CR-related performance information in improvement for compliance-related our anti-corruption policy, and to adhere the annual integrated report. Our issues. In 2018, integrated compliance to a solid decision-making strategy when integrated report will continue to be a factors were incorporated into making business decisions. key vehicle in promoting transparency executives’ incentives program, including Speak Up Policy and Issue towards investors and other key bonus awards tied to achievement of all Management stakeholders on CR risks and these KPIs. We use performance ratings A new Hotline campaign, “Speak Up-We opportunities. to drive concrete action and promote Will Act On It”, was launched groupwide ethical business practices. It is our The CR team constantly engages with to promote our Millicom Ethics Line, obligation to include appropriate internal and external stakeholders to encouraging employees to use this incentives for taking reasonable steps to ensure that Millicom understands and external, independent system to report prevent or detect criminal conduct and addresses CR issues that are important issues of non-compliance with our appropriate disciplinary measures for to our business and relevant to our policies and values. This initiative was failing to take such steps. stakeholders. part of our larger communication We continued reinforcing our Third campaign “Integrity Starts With You” Stakeholder engagement is done Parties management space in 2018 that we have been using to continue to through a biennial materiality analysis, through a centralized and elevated due raise awareness of compliance and and for the most part via ongoing diligence program. The use of ethics and to drive a corporate culture of interaction with our key stakeholders. In technology allowed for a stronger integrity. addition to anticipating and improving automation of third-party screening with preparedness on risks, the CR function Key Governance Initiatives a goal of improved compliance also adds value by seeking responsible Millicom strengthened the Compliance outcomes. We published a procedure on leadership opportunities for the Group to function, adding two additional senior interactions with government and other assess where we can make the greatest Compliance Officers for the Africa public officials in order to strengthen and positive impact to society, to the operations and a replacement in Latin clarify risks and controls around third environment and, in turn, to our America. party management. business. Internal Audit worked with the business All Compliance policies were reviewed Governance of CR units to develop action plans to address and new ones developed to cover Millicom’s Board of Directors oversees the findings from the compliance audit, emerging areas of risk (Government the Government Relations (GR), and we implemented those plans. Third Regulatory Affairs, Corporate Interaction Policy) to strengthen the parties found to be in violation of our Responsibility (CR), and Social company’s Anti-corruption program. policies were terminated or remediated. Investment (SI) functions of the Group, Specific training modules were rolled out to all employees on the new and Millicom has strengthened its Ethics and which fall under the umbrella of External reviewed policies. Automation of Compliance program monitoring and Affairs. This is due to the depth and compliance Declaration and Attestation data analysis. In 2018, we expanded materiality of these topics and the was launched. In 2018 we continue quarterly Compliance monitoring on key importance of monitoring advancing a culture of compliance by business and Compliance risks. We interconnected risks and opportunities accountability “Do Business the Right performed regular analysis of risk, relating to them. The Executive Vice Way” with the living theme “I am control maturity, and training President (EVP), Chief External Affairs Compliance” & raising the key question effectiveness and cross referenced our Officer, a direct report of the CEO, is #Howdoyoucomply. Special attention efforts with results of audits and internal accountable for delivering updates on 89 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix How CR is governed Role Board of Directors As part of the External Affairs function, CR oversees, advises and makes recommendations to Management regarding our strategy and activities in the areas of CR and social investment. Chief Executive Officer Executive Management Team E  VP sponsors for managing CR EVP Direct reports Chief  Ethics and Chief Technology C  hief External to the CEO Compliance Officer and Information Affairs Officer Officer Senior management Corporate  orporate C Investigations D  irector Corporate Compliance & Security Responsibility V  ice President Supply Chain Responsible for: Corporate Responsibility,  esponsible for: R  orporate C  orporate C Environmental and Responsible supply Anti-Money Information Social Investment chain management Laundering Security programs the CR and SI strategy to the Board. the implementation of policy and Group Risk assessment is a continuous process, Progress on CR and SI strategy standards in physical security, health, It starts with a business impact analysis implementation and issues and safety by local operational teams. that identifies all critical services and management is also reported to the Our teams responded quickly and business processes which will require a Millicom Executive Committee on a professionally to several major incidents disaster recovery and business continuity monthly basis through the EVP, Chief and events during 2018, including plan. After performing a risk assessment External Affairs Officer, and in specific volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, civil on all critical assets identified in the cases directly. unrest, and several major fires. In each analysis, we address every relevant instance, we were able to prevent any operational threat in a formal risk Security employee fatalities and major losses to mitigation plan. Throughout 2017 2018 the Integrated the Group. Services team, evolved from Corporate Millicom crisis management defines the Security in 2018, continued its ambitious The Integrated Services team is proper response to, and management of, drive to implement international risk overseen by the Vice President of Global an intense, unexpected, and unstable management standards such as ISO Investigations, reporting to the Executive situation that disrupts normal operations 14001, 22301, and OHSAS 18001 and Vice President, Chief Ethics & and has highly undesirable outcomes, can report that all operating entities Compliance Officer. which require extraordinary measures to except Nicaragua are accredited to the restore normal operations. Crisis Business Continuity and Crisis ISO standards. Nicaragua was put on management aims to protect the safety Management hold until mid 2019 due to the significant of our staff and our reputation, together We designed our global and operational civil and political unrest that spanned with continuous and reliable delivery of business continuity and crisis the country. service to customers, while maintaining management system to address any contractual, legal, and regulatory The focus of the Integrated Services significant disruption that might affect compliance. team, which covers both health and our capabilities to perform critical day-tosafety, security, and other areas of day activities. This continues to mature In parallel, Millicom has in place physical non-financial risk, is to protect life, and has already responded to events, security and loss prevention standards assets, and Millicom’s reputation while such as extreme weather, civil unrest, and which set minimum acceptable levels of promoting employee well-being, and to criminal and political activities in the critical site protection, as defined by build resilience throughout the business countries where we operate. industry best practice. All activities are to unexpected events or crises. In subject to a program of monitoring and addition, Integrated Services oversees compliance activities. 90 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Information Security InfoSec Steering Committee meets Our focus on “zero fatalities” has had a In 2017, Millicom reorganized its monthly to discuss projects, profound impact on our culture and the information security effort to advance approaches, and engagement across way we strive to work in a safer manner, the global program. Reporting to the the company. resulting in zero employee fatalities. Executive Vice President, Chief Ethics & Unfortunately, there were two contractor • Development of a Global Security Compliance Officer, the program is fatalities in 2018, down from ten in 2017. Operations Center: To better managed by the Global Chief Information understand and manage risk across The events resulted from a recent Security Officer (CISO), who assumes the entire enterprise, Millicom is electrocution in which an engineer was responsibility for the identification, moving forward with the consolidation struck when working underneath management and mitigation of technologyand centralization of all local security overhead power cables and an earlier centric risks throughout the company. operations management into a single, reported road traffic accident (RTA), The CISO oversees the regional all-encompassing global security which occurred in November 2017 but information security teams to ensure the operations center. Millicom has forms part of our reporting period. RTA’s confidentiality, integrity, and availability partnered with an industry-leading while still figuring as the #1 reported of all business-critical systems and service provider to provide 24x7 event, have reduced significantly along assets. Other responsibilities include the monitoring and analysis of all global with falls from height, violent crime identification of emerging threats and events which could impact the associated with criminal gang activity, risks potentially detrimental to Millicom company. Vendor selection has been making central America, somewhat safer and the safeguarding of proprietary and completed and the migration project place to operate. However, there was personal customer information. has begun. Initial locations will be significant support required to assist Additionally, the regional teams work migrated in Q1 2019, with full staff in Nicaragua during and closely with business and technology deployment targeted for completion throughout the ongoing civil unrest. leadership to ensure compliance to by the end of year. In comparison to 2017, our current corporate policies and regional • Development of a Global Vulnerability reporting figures indicate the number of information security-related regulatory Management program: Due to the events reported has remained stable, our requirements within the various countries differences in maturity levels around fatality rate is down 80%, and the where Millicom conducts business. operational security, the Global number of lost time incidents has The Global CISO meets regularly with program will identify, report, and track significantly decreased. The increase in the Compliance and Business Conduct risks and vulnerabilities within all reported numbers during 2017 Committee and Audit Committee to operations to provide a better insight compared to 2016 was expected and it ensure appropriate risks have been into the technical security risks of the was anticipated that during 2018 the elevated and are being addressed. As part company. The initial phases of the figures would start to decrease as the of the move to centralize Information program have been initiated and full safety culture becomes further Security services, in 2018 the Information roll out is expected to be completed by embedded in the organization. Security team began to reevaluate the the end of Q3 2019. Supply Chain & Procurement has been existing technology risk management • Development of a Global Identity and instrumental in pushing the strict health, processes and consolidated all Access Management program: In safety, and environmental requirements identification and mitigation efforts under order to effectively manage user to ensure our due diligence process is the new global function. access, especially with respect to the completed. Additionally, our local staff The following key initiatives kicked off in U.S. regulatory requirements, Millicom and suppliers, have been bolstering 2018: has decided to centralize all business training and awareness in auditing, and critical access provisioning to a health and safety vetting, and site • Formalization of the Global central solution. Phase One of this inspections. There is a key focus now on Information Security Office: The effort will address all regulatory the end user or sponsoring department Millicom Global Information Security requirements by the end of Q3 2019, to engage more with their outsourced or Office (GISO) is charged with strategy, with the remaining deployment managed services areas to ensure they tactics, and oversight of all security schedule running through mid-2020. manage their activities sufficiently to efforts with the broader Millicom maintain and improve the safety culture environment. The GISO is divided up Health and Safety Management and awareness. into four critical pillars–Risk All operating entities including corporate Management, Security Engineering, are in compliance with the current Vulnerability Management, and the internal OHSAS 18001 standard, and all Global Security Operations Center. were externally accredited. Our teams at Lead by the Millicom Global CISO, the Group and within the operating entities GISO strategy, budget, and activities are now preparing for the transition to are overseen by the InfoSec Steering the new ISO 45001 standard which will Committee, which is comprised of commence in Q1 2019 with Chad, Tigo various Millicom executives, technical Tanzania, and Honduras. resources, and business personnel. The 91 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Directors’ Financial and management and employees under At December 31, 2018, the Group’s the LTIP remuneration plans and headcount from continuing operations Operating Report approximately 6,600 shares to Directors reached approximately 21,000, up from Group Performance as part of their annual remuneration. almost 19,000 at December 31, 2017, the increase being mainly related to the The Group returned to solid top line Distribution to Shareholders and acquisition of Cable Onda. growth as the strategy continued Proposed Distributions yielding positive results. On May 4, 2018, at the Annual General Outlook for the Group Meeting of shareholders, a dividend We anticipate another solid year in 2019 In 2018, total revenue for the Group distribution of US$2.64 per share was marked by the continued expansion of was US$4,074 million, and gross profit approved, and subsequently paid to our high-speed data networks and was US$2,928 million, a margin of shareholders in equal portions in May customer growth. For our Latam 71.9 percent. and November. segment, we expect organic service Operating expenses represented 41.1% revenue growth to range between 3% This year’s proposed dividend is of revenue, a slight increase compared to and 5%, while EBITDA is expected to consistent with distributions in 2017 last year, mainly due to acquisition costs grow at a faster rate, ranging between and 2018. for Cable Onda in Panama. Beside this 4% and 6%, on a like-for-like basis. As effect, the Group has continued Risks and Uncertainty Factors usual, these organic growth rates are delivering on operational efficiencies The Group operates in an industry and in expressed in constant currency terms to which underpinned our margins and markets which are characterized by rapid exclude the impact of changes in foreign cash flows, delivering a lower operating change and subject to macro-economic, exchange and accounting standards. cost run rate and lower capex. competitive and political uncertainty. Finally, Latam segment capex should be This change creates both opportunities slightly above US$1.0 billion, including Our operating profit amounted to and at the same time a degree of risk. about US$85 million at Cable Onda, US$645 million, a 16.8 percent margin Many of the inherent underlying risks in which we expect will generate EBITDA of impacted positively by the gain on tower these markets, including regulatory approximately US$184 million. deals in El Salvador, Colombia, and change (including tariff controls and Paraguay as well as higher profit from the Subsequent Event taxation), currency fluctuations, and joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras. On February 20, 2019, the Group underlying macroeconomic conditions, announced it has entered into Net financial expenses were US$350 million, impact on the level of disposable income agreements with Telefónica S.A. and lower than for the same period last year and consumers’ attitudes and demand certain of its affiliates (Telefónica), to mainly because 2017 figures included for our products and services. acquire the entire share capital of one-off costs in respect of early Further information on these and other Telefónica Móviles Panamá, S.A., redemptions of the 2020 and 2021 Senior key risks faced by the Group are set out in Telefónica de Costa Rica TC, S.A. (and its Notes outstanding bonds. the Risk Management section on pages wholly owned subsidiary, Telefónica Profit before taxes at US$129 million 22 25. Gestión de Infraestructura y Sistemas de included the effects of the increase in Costa Rica, S.A.) and Telefonía Celular de Financial Risk Management operating profit and decrease in interest Nicaragua, S.A. (together, Telefonica Objectives and Policies expense described above, negatively CAM) for a combined enterprise value of Millicom’s financial risk management affected by higher foreign exchange US$1,650 million (the Transaction) policies and objectives, together with a losses and higher losses from our joint payable in cash. The Transaction is description of the various risks and venture in Ghana and associates. subject to customary closing conditions, hedging activities undertaken by the including regulatory approval in each The Group net tax charge in 2018 was Group, are set out in Section D, financial market, and closings are expected during US$116 million, leaving a net gain for the risk management, of the consolidated H2 2019. Millicom has secured bridge year from continuing operations at financial statements. funding commitments to finance the US$13 million. The loss of US$39 million Internal controls and risk management acquisition, and the bridge will be from discontinued operations mainly on the preparation of the consolidated refinanced predominantly with the reflected the loss on disposal of our financial statements are covered in the issuance of new debt by Millicom and its business in Rwanda. Governance section from pages 57 91. operating subsidiaries. As a result, the net loss for the year was Non-Financial Information US$26 million. The share of losses of Non-financial information, such as non-controlling interests was US$16 million. environmental, social, human rights, and The net loss for the year attributable to the fight against corruption, are Millicom owners was US$10 million. integrated throughout this report, and Earnings per share was US$0.10 cents. in the Appendix. José Antonio Ríos García Share Capital Management and Employees Chairman of the Board of Directors At December 31, 2017, Millicom had Over recent years, the Group has 101.7 million issued and paid up developed many key functions and Luxembourg, February 28, 2019 common shares of par value US$1.50 improved support to local operations, each, of which 913 thousand were held including in the areas of procurement, by the Company as treasury shares (2017: network development, marketing, IT, HR, 1.2 million). During the year, the company compliance, and finance. Since 2017, the acquired approximately 70,000 shares Executive Management Team is and issued around 343,000 shares to complete. 92 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Management Responsibility Statement We, Mauricio Ramos, Chief Executive Officer, and Tim Pennington, Chief Financial Officer, confirm, to the best of our knowledge, that these 2018 consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Millicom Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and that the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Millicom Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. Luxembourg, February 28, 2019 Mauricio Ramos Chief Executive Officer Tim Pennington Chief Financial Officer 93 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Financial Statements 94 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Millicom International Cellular S.A. Consolidated statement of income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 Notes 2018 2017 (i) 2016 (i) (US$ millions) Revenue.............................................................................. B.1. 4,074 4,076 4,043 Cost of sales ....................................................................... B.2. (1,146) (1,205) (1,175) Gross profit....................................................................... 2,928 2,871 2,868 Operating expenses ............................................................ B.2. (1,674) (1,593) (1,627) Depreciation....................................................................... E.2.2. (685) (695) (678) Amortization ...................................................................... E.1.3. (144) (146) (175) Share of profit in joint ventures in Guatemala and A.2. Honduras ........................................................................ 154 140 115 Other operating income (expenses), net............................. B.2. 76 68 (14) Operating profit ............................................................... B.3. 655 645 490 Interest and other financial expenses ................................. C.3.3. (371) (396) (372) Interest and other financial income.................................... 21 16 21 Other non-operating (expenses) income, net ..................... B.5. (40) (4) 20 Profit (loss) from other joint ventures and associates, A.3. net ................................................................................... (136) (85) (49) Profit before taxes from continuing operations............. 129 176 109 Charge for taxes, net .......................................................... B.6. (116) (158) (179) Profit (loss) for the year from continuing operations ... 13 18 (70) Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, E.3.2. net of tax......................................................................... (39) 51 (20) Net profit (loss) for the year ............................................ (26) 69 (90) Attributable to: The owners of Millicom..................................................... (10) 86 (32) Non-controlling interests ................................................... A.1.4. (16) (17) (58) Earnings (loss) per common share for profit (loss) attributable to the owners of the Company: Basic (US$ per common share): — from continuing operations ........................................... 0.29 0.36 (0.12) — from discontinued operations........................................ (0.39) 0.50 (0.20) — total............................................................................... B.7. (0.10) 0.86 (0.32) Diluted (US$ per common share): — from continuing operations ........................................... 0.29 0.36 (0.12) — from discontinued operations........................................ (0.39) 0.50 (0.20) —total................................................................................ B.7. (0.10) 0.86 (0.32) (i) Re-presented for discontinued operations (shown in note A.4.). Not restated for the application of IFRS 15 and 9, as the Group elected the modified retrospective approach for both standards. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 95 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 2018 2017 (i) 2016 (i) (US$ millions) Net profit (loss) for the year ...................................................................... (26) 69 (90) Other comprehensive income (to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods), net of tax: Exchange differences on translating foreign operations............................ (81) 85 (14) Change in value of cash flow hedges, net of tax effects............................ (1) 4 (3) Other comprehensive income (not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods), net of tax: Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations, net of tax effects..................................................................................................... — (2) (2) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year.................................... (108) 158 (109) Attributable to: Owners of the Company............................................................................ (78) 173 (60) Non-controlling interests ........................................................................... (30) (15) (49) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year arises from: Continuing operations ............................................................................... (97) 120 (86) Discontinued operations ............................................................................ (11) 38 (23) (i) Re-presented for discontinued operations (shown in note A.4.). Not restated for the application of IFRS 15 and 9, as the Group elected the modified retrospective approach for both standards. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 96 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Consolidated statement of financial position at December 31, 2018 and 2017 December 31 December 31 Notes 2018 2017 (i) (US$ millions) ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets, net.................................................................................. E.1. 2,374 1,265 Property, plant and equipment, net ............................................................ E.2. 3,041 2,880 Investments in joint ventures..................................................................... A.2. 2,867 2,966 Investments in associates........................................................................... A.3. 169 241 Contract costs, net ..................................................................................... F.5. 4 — Deferred tax assets..................................................................................... B.6. 202 180 Derivative financial instruments................................................................ D.1.2. — — Other non-current assets ............................................................................ G.5. 126 113 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS ....................................................... 8,784 7,646 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories, net .......................................................................................... F.2. 39 45 Trade receivables, net ................................................................................ F.1. 343 386 Contract assets, net .................................................................................... F.5. 37 — Amounts due from non-controlling interests, associates and joint ventures .................................................................................................. G.5. 34 37 Prepayments and accrued income ............................................................. 129 145 Current income tax assets.......................................................................... 108 99 Supplier advances for capital expenditure................................................. 25 18 Other current assets ................................................................................... 127 90 Restricted cash........................................................................................... C.4. 158 145 Cash and cash equivalents ......................................................................... C.4. 528 619 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS ................................................................. 1,529 1,585 Assets held for sale.................................................................................... E.3.2. 3 233 TOTAL ASSETS ...................................................................................... 10,316 9,464 (i) Not restated for the application of IFRS 15 and 9, as the Group elected the modified retrospective approach for both standards. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 97 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Consolidated statement of financial position at December 31, 2018 and 2017 continued December 31 December 31 Notes 2018 2017 (i) (US$ millions) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Share capital and premium ........................................................................ C.1. 635 637 Treasury shares .......................................................................................... (81) (106) Other reserves............................................................................................ C.1. (538) (472) Retained profits ......................................................................................... 2,535 2,950 Profit (loss) for the year attributable to equity holders.............................. (10) 86 Equity attributable to owners of the Company .................................... 2,542 3,096 Non-controlling interests ........................................................................... A.1.4. 249 185 TOTAL EQUITY..................................................................................... 2,790 3,281 LIABILITIES NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Debt and financing .................................................................................... C.3. 4,123 3,600 Amounts due to non-controlling interests, associates and joint ventures .................................................................................................. G.5. 135 124 Provisions and other non-current liabilities............................................... F.4.2. 351 335 Deferred tax liabilities ............................................................................... B.6. 233 56 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES ............................................. 4,841 4,116 CURRENT LIABILITIES Debt and financing .................................................................................... C.3. 458 185 Put option liability ..................................................................................... C.6.3. 239 — Payables and accruals for capital expenditures ......................................... 335 304 Other trade payables .................................................................................. 282 288 Amounts due to non-controlling interests, associates and joint ventures .................................................................................................. G.5. 348 296 Accrued interest and other expenses ......................................................... 383 353 Current income tax liabilities .................................................................... 58 81 Contract liabilities ..................................................................................... F.5. 87 — Derivative financial instruments................................................................ D.1.2. — 56 Provisions and other current liabilities ...................................................... F.4.1. 494 425 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES ....................................................... 2,684 1,989 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale ............................. E.3.2. — 79 TOTAL LIABILITIES ............................................................................ 7,526 6,183 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES .................................................. 10,316 9,464 (i) Not restated for the application of IFRS 15 and 9, as the Group elected the modified retrospective approach for both standards. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 98 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 Notes 2018 2017 (i) 2016 (i) (US$ millions) Cash flows from operating activities (including discontinued operations) Profit before taxes from continuing operations.................... 129 176 109 Profit (loss) before taxes from discontinued operations....... E.3.2. (39) 51 (26) Profit (loss) before taxes........................................................ 91 227 83 Adjustments to reconcile to net cash: Interest and other financial expenses, net............................. 373 416 397 Interest and other financial income ...................................... (21) (16) (22) Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation and amortization ............................................. 830 879 932 Share of profit in Guatemala and Honduras joint ventures............................................................................. A.2. (154) (140) (115) Gain (loss) on disposal and impairment of assets, net ......... B.2, E. 3.2. (36) (99) 19 Share-based compensation ................................................... C.1. 22 22 14 Transaction costs assumed by Cable Onda .......................... A.1.2 30 — — (Profit) loss from other joint ventures and associates, net ... A.3. 136 85 49 Other non-cash non-operating (income) expenses, net ........ B.5. 40 (2) (22) Changes in working capital:.............................................. Decrease (increase) in trade receivables, prepayments and other current assets, net.............................................. (128) 5 102 (Increase) decrease in inventories ........................................ 2 16 19 Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables, net ............ 69 (82) (109) Changes in contract assets, liabilities and costs, net ............ (9) — — Total changes in working capital ...................................... (66) (61) 12 Interest (paid) ....................................................................... (318) (372) (357) Interest received ................................................................... 20 16 19 Taxes (paid) .......................................................................... (153) (132) (130) Net cash provided by operating activities............................ 792 820 878 Cash flows from investing activities (including discontinued operations): Acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, net of cash acquired ........................................ A.1. (953) (22) — Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and associates, E.3.2., A. net of cash disposed .......................................................... 3.2. 176 22 147 Purchase of intangible assets and licenses ........................... E.1.4. (148) (133) (143) Proceeds from sale of intangible assets................................ — 4 6 Purchase of property, plant and equipment .......................... E.2.3. (632) (650) (719) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment .......... C.3.4. 154 179 6 Dividend received from joint ventures................................. A.2.2 243 203 143 Settlement of derivative financial instruments..................... (63) — — Cash (used in) provided by other investing activities, net ... D.1.2 24 31 8 Net cash used in investing activities ..................................... (1,199) (367) (552) 99 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 Notes 2018 2017 (i) 2016 (i) Cash flows from financing activities (including discontinued operations): Proceeds from debt and other financing............................... C.3. 1,155 996 713 Repayment of debt and other financing ............................... C.3. (546) (1,195) (821) Advances for, and dividends paid to non-controlling interests ............................................................................. A.1./A.2. — — (68) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests ......................... (2) — — Dividends paid to owners of the Company .......................... C.2. (266) (265) (265) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ............ 341 (464) (441) Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents, net ............ (33) 4 (8) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents......... (98) (8) (123) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year ....... 619 646 769 Effect of cash in disposal group held for sale ...................... E.3.2 6 (19) — Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ............... 528 619 646 (i) Re-presented for discontinued operations (shown in note A.4. and E.3.2.). Not restated for the application of IFRS 15 and 9, as the Group elected the modified retrospective approach for both standards. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 100 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 Number of shares Number of held by Other Nonshares the Group Share Share Treasury Retained reserves controlling Total (000’s) (000’s) capital(i) premium shares profits(ii) (iii) Total interests equity (US$ millions) Balance on January 1, 2016 ..................... 101,739 (1,574) 153 486 (143) 3,513 (531) 3,477 251 3,728 Total comprehensive income for the year ............ — — — — — (32) (28) (60) (49) (109) Dividends(iv) .......................... — — — — — (265) — (265) — (265) Purchase of treasury shares ..... — (37) — — (3) — — (3) — (3) Share-based compensation(v)................. — — — — — — 14 14 — 14 Issuance of shares under share-based payment schemes .............................. — 216 — (1) 23 (1) (17) 4 — 4 Balance on December 31, 2016 ................ 101,739 (1,395) 153 485 (123) 3,215 (562) 3,167 201 3,368 Total comprehensive income for the year ............ — — — — — 86 87 173 (15) 158 Dividends(iv) .......................... — — — — — (265) — (265) — (265) Purchase of treasury shares ..... — (32) — — (3) — — (3) — (3) Share-based compensation(v)................. — — — — — — 22 22 — 22 Issuance of shares under share-based payment schemes .............................. — 233 — (1) 21 1 (18) 1 — 1 Balance on December 31, 2017 ................ 101,739 (1,195) 153 484 (106) 3,035 (472) 3,096 185 3,281 Adjustment on adoption of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 (net of tax) (vi) ................... — — — — — 10 — 10 (4) 5 Total comprehensive income for the year ............ — — — — — (10) (68) (78) (30) (108) Dividends(iv) .......................... — — — — — (266) — (266) — (266) Dividends to noncontrolling interests............ — — — — — — — — (13) (13) Purchase of treasury shares ..... — (70) — — (6) — — (6) — (6) Share-based compensation(v)................. — — — — — — 22 22 — 22 Issuance of shares under share-based payment schemes .............................. — 351 — (2) 31 (5) (22) 2 — 2 Effect of change in consolidation scope (vii)..................................... — — — — — — — — 111 111 Put option reserve(vii)............. — — — — — (239) — (239) — (239) Balance on December 31, 2018 ................ 101,739 (913) 153 482 (81) 2,525 (538) 2,542 249 2,790 (i) Share capital and share premium – see note C.1. (ii) Retained profits – includes profit for the year attributable to equity holders, of which $324 million (2017: $345 million; 2016: $321 million) are not distributable to equity holders. (iii) Other reserves – see note C.1. (iv) Dividends – see note C.2. (v) Share-based compensation – see note C.1. (vi) See below for details about changes in accounting policies. (vii) Effect of the acquisition of Cable Onda S.A. See notes A.1.2. and C.6.3. for further details. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 101 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Introduction Corporate Information Millicom International Cellular S.A. (the “Company” or “MIC S.A.”), a Luxembourg Société Anonyme, and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (the “Group” or “Millicom”) is an international telecommunications and media group providing digital lifestyle services in emerging markets, through mobile and fixed telephony, cable, broadband, Pay-TV in Latin America (Latam) and Africa. The Company’s shares are traded as Swedish Depositary Receipts on the Stockholm stock exchange under the symbol TIGO SDB (formerly MIC SDB) and, since January 9, 2019, on the Nasdaq Stock Market in the U.S. under the ticker symbol TIGO. The Company has its registered office at 2, Rue du Fort Bourbon, L-1249 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and is registered with the Luxembourg Register of Commerce under the number RCS B 40 630. On February 28, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized these consolidated financial statements for issuance. Business activities Millicom operates its mobile businesses in Central America (El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras) in South America (Bolivia, Colombia and Paraguay), and in Africa (Chad, Ghana and Tanzania). Millicom operates various cable and fixed line businesses in Latam (Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Bolivia, Paraguay and Panama). Millicom also provides direct to home satellite service in most of its Latam countries. On December 31, 2015, Millicom deconsolidated its operations in Guatemala and Honduras which are, since that date and for accounting purposes, under joint control. Millicom has investments in online/e-commerce businesses in several countries in Latam and Africa, investments in a tower holding company in Africa and various investments in start-up businesses providing epayments and content to its mobile and cable customers. IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB (IFRS). They are also compliant with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. This is in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 19, 2002, on the application of international accounting standards for listed companies domiciled in the European Union. The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for certain items including derivative financial instruments and call options (measured at fair value), financial instruments that contain obligations to purchase own equity instruments (measured at the present value of the redemption price), and property, plant and equipment under finance leases (initially measured at the lower of fair value and present value of the future minimum lease payments). This section contains the Group’s significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole. Significant accounting policies specific to one note are included within that note. Accounting policies relating to non-material items are not included in these financial statements. 102 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as of December 31 of each year. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses, and profits and losses resulting from intra-group transactions are eliminated. Foreign currency Financial information in these financial statements are shown in the US dollar presentation currency of the Group and rounded to the nearest million (US$ million) except where otherwise indicated. The financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates (the functional currency). The functional currency of each subsidiary, joint venture and associate reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances of these entities. Except for El Salvador where the functional currency is US dollar, the functional currency in other countries is the local currency. The results and financial position of all Group entities (none of which operate in an economy with a hyperinflationary environment) with functional currency other than the US dollar presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: (i) Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate on the date of the statement of financial position; (ii) Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and (iii) All resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate component of equity (currency translation reserve), in the caption “Other reserves”. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of net investments in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recorded in equity. When the Group disposes of or loses control over a foreign operation, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognized in the consolidated income statement as part of gain or loss on sale or loss of control. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. 103 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued The following table presents functional currency translation rates for the Group’s locations to the US dollar on December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 and the average rates for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. 2018 2018 2017 2017 2016 Exchange Rates to Functional Average Year-end Change Average Year-end Change Average the US Dollar Currency Rate Rate % Rate Rate % Rate Bolivia ................. Boliviano (BOB) 6.91 6.91 n/a 6.91 6.91 n/a 6.91 Chad ..................... CFA Franc (XAF) 571 580 3.99% 588 558 12.00 600 Colombia ............. Peso (COP) 2,973 3,250 8.91% 2,961 2,984 1.00 3,049 Costa Rica ............ Costa Rican Colon (CRC) 578 608 6.12% 571 573 (2.00) 551 El Salvador........... US dollar n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Ghana ................... Cedi (GHS) 4.63 4.82 9.12% 4.36 4.42 (5.00) 3.92 Guatemala ............ Quetzal (GTQ) 7.52 7.74 5.41% 7.36 7.34 2.00 7.61 Honduras.............. Lempira (HNL) 23.99 24.42 3.19% 23.58 23.67 — 22.92 Luxembourg......... Euro (EUR) 0.85 0.87 5.08% 0.89 0.83 12.00 0.91 Nicaragua ............. Cordoba (NIO) 31.55 32.33 5% 30.05 30.79 (5.00) 28.62 Panama................. Balboa (B/.) (i) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Paraguay .............. Guarani (PYG) 5,743 5,961 6.64% 5,626 5,590 3.00 5,686 Sweden................. Krona (SEK) 8.71 8.85 8.23% 8.53 8.18 10.00 8.58 Tanzania............... Shilling (TZS) 2,274 2,299 2.42% 2,233 2,245 (3.00) 2,183 United Kingdom .......... Pound (GBP) 0.75 0.78 5.93% 0.77 0.74 9.00 0.74 (i) the balboa is tied to the United States dollar at an exchange rate of 1:1. New and amended IFRS accounting standards The following changes to standards effective for annual periods starting on January 1, 2018 have been adopted by the Group: • IFRS 15 “Contracts with customers” establishes a five-step model related to revenue recognition from contracts with customers. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognized at amounts that reflect the consideration that an entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The Group adopted the accounting standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method which had an immaterial impact on its Group financial statements. IFRS 15 mainly affects the timing of recognition of revenue as it introduces more differences between the billing and the recognition of the revenue and, in some cases, the recognition of the revenue as a principal (gross) or as an agent (net). However, it does not affect the cash flows generated by the Group. As a consequence of adopting this Standard: 1) some revenue is recognized earlier, as a larger portion of the total consideration received in a bundled contract is attributable to the component delivered at contract inception (i.e. typically a subsidized handset). Therefore, this produces a shift from service revenue (which decreases) to the benefit of Telephone and Equipment revenue. This results in the recognition of a Contract Asset on the statement of financial position, as more revenue is recognized upfront, while the cash will be received throughout the subscription period (which is usually between 12 to 36 months). Contract Assets (and liabilities) are reported on a separate line in current assets / liabilities even if their realization period is longer than 12 months. This is because they are realized / settled as part of the normal operating cycle of our core business. 104 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued 2) the cost incurred to obtain a contract (mainly commissions) is now capitalized in the statement of financial position and amortized over the average contract term. This results in the recognition of Contract Costs being capitalized under non-current assets on the statement of financial position. 3) the Group recognizes revenue from its wholesale carrier business on a net basis as an agent rather than as a principal under the modified retrospective IFRS 15 transition. Except for this effect, there were no other material changes for the purpose of determining whether the Group acts as principal or an agent in the sale of products. 4) the presentation of certain material amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position has been changed to reflect the terminology of IFRS 15: a. Contract assets recognized in relation to service contracts. b. Contract costs in relation to capitalized cost incurred to obtain a contract (mainly commissions). c. Contract liabilities in relation to service contracts were previously included in trade and other payables. The Group has adopted the standard using the modified retrospective method. Hence, the cumulative effect of initially applying the Standard has been recognized as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as at January 1, 2018 and comparative financial statements have not been restated in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 15. The impact on the opening balance of retained profits as at January 1, 2018 is summarized in the table set out at the end of this section. Additionally, the Group has decided to take some of the practical expedients foreseen in the Standard, such as: • No adjustment to the transaction price for the means of a financing component whenever the period between the transfer of a promised good or service to a customer and the associated payment is one year or less; when the period is more than one year the financing component is adjusted, if material. • Disclosure in the Group Financial Statements the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations only for contracts that have an original expected duration of more than one year (e.g. unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts that have an original duration of one year or less are not disclosed). • Application of the practical expedient not to disclose the price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations, if the consideration from a customer corresponds to the value of the entity’s performance obligation to the customer (i.e, if billing corresponds to accounting revenue). • Application of the practical expedient to recognize the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset that otherwise would have been recognized is one year or less. • Revenue recognition accounting principles are further described in Note B.1.1. • IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” addresses the classification, measurement and recognition and impairments of financial assets and financial liabilities as well as hedge accounting. It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured at fair value and those measured at amortized cost. The determination is made at initial recognition. The classification depends on the Group’s business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements. The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entity’s own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch. A final standard on hedging (excluding macro-hedging) was issued in November 2013 which aligns 105 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued hedge accounting more closely with risk management and allows to continue hedge accounting under IAS 39. IFRS 9 also clarifies the accounting for certain modifications and exchanges of financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. The application of IFRS 9 did not have an impact for the Group on classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities compared to IAS 39, but it has an impact on impairment of trade receivables and contracts assets (IFRS 15) as well as on amounts due from joint ventures and related parties with the application of the expected credit loss model instead of the current incurred loss model. As permitted under IFRS 9, the Group adopted the standard without restating comparatives for classification, measurement and impairment. Hence, the cumulative effect of initially applying the Standard has been recognized as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained profits at January 1, 2018. The impact on the opening balance of retained profits at January 1, 2018 is summarized in the table set out at the end of this section. Additionally, the Group continues applying IAS 39 rules with respect to hedge accounting. Finally, the clarification introduced by IFRS 9 on the accounting for certain modifications and exchanges of financial liabilities measured at amortized cost did not have an impact for the Group. Financial instruments accounting principles are further described in Note C.6. The application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 had the following impact on the Group financial statements at January 1, 2018: As at January Effect of Effect of As at January 1, 2018 before adoption of adoption of 1, 2018 after Reason for application IFRS 15 IFRS 9 application the change (US$ millions) FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS Investment in joint ventures (non-current). 2,966 27 (4) 2,989 (i) Contract costs, net (non-current) NEW...... — 4 — 4 (ii) Deferred tax asset ....................................... 180 — 10 191 (viii) Other non-current assets............................. 113 — (1) 113 (iii) Trade receivables, net (current).................. 386 — (47) 339 (iv) Contract assets, net (current) NEW............ — 29 (1) 28 (v) LIABILITIES Contract liabilities (current) NEW ............. — 51 — 51 (vi) Provisions and other current liabilities....... 425 (46) — 379 (vii) Deferred tax liability (non-current) ............ 56 7 (1) 62 (viii) EQUITY Retained profits and loss for the year......... 3,035 48 (38) 3,045 (ix) Non-controlling interests............................ 185 — (5) 181 (ix) (i) Impact of application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 for our joint ventures in Guatemala, Honduras and Ghana. (ii) This mainly represents commissions capitalized and amortized over the average contract term. (iii) Effect of the application of the expected credit losses required by IFRS 9 on amounts due from joint ventures. (iv) Effect of the application of the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized from initial recognition of the receivables. (v) Contract assets mainly represents subsidized handsets as more revenue is recognized upfront while the cash will be received throughout the subscription period (which is usually between 12 to 36 months). 106 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued (vi) This mainly represents deferred revenue for goods and services not yet delivered to customers that will be recognized when the goods are delivered and the services are provided to customers. The balance also comprises revenue from the billing of subscription fees or ‘one-time’ fees at the inception of a contract that are deferred and will be recognized over the average customer retention period or the contract term. (vii) Reclassification of deferred revenue to contract liabilities see previous paragraph. (viii)Tax effects of the above adjustments. (ix) Cumulative catch-up effect. As of January 1, 2018, IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 implementations had no impact on the statement of cash flows or on EPS. The following summarizes the amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in the current reporting year by the application of IFRS 15 as compared to previous standard and interpretations: 2018 Effect of Without Change adoption of Higher/ Reason for As reported IFRS 15 (Lower) the change (US$ millions) INCOME STATEMENT Total revenue...................................................................... 4,074 4,151 (77) (i) Cost of sales ....................................................................... (1,146) (1,194) 48 (ii) Operating expenses ............................................................ (1,674) (1,714) 40 (ii) Share of profit in the joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras ............................................................................ 154 152 2 (iii) Tax impact.......................................................................... (116) (115) (1) (iv) (i) Mainly for adjustments for principal vs agent considerations under IFRS 15 for wholesale carrier business, as well as for the shift in the timing of revenue recognition due to the reallocation of revenue from service (over time) to telephone and equipment revenue (point in time). (ii) Mainly for the reallocation of cost for selling devices due to shift from service revenue to telephone and equipment revenue, for the capitalization and amortization of contract costs and for adjustments for principal vs agent under IFRS 15 for wholesale carrier business. (iii) Impact of IFRS 15 related to our share of profit in our joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras. (iv) Tax effects of the above adjustments. 107 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued 2018 Effect of Without Change adoption of Higher/ Reason for As reported IFRS 15 (Lower) the change (US$ millions) FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS Investment in joint ventures (non-current) ........................ 2,867 2,839 28 (i) Contract costs, net (non-current)........................................ 4 — 4 (ii) Deferred tax assets ............................................................. 202 200 2 (vi) Contract assets, net (current).............................................. 37 — 37 (iii) LIABILITIES Contract liabilities (current)............................................... 87 — 87 (iv) Provisions and other current liabilities .............................. 494 576 (82) (v) Current income tax liabilities............................................. 58 55 3 (vi) Deferred tax liabilities (non-current) ................................. 233 226 7 (vi) EQUITY Retained profits and loss for the year ................................ 2,525 2,468 57 (vii) Non-controlling interests ................................................... 249 246 3 (vii) (i) Impact of application of IFRS 15 for our joint ventures in Guatemala, Honduras and Ghana. (ii) This mainly represents commissions capitalized and amortized over the average contract term. (iii) Contract assets mainly represents subsidized handsets as more revenue is recognized upfront while the cash will be received throughout the subscription period (which are usually between 12 to 36 months). Throughout the year ended December 31, 2018 no material impairment loss has been recognized. (iv) This mainly represents deferred revenue for goods and services not yet delivered to customers that will be recognized when the goods are delivered and the services are provided to customers. The balance also comprises the revenue from the billing of subscription fees or ‘one-time’ fees at the inception of a contract that are deferred and will be recognized over the average customer retention period or the contract term. (v) Reclassification of deferred revenue to contract liabilities see previous paragraph. (vi) Tax effects of the above adjustments. (vii) Cumulative catch-up effect and IFRS 15 effect in the current year. The application of the following new standards or interpretations applicable on January 1, 2018 did not have an impact for the Group: • Amendments to IFRS 2, ‘Share based payments’, on clarifying how to account for certain types of sharebased payment transactions. • Amendments to IFRS 4, ‘Insurance contracts’ regarding the implementation of IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’. • IFRIC 22 ‘Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration’ regarding foreign currency transactions or parts of transactions where there is consideration that is denominated or priced in a foreign currency. • Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016. 108 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued There are no other significant changes to standards effective for the annual year starting on January 1, 2018. The following standard, which is expected to materially affect the Group, will be effective from January 1, 2019: • IFRS 16 “Leases” will primarily affect the accounting for the Group’s operating leases. These commitments will result in the recognition of a right of use asset and a lease liability for future payments. The application of this standard will affect the Group’s depreciation, debt and other financing and leverage ratios. The change in presentation of operating lease expenses will result in a corresponding improvement in cash flows derived from operating activities and a decline in cash flows from financing activities. The Group will adopt the standard using the modified retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of applying the new Standard recognized in retained profits as of January 1, 2019. Comparatives for the 2018 financial statements will not be restated. Short-term leases with a term not exceeding the 12 months as well as leases where the underlying asset is of low value will not be capitalized: instead, Millicom will use the practical expedient and associated lease payments will be recognized as an expense. Furthermore, the Group has taken the additional following decisions to adopt the standard: • Non-lease components will be capitalized (IFRS16.15) • Intangible assets are out of IFRS 16 scope (IFRS16.4) At transition date, the Group will recognize lease liabilities in relation to leases which had previously been classified as operating leases under the principles of IAS 17 Leases (such as site leases, land and buildings leases, etc). These liabilities will be measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate as of January 1, 2019. The right-of-use asset will be measured at an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to that lease recognized in the statement of financial position immediately before the date of initial application. According to the new Standard, Millicom shall determine the lease term including any lessee's extension or termination option that is deemed reasonably certain as well as lessors' extension or termination option. The assessment of such options shall be performed at the commencement of a lease. This requires judgment by the management of Millicom, which may have a significant impact on the lease liability recognized under IFRS 16. Measuring the lease liability at the present value of the remaining lease payments requires using an appropriate discount rate in accordance with IFRS 16. Millicom uses the interest rate implicit in the lease or if that cannot be determined, the incremental borrowing rate at the date of the lease commencement. Millicom renders this judgment in accordance with its accounting policy on leases. The incremental borrowing rate applied can have a significant impact on the net present value of the lease liability recognized under IFRS 16. Under the new Standard, the accounting of sale and leaseback transactions will change as the underlying sale transaction needs to be firstly analyzed using the guidance of IFRS 15. The seller/lessee recognizes a right-of-use asset in the amount of the proportional original carrying amount that relates to the right of use retained. Accordingly, only the proportional amount of gain or loss from the sale must be recognized. The impact from sale and leaseback transactions will not be material for Millicom Group as of the date of initial application. While the Group is finalizing the implementation of the new Standard, as a preliminary result, it expects to recognize additional lease liabilities of approximately $600 million. The impact on retained profits is expected to be immaterial. 109 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Further changes to standards not yet effective and not early adopted by Millicom on January 1, 2018 Amendment to IFRS 9, This amendment confirms that when a financial liability January 1, 2019 Financial instruments’, on measured at amortized cost is modified without this prepayment features with resulting in de-recognition, a gain or loss should be negative compensation recognized immediately in profit or loss. The gain or loss is calculated as the difference between the original contractual cash flows and the modified cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. This means that the difference cannot be spread over the remaining life of the instrument which may be a change in practice from IAS 39. The Group expects this amendment to have an impact in the future on the consolidated financial statements in case of a modification of a financial liability measured at amortized cost. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over IFRIC 23 clarifies how the recognition and measurement January 1, 2019 income tax treatments requirements of IAS 12 Income taxes, are applied where there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. The interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Earlier application is permitted. The Group is currently assessing the impact of this interpretation but does not expect any significant effect of applying it. Annual improvements These amendments impact four standards: IFRS 3, Business January 1, 2019 2015-2017 Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements regarding previously held interest in a joint operation. IAS 12, Income Taxes regarding income tax consequences of payments on financial instruments classified as equity. And finally, IAS 23, Borrowing Costs regarding eligibility for capitalization. Again, the Group does not expect these improvements to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. These improvements have not been endorsed by the EU yet. Amendments to IAS 19, These amendments require an entity to: January 1, 2019 ‘Employee benefits’ on • use updated assumptions to determine current service cost plan amendment, and net interest for the remainder of the period after a plan curtailment amendment, curtailment or settlement; and or settlement’ • recognize in profit or loss as part of past service cost, or a gain or loss on settlement, any reduction in a surplus, even if that surplus was not previously recognized because of the impact of the asset ceiling. The Group does not expect these amendments to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. These amendments have not been endorsed by the EU yet. 110 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Amendments to IFRS 3 – This amendment revises the definition of a business. The January 1, 2020 definition of a business Group does not expect these amendments to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. These amendments have not been endorsed by the EU yet. Amendments to IAS 1, These amendments to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial January 1, 2020 ‘Presentation of financial statements’, and IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes in statements’, and IAS 8, accounting estimates and errors’, and consequential ‘Accounting policies, changes amendments to other IFRSs: in accounting estimates and errors’ i) use a consistent definition of materiality throughout IFRSs and the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting; ii) clarify the explanation of the definition of material; and iii) incorporate some of the guidance in IAS 1 about immaterial information. The Group does not expect these amendments to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. These amendments have not been endorsed by the EU yet. Judgments and critical estimates The preparation of IFRS financial statements requires management to use judgment in applying accounting policies. It also requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events, actions and best estimates as of a specified date, and actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates. Areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in each note and are summarized below: Judgments Management apply judgment in accounting treatment and accounting policies in preparation of these financial statements. In particular, a significant level of judgment is applied regarding the following items: • Contingent liabilities – whether or not a provision should be recorded for any potential liabilities (see note G.3.); • Leases – whether the substance of leases meets the IFRS criteria for recognition as finance or operating leases or services contracts, or elements of each (see notes E.2. and G.2.); • Control – whether Millicom, through voting rights and potential voting rights attached to shares held, or by way of shareholders’ agreements or other factors, has the ability to direct the relevant activities of the subsidiaries it consolidates, or jointly direct the relevant activities of its joint ventures (see notes A.1., A.2.); • Discontinued operations and assets held for sale – definition, classification and presentation (see notes A.4., E.3.1.) as well as measurement of potential provisions related to indemnities; • Deferred tax assets – recognition based on likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies (see notes B.6.3. and G.3.2.); • Acquisitions – measurement at fair value of existing and newly identified assets, including the measurement of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, liabilities and remaining goodwill; the assessment of useful lives; as well as the accounting treatment for transaction costs (see notes A.1.2., E. 1.1., E.1.5., E.2.1.); 111 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued • Defined benefit obligations – key assumptions related to life expectancies, salary increases and leaving rates, mainly related to UNE Colombia (see note B.4.3.); • Impairment testing – key assumptions related to future business performance, perpetual growth rates and discount rates (see notes E.1.2., E.1.6., E.2.2.). • Revenue recognition – whether or not the Group acts as principal or as an agent and when there is one or several performance obligations (see note B.1.1.). Estimates Estimates are based on historical experience and other factors, including reasonable expectations of future events. These factors are reviewed in preparation of the financial statements although, due to inherent uncertainties in the evaluation process, actual results may differ from original estimates. Estimates are subject to change as new information becomes available and may significantly affect future operating results. Significant estimates have been applied in respect of the following items: • Accounting for property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets in determining fair values at acquisition dates, particularly for assets acquired in business combinations and sale and leaseback transactions (see note E.2.1.); • Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (see notes E.1.1., E.2.1.); • Provisions, in particular provisions for asset retirement obligations, legal and tax risks (see note F.4.); • Revenue recognition (see note B.1.1.); • Impairment testing including weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and long term growth rates (see note E.1.6.); • Estimates for defined benefit obligations (see note B.4.3.); • Accounting for share-based compensation in particular estimates of forfeitures and future performance criteria (see notes B.4.1., B.4.2.). A. The Millicom Group The Group comprises a number of holding companies, operating subsidiaries and joint ventures with various combinations of mobile, fixed-line telephony, cable and wireless Pay TV, Internet and Mobile Financial Services (MFS) businesses. The Group also holds investments in a tower holding company investing in Africa and in online businesses in Latam and Africa. A.1. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities which Millicom controls. Millicom controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from its investment in the entity, and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. Millicom has power over an entity when it has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities, i.e. the activities that significantly affect the entity’s returns. Generally, control accompanies a shareholding of more than half of the voting rights although certain other factors (including contractual arrangements with other shareholders, voting and potential voting rights) are considered when assessing whether Millicom controls an entity. For example, although Millicom holds less than 50% of the shares in its Colombian businesses, it holds more than 50% of shares with voting rights. The contrary may also be true (e.g. Guatemala and Honduras). In respect of the joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras, shareholders’ agreements 112 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued require unanimous consents for decisions over the relevant activities of these entities (see also note A.2.2). Therefore, the Group has joint control over these entities and accounts for them under the equity method. Our main subsidiaries are as follows: December 31, December 31, December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Entity Country Activity % holding % holding % holding Latin America Telemovil El Salvador S.A. de Mobile, MFS, Cable, DTH, C.V................................................. El Salvador PayTV 100 100 100 Navega.com SA, Sucursal El Salvador......................................... El Salvador Cable, DTH 100 100 100 Cable Costa Rica S.A. ....................... Costa Rica Cable, DTH 100 100 100 Mobile, DTH, MFS, Cable, Telefonica Celular de Bolivia S.A..... Bolivia PayTV 100 100 100 Telefonica Celular del Paraguay S.A. ................................................ Paraguay Mobile, MFS, Cable, PayTV 100 100 100 Cable, PayTV, Internet, DTH, Cable Onda S.A (i). ........................... Panama Fixed-line 80 — — Colombia Móvil S.A. E.S.P.(ii)......... Colombia Mobile 50-1 share 50-1 share 50-1 share UNE EPM Telecomunicaciones Fixed-line, Internet, PayTV, S.A.(ii) ........................................... Colombia Mobile 50-1 share 50-1 share 50-1 share Fixed-line, Internet, PayTV, Edatel S.A. E.S.P.(ii) ......................... Colombia Cable 50-1 share 50-1 share 50-1 share Africa Millicom Ghana Company Limited(iii) .................................... Ghana Mobile, MFS — — 100 Sentel GSM S.A.(iv) ......................... Senegal Mobile, MFS — 100 100 MIC Tanzania Public Limited Company........................................ Tanzania Mobile, MFS 100 100 100 Millicom Tchad S.A. ......................... Chad Mobile, MFS 100 100 100 Millicom Rwanda Limited(iv)........... Rwanda Mobile, MFS — 100 100 Zanzibar Telecom Limited................. Tanzania Mobile, MFS 85 85 85 Unallocated Millicom International Operations S.A. ................................................ Luxembourg Holding Company 100 100 100 Millicom International Operations B.V................................................. Netherlands Holding Company 100 100 100 Millicom LIH S.A. ............................ Luxembourg Holding Company 100 100 100 MIC Latin America B.V. ................... Netherlands Holding Company 100 100 100 Millicom Africa B.V.......................... Netherlands Holding Company 100 100 100 Millicom Holding B.V....................... Netherlands Holding Company 100 100 100 Millicom Spain S.L. .......................... Spain Holding Company 100 100 100 (i) Acquisition completed on December 13, 2018. Cable Onda S.A. is fully consolidated as Millicom has the majority of voting shares to direct the relevant activities. See note A.1.2.. (ii) Fully consolidated as Millicom has the majority of voting shares to direct the relevant activities. (iii) Merged with Airtel Ghana in October 2017 and classified as discontinued operations for the year then ended (see note E. 3.2.). Merged entity is accounted for as a joint venture as from merger date (see note A.2.2.). (iv) See note A.1.3. 113 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued A.1.1. Accounting for subsidiaries and non-controlling interests Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to Millicom. If facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the elements of control, a reassessment is performed to determine if control still exists. Subsidiaries are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. Transactions with non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with equity owners of the Group. Gains or losses on disposals of non-controlling interests are recorded in equity. For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is also recorded in equity. A.1.2. Acquisition of subsidiaries and increases in non-controlling interests in subsidiaries On October 7, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire a controlling 80% stake in Cable Onda, the largest cable and fixed telecommunications services provider in Panama. The transaction valued 100% of Cable Onda at an enterprise value of $1,460 million. The selling shareholders retained a 20% equity stake in the company. The transaction closed on December 13, 2018 after receipt of necessary approvals for a cash consideration of $956 million. In addition, Millicom assumed Cable Onda’s debt obligations. The Group funded the purchase price for this acquisition by incurring additional indebtedness, including $250 million under the Bridge Facility and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the 6.625% Notes (see note C.3.1) and with available resources. A final price adjustment, per the terms of the agreement, is expected to occur in Q1 2019. Millicom concluded that it controls Cable Onda since closing date and therefore fully consolidates it in its financial statements with a 20% non-controlling interest. The deal also includes certain liquidity rights such as call and put options. See note C.6.3. for further details on the accounting treatment of these options. The purchase consideration also includes certain amounts under escrow in respect of final price adjustment and potential indemnifications from the sellers (potential tax and litigations). For the purchase accounting, Millicom determined the fair value of Cable Onda identifiable assets and liabilities based on transaction and relative values. The non-controlling interest was measured based on the proportionate share of the fair value of the net assets of Cable Onda. The purchase accounting is still provisional at December 31, 2018, particularly in respect of the evaluation of certain tangible assets. Provisional Fair values (100%) (US$ millions) Intangible assets (excluding goodwill), net (i) ......................................................................................... 673 Property, plant and equipment, net ........................................................................................................... 348 Current assets (excluding cash) (ii) (iii) ................................................................................................... 54 Cash and cash equivalents ........................................................................................................................ 12 Total assets acquired............................................................................................................................... 1,088 Non-current liabilities (iv) ........................................................................................................................ 422 Current liabilities (v)................................................................................................................................. 141 Total liabilities assumed ......................................................................................................................... 563 Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, net................................................................... 525 Transaction costs assumed by Cable Onda (vi) ........................................................................................ 30 Fair value of non-controlling interest in Cable Onda (20%) .................................................................... 111 Millicom’s interest in the fair value of Cable Onda (80%) ...................................................................... 444 Acquisition price....................................................................................................................................... 956 Provisional Goodwill .............................................................................................................................. 512 114 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued (i) Intangible assets not previously recognized (or partially recognized as a result of previous acquisitions) are trademarks for an amount of $280 million, with estimated useful lives of 3 years, a customer list for an amount of $370 million, with estimated useful life of 20 years and favorable content contracts for $19 million, with a useful life of 10 years. (ii) Current assets include indemnification assets for tax contingencies at fair value for an amount of $4 million see below. (iii) The fair value of trade receivables acquired was $34 million. (iv) Non-current liabilities include the deferred tax liability of $158 million resulting from the above adjustments. (v) Current liabilities include the fair value of certain tax contingent liabilities of $5 million. These are partly covered by the indemnification assets described in (ii) above. (vi) Transaction costs of $30 million have been assumed and paid by Cable Onda before the acquisition or by Millicom on the closing date. Because of their relationship with the acquisition, these costs have been accounted for as post-acquisition costs in the Millicom Group statement of income. These, together with acquisition-related costs of $11 million, have been recorded under operating expenses in the statement of income of the year. The goodwill, which is not expected to be tax deductible, is attributable to Cable Onda’s strong market position and profitability, as well as to the fair value of the assembled work force. From December 13, 2018 to December 31, 2018, Cable Onda contributed $17 million of revenue and a net loss of $7 million to the Group. If Cable Onda had been acquired on 1 January 2018 incremental revenue for the 2018 year would have been $403 million and incremental net loss for that period of $59 million, including amortization of assets not previously recognized of $85 million (net of tax). During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Group also completed minor additional acquisitions for $9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2017, Tigo Paraguay completed the acquisition of TV Cable Parana for a total consideration of approximately $18 million, net of cash acquired. The purchase accounting was finalized in March 2017. The purchase price has been mainly allocated to a customer list ($14 million) and to other tangible and intangible fixed assets ($3 million). As a result, the final goodwill amounted to $1 million. A.1.3. Disposal of subsidiaries and decreases in non-controlling interests of subsidiaries Rwanda On December 19, 2017, Millicom announced that it has signed an agreement for the sale of its Rwanda operations to subsidiaries of Bharti Airtel Limited. The sale was subsequently completed on January 31, 2018. In accordance with Group practices, Rwanda operations’ assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale on January 23, 2018. Rwanda’s operations also represented a separate geographical area and did qualify for discontinued operations presentation. As a result, the Group statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 have been restated accordingly to show the results on a single line in the statements of income (‘Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax’). On January 31, 2018, the Group's operations in Rwanda were deconsolidated and no material loss on disposal was recognized (its carrying value was aligned to its fair value less costs of disposal as of December 31, 2017). However, a loss of $32 million was recognized in 2018 corresponding to the recycling of foreign currency exchange losses accumulated in equity since the creation of the Company. This loss was recognized under ‘Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax’. The final sale consideration is still subject to adjustment under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement with Airtel. Management does not expect any material deviation from the initial consideration. (see note E.3.) Senegal On July 28, 2017, Millicom announced that it had agreed to sell its Senegal business to a consortium consisting of NJJ, Sofima (managed by the Axian Group) and Teylium Group, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. In accordance with Group practices, Senegal operations’ assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale on February 2, 2017. Senegal’s operations also represented a separate geographical area and did qualify for discontinued operations. On April 19, 2018, the President of Senegal issued an approval decree in respect of the proposed sale by Millicom of its Tigo operation in Senegal to a consortium consisting of NJJ, Sofima (a 115 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued telecom investment vehicle managed by the Axian Group) and Teylium Group. The sale was completed on April 27, 2018. (see note E.3.) Ghana merger On March 3, 2017, Millicom and Bharti Airtel Limited (Airtel) announced that they had entered into an agreement for Tigo Ghana Limited and Airtel Ghana Limited to combine their operations in Ghana. In accordance with Group practices, Ghana operations’ assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale on September 30, 2017. Ghana’s operations also represented a separate geographical area and did qualify for discontinued operations. As a result, the Group statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2016 was restated accordingly to show the results on a single line in the statements of income (‘Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax’). The transaction was completed on October 12, 2017 (see note E.3.). DRC On February 8, 2016, Millicom announced that it had signed an agreement for the sale of its businesses in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to Orange S.A. (see note E.3.). In accordance with Group practices, DRC operations’ assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale on February 8, 2016. DRC’s operations also represented a separate geographical area and did qualify for discontinued operations. The sale was completed on April 20, 2016. Other disposals For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, Millicom did not dispose of any other significant investments. A.1.4. Summarized financial information relating to significant subsidiaries with non-controlling interests At December 31, 2018 and 2017, Millicom’s subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests were the Group’s operations in Colombia and Panama (2018 only). Balance sheet – non-controlling interests December 31, 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Colombia 161 197 Panama 103 — Others (16) (11) Total 249 185 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Colombia (5) (13) (55) Panama (8) — — Others (3) (4) (3) Total (16) (17) (58) The summarized financial information for material non-controlling interests in our operations in Colombia is provided below. This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations. Detailed information on Cable Onda has been voluntarily omitted here as all details are already disclosed in note A.1.2. 116 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Colombia 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Revenue 1,661 1,739 1,717 Total operating expenses (667) (647) (660) Operating profit 147 106 40 Net (loss) for the year (10) (25) (110) 50% non-controlling interest in net (loss) (5) (13) (55) Total assets (excluding goodwill) 1,966 2,193 2,221 Total liabilities 1,620 1,771 1,776 Net assets 346 422 445 50% non-controlling interest in net assets 173 211 223 Consolidation adjustments (12) (14) (16) Total non-controlling interest 161 197 207 Dividends and advances paid to non-controlling interest (2) — (67) Net cash from operating activities 348 331 366 Net cash from (used in) investing activities (270) (209) (340) Net cash from (used in) financing activities (75) (46) (24) Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents, net (18) 3 1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (15) 80 3 A.2. Joint ventures Joint ventures are businesses over which Millicom exercises joint control as decisions over the relevant activities of each require unanimous consent of shareholders. Millicom determines the existence of joint control by reference to joint venture agreements, articles of association, structures and voting protocols of the board of directors of those ventures. At December 31, 2018, the equity accounted net assets of our joint ventures in Guatemala, Honduras and Ghana totaled $3,405 million (December 31, 2017: $3,457 million for Guatemala and Honduras only). These net assets do not necessarily represent statutory reserves available for distribution as these include consolidation adjustments (such as goodwill and identified assets and assumed liabilities recognized as part of the purchase accounting). Out of these reserves, $133 million (December 31, 2017: $123 million) represent statutory reserves that are unavailable to be distributed to owners of the Company. During the year ended December 31, 2018, Millicom’s joint ventures paid $243 million (December 31, 2017: $203 million) as dividends or dividend advances to the Company. Our main joint ventures are as follows: 117 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued December December 31, 2018 31, 2017 % Entity Country Activity % holding holding Comunicaciones Celulares S.A(i). Guatemala Mobile, MFS 55 55 Navega.com S.A.(i) Guatemala Cable, DTH 55 55 Telefonica Celular S.A(i). Honduras Mobile, MFS 66.7 66.7 Navega S.A. de CV(i) Honduras Cable 66.7 66.7 Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B.V. Netherlands Mobile, MFS 50 50 (i) Millicom owns more than 50% of the shares in these entities and has the right to nominate a majority of the directors of each of these entities. However, key decisions over the relevant activities must be taken by a supermajority vote. This effectively gives either shareholder the ability to veto any decision and therefore neither shareholder has sole control over the entity. Therefore, the operations of these joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. The carrying values of Millicom’s investments in joint ventures were as follows: Carrying value of investments in joint ventures at December 31 % 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Honduras operations(i) 66.7 730 726 Guatemala operations(i) 55 2,104 2,145 AirtelTigo Ghana operations 50 32 96 Total 2,867 2,966 (i) Includes all the companies under the Honduras and Guatemala groups. The table below summarizes the movements for the year in respect of the Group’s joint ventures carrying values: Guatemala(i) Honduras (i) Ghana(ii) (US$ millions) Opening balance at January 1, 2017 2,179 766 — Change in scope — — 102 Results for the year 2017 126 15 (6) Dividends declared during the year (168) (46) — Currency exchange differences 7 (9) — Closing balance at December 31, 2017 2,145 726 96 Adjustment on adoption of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 (net of tax) 18 5 — Capital increase — 3 — Results for the year 2018 131 23 (68) Dividends declared during the year (177) — — Currency exchange differences (14) (26) 3 Closing balance at December 31, 2018 2,104 730 32 (i) Share of profit (loss) is recognized under ‘Share of profit in the joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras’ in the statement of income. (ii) Share of profit (loss) is recognized under ‘Income (loss) from other joint ventures and associates, net’ in the statement of income. 118 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued At December 31, 2018 and 2017 the Group had not incurred obligations, nor made payments on behalf of the Guatemala, Honduras or Ghana operations. A.2.1. Accounting for joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognized at cost (calculated at fair value if it was a subsidiary of the Group before becoming a joint venture). The Group’s investments in joint ventures include goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) on acquisition. The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses of joint ventures is recognized in the consolidated statement of income and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognized in reserves. Cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investments. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognize further losses, unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures. Gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint ventures. Losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in joint ventures are recognized in the statement of income. After application of the equity method, including recognizing the joint ventures’ losses, the Group applies IAS 39 to determine whether it is necessary to recognize any additional impairment loss with respect to its net investment in the joint venture. A.2.2. Material joint ventures – Guatemala, Honduras and Ghana operations Summarized financial information for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 of the Guatemala and Honduras operations is as follows. This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations. 119 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Guatemala 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Revenue ....................................................................................................................... 1,373 1,328 1,284 Depreciation and amortization..................................................................................... (283) (295) (281) Operating profit(i) ..................................................................................................... 387 352 330 Financial income (expenses), net................................................................................. (56) (60) (73) Profit before taxes ...................................................................................................... 309 305 261 Charge for taxes, net .................................................................................................... (69) (74) (67) Profit for the year ....................................................................................................... 240 230 194 Net profit for the year attributable to Millicom ...................................................... 131 126 106 Dividends and advances paid to Millicom................................................................... 211 162 77 Total non-current assets (excluding goodwill)............................................................. 2,280 2,406 2,297 Total non-current liabilities.......................................................................................... 981 1,052 1,039 Total current assets....................................................................................................... 718 756 909 Total current liabilities ................................................................................................. 221 220 211 Cash and cash equivalents ........................................................................................... 217 303 289 Debt and financing – non-current ................................................................................ 927 995 987 Net cash from operating activities ............................................................................... 545 498 438 Net cash from (used in) investing activities................................................................. (173) (171) (174) Net cash from (used in) financing activities ................................................................ (455) (315) (127) Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents, net.................................................... (3) 2 (3) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents ............................................. (86) 14 134 (i) In 2016, operating profit included a provision for impairment of $24 million related to amounts receivable from video surveillance contracts with the Civil National Police. In 2017, it also includes an additional impairment of $10 million (2016: $18 million) on the fixed assets related to the same contracts. 120 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Honduras 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Revenue ....................................................................................................................... 586 585 609 Depreciation and amortization ..................................................................................... (133) (156) (160) Operating profit .......................................................................................................... 91 70 54 Financial income (expenses), net ................................................................................. (29) (27) (27) Profit before taxes....................................................................................................... 52 41 13 Charge for taxes, net..................................................................................................... (19) (18) — Profit for the year ....................................................................................................... 34 24 13 Net profit for the year attributable to Millicom ...................................................... 23 15 9 Dividends and advances paid to Millicom ................................................................... 32 40 66 Total non-current assets (excluding goodwill) ............................................................. 506 576 645 Total non-current liabilities .......................................................................................... 386 407 454 Total current assets ....................................................................................................... 304 208 259 Total current liabilities.................................................................................................. 226 282 237 Cash and cash equivalents............................................................................................ 25 16 13 Debt and financing – non-current................................................................................. 298 308 339 Debt and financing – current ........................................................................................ 85 80 63 Net cash from operating activities................................................................................ 147 152 85 Net cash from (used in) investing activities ................................................................. (87) (74) (17) Net cash from (used in) financing activities................................................................. (50) (74) (69) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents ............................................. 9 3 (1) Ghana As mentioned in note A.1.3., in 2017 Millicom and Airtel signed a Combination Agreement, whereby both investors decided to combine their respective subsidiaries in Ghana, namely Tigo Ghana Limited and Airtel Ghana Limited under an existing company – Bharti Airtel Ghana Holdings B.V. (the ‘JV’ or ‘AirtelTigo Ghana’) both Millicom and Airtel each owning 50%. As part of the transaction, the government of Ghana retained an option to acquire a 25% stake in the newly combined entity for a period of two years. In the event the government exercises its option, Millicom’s stake may reduce to 37.5% or, in certain circumstances, be maintained at 50%. On October 12, 2017, both parties announced the completion of the transaction. As consideration received, each party owns 50% of the equity capital and voting rights of the JV, and Millicom holds a $40 million loan against Tigo Ghana (the “Millicom Note”), which shall rank in priority to all other obligations of the joint venture owed to its shareholders. The Millicom Note bears interest and is classified under ‘other non-current assets’ in the statement of financial position. Decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Therefore, based on IFRS 11, this agreement results in Millicom and Airtel having joint control over the combined entity, which is a joint venture. Millicom therefore uses the equity method to account for its investment in the combined entity since October 12, 2017. On the same date, each investor agreed and committed to fund the operations of the JV in accordance with the approved business plan on an equal basis and on the same terms. In this regard, both parties have agreed to provide, on an equal basis, a committed credit facility in the total aggregate amount of $50 million, with Millicom providing a commitment of $25 million and Airtel providing the same. The credit facility remains undrawn as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and would bear interest and would be subordinated to the Millicom Note. 121 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued As a consequence, on October 12, 2017, Millicom deconsolidated its investments in Ghana operations and accounted for its investment in the combined entity under the equity method, initially at fair value of $102 million, resulting in a net gain on the deconsolidation of these operations amounting to $36 million, including recycling of foreign currency exchange losses accumulated in equity of $79 million. The net gain has been recognized under ‘Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax’. As of December 31, 2017, the purchase accounting was still provisional and was completed in the first six months of 2018. Newly identified assets have been recognized by the joint venture resulting in an additional depreciation of $3 million for the period from the merger date to December 31, 2017. Comparative figures have not been restated for this depreciation charge given it was immaterial for the Group. As a result, this charge was recorded in the 2018 statement of income. Fair value has been determined using valuation techniques such as discounted cash flows and comparable transaction multiples. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 Millicom determined the fair value of the option granted to the government to be immaterial. AirtelTigo Ghana 2018 2017 (i) (US$ (US$ millions) millions) Revenue ................................................................................................................................ 187 58 Depreciation and amortization .............................................................................................. (110) (11) Operating loss ...................................................................................................................... (100) (1) Financial income (expenses), net .......................................................................................... (42) (10) Loss before taxes ................................................................................................................. (135) (12) Charge for taxes, net ............................................................................................................. — — Loss for the period .............................................................................................................. (135) (12) Net loss for the period attributable to Millicom ............................................................... (68) (6) Dividends and advances paid to Millicom ............................................................................ — — Total non-current assets (excluding goodwill)...................................................................... 277 184 Total non-current liabilities................................................................................................... 277 214 Total current assets................................................................................................................ 71 60 Total current liabilities .......................................................................................................... 134 106 Cash and cash equivalents..................................................................................................... 19 15 Debt and financing – non-current ......................................................................................... 276 145 Debt and financing – current................................................................................................. 17 — Net cash from operating activities ........................................................................................ (19) 13 Net cash from (used in) investing activities.......................................................................... (8) — Net cash from (used in) financing activities ......................................................................... 42 (3) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents......................................................................... 15 10 (i) From the date of merger (October 12, 2017) to December 31, 2017, for statement of income and cash flow metrics. A.2.3. Impairment of investment in joint ventures While no impairment triggers were identified for the Group’s investments in joint ventures in 2018, according to its policy, management have completed an impairment test for its joint ventures in Guatemala, Honduras and Ghana. The Group’s investments in Guatemala, Honduras and Ghana operations were tested for impairment by assessing their recoverable amount (using a value in use model based on discounted cash flows) against their carrying amounts. The cash flow projections used were extracted from financial budgets approved by management 122 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued and the Board covering a period of five years. In respect of Guatemala and Honduras, cash flows beyond this period have been extrapolated using a perpetual growth rate of 3.2%–3.0% (2017: 3.1%–3.2%). Discount rates used in determining recoverable amounts were 11.0% and 10.3%, respectively (2017: 9.3% and 10.2%). For Ghana, management used a perpetual growth rate of 3.8% and a discount rate of 14.4%. For the year ended December 31, 2018, and as a result of the impairment testing described above, management concluded that none of the Group’s investments in joint ventures should be impaired. Sensitivity analysis was performed on key assumptions within the impairment tests. The sensitivity analysis determined that sufficient margin exists from realistic changes to the assumptions that would not impact the overall results of the testing. A.3. Investments in associates Millicom’s investments in associates mainly represent its shareholding in Helios Towers Africa Ltd (HTA) and its investments in the African online business (AIH). Millicom has significant influence over these companies through its voting rights but not control or joint control. The Group’s main associates are as follows: December December 31, 2018 31, 2017 Entity Country Activity(ies) % holding % holding Africa Helios Towers Africa Ltd (HTA) ..................... Mauritius Holding of Tower 22.83 22.83 infrastructure company Africa Internet Holding GmbH (AIH) ............. Germany Online marketplace, 10.15 10.15 retail and services West Indian Ocean Cable Company Republic of Telecommunication 9.1 9.1 Limited (WIOCC) ........................................ Mauritius carriers’ carrier Latin America MKC Brilliant Holding GmbH (LIH).............. Germany Online marketplace, 35.0 35.0 retail and services Unallocated Milvik AB ........................................................ Sweden Other 12.3 12.3 At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the carrying value of Millicom’s main associates was as follows: Carrying value of investments in associates at December 31 2018 2017 (US$ millions) MKC Brilliant Holding GmbH (LIH) ............................................................................... — — African Internet Holding GmbH (AIH) ............................................................................ 38 61 Helios Tower Africa Ltd (HTA)........................................................................................ 105 149 Milvik AB ......................................................................................................................... 13 16 West Indian Ocean Cable Company Limited (WIOCC)................................................... 14 14 Total .................................................................................................................................. 169 241 123 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued The summarized financial information for the Group’s main material associates (i.e. HTA and AIH) is provided below. Summary of statement of financial position of associates at December 31, 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Total current assets............................................................................................................ 473 409 Total non-current assets..................................................................................................... 717 766 Total assets ....................................................................................................................... 1,190 1,176 Total current liabilities ...................................................................................................... 343 268 Total non-current liabilities............................................................................................... 627 602 Total liabilities ................................................................................................................. 969 870 Total net assets................................................................................................................. 221 306 Millicom’s carrying value of its investment in HTA and AIH .......................................... 142 211 Millicom’s carrying value of its investment in other associates ....................................... 27 30 Millicom’s carrying value of its investment in associates ................................................ 169 241 Profit (loss) from other joint ventures and associates 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Revenue ..................................................................................................... 511 449 378 Operating expenses.................................................................................... (459) (321) (302) Operating profit (loss) ............................................................................... (214) (148) (167) Net loss for the year................................................................................... (327) (220) (228) Millicom’s share of results from HTA and AIH ........................................ (66) (34) (39) Millicom’s share of results from other associates ..................................... (2) (45) (10) Millicom’s share of results from other joint ventures (Ghana) ................. (68) (6) — Millicom’s share of results from other joint ventures and associates............................................................................................... (136) (85) (49) A.3.1. Accounting for investments in associates The Group accounts for associates in the same way as it accounts for joint ventures. A.3.2. Acquisitions and disposals of interests in associates Africa Internet Holding GmbH (AIH) AIH indirectly owns a number of companies that provide online services and online marketplaces in certain countries in Africa mainly under the brand name of Jumia. Early January 2019, Millicom has been further diluted in the capital of AIH following the entry of a new investor. This triggered the recognition of a net dilution gain of $7 million in January 2019. In addition, on January 31, 2019, some changes in the company's governance became effective and Millicom relinquished its seat on the board of directors, which resulted in the loss of the Group's significant influence over AIH. As a result, as from January 31, 2019, Millicom will stop equity accounting for its investment in AIH and start measuring it at fair value. This change in accounting is expected to trigger the recognition of a gain at initial measurement. 124 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Other various shareholder funding rounds were signed in 2016 whereby Millicom's interest was diluted. At that time, Millicom’s shareholding in AIH was reduced to 10%. This triggered the recognition of a net dilution gain of $43 million in the 2016 Group statement of income under 'Income (loss) from associates, net'. Millicom investment in African towers company, Helios Towers Africa Helios Towers Africa owns and operates telecommunications towers and passive infrastructure in four African markets. The company's principal business lies in building, acquiring and operating telecommunications towers that are capable of accommodating and powering the needs of multiple tenants. During 2016, Millicom’s shareholding was diluted from 28.2% to 22.8% as a result of previous committed cash calls and new investors’ funding. This resulted in Millicom recognizing a gain on dilution of $16 million. The gain was recorded in the 2016 Group statement of income under 'Income (loss) from other joint ventures and associates, net'. MKC Brilliant Holding GmbH (LIH) During 2016, Millicom’s 35% investment in LIH had been impaired by $40 million mainly as a result of the decrease in fair value of LIH’s investment in the Global Fashion Group. In April 2017, LIH completed the disposal of its shareholding in Easy Taxi to Cabify. As a result, and ultimately, LIH received cash and shares in Cabify. The transaction resulted in Millicom recognizing a loss of $11 million (Millicom’s share). Additionally, as a result of the annual impairment test conducted in 2017, Management fully impaired the remaining carrying value of its investment in LIH for $48 million. The impairment test performed in 2018 confirmed this conclusion. These losses were recorded under the caption 'Income (loss) from other joint ventures and associates, net' in the year ended December 31, 2017. Milvik AB (BIMA) On December 19, 2017, Millicom announced that it had sold a portion of its ownership stake in BIMA a leading emerging market insurance player (from 20.4% to 12.0% – on a fully diluted basis) to Kinnevik and a new investor, with the latter contributing $97 million in the micro-insurance business. As a result of the transaction, Millicom received $24 million in cash and recognized a gain on disposal of $21 million. In addition, and as a consequence of the subsequent capital increase made by the new investor, the Group recognized a gain on dilution of $11 million. Both gains have been recorded under the caption Income (loss) from other joint ventures and associates, net , in the statement of income. Both transactions were carried out at the same fair value on an arm’s length basis. A.4. Discontinued operations A.4.1. Classification of discontinued operations Discontinued operations are those which have identifiable operations and cash flows (for both operating and management purposes) and represent a major line of business or geographic area which has been disposed of, or are held for sale. Revenue and expenses associated with discontinued operations are presented retrospectively in a separate line in the consolidated statement of income. Millicom determined that the loss of path to control of operations by the termination of a contractual arrangement (e.g. termination without exercise of an unconditional call option agreement giving path to control, as occurred with the Guatemala and Honduras operations) does not require presentation as a discontinued operation. 125 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued A.4.2. Millicom’s discontinued operations In accordance with IFRS 5, the Group’s businesses in Senegal, Tigo Ghana and Tigo Rwanda have been classified as assets held for sale (respectively on February 2, 2017, September 28, 2017 and January 23, 2018) and their results were showed as discontinued operations for all years presented in these financial statements. The statement of income comparative figures presented in the notes to these consolidated financial statements have therefore been restated accordingly and when necessary. For further details, refer to note E.3. B. Performance B.1. Revenue Millicom’s revenue comprises sale of services from its mobile business (including Mobile Financial Services MFS) and its cable and other fixed services, as well as related devices and equipment. Recurring revenue consists of monthly subscription fees, airtime and data usage fees, interconnection fees, roaming fees, TV services, B2B contracts, MFS commissions and fees from other telecommunications services such as data services, short message services and other value added services. Revenue from continuing operations by category 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Mobile ........................................................................................................ 2,248 2,281 2,343 Cable and other fixed services ................................................................... 1,568 1,553 1,437 Other .......................................................................................................... 46 41 39 Service revenue......................................................................................... 3,861 3,876 3,820 Telephone and equipment and other .......................................................... 213 200 223 Total revenue ............................................................................................ 4,074 4,076 4,043 Revenue from continuing operations by country or operation 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Colombia ................................................................................................... 1,661 1,739 1,717 Paraguay .................................................................................................... 679 662 623 Bolivia ....................................................................................................... 614 555 542 El Salvador ................................................................................................ 405 422 425 Tanzania (excluding Zantel) ...................................................................... 356 348 347 Chad........................................................................................................... 128 140 166 Costa Rica.................................................................................................. 155 153 152 Panama ...................................................................................................... 17 — — Other operations ........................................................................................ 60 57 71 Total .......................................................................................................... 4,074 4,076 4,043 126 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued B.1.1. Accounting for revenue Revenue recognition Revenue is recognized at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. Post-paid connection fees are derived from the payment of a non-refundable / one-time fee charged to customer to connect to the network (e.g. connection / installation fee). Usually, it does not represent a distinct good or service, and therefore does not give rise to a separate performance obligation and revenue is recognized over the minimum contract duration. However, if the fee is paid by a customer to get the right to receive goods or services without having to pay this fee again over his tenure with the Group (e.g. the customer can readily extend his contract without having to pay the same fee again), it is accounted for as a material right and revenue should be recognized over the customer retention period. Post-paid mobile / cable subscription fees are recognized over the relevant enforceable/subscribed service period (recurring monthly access fees that do not vary based on usage). The service provision is usually considered as a series of distinct services that have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Remaining unrecognized subscription fees, which are not refunded to the customers, are fully recognized once the customer has been disconnected. Prepaid scratch / SIM cards are services where customers purchase a specified amount of airtime or other credit in advance. Revenue is recognized as the credit is used. Unused credit is carried in the statement of financial position as a contract liability. Upon expiration of the validity period, the portion of the contract liability relating to the expiring credit is recognized as revenue, since there is no longer an obligation to provide those services. Telephone and equipment sales are recognized as revenue once the customer obtains control of the good. That criteria is fulfilled when the customer has the ability to direct the use and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from that good. Revenue from provision of Mobile Financial Services (MFS) is recognized once the primary service has been provided to the customer. Customer premise equipment (CPE) are provided to customers as a prerequisite to receive the subscribed Home services and shall be returned at the end of the contract duration. Since CPEs provided over the contract term do not provide benefit to the customer on their own, they do not give rise to separate performance obligations and therefore are accounted for as part of the service provided to the customers. Bundled offers are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables or elements, which can lead to the identification of separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized in accordance with the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the relative standalone selling price of the performance obligation (e.g. sale of telecom services, revenue over time + sale of handset, revenue at a point in time). Principal-Agent, some arrangements involve two or more unrelated parties that contribute to providing a specified good or service to a customer. In these instances, the Group determines whether it has promised to provide the specified good or service itself (as a principal) or to arrange for those specified goods or services to be provided by another party (as an agent). For example, performance obligations relating to services provided by third-party content providers (i.e., mobile Value Added Services or “VAS”) or service providers (i.e., wholesale international traffic) where the Group neither controls a right to the provider’s service nor controls the underlying service itself are presented net because the Group is acting as an agent. The Group generally acts as a principal for other types of services where the Group is the primary obligor of the arrangement. In cases the Group determines that it acts as a principal, revenue is recognized in the gross amount, whereas in cases the Group acts as an agent revenue is recognized in the net amount. 127 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Revenue from the sale of cables, fiber, wavelength or capacity contracts, when part of the ordinary activities of the operation, is recognized as recurring revenue. Revenue is recognized when the cable, fiber, wavelength or capacity has been delivered to the customer, based on the amount expected to be received from the customer. Revenue from operating lease of tower space is recognized over the period of the underlying lease contracts. Finance leases revenue is apportioned between lease of tower space and interest income. B.2. Expenses The cost of sales and operating expenses incurred by the Group can be summarized as follows: Cost of sales 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Direct costs of services sold ...................................................................... (829) (913) (857) Cost of telephone, equipment and other accessories ................................. (230) (219) (254) Bad debt and obsolescence costs............................................................... (87) (72) (63) Cost of sales .............................................................................................. (1,146) (1,205) (1,175) Operating expenses, net 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Marketing expenses ................................................................................... (404) (463) (442) Site and network maintenance costs.......................................................... (209) (176) (160) Employee related costs (B.4.).................................................................... (514) (451) (451) External and other services........................................................................ (185) (152) (218) Rentals and operating leases...................................................................... (155) (155) (159) Other operating expenses .......................................................................... (207) (197) (196) Operating expenses, net .......................................................................... (1,674) (1,593) (1,627) The other operating income and expenses incurred by the Group can be summarized as follows: Other operating income (expenses), net Notes 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Income from tower deal transactions C.3.4. 65 63 — Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment ....................................................................... E.1., E.2. (6) (12) (6) Gain (loss) on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment........................................ 8 1 (8) Other income (expenses).................................................... 9 16 — Other operating income (expenses), net......................... 76 68 (14) 128 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued B.2.1. Accounting for cost of sales and operating expenses Cost of sales Cost of sales is recorded on an accrual basis. Customer acquisition costs Specific customer acquisition costs, including dealer commissions and handset subsidies, are charged to marketing expenses when the customer is activated. Operating leases Operating leases are all leases that do not qualify as finance leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as expenses in the consolidated statement of income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. B.3. Segmental information Management determines operating and reportable segments based on information used by the chief operating decision maker (CODM) to make strategic and operational decisions from both a business and geographic perspective. The Group’s risks and rates of return are predominantly affected by operating in different geographical regions. The Group has businesses in two main regions: Latin America ( Latam ) and Africa. The Latam figures below include Honduras and Guatemala as if they are fully consolidated by the Group, as this reflects the way management reviews and uses internally reported information to make decisions. Honduras and Guatemala are shown under the Latam segment. The joint venture in Ghana is not reported as if fully consolidated. As from January 1, 2018, segment EBITDA includes inter-company management fees and incentive compensation paid to local management teams. These items, were previously included in unallocated corporate costs. This change in presentation has no impact on Group EBITDA. Accordingly, 2017 and 2016 have been represented. Revenue, operating profit (loss), EBITDA and other segment information for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: 129 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Guatemala Eliminations Latin and and America Africa (vii) Unallocated Honduras(vii) Transfers Total (US$ millions) Year ended December 31, 2018 Mobile revenue ................................. 3,214 510 — (1,475) — 2,248 Cable and other fixed services — — revenue .......................................... 1,808 12 (253) 1,568 Other revenue .................................... 48 3 — (6) — 46 Service revenue (i) ............................ 5,069 526 — (1,734) — 3,861 Telephone and equipment and other revenue ................................. 415 1 — (203) — 213 Revenue ............................................ 5,485 526 — (1,937) — 4,074 Operating profit (loss)..................... 995 40 (47) (488) 154 655 Add back: Depreciation and amortization .......... 1,133 107 5 (416) 830 Share of profit in joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras .............. — — — — (154) (154) Other operating income (expenses), net ............................... (51) (3) (2) (19) — (76) EBITDA(ii) ...................................... 2,077 143 (44) (922) — 1,254 EBITDA from discontinued operations ...................................... — 3 — — — 3 EBITDA incl. discontinued operations ..................................... 2,077 146 (44) (922) — 1,257 Capex(iii) .......................................... (872) (59) (2) 225 — (708) Changes in working capital and others(iv)........................................ (42) 28 13 (12) — (13) Taxes paid.......................................... (264) (24) (6) 142 — (153) Operating Free Cash Flow(v)......... 899 91 (39) (568) — 383 Total Assets(vi)................................. 11,754 839 2,752 (5,219) 190 10,316 Total Liabilities................................ 6,132 905 2,953 (1,814) (650) 7,526 130 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Guatemala Eliminations Latin and and America Africa (vii) Unallocated Honduras(vii) Transfers Total (US$ millions) Year ended December 31, 2017 (viii) Mobile revenue .......................................... 3,283 509 — (1,510) — 2,281 Cable and other fixed services revenue ..... 1,755 12 — (213) — 1,553 Other revenue............................................. 40 5 — (4) — 41 Service revenue (i) ..................................... 5,078 524 — (1,727) — 3,876 Telephone and equipment and other revenue ................................................... 363 2 — (165) — 200 Revenue..................................................... 5,441 526 — (1,892) — 4,076 Operating profit (loss) ............................. 899 41 (5) (431) 140 645 Add back: Depreciation and amortization................... 1,174 110 6 (450) — 841 Share of profit in joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras ....................... — — — — (140) (140) Other operating income (expenses), net..... (49) (11) 10 (18) — (68) EBITDA(ii) ............................................... 2,024 140 11 (899) — 1,278 EBITDA from discontinued operations ..... — 73 — — — 73 EBITDA incl. discontinued operations.............................................. 2,024 213 11 (899) — 1,351 Capex(iii) ................................................... (855) (99) (1) 237 — (718) Changes in working capital and others(iv) ................................................ (53) (6) (10) 27 — (42) Taxes paid .................................................. (239) (18) 1 124 — (132) Operating Free Cash Flow(v) ................. 877 90 1 (511) — 459 Total Assets(vi).......................................... 10,411 1,482 598 (5,420) 2,393 9,464 Total liabilities .......................................... 5,484 1,673 1,465 (1,961) (478) 6,183 131 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Guatemala Eliminations Latin and and America Africa Unallocated Honduras(vii) Transfers Total (US$ millions) Year ended December 31, 2016 (viii) Mobile revenue.......................................... 3,318 541 — (1,514) — 2,343 Cable and other fixed services revenue ..... 1,611 15 — (191) — 1,437 Other revenue ............................................ 37 6 — (4) — 39 Service revenue (i)..................................... 4,966 562 — (1,709) — 3,820 Telephone and equipment and other revenue................................................... 386 2 — (165) — 223 Revenue .................................................... 5,352 565 — (1,875) — 4,043 Operating profit (loss) ............................. 721 43 4 (394) (115) 490 Add back: Depreciation and amortization .................. 1,173 113 7 (441) — 853 Share of profit in joint ventures in Guatemala and Honduras....................... — — — — (115) (115) Other operating income (expenses), net .... 42 2 (6) (24) — 14 EBITDA(ii)............................................... 1,935 158 5 (859) — 1,241 EBITDA from discontinued operations..... — 77 — — — 77 EBITDA incl. discontinued operations.............................................. 1,935 235 5 (859) — 1,319 Capex(iii)................................................... (886) (161) (6) 242 — (811) Changes in working capital and others(iv) ................................................ 37 (2) (33) 24 — 26 Taxes paid .................................................. (233) (33) (9) 145 — (130) Operating Free Cash Flow(v) ................. 853 39 (43) (448) — 404 Total Assets(vi) ......................................... 10,386 1,406 1,357 (5,589) 2,067 9,627 Total liabilities.......................................... 5,229 1,852 1,997 (1,942) (877) 6,258 (i) Service revenue is Group revenue related to the provision of ongoing services such as monthly subscription fees, airtime and data usage fees, interconnection fees, roaming fees, mobile finance service commissions and fees from other telecommunications services such as data services, SMS and other value-added services excluding telephone and equipment sales. Revenues from other sources comprises rental, sub-lease rental income and other non recurrent revenues. The Group derives revenue from the transfer of goods and services over time and at a point in time. Refer to the table below. (ii) EBITDA is operating profit excluding impairment losses, depreciation and amortization and gains/losses on the disposal of fixed assets. EBITDA is used by the management to monitor the segmental performance and for capital management. (iii) Cash spent for capex excluding spectrum and licenses of $61 million (2017: $53 million; 2016: $39 million) and cash received on tower deals of $141 million (2017: $167 million; 2016: nil). (iv) Changes in working capital and others include changes in working capital as stated in the cash flow statement, as well as sharebased payments expense and non-cash bonuses. (v) Operating Free Cash Flow is EBITDA less capex (excluding spectrum and license costs) less change in working capital, other non-cash items (share-based payment expense and non-cash bonuses) and taxes paid. (vi) Segment assets include goodwill and other intangible assets. (vii) Including eliminations for Guatemala and Honduras as reported in the Latam segment. (viii)Restated as a result of classification of certain of our African operations as discontinued operations (see notes A.4. and E.3.). 132 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Revenue from contracts with customers from continuing operations: Year ended December 31, 2018 Timing of revenue Latin $ millions recognition America Africa Total Group Mobile Over time 1,701 401 2,102 Mobile Financial Services Point in time 37 109 147 Cable and other fixed services Over time 1,556 12 1,568 Other Over time 42 3 46 Service Revenue 3,336 526 3,861 Telephone and equipment Point in time 212 1 213 Revenue from contracts with customers 3,548 526 4,074 B.4. People Number of permanent employees 2018 2017 2016 Continuing operations(i)............................................................................ 16,987 14,404 13,211 Joint ventures (Guatemala, Honduras and Ghana – for 2018 and 2017) ...................................................................................................... 4,416 4,326 4,023 Discontinued operations ............................................................................ — 397 751 Total .......................................................................................................... 21,403 19,127 17,985 (i) Emtelco headcount are excluded from this report and any internal reporting because their costs are classified as direct costs and not employee related costs. Notes 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Wages and salaries ............................................................. (356) (320) (290) Social security.................................................................... (61) (57) (67) Share based compensation ................................................. B.4.1. (21) (22) (14) Pension and other long-term benefit costs ......................... B.4.2. (7) (8) (6) Other employee related costs ............................................. (70) (45) (74) Total................................................................................... (514) (451) (451) B.4.1. Share-based compensation Millicom shares granted to management and key employees includes share-based compensation in the form of long-term share incentive plans. Up until 2015, Millicom had two types of annual plan, a future performance plan and a deferred share plan. In 2015, Millicom issued four different types of plans; a deferred share plan, a performance share plan, an executive share plan and the sign-on CEO share plan (a one-off plan). Since 2016, Millicom has two types of annual plans, a performance share plan and a deferred share plan. The different plans are further detailed below. 133 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Cost of share based compensation 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) 2014 incentive plans — — (1) 2015 incentive plans — (3) (3) 2016 incentive plans (4) (6) (10) 2017 incentive plans (8) (12) — 2018 incentive plans (11) — — Total share-based compensation (21) (22) (14) Deferred share plan (unchanged since 2014) For the deferred awards plan, participants are granted shares based on past performance, with 16.5% of the shares vesting on January 1 of each of year one and two, and the remaining 67% on 1 January of year three. Vesting is conditional upon the participant remaining employed with Millicom at each vesting date. The cost of this longterm incentive plan, which is not conditional on performance conditions, is calculated as follows: Fair value (share price) of Millicom’s shares at grant date x number of shares expected to vest. Sign-on CEO share plan (issued in 2015 – one off) As part of his employment contract Millicom CEO (from April 1, 2015) received a sign-on grant of 77,344 shares. Vesting is conditional, among other conditions, on the CEO not being dismissed for cause. The cost of this long-term incentive plan, which is not conditional on market conditions, is calculated in the same way as the deferred share plan above. The expense for this plan has been taken in full during 2015. Performance share plan (issued in 2015) Under this plan, shares granted did vest in full in 2018, subject to performance conditions, 62.5% based on Absolute Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and 37.5% based on actual vs budgeted EBITDA minus CAPEX minus Change in Working Capital (Free Cash Flow). As the TSR measure is a market condition, the fair value of the shares in the performance share plan requires consideration of potential adjustments for future market-based conditions at grant date. For this, a specific valuation had been performed at grant date based on the probability of the TSR conditions being met (and to which extent) and the expected payout based upon leaving conditions. The Free Cash Flows (FCF) condition is a non-market measure which had been considered together with the leaving estimate and based initially on a 100% fulfillment expectation. The reference share price for 2015 performance share plan is the same share price as the share price for the deferred share plan. Executive share plan (issued in 2015 – one off) Under this plan, shares were granted to the CEO and CFO based on an allocated holding of 3,333 (CEO) and 2,000 (CFO) shares for which vesting occurs based on three components at multipliers based on market conditions (a TSR for component A and B) and performance conditions (on actual vs budgeted FCF for component C). The maximum number of shares that could vest under the plan was 26,664 (CEO) and 14,000 (CFO). The plan vested in 2018 at the end of a three-year period. Similarly to the performance share plan, a specific valuation had been performed based on the probability of the TSR conditions being met (and to which extent) and the expected payout based upon leaving conditions. The FCF condition being a non-market measure, it had been considered together with the leaving estimate and based initially 134 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued on a 100% fulfillment expectation. Therefore, the reference share price is the share price on the date that the CEO and the CFO agreed to the executive share plan. Performance share plan (for plans issued in 2016 and 2017) Shares granted under this performance share plan vest at the end of the three-year period, subject to performance conditions, 25% based on Positive Absolute Total Shareholder Return (Absolute TSR), 25% based on Relative Total Shareholder Return (Relative TSR) and 50% based on budgeted Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) minus Capital Expenditure (Capex) minus Change in Working Capital (CWC) (Free Cash Flow). This performance share plan is measured similarly to the performance share plan issued in 2015, see above. Performance share plan (for plan issued in 2018) Shares granted under this performance share plan vest at the end of the three-year period, subject to performance conditions, 25% based on Relative Total Shareholder Return (“Relative TSR”), 25% based on the achievement of the Service Revenue target measured on a 3-year CAGRs from years 2018 to 2020 (“Service Revenue”) and 50% based on the achievement of the Operating Free Cash Flow (“Operating Free Cash Flow”) target measured on a 3-year CAGRs from years 2018 to 2020. For the performance share plans and the executive share plan, and in order to calculate the fair value of the TSR portion of those plans, it is necessary to make a number of assumptions which are set out below. The assumptions have been set based on an analysis of historical data as at grant date. Assumptions and fair value of the shares under the TSR portion Share price Share fair Risk-free Dividend volatility(i) Award term value (in US rate % yield % % (years) $) Performance share plan 2018 (Relative TSR) .... (0.39) 3.21 30.27 2.93 57.70 Performance share plan 2017 (Relative TSR) .... (0.40) 3.80 22.50 2.92 27.06 Performance share plan 2017 (Absolute TSR) ... (0.40) 3.80 22.50 2.92 29.16 Performance share plan 2016 (Relative TSR) .... (0.65) 3.49 30.00 2.61 43.35 Performance share plan 2016 (Absolute TSR) ... (0.65) 3.49 30.00 2.61 45.94 Performance share plan 2015 (Absolute TSR) ... (0.32) 2.78 23.00 2.57 32.87 Executive share plan 2015 – Component A........ (0.32) N/A 23.00 2.57 53.74 Executive share plan 2015 – Component B........ (0.32) N/A 23.00 2.57 29.53 (i) Historical volatility retained was determined on the basis of a three-year historic average. The cost of the long-term incentive plans which are conditional on market conditions is calculated as follows: Fair value (market value) of shares at grant date (as calculated above) x number of shares expected to vest. The cost of these plans is recognized, together with a corresponding increase in equity (share compensation reserve), over the period in which the performance and/or employment conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Adjustments are made to the expense recorded for forfeitures, mainly due to management and employees leaving Millicom. Non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when determining the grant date fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition. These are treated as vested, regardless of whether or not the market conditions are satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. Where the terms of an equity-settled award are 135 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued modified, as a minimum an expense is recognized as if the terms had not been modified. In addition, an expense is recognized for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification. Plan awards and shares expected to vest 2018 plans 2017 plans 2016 plans 2015 plans Performa Deferred Performa Deferred Performa Deferred Performa Executive Deferred nce plan plan nce plan plan nce plan plan nce plan plan CEO plan plan (number of shares) Initial shares granted 237,196 262,317 279,807 438,505 200,617 287,316 98,137 40,664 77,344 237,620 Additional shares granted(i) — 3,290 2,868 29,406 — — — — 3,537 — Revision for forfeitures (13,531) (18,086) (34,556) (74,325) (49,164) (77,924) (37,452) — — (68,121) Revision for cancellations (4,728) — — — — — — — — — Total before issuances 218,927 247,521 248,119 393,586 151,453 209,392 60,685 40,664 80,881 169,499 Shares issued in 2016 — — — — (1,214) (1,733) (771) — (25,781) (38,745) Shares issued in 2017 — — — (2,686) (752) (43,579) (357) — (28,139) (30,124) Shares issued in 2018 (97) (18,747) (2,724) (99,399) (2,050) (46,039) (27,619) (19,022) (26,961) (100,630) Performance conditions — — — — — — (31,938) (21,642) — — Shares still expected to vest 218,830 228,774 245,395 291,501 147,437 118,041 — — — — Estimated cost over the vesting period (US$ millions) 12 14 9 20 8 12 4 2 6 12 (i) Additional shares granted represent grants made for new joiners and/or as per CEO contractual arrangements. B.4.2. Pension and other long-term employee benefit plans Pension plans The pension plans apply to employees who meet certain criteria (including years of service, age and participation in collective agreements). Pension and other similar employee related obligations can result from either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. No further payment obligations exist once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expenses when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as assets to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available. Defined benefit pension plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial position in respect of the defined benefit pension plan is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the statement of financial position date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognized actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows, using an appropriate discount rate based on maturities of the related pension liability. Re-measurement of net defined benefit liabilities are recognized in other comprehensive income and not reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent years. Past service costs are recognized in the statement of income on the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the Group recognizes related restructuring costs. 136 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset/liability. Long-service plans Long-service plans apply for Colombian subsidiary UNE employees with more than five years of service whereby additional bonuses are paid to employees that reach each incremental length of service milestone (from five to 40 years). Termination plans In addition, UNE has a number of employee defined benefit plans. The level of benefits provided under the plans depends on collective employment agreements and Colombian labor regulations. There are no defined assets related to the plans, and UNE make payments to settle obligations under the plans out of available cash balances. At December 31, 2018, the defined benefit obligation liability amounted to $60 million (2017: $66 million) and payments expected in the plans in future years totals $111 million (2017: $87 million). The average duration of the defined benefit obligation at December 31, 2018 is 7 years (2017: 7 years). The termination plans apply to employees that joined UNE prior to December 30, 1996. The level of payments depends on the number of years in which the employee has worked before retirement or termination of their contract with UNE. Except for the UNE pension plan described above, there are no other significant defined benefits plans in the Group. B.4.3. Directors and executive management The remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors comprises an annual fee and shares. Director remuneration is proposed by the Nomination Committee and approved by the shareholders at their Annual General Meeting (AGM). Remuneration charge for the Board (gross of withholding tax) 2018 2017 2016 (US$ ’000) Chairperson................................................................................................ 169 233 243 Other members of the Board ..................................................................... 774 889 900 Total (i)...................................................................................................... 943 1,122 1,143 (i) Cash compensation converted from SEK to USD at exchange rates on payment dates each year. Share based compensation based on the market value of Millicom shares on the corresponding AGM date (2018: in total 6,591 shares; 2017: in total 8,731 shares; 2016: in total 8,002 shares). Net remuneration comprised 51% in shares and 49% in cash (SEK) (2017: 52% in shares and 48% in cash; 2016: 50% in shares and 50% in cash). Shares beneficially owned by the Directors 2018 2017 (number of shares) Chairperson ....................................................................................................................... 8,554 7,000 Other members of the Board ............................................................................................. 15,333 20,067 Total .................................................................................................................................. 23,887 27,067 The remuneration of executive management of Millicom comprises an annual base salary, an annual bonus, share based compensation, social security contributions, pension contributions and other benefits. Bonus and share based compensation plans (see note B.4.1.) are based on actual and future performance. Share based compensation is granted once a year by the Compensation Committee of the Board. 137 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued If the employment of Millicom’s senior executives is terminated, severance of up to 12 months’ salary is potentially payable. The annual base salary and other benefits of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Executive Vice Presidents (Executive team) are proposed by the Compensation Committee and approved by the Board. Remuneration charge for the Executive Team Executive Team (9 CEO CFO members)(iii) (US$ ’000) 2018 Base salary................................................................................................. 1,112 673 3,930 Bonus......................................................................................................... 1,492 557 2,445 Pension ...................................................................................................... 247 101 962 Other benefits ............................................................................................ 66 63 805 Termination benefits.................................................................................. — — 301 Total before share based compensation ................................................. 2,918 1,393 8,444 Share based compensation(i)(ii) in respect of 2018 LTIP ......................... 5,027 1,567 4,957 Total .......................................................................................................... 7,945 2,960 13,401 Remuneration charge for the Executive Team Executive Team (9 CEO CFO members) (US$ ’000) 2017 Base salary................................................................................................. 1,000 648 3,822 Bonus......................................................................................................... 707 455 1,590 Pension ...................................................................................................... 150 97 629 Other benefits ............................................................................................ 64 15 1,193 Total before share based compensation ................................................. 1,921 1,215 7,233 Share based compensation(i)(ii) in respect of 2017 LTIP ......................... 2,783 1,492 5,202 Total .......................................................................................................... 4,704 2,707 12,435 138 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Remuneration charge for the Executive team Executive team CEO CFO (9 members) (US$ ’000) 2016 Base salary................................................................................................. 1,000 599 3,797 Bonus......................................................................................................... 660 450 1,411 Pension ...................................................................................................... 150 82 513 Other benefits ............................................................................................ 48 18 720 Total before share based compensation ................................................. 1,858 1,149 6,441 Share based compensation(i)(ii) in respect of 2016 LTIP ......................... 2,660 1,481 4,031 Total .......................................................................................................... 4,518 2,630 10,472 (i) See note B.4.1. (ii) Share awards of 80,264 and 112,472 were granted in 2018 under the 2018 LTIPs to the CEO, and Executive Team (2017: 61,724 and 167,371, respectively; 2016: 49,171 and 104,573, respectively). (iii) Other Executives’ compensation includes Daniel Loria, former CHRO and Rodrigo Diehl, EVP Strategy. Share ownership and unvested share awards granted from Company equity plans to the Executive team Executive CEO team Total (number of shares) 2018 Share ownership (vested from equity plans and otherwise acquired) ....... 122,310 84,782 207,092 Share awards not vested ............................................................................ 172,485 339,726 512,211 2017 Share ownership (vested from equity plans and otherwise acquired) ....... 80,159 55,888 136,047 Share awards not vested ............................................................................ 148,324 299,067 447,391 B.5. Other non-operating (expenses) income, net Non-operating items mainly comprise changes in fair value of derivatives and the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on the results of the Group. Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Change in fair value of derivatives (see note D.1.2.) (1) (22) 3 Exchange gain (loss), net (41) 18 25 Other non-operating income (expenses), net 2 0 (9) Total (40) (4) 20 Foreign exchange gains and losses Transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and on translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies 139 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued other than the functional currency at year-end exchange rates, are recognized in the consolidated statement of income, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges. B.6. Taxation B.6.1. Income tax expense Tax mainly comprises income taxes of subsidiaries and withholding taxes on intragroup dividends and royalties for use of Millicom trademarks and brands. Millicom operations are in jurisdictions with income tax rates of 10% to 40% levied on either revenue or profit before income tax (2017: 10% to 40%; 2016: 10% to 40%). Income tax relating to items recognized directly in equity is recognized in equity and not in the consolidated statement of income. Income tax charge 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Income tax (charge) credit Withholding tax ......................................................................................... (64) (74) (44) Other income tax relating to the current year............................................ (86) (85) (74) (150) (159) (118) Adjustments in respect of prior years........................................................ 1 (12) (26) (149) (171) (144) Deferred tax (charge) credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences.................................... 32 15 45 Effect of change in tax rates ...................................................................... (10) 19 1 Tax income (expense) before valuation allowances.................................. 22 34 46 Effect of valuation allowances .................................................................. (8) (30) (88) 14 4 (42) Adjustments in respect of prior years........................................................ 19 9 7 33 13 (35) Tax (charge) credit on continuing operations ............................................ (116) (158) (179) Tax (charge) credit on discontinuing operations ....................................... — — 6 Total tax (charge) credit.......................................................................... (116) (158) (173) 140 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Reconciliation between the tax expense and tax at the weighted average statutory tax rate is as follows: Income tax calculation 2018 2017 2016 Discontinue Discontinue Discontinue Continuing d Continuing d Continuing d operations operations Total operations operations Total operations operations Total (US $ millions) Profit before tax .................... 129 (39) 90 176 51 227 109 (26) 83 Tax at the weighted average statutory rate........ (5) 4 (1) (12) (10) (22) 9 6 15 Effect of: Items taxed at a different rate .................................... 7 — 7 (11) 0 (11) 13 0 13 Change in tax rates on deferred tax balances ........ (10) — (10) 19 0 19 1 0 1 Expenditure not deductible and income not taxable ........................ (59) (2) (61) (66) 7 (59) (65) 8 (57) Unrelieved withholding tax ..................................... (64) — (64) (73) 0 (73) (43) 0 (43) Accounting for associates and joint ventures ............. 5 — 5 17 0 17 29 0 29 Movement in deferred tax on unremitted earnings ..... (2) — (2) 1 0 1 (16) 0 (16) Unrecognized deferred tax assets........................... (8) (2) (10) (31) (10) (41) (105) (15) (120) Recognition of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets........................... — — — 1 13 14 17 0 17 Adjustments in respect of prior years......................... 20 — 20 (3) 0 (3) (19) 7 (12) Total tax (charge) credit ..... (116) — (116) (158) 0 (158) (179) 6 (173) Weighted average statutory tax rate ............... 3.9% 1.1% 6.82% 9.69% (8.26)% (17.90)% Effective tax rate ................... 89.9% 128.9% 89.77% 69.60% 164.22 % 207.10 % B.6.2. Current tax assets and liabilities Current tax assets and liabilities for current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rate and tax laws used to compute the amount are those enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date. B.6.3. Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated using the liability method on temporary differences at the statement of financial position date between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount for financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences, except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognized for all temporary differences including unused tax credits and tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilized, except where the deferred tax assets relate to deductible temporary differences from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting, nor taxable profit or loss. It is probable that taxable profit will be available 141 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued when there are sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same tax authority and the same taxable entity which are expected to reverse in the same period as the expected reversal of the deductible temporary difference. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to utilize them. Unrecognized deferred tax assets are reassessed at each statement of financial position date and are recognized to the extent it is probable that future taxable profit will enable the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rate expected to apply in the year when the assets are realized or liabilities settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset where legally enforceable set off rights exist and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Deferred tax Unused tax Unremitted Fixed assets losses earnings Other Offset Total (US$ millions) Balance at December 31, 2016........................... (23) 113 (32) 51 — 109 (Charge)/credit to statement of income ........ 53 (61) 1 20 — 13 Exchange differences.......... 2 — (1) 1 — 2 Balance at December 31, 2017 32 52 (32) 72 — 124 Deferred tax assets.............. 88 52 — 79 (39) 180 Deferred tax liabilities ........ (56) — (32) (7) 39 (56) Balance at December 31, 2017........................... 32 52 (32) 72 — 124 (Charge)/credit to statement of income ........ (18) (3) (2) 56 — 33 Change in scope.................. (190) — — 9 — (181) Accounting policy changes............................ — — — 4 — 4 Exchange differences.......... — (5) — (6) — (11) Balance at December 31, 2018 (176) 44 (34) 135 — (31) Deferred tax assets.............. 76 44 — 134 (52) 202 Deferred tax liabilities ........ (252) — (34) 1 52 (233) Balance at December 31, 2018........................... (176) 44 (34) 135 — (31) Deferred tax assets have not been recognized in respect of the following deductible temporary differences: Deductible temporary differences Unused tax Fixed assets losses Other Total (US$ millions) At December 31, 2018 ....................................................... 92 4,886 134 5,112 At December 31, 2017 ....................................................... 68 4,844 162 5,074 142 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Unrecognized loss carryforwards expire as follows: Unrecognized tax losses related to continuing operations 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Expiry: Within one year ......................................................................................... — 39 27 Within one to five years............................................................................. 3 494 493 After five years .......................................................................................... 493 — — No expiry ................................................................................................... 4,390 4,311 3,981 Total .......................................................................................................... 4,886 4,844 4,501 With effect from 2017, Luxembourg tax losses incurred may be carried forward for a maximum of 17 years. Losses incurred before 2017 may be carried forward without limitation of time. At December 31, 2018, Millicom had $584 million of unremitted earnings of Millicom operating subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liabilities were recognized (2017: $842 million; 2016: $873 million). Except for intragroup dividends to be paid out of 2018 profits in 2019 for which deferred tax of $34 million (2017: $32 million; 2016 $32 million) has been provided, it is anticipated that intragroup dividends paid in future periods will be made out of profits of future periods. B.7. Earnings per share Basic earnings (loss) per share are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings (loss) per share are calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive potential shares. Net profit/(loss) used in the earnings (loss) per share computation 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Basic and diluted: Net profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders from continuing operations............................................................................................... 29 36 (12) Net profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders from discontinued operations............................................................................................... (39) 51 (20) Net profit/(loss) attributable to all equity holders to determine the basic earnings (loss) per share ...................................................... (10) 86 (32) 143 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Weighted average number of shares in the earnings (loss) per share computation 2018 2017 2016 (thousands of shares) Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) for basic earnings (loss) per share ............................................. 100,793 100,384 100,337 Potential incremental shares as a result of share options .......................... — — — Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding treasury shares) adjusted for the effect of dilution .......................................... 100,793 100,384 100,337 C. Capital structure and financing C.1. Share capital, share premium and reserves Common shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds. Where any Group company purchases the Company’s share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is shown under Treasury shares and deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are canceled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and the related income tax effects is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. Share capital, share premium 2018 2017 Authorized and registered share capital (number of shares).......................................... 133,333,200 133,333,200 Subscribed and fully paid up share capital (number of shares) ..................................... 101,739,217 101,739,217 Par value per share ......................................................................................................... 1.50 1.50 Share capital (US$ millions).......................................................................................... 153 153 Share premium (US$ millions) ...................................................................................... 482 484 Total (US$ millions) ..................................................................................................... 635 637 144 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Other equity reserves Equity settled Currency Pension Legal transaction Hedge translation obligation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total (US$ millions) As of January 1, 2016 ................... 16 46 (1) (593) 1 (531) Share based compensation.............. — 14 — — — 14 Issuance of shares – 2013, 2014, 2015 LTIPs.................................. — (17) — — — (17) Remeasurements of postemployment benefit obligations ................................... — — — — (2) (2) Cash flow hedge reserve movement.................................... — — (3) — — (3) Currency translation movement...... — — — (23) — (23) As of December 31, 2016 .............. 16 43 (4) (616) (1) (562) Share based compensation.............. — 22 — — — 22 Issuance of shares – 2014, 2015, 2016 LTIPs.................................. — (18) — — — (18) Remeasurements of postemployment benefit obligations ................................... — — — — (2) (2) Cash flow hedge reserve movement.................................... — — 4 — — 4 Currency translation movement...... — — — 85 — 85 As of December 31, 2017 .............. 16 47 — (531) (3) (472) Share based compensation.............. — 22 — — — 22 Issuance of shares –2015, 2016, 2017 LTIPs.................................. — (22) — — — (22) Currency translation movement...... — — — (68) — (68) As of December 31, 2018 .............. 16 47 — (599) (3) (538) C.1.1. Legal reserve If Millicom International Cellular S.A. reports an annual net profit on a non-consolidated basis, Luxembourg law requires appropriation of an amount equal to at least 5% of the annual net profit to a legal reserve until such reserve equals 10% of the issued share capital. This reserve is not available for dividend distribution. No appropriation was required in 2017 or 2018 as the 10% minimum level was reached in 2011 and maintained each subsequent year. C.1.2. Equity settled transaction reserve The cost of LTIPs is recognized as an increase in the equity-settled transaction reserve over the period in which the performance and/or service conditions are rendered. When shares under the LTIPs vest and are issued the corresponding reserve is transferred to share premium. C.1.3. Hedge reserve The effective portions of changes in value of cash flow hedges are recorded in the hedge reserve (see note C.1.). 145 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued C.1.4. Currency translation reserve In the financial statements, the relevant captions in the statements of financial position of subsidiaries without US dollar functional currencies are translated to US dollars using the closing exchange rate. Statements of income or statement of income captions (including those of joint ventures and associates) are translated to US dollars at monthly average exchange rates during the year. The currency translation reserve includes foreign exchange gains and losses arising from these translations. C.2. Dividend distributions On May 17, 2018, a dividend distribution of $2.64 per share from Millicom’s retained profits at December 31, 2017, was approved by the shareholders at the AGM and paid in equal portions in May and November 2018. On May 4, 2017, a dividend distribution of $2.64 per share from Millicom’s retained profits at December 31, 2016, was approved by the shareholders at the AGM and distributed in May 2017. On May 17, 2016, a dividend distribution of $2.64 per share from Millicom’s retained profits at December 31, 2015, was approved by the shareholders at the AGM and distributed in May 2016. The ability of the Company to make dividend payments is subject to, among other things, the terms of indebtedness, legal restrictions and the ability to repatriate funds from Millicom’s various operations. At December 31, 2018, $324 million (December 31, 2017: $345 million; December 31, 2016: $321 million) of Millicom’s retained profits represent statutory reserves that are unavailable to be distributed to owners of the Company. C.3. Debt and financing Debt and financing by type (i) Note 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Debt and financing due after more than one year Bonds......................................................................................................... C.3.1. 2,501 2,147 Banks ......................................................................................................... C.3.2. 1,324 1,158 Finance leases............................................................................................ C.3.4. 353 362 Other financing(ii)............................................................................................................ 113 74 Total non-current financing ....................................................................... 4,291 3,742 Less: portion payable within one year....................................................... (168) (142) Total non-current financing due after more than one year ........................ 4,123 3,600 Debt and financing due within one year Bonds......................................................................................................... C.3.1. — — Banks ......................................................................................................... C.3.2. 289 40 Finance leases............................................................................................ C.3.4. — 3 Other financing.......................................................................................... — — Total current debt and financing............................................................ 289 43 Add: portion of non-current debt payable within one year ....................... 168 142 Total .......................................................................................................... 458 185 Total debt and financing ......................................................................... 4,580 3,785 (i) See note D.1.1 for further details on maturity profile of the Group debt and financing. 146 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued (ii) In July 2018, the Company issued a COP144,054.5 million /$50 million bilateral facility with IIC (Inter-American Development Bank) for a USD indexed to COP Note. The note bears interest at 9.45% p.a.. This COP Note is used as net investment hedge of the net assets of our operations in Colombia. Debt and financing by location 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Millicom International Cellular S.A. (Luxembourg) ........................................................ 1,770 1,255 Colombia ........................................................................................................................... 1,016 1,130 Paraguay............................................................................................................................ 504 488 Bolivia ............................................................................................................................... 317 352 Panama .............................................................................................................................. 261 — Tanzania ............................................................................................................................ 201 217 Rwanda.............................................................................................................................. — 50 Chad .................................................................................................................................. 64 70 Costa Rica ......................................................................................................................... 148 76 El Salvador ........................................................................................................................ 299 147 Total debt and financing ................................................................................................. 4,580 3,785 Debt and financings are initially recognized at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method or at fair value. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and any fees or costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. Any difference between the initial amount and the maturity amount is recognized in the consolidated statement of income over the period of the borrowing. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities, unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the statement of financial position date. 147 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued C.3.1. Bond financing Bond financing Final 2017 Note Country Maturity Interest Rate % 2018 (US$ millions) SEK Senior Unsecured Variable Rate Notes ................................ 1 Luxembourg 2019 STIBOR +3.3(i) — 243 USD 6.625% Senior Notes .......... 2 Luxembourg 2026 6.625 495 — USD 6% Senior Notes ................. 3 Luxembourg 2025 6 491 496 USD 6.625% Senior Notes .......... 4 Luxembourg 2021 6.625 — — USD 5.125% Senior Notes .......... 5 Luxembourg 2028 5.125 493 494 USD 6.75% Senior Notes ............ 6 Paraguay 2022 6.75 297 296 BOB 4.75% Notes........................ 7 Bolivia 2020 4.75 59 86 BOB 4.05% Notes........................ 7 Bolivia 2020 4.05 7 11 BOB 4.85% Notes........................ 7 Bolivia 2023 4.85 71 85 BOB 3.95% Notes........................ 7 Bolivia 2024 3.95 43 50 BOB 4.30% Notes........................ 7 Bolivia 2029 4.3 23 25 BOB 4.30% Notes........................ 7 Bolivia 2022 4.3 30 30 BOB 4.70% Notes........................ 7 Bolivia 2024 4.7 35 35 BOB 5.30% Notes........................ 7 Bolivia 2026 5.3 13 13 UNE Bond 1 (tranches A and B).. 8 Colombia 2020 CPI + 5.10 46 50 UNE Bond 2 (tranches A and B).. 8 Colombia 2023 CPI + 4.76 46 50 UNE Bond 3 (tranche A).............. 8 Colombia 2024 9.35 49 54 UNE Bond 3 (tranche B).............. 8 Colombia 2026 CPI+4.15 78 85 UNE Bond 3 (tranche C).............. 8 Colombia 2036 CPI+4.89 39 43 Cable Onda Bonds ....................... 9 Panama 2025 5.75 184 — Total bond financing .................. 2,501 2,147 (i) STIBOR – Swedish Interbank Offered Rate. (1) SEK Senior Unsecured Notes In August 2018, the Company redeemed all of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding SEK Senior Unsecured Notes due 2019 ($227 million). The early redemption fees amounting to $3 million and $1 million of related unamortized costs have been expensed in August 2018 under interest and other financial expenses. As of September 30, 2018, the notes have been fully redeemed. (2) USD 6.625% Senior Notes On October 16, 2018, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% Senior Notes due 2026. The Notes bear interest at 6.625% p.a., payable semiannually in arrears on each interest payment date. Proceeds were used to finance Cable Onda’s acquisition (Note A.1.2.). Costs of issuance of $6 million are amortized over the eight-year life of the notes (the effective interest rate is 6.75%). 148 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued (3) USD 6% Senior Notes On March 11, 2015, Millicom issued a $500 million 6% fixed interest rate bond repayable in ten years, to repay the El Salvador 8% Senior Notes and for general corporate purposes. The bond was issued at 100% of the principal and has an effective interest rate of 6.132%. $8.6 million of withheld and upfront costs are being amortized over the ten-year life of the bond. (4) USD 6.625% Senior Notes In December 2016, the Company confirmed that it had accepted for purchase $142 million of principal of its 6.625% Senior Notes due 2021. The early redemption fees amounting to $8 million and $2 million of related unamortized costs had been expensed in December 2016 under interest and other financial expenses. On September 11, 2017, the Group made a tender offer for the outstanding 6.625% Senior Notes. On September 20, 2017, MIC S.A. repurchased $186 million in principal amount in the tender offer using the proceeds of the issue of the 5.125% Notes – see below. Also on September 11, 2017, the Group delivered a redemption notice for the 6.625% Senior Notes. MIC S.A. redeemed the remaining $473 million in principal amount on October 15, 2017. The total early redemption fees amounting to $22 million and $6 million of related unamortized costs have been expensed in September 2017 under interest and other financial expenses. At December 31, 2017, there are no 2021 Notes outstanding. (5) USD 5.125% Senior Notes On September 20, 2017, MIC S.A. issued a $500 million, ten-year bond with an interest rate of 5.125% at an issue price of 100% (the 5.125% Notes) and will mature in 2028. Costs of issuance of $7 million are amortized over the seven-year life of the notes (effective interest rate is 5.24%). (6) USD 6.75% Senior Notes On December 7, 2012, Telefónica Cellular del Paraguay S.A., Millicom’s fully owned subsidiary in Paraguay issued $300 million of notes at 100% of the aggregate principal amount. Distribution and other transaction fees of $7 million reduced the total proceeds from issuance to $293 million. The 6.75% Senior Notes have a 6.75% per annum coupon with interest payable semi-annually in arrears on June 13 and 13 December. The effective interest rate is 7.12%. The 6.75% Senior Notes are general unsecured obligations of Telefónica Celular del Paraguay S.A. and rank equal in right of payment with all future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Telefónica Celular del Paraguay S.A. The 6.75% Senior Notes are unguaranteed. (7) BOB Notes In May 2012, Telecel Bolivia issued Boliviano (BOB) 1.36 billion of notes repayable in installments until April 2, 2020. Distribution and other transaction fees of BOB5 million reduced the total proceeds from issuance to BOB 1.32 billion ($191 million). The bond has a 4.75% per annum coupon with interest payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year. The effective interest rate is 4.79%. In November 2015, Telecel Bolivia issued BOB696 million (approximately $100 million) of notes in two series, A for BOB104.4 million (approximately $15 million), with a fixed annual interest rate of 4.05%, maturing in August 2020 and series B for BOB591.6 million (approximately $85 million) with a fixed annual interest rate of 4.85%, maturing in August 2023. The bond has coupon with interest payable semi-annually in arrears in March and September during the first two years, thereafter each February and August. The effective interest rate is 4.84%. In the placement, the final interest rate was reduced as Telecel Bolivia took advantage of strong demand for the bonds resulting in a reduction of the average interest rate to 4.55%. Telecel Bolivia received BOB4.59 million in excess of the BOB696 million issued (upfront premium). On August 11, 2016, the operation in Bolivia issued a new bond for a total amount of BOB522 million consisting of two tranches (approximately $50 million and $25 million, respectively). Tranche A and B bear fixed interest at 3.95% and 4.30%, and will mature in June 2024 and June 2029, respectively. 149 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued On October 12, 2017, Tigo Bolivia placed approximately $80 million of local currency debt in three tranches, which will mature in 2022, 2024 and 2026 and bear an average interest rate of 4.66%. (8) UNE Bonds In March 2010, UNE issued a COP300 billion (approximately $126 million) bond consisting of two tranches with five and ten-year maturities. Interest rates are either fixed or variable depending on the tranche. Tranche A bears variable interest, based on CPI, in Colombian peso and paid in Colombian peso. Tranche B bears variable interest, based on fixed term deposits, in Colombian peso and paid in Colombian peso. UNE applied the proceeds to finance its investment plan. Tranche A matured in March 2015 and tranche B will mature in March 2020. In May 2011, UNE issued a COP300 billion (approximately $126 million) bond consisting of two equal tranches with five and twelve-year maturities. Interest rates are variable and depend on the tranche. Tranche A bears variable interest, based on CPI, in Colombian peso and paid in Colombian peso. Tranche B bears variable interest, based on fixed term deposits, in Colombian peso and paid in Colombian peso. UNE applied the proceeds to finance its investment plan. Tranche A matured in October 2016 and tranche B will mature in October 2023. In May 2016, UNE issued a COP540 billion bond (approximately $176 million) consisting of three tranches (approximately $52 million, $83 million and $41 million respectively). Interest rates are either fixed or variable depending on the tranche. Tranche A bears fixed interest at 9.35%, while tranche B and C bear variable interest, based on CPI, (respective margins of CPI + 4.15% and CPI + 4.89%), in Colombian peso. UNE applied the proceeds to finance its investment plan and repay one bond (COP150 billion tranche). Tranches A, B and C will mature in May 2024, May 2026 and May 2036, respectively. (9) Cable Onda Bonds On August 4, 2015, Cable Onda issued public bonds in Panama for a total amount of $185 million. These bonds bear a fixed annual interest of 5.75% and are due on August 4, 2025. The bonds have been assumed by Millicom as part of the acquisition of the company. See note A.1.2. for further details on the acquisition. 150 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued C.3.2. Bank and Development Financial Institution financing Note Country Maturity Interest rate % 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Fixed rate loans PYG Long-term loan ........................... Paraguay 2020/2023/2025 9.00 90 106 PYG Long-term loan ........................... 1 Paraguay 2022 10.10 61 65 PYG Long-term loan ........................... Paraguay 2023 10.25 9 — PYG Long-term loan Paraguay 2025 8.90 19 — USD Long-term loans Panama 2019 4.00 15 — USD Long-term loans Panama 2019 3.80 9 — BOB Long-term loans Bolivia 2025 4.30 10 — BOB Long-term loans Bolivia 2025 4.30 10 — Variable rate loans USD Long-term loans.......................... 2 Costa Rica 2021 3.5 variable 148 76 USD Long-term loans.......................... Chad 2019 4 variable 1 3 USD Long-term loans.......................... 3 Rwanda 2019 2.9 variable — 40 Tanzania USD Long-term loans.......................... (Zantel) 2020 3.75 variable 90 96 USD Short-term loans ......................... 4 Luxembourg 2019 Libor + 1.50 250 — 4.1+IBR COP Long-term loans.......................... 5 Colombia (UNE) 2025/2030 variable(i) 277 363 USD Long-term loans.......................... 5 Colombia (Tigo) 2021/2022 LIBOR + 2.5 298 297 USD Senior Unsecured Term Loan Facility................................................. 6 El Salvador 2021 LIBOR + 3.0 50 50 USD Credit Facility............................. 6 El Salvador 2021 LIBOR + 2.25 24 29 USD Credit Facility............................. El Salvador 2022 LIBOR + 3.15 50 50 USD Credit Facility 6 El Salvador 2023 LIBOR + 2.55 100 — USD Credit Facility 6 El Salvador 2023 LIBOR + 3 50 — Other Long-term loans ........................ Various Various 51 25 Total Bank and Development Financial Institution financing............. 1,613 1,198 (i) IBR – Colombia Interbank Rate. 1. Paraguay On July 4, 2017, the Paraguayan subsidiary signed a five-year loan agreement with the IPS (Instituto de Prevision Social) and the Inter-American Development Bank for a total amount of PYG $367,000 million (approximately $66 million). The loan, denominated in local currency carries a 10.10% interest rate per annum and start amortizing in Q4 2019. This facility is guaranteed by the Company. 2. Costa Rica In April 2018, Millicom Cable Costa Rica S.A. entered into a $150 million variable rate loan with Citibank as agent. Simultaneously, the outstanding loan balance of $72 million was repaid in full with the proceeds from this loan. 151 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued In June 2018, Millicom Cable Costa Rica S.A. entered into a cross currency swap to hedge part of the principal of the loan against interest rate and currency risks. Interest rate and currency swap agreements had been made on $35 million of the principal amount and interest rate swaps for an additional $35 million. 3. Rwanda In January 2018, the Group repaid the remaining $40 million loan due by Rwanda to different banks. 4. Luxembourg MIC S.A. Bridge Facility In October 2018, the Company entered into a $1 billion term loan facility agreement with a consortium of banks (the “Bridge Facility”), subsequently reduced to $250 million in December 2018. The Bridge Facility matures in October 2019 (unless extended for a period not exceeding six months). Interest on amounts drawn under the Bridge Facility is payable at LIBOR plus a variable margin. At December 31, 2018, $250 million have been drawn under this facility to finance Cable Onda’s acquisition (note 3). MIC S.A. revolving credit facility On January 30, 2017, the Company announced the closing of a new $600 million, five years revolving credit facility (RCF) and notified the lenders in the 2014 RCF of the formal cancellation of the commitments outstanding under the 2014 RCF (none of which were drawn at such date). Interest on amounts drawn under the revolving credit facility is payable at LIBOR or EURIBOR, as applicable, plus an initial margin of 1.5%. As of December 31, 2018, the committed facility was fully undrawn. MIC S.A. term loan facility In July 2016, MIC S.A. entered into a $50 million term loan facility agreement, of which half was repaid in 2017 and in January 2018 the remaining outstanding amount was fully repaid. The facility bears variable interest rate at six-month LIBOR + 2.25% per annum. 5. Colombia In June 2017, Colombia Movil completed a $300 million syndicated loan. The loan, denominated in US dollars, which carries an interest rate of LIBOR + 2.50% will be repaid in three tranches of $100 million in June and December 2021 for the two first tranches, and in June 2022 for the last tranche. Proceeds have been used to repay an inter-company loan from Millicom, which used the funds to reduce holding company debt (see note C.3.1.) and for general corporate purposes. In March 2018, TigoUne prepaid $34 million equivalent in COP on bank financing debt. 6. El Salvador On April 15, 2016, Telemovil El Salvador, S.A. de C.V. entered into a Senior Unsecured Term Loan Facility up to $50 million maturing in April 2021 and bearing variable interest at LIBOR + 3.0% per annum, which was restated and amended as of May 30, 2017, for a second tranche of $50 million and bearing an interest rate at LIBOR + 3% per annum. This facility is guaranteed by the Company. On June 6, 2016, Telemovil El Salvador, S.A. de C.V. entered into a $30 million Credit Facility for general corporate purposes maturing in June 2021 and bearing variable interest rate at LIBOR + 2.25% per annum. The facility is guaranteed by the Company. In January 2018, Telemovil El Salvador entered into an amended and restated the 2017 agreement with Scotiabank for a $50 million variable rate loan, with a 5-year bullet repayment. In March 2018, Telemovil El Salvador entered into a $100 million variable rate facility with DNB and Nordea with a 5-year bullet repayment. The remaining $50 million of the facility was disbursed during 2018. In addition, 152 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Telemovil El Salvador entered into an interest rate swap with Scotiabank to fix interest rates for up to $100 million of the outstanding debt. Right of set-off and derecognition Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. A financial asset (or a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognized when: • Rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or • Rights to receive cash flows from the asset or obligations to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay have been transferred to a third party under a “pass-through” arrangement; and the Group has either transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset or the control of the asset. When rights to receive cash flows from an asset have been transferred or a pass-through arrangement concluded, an evaluation is made if and to what extent the risks and rewards of ownership have been retained. When the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognized to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in the asset. In that case, the Group also recognizes an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained. Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay. A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or canceled, or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognized in the statement of income. C.3.3. Interest and other financial expenses The Group’s interest and other financial expenses comprised the following: Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Interest expense on bonds and bank financing .......................................... (234) (246) (262) Interest expense on finance leases............................................................. (92) (65) (48) Early redemption charges .......................................................................... (4) (43) (25) Others ........................................................................................................ (41) (41) (36) Total interest and other financial expenses ........................................... (371) (396) (372) C.3.4. Finance leases Millicom’s finance leases mainly consist of long-term lease of tower space from tower companies or competitors on which Millicom locates its network equipment. Finance lease liabilities 153 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Leases which transfer substantially all risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item to the lessee are capitalized at the inception of the lease. The amount capitalized is the lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are allocated between finance charges (interest) and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are recorded as interest expenses in the statement of income. The sale and leaseback of towers and related site operating leases and service contracts are accounted for in accordance with the underlying characteristics of the assets, and the terms and conditions of the lease agreements. When sale and leaseback agreements are concluded, the portions of assets that will not be leased back by Millicom are classified as assets held for sale as completion of their sale is highly probable. Asset retirement obligations related to the towers are classified as liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale. On transfer to the tower companies, the portion of the towers leased back are accounted for as operating leases or finance leases according to the criteria set out above. The portion of towers being leased back represents the dedicated part of each tower on which Millicom’s equipment is located and was derived from the average technical capacity of the towers. Rights to use the land on which the towers are located are accounted for as operating leases, and costs of services for the towers are recorded as operating expenses. The gain on disposal is recognized upfront for the portion of towers that is not leased back, and is deferred and recognized over the term of the lease for the portion leased back. Finance lease liabilities Country Maturity 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Lease of tower space................................................. Tanzania 2029/2030 112 121 Lease of tower space................................................. Colombia Movil 2032 83 87 Lease of poles ........................................................... Colombia (UNE) 2032 99 100 Lease of tower space................................................. Paraguay 2030 27 21 Lease of tower space................................................. El Salvador 2026 26 20 Other finance lease liabilities.................................... various various 6 17 Total finance lease liabilities .................................. 353 365 Tower Sale and Leaseback In 2017 and 2018, the Group announced agreements to sell and leaseback wireless communications towers in Paraguay, Colombia and El Salvador. The table below summarizes the main aspects of these deals and impacts on the Group financial statements: Paraguay Colombia El Salvador April 26, July 18, February Agreement date .............................................................................................. 2017 2017 6, 2018 Total number of towers expected to be sold .................................................. 1,410 1,207 811 Total number of towers transferred as of December 31, 2018....................... 1,276 902 496 Expected total cash proceeds ($ millions) ..................................................... 125 147 145 Cash proceeds received in 2017 ($ millions)................................................. 75 86 — Cash proceeds received in 2018 ($ millions)................................................. 41 26 73 Upfront gain on sale recognized in 2017 ($ millions) (Note B.2) ................. 26 37 — Upfront gain on sale recognized in 2018 ($ millions) (Note B.2) ................. 19 13 33 154 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued C.3.5. Guarantees and pledged assets Guarantees Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognized initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date and the amount recognized, less cumulative amortization. Liabilities to which guarantees are related are recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position under Debt and financing, and liabilities covered by supplier guarantees are recorded under Trade payables or Debt and financing, depending on the underlying terms and conditions. Maturity of guarantees At December 31, 2018 At December 31, 2017 Outstanding Maximum Outstanding Maximum Term exposure(i) exposure(ii) exposure(i) exposure(ii) (US$ millions) 0–1 year.............................................................................. 133 133 159 159 1–3 years ............................................................................ 281 281 368 368 3–5 years ............................................................................ 212 212 144 144 Total guarantees ............................................................... 626 626 671 671 (i) The outstanding exposure represents the carrying amount of the related liability at December 31. (ii) The maximum exposure represents the total amount of the Guarantee at December 31. Pledged assets The Group’s share of total debt and financing secured by either pledged assets, pledged deposits issued to cover letters of credit, or guarantees issued by the Company at December 31, 2018, was $626 million (2017: $671 million), out of this, assets pledged by the Group over this debt and financing at the same date amounted to $2 million (2017: $1 million). The remainder represented primarily guarantees issued by Millicom S.A. to guarantee financings raised by other Group operating entities. C.3.6. Covenants Millicom’s financing facilities are subject to a number of covenants including net leverage ratio, debt service coverage ratios, debt to earnings ratios, and cash levels. In addition, certain of its financings contain restrictions on sale of businesses or significant assets within the businesses. At December 31, 2018, there were no breaches in financial covenants. C.4. Cash and deposits C.4.1. Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Cash and cash equivalents in USD ................................................................................... 229 302 Cash and cash equivalents in other currencies.................................................................. 299 317 Total cash and cash equivalents ..................................................................................... 528 619 155 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Cash deposits with bank with maturities of more than three months that generally earn interest at market rates are classified as time deposits. C.4.2. Restricted cash 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Mobile Financial Services................................................................................................. 155 143 Others ................................................................................................................................ 3 2 Restricted cash................................................................................................................. 158 145 Cash held with banks related to MFS which is restricted in use due to local regulations is denoted as restricted cash. C.4.3. Pledged deposits Pledged deposits represent contracted cash deposits with banks that are held as security for debts at corporate or operational entity level. Millicom is unable to access these funds until either the relevant debt is repaid or alternative security is arranged with the lender. At December 31, 2018, there were no non-current pledged deposits (2017: $nil). At December 31, 2018, current pledged deposits amounted to $2 million (2017: $1 million). C.5. Net debt Net debt (i) 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Total debt and financing.................................................................................................... 4,580 3,785 Less: Cash and cash equivalents................................................................................................. (528) (619) Pledged deposits................................................................................................................ (2) (1) Time deposits related to bank borrowings ........................................................................ — — Net debt at the end of the year ....................................................................................... 4,051 3,164 Add (less) derivatives related to debt (SEK currency swap) ............................................ — 56 Net debt including derivatives related to debt.............................................................. 4,051 3,220 (i) As from 2018, the Group has excluded 'restricted cash' from its definition of Net debt. 2017 figures have been represented accordingly. The effect of the change is a $145 million increase in 2017 net debt. 156 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Liabilities from financing Assets activities Bond and Cash and bank debt Finance cash and lease equivalents Other financing liabilities Total Net debt as at January 1, 2017................. 646 4 3,606 295 3,250 Cash flows .................................................. 10 (1) (177) (22) (209) Additions / acquisitions .............................. (22) — 3 195 220 Interest accretion......................................... — — 8 (1) 7 Foreign exchange movements .................... 4 — 34 (2) 28 Transfers (to)/from assets held for sale....... (19) (2) (49) (13) (42) Transfers ..................................................... — — 10 — 9 Other non-cash movements ........................ — — (14) (86) (101) Net debt as at December 31, 2017............ 619 2 3,420 365 3,164 Cash flows .................................................. (72) — 621 (17) 676 Additions..................................................... — — — 44 44 Scope changes............................................. 7 — 267 — 260 Interest accretion......................................... — — 11 — 11 Foreign exchange movements .................... (33) — (84) (21) (72) Transfers (to)/from assets held for sale....... 6 — 9 (8) (4) Transfers ..................................................... — — 3 (11) (9) Other non-cash movements ........................ — — (19) — (19) Net debt as at December 31, 2018............ 528 2 4,227 353 4,051 C.6. Financial instruments i) Equity and debt instruments Classification From January 1, 2018, and the application of IFRS 9, the Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: • those to be measured subsequently at fair value either through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI), or through profit or loss, and • those to be measured at amortized cost. The classification depends on the Group’s business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows. For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or OCI. For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI). The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes. 157 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Measurement At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss. Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest. Debt instruments Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are three measurement categories into which the group classifies its debt instruments: • Amortized cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortized cost. Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognized directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains / (losses), together with foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented as a separate line item in the consolidated statement of income. • FVOCI: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest revenue and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognized in profit or loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and recognized in ‘Other nonoperating (expenses) income, net’. Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment expenses are presented as ‘Other non-operating (expenses) income, net’ in the consolidated statement of income. • FVPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortized cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVPL is recognized in profit or loss and presented net within ‘Other non-operating (expenses) income, net’ in the period in which it arises. Equity instruments The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value. The Group does not hold Equity instruments for trading. Where the Group’s management has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in OCI, there is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and losses to profit or loss following the derecognition of the investment. Dividends from such investments continue to be recognized in profit or loss as other income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established. Otherwise, changes in the fair value of financial assets at FVPL are recognized in ‘Other non-operating (expenses) income, net’ in the consolidated statement of income as applicable. Impairment losses (and reversal of impairment losses) on equity investments measured at FVOCI are not reported separately from other changes in fair value. Impairment From January 1, 2018, the Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its financial assets carried at amortized cost and FVOCI. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk. For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized from initial recognition of the trade receivables. 158 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued The provision is recognized in the consolidated statement of income within Cost of sales. ii) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value at each subsequent closing date. The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: a) Hedges of the fair value of recognized assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or b) Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge). For transactions designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, at the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. This is done in reference to the Group Financial Risk Management Policy as last updated and approved by the Audit Committee in late 2018. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis (quarterly), of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The full fair value of a hedging instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the period to maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining period to maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. The change in fair value of hedging instruments that are designed and qualify as fair value hedges is recognized in the statement of income as finance costs or income. The change in fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is also recognized in the statement of income as finance costs or income. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in other comprehensive income. Gains or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the statement of income within Other non-operating (expenses) income, net. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the statement of income in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is recycled to the statement of income within Other non-operating (expenses) income, net. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the statement of income within Other non-operating (expenses) income, net. C.6.1. Fair value measurement hierarchy Millicom uses the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). Level 3 – Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs). The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade ratings. Interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts are valued 159 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued using valuation techniques, which employ the use of markets observable data. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models using present value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, yield curves of the respective currencies, interest rate curves and forward curves. C.6.2. Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of Millicom’s financial instruments are shown at amounts at which the instruments could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The fair value of all financial assets and all financial liabilities, except debt and financing approximate their carrying value largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. The fair values of all debt and financing have been estimated by the Group, based on discounted future cash flows at market interest rates. Fair values of financial instruments at December 31, Carrying value Fair value(i) Note 2018 2017 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Financial assets Derivative financial instruments ................ — — — — Other non-current assets............................. 87 73 87 73 Trade receivables, net................................. 343 386 343 386 Amounts due from non-controlling interests, associates and joint venture 73 77 73 77 partners ....................................................... G.5. Prepayments and accrued income .............. 129 145 129 145 Supplier advances for capital expenditures 25 18 25 18 Other current assets .................................... 127 90 127 90 Restricted cash............................................ C.4.2. 158 145 158 145 Cash and cash equivalents.......................... C.4.1. 528 619 528 619 Total financial assets .................................. 1,470 1,553 1,470 1,553 Current........................................................ 1,344 1,440 1,344 1,440 Non-current ................................................ 126 113 126 113 Financial liabilities Debt and financing(i) ................................. C.3. 4,580 3,785 4,418 3,971 Trade payables............................................ 282 288 282 288 Payables and accruals for capital 335 304 335 304 expenditure ................................................. Derivative financial instruments ................ — 56 — 56 Put option liability...................................... C.6.3. 239 — 239 — Amounts due to non-controlling interests, G.5. 483 420 483 420 associates and joint venture partners .......... Accrued interest and other expenses .......... 383 353 383 353 Other liabilities ........................................... 402 371 402 371 Total financial liabilities............................. 6,704 5,577 6,542 5,763 Current........................................................ 2,335 1,753 2,335 1,753 Non-current ................................................ 4,370 3,824 4,207 4,010 (i) Fair values are measured with reference to Level 1 (for listed bonds) or 2. 160 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued C.6.3. Call and put options Cable Onda put and call options As part of the acquisition of Cable Onda, shareholders agreed on certain put and call options. The put option to acquire the remaining 20% non-controlling interest in Cable Onda becomes exercisable 42 months after the closing date (December 13, 2018) or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events. In that respect, Millicom determined that, as the put option could be exercised under certain change of control events which could be outside the control of Millicom, the option meets the criteria under IAS 32 for recognition as a liability and corresponding equity decrease. The put option liability is payable in Millicom's shares or in cash at the discretion of the partner. Therefore, Millicom has recorded a liability for the put option at acquisition completion date of $239 million representing the present value of the redemption amount. As of December 31, 2018, the redemption price has been valued as being 20% of the equity value implied by the transaction. Any future change in the redemption price will be recorded in the Group's statement of income. Millicom also received an unconditional call option which becomes exercisable either 42 months after December 13, 2018 closing date or if Millicom's partners’ shareholdings fall below 10%. The call option exercise price is at fair market value. Finally, Millicom received an unconditional call option exercisable until December 13, 2019, at a price equal to the purchase price in the transaction, plus interest at 10% per annum. The fair values of both call options have been assessed as not material at December 31, 2018. D. Financial risk management Exposure to interest rate, foreign currency, non-repatriation, liquidity, capital management and credit risks arise in the normal course of Millicom’s business. Each year Group Treasury revisits and presents to the Audit committee updated Treasury and Financial Risks Management policies. The Group analyzes each of these financial risks individually as well as on an interconnected basis and defines and implements strategies to manage the economic impact on the Group’s performance in line with its Financial Risk Management policy. These policies were last reviewed in late 2018. As part of the annual review of the above mentioned risks, the Group agrees to a strategy over the use of derivatives and natural hedging instruments ranging from raising debt in local currency (where the Company targets to reach 40% of debt in local currency over the medium term) to maintain a 70/30% mix between fixed and floating rate debt or agreeing to cover up to six months forward of operating costs and capex denominated in non-functional currencies through a rolling and layering strategy. Millicom’s risk management strategies may include the use of derivatives to the extent a market would exist in the jurisdictions where the Group operates. Millicom’s policy prohibits the use of such derivatives in the context of speculative trading. Accounting policies for derivatives is further detailed in note C.6. On December 31, 2018 and 2017 fair value of derivatives held by the Group can be summarized as follows: 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Derivatives Cash flow hedge derivatives ............................................................................................. — (56) Net derivative asset (liability)......................................................................................... — (56) D.1. Interest rate risk Debt and financing issued at floating interest rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Debt and financing issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. The Group’s exposure to risk of changes in market interest rates relate to both of the above. To manage this risk, the Group’s policy is to maintain a combination of fixed and floating rate debt with target for the debt to be distributed between fixed (up to 70%) and variable (up to 30%) rates. The Group actively monitors borrowings against this target. The target mix between fixed and floating rate debt is reviewed periodically. The purpose of Millicom’s policy is to achieve an optimal balance 161 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued between cost of funding and volatility of financial results, while taking into account market conditions as well as our overall business strategy. At December 31, 2018, approximately 68% of the Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest or for which variable rates have been swapped for fixed rates with interest rate swaps (2017: 65%). D.1.1. Fixed and floating rate debt Financing at December 31, 2018 Amounts due within: 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years >5 years Total (US$ millions) Fixed rate financing ................ 140 162 137 436 204 2,036 3,115 Weighted average nominal 6.35% 6.59% 6.64% 6.61% 4.10% 6.47% 6.34% interest rate .......................... Floating rate financing ............ 319 175 266 133 263 309 1,465 Weighted average nominal 10.28% 5.89% 2.73% 0.49% 4.41% 1.13% 1.98% interest rate .......................... Total ........................................ 458 337 403 569 468 2,345 4,580 Weighted average nominal 9.08% 6.23% 4.06% 5.18% 4.28% 5.76% 4.95% interest rate .......................... Financing at December 31, 2017 Amounts due within: 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years >5 years Total (US$ millions) Fixed rate financing ................ 87 365 141 104 396 1,369 2,462 Weighted average nominal interest rate .......................... 7.17% 5.52% 8.28% 9.92% 7.73% 7.68% 7.48% Floating rate financing ............ 98 134 206 327 188 370 1,323 Weighted average nominal interest rate .......................... 4.24% 2.37% 8.40% 12.20% 1.98% 2.25% 3.06% Total ........................................ 185 500 347 431 584 1,738 3,785 Weighted average nominal interest rate .......................... 5.61% 4.68% 8.35% 11.65% 5.88% 6.52% 5.94% A 100 basis point fall or rise in market interest rates for all currencies in which the Group had borrowings at December 31, 2018 would increase or reduce profit before tax from continuing operations for the year by approximately $15 million (2017: $13 million). D.1.2. Interest rate swap contracts From time to time, Millicom enters into currency and interest rate swap contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and currency fluctuations in accordance with its Financial Risk Management policy. Details of these arrangements are provided below. Interest rate and currency swaps on SEK denominated debt These swaps matured in April 2018 and were settled against a cash payment of $63 million. Interest rate and currency swaps on SEK denominated debt were measured with reference to Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 162 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Interest rate and currency swaps on Euro-denominated debt In June 2013, Millicom entered into interest rate and currency swaps whereby Millicom will sell Euros and receive USD to hedge against exchange rate fluctuations on an intercompany seven-year Euro 134 million principal and related interest financing of its operation in Senegal. The outstanding 2020 Notes were repaid in August 2017 and as a result these swaps have been settled. The year-to-date 2017 revaluation of the swap resulted in a $22 million loss. The Millicom Group finally received $10 million in cash on settlement date. The above hedge was considered ineffective, with fluctuations in the fair value of the hedge recorded through the statement of income. No other financial instruments have a significant fair value at December 31, 2018 and 2017. D.2. Foreign currency risks The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures in the countries in which it operates. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. Millicom seeks to reduce its foreign currency exposure through a policy of matching, as far as possible, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, or entering into agreements that limit the risk of exposure to currency fluctuations against the US dollar reporting currency. In some cases, Millicom may also borrow in US dollars where it is either commercially more advantageous for joint ventures and subsidiaries to incur debt obligations in US dollars or where US dollar denominated borrowing is the only funding source available to a joint venture or subsidiary. In these circumstances, Millicom accepts the remaining currency risk associated with financing its joint ventures and subsidiaries, principally because of the relatively high cost of forward cover, when available, in the currencies in which the Group operates. D.2.1. Debt denominated in US dollars and other currencies Debt denomination at December 31 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Debt denominated in US dollars ....................................................................................... 3,132 1,983 Debt denominated in currencies of the following countries: Colombia ........................................................................................................................... 718 834 Chad .................................................................................................................................. 62 61 Tanzania ............................................................................................................................ 112 121 Bolivia ............................................................................................................................... 306 337 Paraguay............................................................................................................................ 207 191 Luxembourg (SEK denominated) ..................................................................................... 43 243 Other.................................................................................................................................. — 15 Total debt denominated in other currencies ................................................................. 1,448 1,802 Total debt ......................................................................................................................... 4,580 3,785 At December 31, 2018, if the US dollar had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the other functional currencies of our operations and all other variables held constant, then profit before tax from continuing operations would have increased/decreased by $53 million and $(53) million respectively (2017: $104 million and $(104) million respectively). This increase/decrease in profit before tax would have mainly been as a result of the conversion of the USD-denominated net debts in our operations with functional currencies other than the US dollar. 163 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued D.2.2. Foreign currency swaps See note D.1.2. Interest rate swap contracts. D.3. Non-repatriation risk Most of Millicom’s operating subsidiaries and joint ventures generate most of the revenue of the Group and in the currency of the countries in which they operate. Millicom is therefore dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries and joint venture operations to transfer funds to the Company. Although foreign exchange controls exist in some of the countries in which Millicom Group companies operate, none of these controls currently significantly restrict the ability of these operations to pay interest, dividends, technical service fees, royalties or repay loans by exporting cash, instruments of credit or securities in foreign currencies. However, existing foreign exchange controls may be strengthened in countries where the Group operates, or foreign exchange controls may be introduced in countries where the Group operates that do not currently impose such restrictions. If such events were to occur, the Company’s ability to receive funds from the operations could be subsequently restricted, which would impact the Company’s ability to make payments on its interest and loans and, or pay dividends to its shareholders. As a policy, all operations which do not face restrictions to deposit funds offshore and in hard currencies should do so for the surplus cash generated on a weekly basis. The Company and its subsidiaries make use of notional and physical cash pooling arrangements in hard currencies to the extent permitted. In addition, in some countries it may be difficult to convert large amounts of local currency into foreign currency because of limited foreign exchange markets. The practical effects of this may be time delays in accumulating significant amounts of foreign currency and exchange risk, which could have an adverse effect on the Group. This is a relatively rare case for the countries in which the Group operates. Lastly, repatriation most often gives raise to taxation, which is evidenced in the amount of taxes paid by the Group relative to the Corporate Income Tax reported in its statement of income. D.4. Credit and counterparty risk Financial instruments that subject the Group to credit risk include cash and cash equivalents, pledged deposits, letters of credit, trade receivables, amounts due from joint venture partners and associates, supplier advances and other current assets and derivatives. Counterparties to agreements relating to the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, pledged deposits and letters of credit are significant financial institutions with investment grade ratings. Management does not believe there are significant risks of non-performance by these counterparties and maintain a diversified portfolio of banking partners. Allocation of deposits across banks are managed such that the Group’s counterparty risk with a given bank stays within limits which have been set, based on each bank’s credit rating. A large portion of revenue of the Group is comprised of prepaid products and services. For postpaid customers, the Group follows risk control procedures to assess the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors. Accounts receivable also comprise balances due from other telecom operators. Credit risk of other telecom operators is limited due to the regulatory nature of the telecom industry, in which licenses are normally only issued to credit-worthy companies. The Group maintains a provision for expected credit losses of trade receivables based on its historical credit loss experience. As the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers, there is generally no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, except for certain B2B customers (mainly governments). See note F.1. 164 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued D.5. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities. The Group has significant indebtedness but also has significant cash balances. Millicom evaluates its ability to meet its obligations on an ongoing basis using a recurring liquidity planning tool. This tool considers the operating net cash flows generated from its operations and the future cash needs for borrowing, interest payments, dividend payments and capital and operating expenditures required in maintaining and developing its operating businesses. The Group manages its liquidity risk through use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, bonds, vendor financing, Export Credit Agencies and Development Finance Institutions (DFI) loans. Millicom believes that there is sufficient liquidity available in the markets to meet ongoing liquidity needs. Additionally, Millicom is able to arrange offshore funding. Millicom has a diversified financing portfolio with commercial banks representing about 34% of its gross financing (2017: 30%), bonds 54% (2017: 57%), Development Finance Institutions 4% (2017: 3%) and finance leases 8% (2017: 10%). Maturity profile of net financial liabilities at December 31, 2018 (i) Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total (US$ millions) Total debt and financing..................................................... (458) (1,778) (2,345) (4,580) Cash and cash equivalents ................................................. 528 — — 528 Pledged deposits (related to bank borrowings).................. 2 — — 2 Derivative financial instruments (SEK currency swap)..... — — — — Net cash (debt) including derivatives related to debt ... 72 (1,778) (2,345) (4,051) Future interest commitments.............................................. (248) (786) (77) (1,111) Trade payables (excluding accruals).................................. (478) — — (478) Other financial liabilities (including accruals)................... (1,217) (135) — (1,352) Put Option liability............................................................. (239) — — (239) Trade receivables ............................................................... 343 — — 343 Other financial assets ......................................................... 184 126 — 310 Net financial liabilities ..................................................... (1,583) (2,573) (2,422) (6,578) (i) As from 2018, the Group has excluded 'restricted cash' from its definition of Net debt. 2017 figures have been re-presented accordingly. 165 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Maturity profile of net financial liabilities at December 31, 2017 Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total (US$ millions) Total debt and financing..................................................... (185) (1,862) (1,738) (3,785) Cash and cash equivalents ................................................. 619 — — 619 Pledged deposits (related to bank borrowings).................. 1 — — 1 Derivative financial instruments (SEK currency swap)..... (56) — — (56) Net cash (debt) including derivatives related to debt ... 380 (1,862) (1,738) (3,220) Future interest commitments.............................................. (255) (785) (68) (1,108) Trade payables (excluding accruals).................................. (427) — — (427) Other financial liabilities (including accruals)................... (1,094) (124) — (1,218) Trade receivables ............................................................... 386 — — 386 Other financial assets ......................................................... 144 113 — 257 Net financial liabilities ..................................................... (866) (2,658) (1,806) (5,330) D.6. Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure a strong credit rating and solid capital ratios in order to support its business and maximize shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure with reference to local economic conditions and imposed restrictions such as debt covenants. To maintain or adjust its capital structure, the Group may make dividend payments to shareholders, return capital to shareholders through share repurchases or issue new shares. At December 31, 2018, Millicom is rated at one notch below investment grade by the independent rating agencies Moody’s (Ba1 negative) and Fitch (BB+ stable). The Group primarily monitors capital using net debt to EBITDA. The Group reviews its gearing ratio (net debt divided by total capital plus net debt) periodically. Net debt includes interest bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents (included restricted cash) and pledged and time deposits related to bank borrowings. Capital represents equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent. Net debt to EBITDA Note 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Net debt ..................................................................................................... C.5. 4,051 3,164 EBITDA..................................................................................................... B.3. 1,254 1,278 Net debt to EBITDA (i) ............................................................................. 3.23 2.48 (i) Ratio is above 3x on an IFRS basis. However, covenants are calculated on proportionate net debt/EBITDA, including Guatemala and Honduras, which show results below 3x. 166 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Gearing ratio Note 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Net debt ..................................................................................................... C.5. 4,051 3,164 Equity ........................................................................................................ C.1. 2,542 3,096 Net debt and equity.................................................................................... 6,593 6,260 Gearing ratio.............................................................................................. 0.61 0.51 E. Long-term assets E.1. Intangible assets Millicom’s intangible assets mainly consist of goodwill arising from acquisitions, customer lists acquired through acquisitions, licenses and rights to operate and use spectrum. E.1.1. Accounting for intangible assets Intangible assets acquired in business acquisitions are initially measured at fair value at the date of acquisition, and those which are acquired separately are measured at cost. Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalized development costs, are not capitalized but expensed to the statement of income in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible assets. Subsequently intangible assets are carried at cost, less any accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful economic lives using the straight-line method and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortization period and the amortization method for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end. Changes in expected useful lives or the expected beneficial use of the assets are accounted for by changing the amortization period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates. Amortization expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognized in the consolidated statement of income in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible assets. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of cost of an acquisition over the Group’s share in the fair value of identifiable assets less liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, at the date of the acquisition. If the fair value or the cost of the acquisition can only be determined provisionally, then goodwill is initially accounted for using provisional values. Within 12 months of the acquisition date, any adjustments to the provisional values are recognized. This is done when the fair values and the cost of the acquisition have been finally determined. Adjustments to provisional fair values are made as if the adjusted fair values had been recognized from the acquisition date. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets, net. Goodwill on acquisition of joint ventures or associates is included in investments in joint ventures and associates. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses. Gains or losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill disposed of in this manner is measured, based on the relative values of the operation disposed and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. 167 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Licenses Licenses are recorded at either historical cost or, if acquired in a business combination, at fair value at the date of acquisition. Cost includes cost of acquisition and other costs directly related to acquisition and retention of licenses over the license period. These costs may include estimates related to fulfillment of terms and conditions related to the licenses such as service or coverage obligations, and may include up-front and deferred payments. Licenses have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the licenses over their estimated useful lives. The terms of licenses, which have been awarded for various periods, are subject to periodic review for, among other things, rate setting, frequency allocation and technical standards. Licenses are initially measured at cost and are amortized from the date the network is available for use on a straight-line basis over the license period. Licenses held, subject to certain conditions, are usually renewable and generally non-exclusive. When estimating useful lives of licenses, renewal periods are included only if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost. Trademarks and customer lists Trademarks and customer bases are recognized as intangible assets only when acquired or gained in a business combination. Their cost represents fair value at the date of acquisition. Trademarks and customer bases have indefinite or finite useful lives. Indefinite useful life trademarks are tested for impairment annually. Finite useful life trademarks are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the trademarks and customer bases over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives for trademarks and customer bases are based on specific characteristics of the market in which they exist. Trademarks and customer bases are included in Intangible assets, net. Estimated useful lives are: Years Estimated useful lives Trademarks ............................................................................................................................................... 1 to 15 Customer lists ........................................................................................................................................... 4 to 20 Programming and content rights Programming and content master rights which are purchased or acquired in business combinations which meet certain criteria are recorded at cost as intangible assets. The rights must be exclusive, related to specific assets which are sufficiently developed, and probable to bring future economic benefits and have validity for more than one year. Cost includes consideration paid or payable and other costs directly related to the acquisition of the rights, and are recognized at the earlier of payment or commencement of the broadcasting period to which the rights relate. Programming and content rights capitalized as intangible assets have a finite useful life and are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is calculated using the straightline method to allocate the cost of the rights over their estimated useful lives. Non-exclusive and programming and content rights for periods less than one year are expensed over the period of the rights. Indefeasible rights of use There is no universally-accepted definition of an indefeasible rights of use (IRU). These agreements come in many forms. However, the key characteristics of a typical arrangement include: • The right to use specified network infrastructure or capacity; 168 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued • For a specified term (often the majority of the useful life of the relevant assets); • Legal title is not transferred; • A number of associated service agreements including operations and maintenance (O&M) and co-location agreements. These are typically for the same term as the IRU; and • Any payments are usually made in advance. IRUs are accounted for either as a lease, or service contract based on the substance of the underlying agreement. IRU arrangements will qualify as a lease if, and when: • The purchaser has an exclusive right for a specified period and has the ability to resell (or sublet) the capacity; and • The capacity is physically limited and defined; and • The purchaser bears all costs related to the capacity (directly or not) including costs of operation, administration and maintenance; and • The purchaser bears the risk of obsolescence during the contract term. If all of these criteria are not met, the IRU is treated as a service contract. If an IRU is determined to be a lease, the following indicators need to be present in order for the capitalization of an IRU as a finance lease to be considered: • The Group will be consuming the major part of the useful economic life of the asset (generally considered to be 75% of the total remaining useful economic life of the asset). The Group assumes that the useful economic life of a new fiber cable is 15 years; • Substantially, all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group (e.g. Millicom can sublease excess capacity on the cables to other operators; Millicom is responsible for maintaining the cables during the contract period); • Neither party has the right to terminate the contract early (other than for “force majeure”); • The contract price is not subject to renegotiation or change (other than for inflationary increases); • The minimum contractual payments are for substantially all of the fair value of the asset (generally considered to be greater or equal to 90% of the fair value of the leased asset); • The Group can determine the fair value of the leased asset; • The Group has physical access rights to the cable. Otherwise the IRU will be considered as an operating lease. A finance lease of an IRU of network infrastructure (cables or fiber) is accounted for as a tangible asset. A finance lease of a capacity IRU (wavelength) is accounted for as an intangible asset. Estimated useful lives of finance leases of capacity IRUs are between 12 and 15 years, or shorter if the estimated useful life of the underlying cable is shorter. The costs of an IRU recognized as operating lease is recognized as prepayment and amortized in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The costs of an IRU recognized as service contract is recognized as prepayment and amortized in the statement of income as incurred over the duration of the contract. 169 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued E.1.2. Impairment of non-financial assets At each reporting date Millicom assesses whether there is an indication that a non-financial asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for a non-financial asset is required, an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount is made. The recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of its fair value less cost to sell, and its value in use, for individual assets, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. Where no comparable market information is available, the fair value, less cost to sell, is determined based on the estimated future cash flows discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market conditions for the time value of money and risks specific to the asset. The foregoing analysis also evaluates the appropriateness of the expected useful lives of the assets. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognized in the consolidated statement of income in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset. At each reporting date an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. Other than for goodwill, a previously recognized impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. If so, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. The increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognized in profit or loss. After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. E.1.3. Movements in intangible assets Movements in intangible assets in 2018 Customer Goodwill Licenses lists IRUs Trademarks Other(i) Total (US$ millions) Opening balance, net............. 599 324 33 105 10 194 1,265 Change in scope (ii) ................ 512 — 370 — 280 23 1,185 Additions ................................. — 66 — 2 — 91 158 Amortization charge................ — (48) (11) (14) (8) (65) (144) Impairment .............................. (6) — — — — — (6) Disposals, net .......................... — — — — — — — Transfers.................................. — — — — — (16) (16) Transfers to/from assets held for sale (see note E. 3.)......................................... — (12) — — — — (12) Exchange rate movements ...... (28) (12) (1) (5) — (9) (55) Closing balance, net .............. 1,077 318 391 89 282 218 2,374 Cost or valuation ..................... 1,077 646 581 176 325 646 3,451 Accumulated amortization and impairment.................... — (328) (190) (87) (43) (428) (1,077) Net........................................... 1,077 318 391 89 282 218 2,374 170 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Movements in intangible assets in 2017 Customer Goodwill Licenses lists IRUs Trademarks Other(i) Total (US$ millions) Opening balance, net............. 615 380 32 114 18 200 1,359 Change in scope (ii) ................ 3 — 15 — — 1 20 Additions ................................. — 40 — (2) — 92 130 Amortization charge................ — (49) (15) (14) (8) (67) (153) Impairment .............................. (7) (8) — — — — (15) Disposals, net .......................... — — — — — (1) (1) Transfers.................................. (2) 3 — 8 — (28) (19) Transfers to/from assets held for sale (see note E. 3.)......................................... (8) (50) (1) — — (5) (64) Exchange rate movements ...... (1) 7 1 — — 2 9 Closing balance, net .............. 599 324 33 105 10 194 1,265 Cost or valuation ..................... 599 650 225 181 49 584 2,288 Accumulated amortization and impairment.................... — (327) (192) (76) (39) (389) (1,022) Net........................................... 599 324 33 105 10 194 1,265 (i) Other includes mainly software costs (ii) See note A.1.2. E.1.4. Cash used for the purchase of intangible assets Cash used for intangible asset additions 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Additions ........................................................................................................................... 158 130 Change in accruals and payables for intangibles .............................................................. (10) 3 Cash used for additions .................................................................................................. 148 133 171 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued E.1.5. Goodwill Allocation of Goodwill to cash generating units (CGUs), net of exchange rate movements and after impairment 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Panama (see note A.1.2.)................................................................................................... 512 — El Salvador ........................................................................................................................ 194 194 Costa Rica ......................................................................................................................... 116 123 Paraguay............................................................................................................................ 54 57 Colombia ........................................................................................................................... 183 199 Tanzania (Zantel) (see note E.1.6.) ................................................................................... 4 10 Other.................................................................................................................................. 15 16 Total .................................................................................................................................. 1,077 599 E.1.6. Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill from CGUs is tested for impairment at least each year and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units or groups of units. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated: • Represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes; and • Is not larger than an operating segment. Impairment is determined by assessing the value-in-use and, if appropriate, the fair value less costs to sell of the CGU (or group of CGUs), to which goodwill relates. Impairment testing at December 31, 2018 Goodwill was tested for impairment by assessing the recoverable amount against the carrying amount of the CGU based on discounted cash flows. The cash flow projections used (adjusted operating profit margins, income tax, working capital, capex and license renewal cost) are extracted from financial budgets approved by management and the Board usually covering a period of five years. This planning horizon reflects industry practice in the countries where the Group operates and stage of development or redevelopment of the business in those countries. Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a perpetual growth rate of 1.6%–4.6% (2017: 1.1%–3.8%). When value-in-use model resulted in the carrying values of the CGUs being higher than their recoverable amount, management has determined the fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD) of the CGUs. Fair value less cost of disposal has been determined by using recent offers received from third parties (Level 1). For the year ended December 31, 2018, and as a result of the annual impairment testing, management concluded that the Zantel CGU, part of the Africa segment, should be impaired. Hence, in accordance with IAS 36, an impairment loss of $6 million has been allocated to the amount of goodwill allocated to Zantel to reduce the carrying amount of our operations in Zantel to its value in use. The impairment has been classified within the caption Other operating income (expenses), net , in the Group’s statement of income. For the year ended December 31, 2017, and as a result of the annual impairment testing the Group recognised an impairment loss of $15 million related mainly to our operations in Rwanda and on an investment in Guatemala. 172 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Given the recent acquisition date, the goodwill recognized for Cable Onda has not been tested for impairment in 2018. In addition, no triggering event have occurred that would make us believe that the goodwill should be tested for impairment. Sensitivity analysis was performed on key assumptions within the impairment tests. The sensitivity analysis determined that sufficient margin exists from realistic changes to the assumptions that would not impact the overall results of the testing. Discount rates used in determining recoverable amount Discount rate after tax (%) 2018 2017 Bolivia ............................................................................................................................... 10.2 11.2 Chad .................................................................................................................................. 14.8 15.8 Colombia ........................................................................................................................... 8.9 9.9 Costa Rica ......................................................................................................................... 10.2 11.9 El Salvador ........................................................................................................................ 11.7 13.2 Paraguay............................................................................................................................ 9.8 10.2 Rwanda (See note A.1.3.).................................................................................................. n/a 14.7 Tanzania ............................................................................................................................ 14.4 14.6 E.2. Property, plant and equipment E.2.1. Accounting for property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at either historical cost, or the lower of fair value and present value of the future minimum lease payments for assets under finance leases, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to acquisition of items. The carrying amount of replaced parts is derecognized. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the remaining life of the license associated with the assets, unless the renewal of the license is contractually possible. Estimated useful lives Duration Buildings .......................................................................... 40 years or lease period, if shorter Networks (including civil works)..................................... 5 to 15 years or lease period, if shorter Other................................................................................. 2 to 7 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The assets’ residual value and useful life is reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each statement of financial position date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Construction in progress consists of the cost of assets, labor and other direct costs associated with property, plant and equipment being constructed by the Group, or purchased assets which have yet to be deployed. When the assets become operational, the related costs are transferred from construction in progress to the appropriate asset category and depreciation commences. 173 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Ongoing routine repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of income in the financial period in which they are incurred. Costs of major inspections and overhauls are added to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and the carrying amount of previous major inspections and overhauls is derecognized. Equipment installed on customer premises which is not sold to customers is capitalized and amortized over the customer contract period. A liability for the present value of the cost to remove an asset on both owned and leased sites (for example cell towers) and for assets installed on customer premises (for example set-top boxes), is recognized when a present obligation for the removal exists. The corresponding cost of the obligation is included in the cost of the asset and depreciated over the useful life of the asset, or lease period if shorter. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of a qualifying asset are capitalized as part of the cost of that asset when it is probable that such costs will contribute to future economic benefits for the Group and the costs can be measured reliably. E.2.2. Movements in tangible assets Movements in tangible assets in 2018 Network Land and Construction equipment(ii) buildings in progress Other(i) Total (US$ millions) Opening balance, net................................ 2,399 147 206 128 2,880 Change in scope (see note A.1.2.) .............. 276 46 32 — 354 Additions .................................................... 63 1 626 7 698 Impairments/reversal of impairment,net .... 1 — — — 1 Disposals, net ............................................. (24) (2) (2) — (29) Depreciation charge.................................... (631) (11) — (43) (685) Asset retirement obligations....................... 14 1 — — 15 Transfers..................................................... 551 9 (568) 14 6 Transfers from/(to) assets held for sale (see note E.3.) ......................................... (45) (3) (2) (2) (52) Exchange rate movements.......................... (124) (8) (8) (7) (147) Closing balance, net.................................. 2,480 181 284 97 3,041 Cost or valuation ........................................ 6,802 252 284 409 7,747 Accumulated amortization and (4,322) (71) — (312) (4,706) impairment.............................................. Net at December 31, 2018 ........................ 2,480 181 284 97 3,041 174 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Movements in tangible assets in 2017 Network Land and Construction equipment(ii) buildings in progress Other(i) Total (US$ millions) Opening balance, net................................ 2,525 147 250 135 3,057 Change in scope ......................................... 2 1 — — 3 Additions .................................................... 201 — 616 7 824 Impairments/reversal of impairment,net .... (6) — 1 (2) (8) Disposals, net ............................................. (115) — 3 (1) (114) Depreciation charge.................................... (663) (9) — (53) (725) Asset retirement obligations....................... 18 2 — — 20 Transfers..................................................... 613 7 (650) 48 19 Transfers from/(to) assets held for sale (see note E.3.) ......................................... (184) (3) (16) (8) (211) Exchange rate movements.......................... 9 2 3 1 15 Closing balance, net.................................. 2,399 147 206 128 2,880 Cost or valuation ........................................ 6,164 191 206 477 7,038 Accumulated amortization and (3,764) (44) — (349) (4,158) impairment.............................................. Net at December 31, 2017 ........................ 2,399 147 206 128 2,880 (i) Other mainly includes office equipment and motor vehicles. (ii) The net carrying amount of network equipment under finance leases at December 31, 2018, was $307 million (2017: $329 million). Borrowing costs capitalized for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were not significant. E.2.3. Cash used for the purchase of tangible assets Cash used for property, plant and equipment additions 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Additions ................................................................................................... 698 824 683 Change in advances to suppliers................................................................ 2 (8) (16) Change in accruals and payables for property, plant and equipment ........ (25) 26 51 Finance leases............................................................................................ (43) (192) 1 Cash used for additions........................................................................... 632 650 719 E.3. Assets held for sale If Millicom decides to sell subsidiaries, investments in joint ventures or associates, or specific non-current assets in its businesses, these items qualify as assets held for sale if certain conditions are met. E.3.1. Classification of assets held for sale Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is expected to be recovered principally through sale, not through continuing use. Liabilities of disposal groups are classified as Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale. 175 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued E.3.2. Millicom’s assets held for sale The following table summarizes the nature of the assets and liabilities reported under assets held for sale and liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale as at December 31, 2018 and 2017: As at December 31, 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Assets and liabilities reclassified as held for sale Senegal operations ............................................................................................................ — 223 Towers Paraguay (see note C.3.4.).................................................................................... 2 7 Towers Colombia (see note C.3.4.)................................................................................... — 1 Towers El Salvador (see note C.3.4.)................................................................................ 1 — Other.................................................................................................................................. — 2 Total assets of held for sale ............................................................................................. 3 233 Senegal operations ............................................................................................................ — 77 Towers Paraguay ............................................................................................................... — 2 Total liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale........................................ — 79 Net assets held for sale / book value .............................................................................. 3 154 Ghana merger As mentioned in note A.2.2., on March 3, 2017, Millicom and Bharti Airtel Limited (Airtel) announced that they have entered into an agreement for Tigo Ghana Limited and Airtel Ghana Limited to combine their operations in Ghana. As per the agreement, Millicom and Airtel have equal ownership and governance rights in the combined entity. Necessary regulatory approvals were received in the course of September 2017. As a result, Millicom's operations in Ghana have been classified as assets held for sale and discontinued operations as from September 28, 2017. The merger was completed on October 12, 2017. The assets and liabilities deconsolidated as a result of the Ghana merger were as follows: Assets and liabilities reclassified as held for sale – Ghana October 12, 2017 (US$ millions) Intangible assets, net................................................................................................................................. 12 Property, plant and equipment, net ........................................................................................................... 77 Current assets............................................................................................................................................ 29 Cash and cash equivalents ........................................................................................................................ 8 Total assets of disposal group held for sale........................................................................................... 126 Non-current financial liabilities................................................................................................................ 51 Current liabilities ...................................................................................................................................... 50 Total liabilities of disposal group held for sale ..................................................................................... 102 Net assets / book value............................................................................................................................ 24 For further details on the effect of the deconsolidation of the operations in Ghana, refer to note A.2.3. Senegal As mentioned in note A.1.3. Millicom announced that it had agreed to sell its Senegal business to a consortium consisting of NJJ, Sofima (managed by the Axian Group) and Teylium Group, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. The sale was completed on April 27, 2018 and the operations in Senegal have 176 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued been deconsolidated resulting in a net gain on disposal of $6 million, including the recycling of foreign currency exchange losses accumulated in equity since the creation of the local operations. This gain has been recognized under ‘Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax’. The assets and liabilities were transferred to assets held for sale in relation to our operations in Senegal as at February 7, 2017 and therefore classified as held for sale as at December 31, 2017. The table below shows the assets and liabilities deconsolidated at the date of the disposal: Assets and liabilities disposed of in respect of our operations in Senegal April 27, 2018 (US$ millions) Intangible assets, net................................................................................................................................. 40 Property, plant and equipment, net ........................................................................................................... 126 Other non-current assets ........................................................................................................................... 2 Current assets............................................................................................................................................ 56 Cash and cash equivalents ........................................................................................................................ 3 Total assets of disposal group held for sale........................................................................................... 227 Non-current financial liabilities................................................................................................................ 8 Current liabilities ...................................................................................................................................... 73 Total liabilities of disposal group held for sale......................................................................................... 81 Net assets held for sale / book value ...................................................................................................... 146 Rwanda As mentioned in note A.1.3. on December 19, 2017, Millicom announced that it has signed an agreement for the sale of its Rwanda operations to subsidiaries of Bharti Airtel Limited. The total consideration of the transaction is approximately 6x 2017 adjusted EBITDA of the Rwandan operation, payable over two years, consisting of a mix of cash, vendor loan note and earn out. The Group received regulatory approvals on January 23, 2018 and the sale was subsequently completed on January 31, 2018. On January 31, 2018, Millicom's operations in Rwanda have been deconsolidated and no material loss on disposal was recognized (its carrying value was aligned to its fair value less costs of disposal as of December 31, 2017). However, a loss of $32 million has been recognized in 2018 corresponding to the recycling of foreign currency exchange losses accumulated in equity since the creation of the local operation. This loss has been recognized under ‘Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax’. The final sale consideration is still subject to adjustment under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement with Airtel. Management does not expect any material deviation from the initial consideration. 177 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued The table below shows the assets and liabilities deconsolidated at the date of the disposal: Assets and liabilities disposed of in respect of our operations in Rwanda January 31, 2018 (US$ millions) Intangible assets, net................................................................................................................................. 12 Property, plant and equipment, net ........................................................................................................... 53 Other non-current assets ........................................................................................................................... 4 Current assets............................................................................................................................................ 14 Cash and cash equivalents ........................................................................................................................ 2 Total assets of disposal group held for sale........................................................................................... 85 Non-current financial liabilities................................................................................................................ 11 Current liabilities ...................................................................................................................................... 28 Total liabilities of disposal group held for sale......................................................................................... 40 Net assets held for sale / book value ...................................................................................................... 46 In accordance with IFRS 5, the Group’s businesses in Rwanda (Q1 2018), Ghana (Q3 2017) and Senegal (Q1 2017) had been classified as assets held for sale and their results were classified as discontinued operations. Comparative figures of the statement of income have therefore been represented accordingly. Financial information relating to the discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 is set out below. Figures shown below are after intercompany eliminations. Results from discontinued operations Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Revenue ..................................................................................................... 62 299 371 Cost of sales............................................................................................... (23) (95) (119) Operating expenses.................................................................................... (26) (131) (174) Depreciation and amortization .................................................................. — (37) (79) Other operating income (expenses), net .................................................... (10) (4) (6) Gain on disposal of discontinued operations............................................. (29) 39 32 Other expenses linked to the disposal of discontinued operations ............ (10) (7) (19) Operating profit (loss) ............................................................................. (36) 64 6 Interest income (expense), net................................................................... (3) (20) (23) Other non-operating (expenses) income, net............................................. — 6 (10) Profit (loss) before taxes.......................................................................... (39) 51 (26) Credit (charge) for taxes, net ..................................................................... — — 6 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations ..................................... (39) 51 (20) 178 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Cash flows from discontinued operations Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Cash from (used in) operating activities, net (4) 26 10 Cash from (used in) investing activities, net (6) (33) (53) Cash from (used in) financing activities, net — (22) 18 4G spectrum (UNE) A depreciation catch-up has been recorded in 2016 for $11 million on the 4G spectrum in Colombia. In October 2016, the date on which UNE stopped rendering 4G services, the 4G spectrum was fully depreciated. F. Other assets and liabilities F.1. Trade receivables Millicom’s trade receivables mainly comprise interconnect receivables from other operators, postpaid mobile and residential cable subscribers, as well as B2B customers. The nominal value of receivables adjusted for impairment approximates the fair value of trade receivables. 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Gross trade receivables ..................................................................................................... 592 597 Less: provisions for expected credit losses ....................................................................... (249) (211) Trade receivables, net ..................................................................................................... 343 386 Aging of trade receivables Past due (net of impairments) Neither past due nor impaired 30–90 days >90 days Total (US$ millions) 2018: Telecom operators ....................................................... 17 9 14 39 Own customers............................................................ 158 69 19 246 Others .......................................................................... 36 17 5 58 Total............................................................................ 210 95 37 343 2017: Telecom operators ....................................................... 29 16 4 49 Own customers............................................................ 186 52 34 273 Others .......................................................................... 43 16 5 64 Total ............................................................................ 259 83 43 386 Trade receivables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less provision for expected credit losses. The Group recognizes an allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) applying a simplified approach in calculating the ECLs. Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognizes a loss allowance based on lifetime of ECLs at each reporting date. The 179 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forwardlooking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment. The provision for expected credit losses is recognized in the consolidated statement of income within Cost of sales. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for those maturing more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. These are classified within non-current assets. Loans and receivables are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognized in the statement of income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through the amortization process. F.2. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out method. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. Inventories 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Telephone and equipment ................................................................................................. 26 28 SIM cards .......................................................................................................................... 4 6 IRUs .................................................................................................................................. 3 3 Other.................................................................................................................................. 6 9 Inventory at December 31, ............................................................................................. 39 45 F.3. Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method where the effect of the passage of time is material. From time to time, the Group enters into agreements to extend payment terms with various suppliers, and with factoring companies when such payments are discounted. The corresponding amount pending payment as of December 31, 2018, is recognized in Trade payables for an amount of $26 million (2017: $25 million). F.4. Current and non-current provisions and other liabilities Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, if it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognized as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. 180 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued The expense relating to any provision is presented in the statement of income net of any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, increases in the provision due to the passage of time are recognized as interest expenses. F.4.1. Current provisions and other liabilities Current 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Deferred revenue(i) ........................................................................................................... 85 86 Customer deposits ............................................................................................................. 15 13 Current legal provisions .................................................................................................... 27 24 Tax payables...................................................................................................................... 68 57 Customer and MFS distributor cash balances................................................................... 147 144 Withholding tax on payments to third parties ................................................................... 17 17 Other provisions ................................................................................................................ 7 1 Other current liabilities(ii) ................................................................................................ 128 83 Total .................................................................................................................................. 494 425 (i) Deferred revenue has partly been reclassified to Contract Liabilities as a result of the adoption of IFRS 15. See the 'Accounting Policy Changes' note. (ii) In the caption Other current liabilities , for 2018 $38 million of provision for tax risk not related to income tax is included. F.4.2. Non-current provisions and other liabilities Non-current 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Non-current legal provisions............................................................................................. 8 15 Long-term portion of asset retirement obligations............................................................ 77 69 Long-term portion of deferred income on tower sale and leasebacks .............................. 85 73 Long-term employment obligations.................................................................................. 68 76 Accruals and payables in respect of spectrum and license acquisitions ........................... 41 31 Other non-current liabilities .............................................................................................. 71 70 Total .................................................................................................................................. 351 335 F.5. Assets and liabilities related to contract with customers Contract assets, net 2018 (US$ millions) Long-term portion..................................................................................................................................... 3 Short-term portion .................................................................................................................................... 35 Less: provisions for expected credit losses............................................................................................... (1) Total.......................................................................................................................................................... 37 Contract liabilities 181 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued 2018 (US$ millions) Long-term portion..................................................................................................................................... 1 Short-term portion .................................................................................................................................... 86 Total.......................................................................................................................................................... 87 The Group recognised revenue for $45 million in 2018 that was included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of the year. The transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations (unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied) as at December 31, 2018 is $42 million ($41 million is expected to be recognized as revenue in the 2020 financial year and the remaining $1 million in the 2021 financial year or later) (i). (i) This amount does not consider contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, neither contracts in which consideration from a customer corresponds to the value of the entity’s performance obligation to the customer (i.e. billing corresponds to accounting revenue). Contract costs, net (i) 2018 (US$ millions) Net at January 1...................................................................................................................................... 4 Contract costs capitalized ......................................................................................................................... 4 Amortization of contract costs.................................................................................................................. (4) Net at December 31................................................................................................................................. 4 (i) Incremental costs of obtaining a contract are expensed when incurred if the amortization period of the asset that Millicom otherwise would have recognized is one year or less. G. Additional disclosure items G.1 Fees to auditors 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Audit fees................................................................................................... 6.7 4.7 4.3 Audit related fees....................................................................................... 0.4 0.3 0.3 Tax fees...................................................................................................... 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other fees................................................................................................... 0.6 0.7 1.8 Total .......................................................................................................... 7.7 5.9 6.6 G.2. Capital and operational commitments 182 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Millicom has a number of capital and operational commitments to suppliers and service providers in the normal course of its business. These commitments are mainly contracts for acquiring network and other equipment, and leases for towers and other operational equipment. G.2.1. Capital commitments At December 31, 2018, the Company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures had fixed commitments to purchase network equipment, land and buildings, other fixed assets and intangible assets of $154 million of which $126 million are due within one year (December 31, 2017: $194 million of which $182 million were due within one year). Out of these commitments, respectively $66 million and $56 million related to Millicom’s share in joint ventures. (December 31, 2017: $25 million of which $23 million were due within one year). G.2.2 Lease commitments Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and involves an assessment of whether the fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether or not the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. The sale and leaseback of towers and related site operating leases and service contracts are accounted for in accordance with the underlying characteristics of the assets, and the terms and conditions of the lease agreements. On transfer to the tower companies, the portion of the towers leased back are accounted for as operating leases or finance leases according to the criteria set out above. The portion of towers being leased back represents the dedicated part of each tower on which Millicom’s equipment is located and was derived from the average technical capacity of the towers. Rights to use the land on which the towers are located are accounted for as operating leases, and costs of services for the towers are recorded as operating expenses. Operating leases Operating leases are all other leases that are not finance leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as expenses in the consolidated statement of income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating leases mainly comprise land in which cell towers are located (including those related to towers sold and leased back) and buildings. Total operating lease expense from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2018, was $155 million (2017: $155 million; 2016: $159 million – see note B.2.). Annual operating lease commitments from continuing operations 2018 (i) 2017 (i) (US$ millions) Within one year ................................................................................................................. 127 130 Between one and five years .............................................................................................. 412 372 After five years.................................................................................................................. 262 258 Total .................................................................................................................................. 800 759 (i) The Group’s share in joint ventures operating lease commitments amount to US$312 million (2017: US$194 million; 2016: US$210 million) and are excluded from the table above. Finance leases Finance leases, which transfer substantially all risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item to the lessee, are capitalized at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income. Where a finance lease results from a sale and leaseback transaction, any 183 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued excess of sales proceeds over the carrying amount of the assets is deferred and amortized over the lease term. Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets, or the lease term if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Finance leases mainly comprise lease of tower space in El Salvador, Paraguay, Tanzania and Colombia (see note C.3.4.), lease of poles in Colombia and tower sharing in other countries. Other financial leases mainly consist of lease agreements relating to vehicles and IT equipment. Annual minimum finance lease commitments from continuing operations 2018 (i) 2017 (i) (US$ millions) Within one year ................................................................................................................. 99 97 Between one and five years .............................................................................................. 400 404 After five years.................................................................................................................. 415 477 Total .................................................................................................................................. 914 978 (i) The Group’s share in joint ventures finance lease commitments amount to $1 million (2017: $5 million) and are excluded from the table above. The corresponding finance lease liabilities at December 31, 2018, were $353 million (2017: $365 million). Interest expense on finance lease liabilities amounted to $92 million for the year 2018 (2017: $65 million). G.3. Contingent liabilities G.3.1. Litigation and legal risks The Company and its operations are contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, legal, regulatory, commercial and other legal risks that arise in the normal course of business. As of December 31, 2018, the total amount of claims and litigation risks against Millicom and its operations was $687 million, of which $5 million related to its share in joint ventures (December 31, 2017: $438 million, of which $5 million related to its share in joint ventures). As at December 31, 2018, $26 million has been provided for these risks in the consolidated statement of financial position (December 31, 2017: $29 million). The Group’s share of provisions made by the joint ventures was $4 million (December 31, 2017: $2 million). While it is not possible to ascertain the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these claims and risks, the ultimate outcome is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Group’s financial position and operations. Improper filling of shareholding in MIC Tanzania Public Limited Company In June 2016, Millicom was served with claims by a third party seeking to exert rights as a shareholder of MIC Tanzania Public Limited Company. In June 2015, Millicom identified that an incorrect filing related to MIC Tanzania Public Limited Company had been made in the commercial register, causing the register to incorrectly indicate that shares in the local subsidiary were owned by this third party. On July 26, 2018, the Court of Appeal of Tanzania, the country’s highest court, reaffirmed in a ruling that MIC Tanzania Public Limited Company remains owned and controlled by Millicom. Late 2018, the opposite party has filed a review of the ruling by the same Court of Appeals, which already ruled in Millicom's favor. Millicom considers the success of this review as remote and therefore continues to control and fully consolidate MIC Tanzania Public Limited Company. Ongoing investigation by the International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) On July 14, 2017, the CICIG disclosed an ongoing investigation into alleged illegal campaign financing that includes a competitor of Comcel, our Guatemalan joint venture. The CICIG further indicated that the investigation 184 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued would include Comcel. On November 23 and 24, 2017, Guatemala's attorney general and CICIG executed search warrants on the offices of Comcel. As at December 31, 2018, the matter is still under investigation, and Management has not been able to assess the potential impact on these consolidated financial statements of any remedial actions that may need to be taken as a result of the investigations, or penalties that may be imposed by law enforcement authorities. Accordingly, no provision has been recorded as of December 31, 2018. Other At December 31, 2018, Millicom has various other less significant claims which are not disclosed separately in these consolidated financial statements because they are either not material or the related risk is remote. G.3.2. Tax related risks and uncertain tax position The Group operates in developing countries where the tax systems, regulations and enforcement processes have varying stages of development creating uncertainty regarding the application of the tax law and interpretation of tax treatments. The Group is also subject to regular tax audits in the countries where it operates. When there is uncertainty over whether the taxation authority will accept a specific tax treatment under the local tax law, that tax treatment is therefore uncertain. The resolution of tax positions taken by the Group, through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, can take several years to complete and, in some cases, it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome. Therefore, judgment is required to determine provisions for taxes. In assessing whether and how an uncertain tax treatment affects the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, the Group assumes that a taxation authority with the right to examine amounts reported to it will examine those amounts and have full knowledge of all relevant information when making those examinations. The Group has a process in place to identify its uncertain tax positions. Management then considers whether or not it is probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. On that basis, the identified risks are split into three categories (i) remote risks (risk of outflow of tax payments are up to 20%), (ii) possible risks (risk of outflow of tax payments assessed from 21% to 49%) and probable risks (risk of outflow is more than 50%). The process is repeated every quarter by the Group. If the Group concludes that it is probable or certain that the taxation authority will accept the tax treatment, the risks are categorized either as possible or remote, and it determines the taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates consistently with the tax treatment used or planned to be used in its income tax filings. The risks considered as possible are not provisioned but disclosed as tax contingencies in the Group consolidated financial statements while remote risks are neither provisioned nor disclosed. If the Group concludes that it is probable that the taxation authority will not accept the Group’s interpretation of the uncertain tax treatment, the risks are categorized as probable, and are presented to reflect the effect of uncertainty in determining the related taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates by generally using the most likely amount method – the single most likely amount in a range of possible outcomes. If an uncertain tax treatment affects both deferred tax and current tax, the Group makes consistent estimates and judgments for both. For example, an uncertain tax treatment may affect both taxable profits used to determine the current tax and tax bases used to determine deferred tax. If facts and circumstances change, the Group reassesses the judgments and estimates regarding the uncertain tax position taken. At December 31, 2018, potential tax risks estimated by the Group amount to $254 million, of which provisions of $47 million have been recorded representing the probable amount of eventual claims and required payments related to those risks (2017: $313 million of which provisions of $53 million were recorded). Out of these potential claims and provisions, respectively $29 million (2017: $38 million) and $2 million (2017: $2 million) related to Millicom’s share in these joint ventures. 185 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued G.4. Non-cash investing and financing activities Non-cash investing and financing activities from continuing operations Note 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment, including finance leases ................................................. E.2.2. (66) (174) 34 Asset retirement obligations .............................................. E.2.2. 15 (20) (17) Acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, net of cash acquired...................................... A.1.2. 30 — — Financing activities Finance leases .................................................................... G.2.2. (43) 192 1 Share based compensation ................................................. B.4.1. 22 22 14 G.5. Related party balances and transactions The Group’s significant related parties are: • Kinnevik AB (Kinnevik) and subsidiaries, Millicom’s principal shareholder; • Helios Towers Africa Ltd (HTA), in which Millicom holds a direct or indirect equity interest (see note A. 3.2.); • EPM and subsidiaries (EPM), the non-controlling shareholder in our Colombian operations (see note A. 1.4.); • Miffin Associates Corp and subsidiaries (Miffin), our joint venture partner in Guatemala. • Cable Onda partners and subsidiaries, the non-controlling shareholders in our Panama operations (see note A.1.2.). Kinnevik Millicom’s principal shareholder is Kinnevik. Kinnevik is a Swedish holding company with interests in the telecommunications, media, publishing, paper and financial services industries. At December 31, 2018, Kinnevik owned approximately 37% of Millicom (2017: 37%). During 2018, 2017 and 2016, Kinnevik did not purchase any Millicom shares. There are no significant loans made by Millicom to or for the benefit of Kinnevik or Kinnevik controlled entities. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Company purchased services from Kinnevik subsidiaries including fraud detection, procurement and professional services. Transactions and balances with Kinnevik Group companies are disclosed under Other in the tables below. Also refer to note A.3. for further details with respect to the disposal of one portion of our investment in Milvik AB. 186 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued Helios Towers Millicom sold its tower assets and leased back a portion of space on the towers in several African countries and contracted for related operation and management services with HTA. The Group has future lease commitments in respect of the tower companies (see note G.2.2.). Empresas Públicas de Medellín (EPM) EPM is a state-owned, industrial and commercial enterprise, owned by the municipality of Medellin, and provides electricity, gas, water, sanitation, and telecommunications. EPM owns 50% of our operations in Colombia. Miffin Associates Corp (Miffin) The Group purchases and sells products and services from and to the Miffin Group. Transactions with Miffin represent recurring commercial operations such as purchase of handsets, and sale of airtime. Cable Onda Partners Our partners in Panama are the non-controlling shareholders of Cable Onda and own 20% of the company. Additionally, they also hold interests in several entities which have purchasing and selling recurring commercial operations with Cable Onda (such as the sale of content costs, delivery of broadband services, etc.). Expenses from transactions with related parties 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Purchases of goods and services from Miffin ........................................... (173) (181) (167) Purchases of goods and services from EPM.............................................. (40) (36) (22) Lease of towers and related services from HTA........................................ (28) (28) (35) Other expenses........................................................................................... (3) (4) (9) Total .......................................................................................................... (244) (250) (233) Income and gains from transactions with related parties 2018 2017 2016 (US$ millions) Sale of goods and services to EPM ........................................................... 17 18 18 Sale of goods and services to Miffin ......................................................... 284 277 261 Other revenue ............................................................................................ 2 1 10 Total .......................................................................................................... 303 295 289 As at December 31, the Company had the following balances with related parties: Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Non-current and current liabilities Payables to Guatemala joint venture(i) ............................................................................. 315 273 Payables to Honduras joint venture(ii).............................................................................. 143 135 Payables to EPM ............................................................................................................... 14 3 Other accounts payable ..................................................................................................... 9 10 Sub-total ............................................................................................................................ 482 421 Finance lease liabilities to tower companies(iii)............................................................... 99 108 Total .................................................................................................................................. 580 529 187 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued (i) Shareholder loans bearing interest. Out of the amount above, $135 million are due over more than one year. (ii) Amount payable mainly consist of dividend advances for which dividends are expected to be declared later in 2019 and/or shareholder loans. (iii) Disclosed under Debt and other financing in the statement of financial position. Year ended December 31, 2018 2017 (US$ millions) Non-current and current assets Receivables from EPM ..................................................................................................... 5 3 Receivables from Guatemala and Honduras joint ventures .............................................. 20 25 Advance payments to Helios Towers Tanzania................................................................. 6 8 Receivable from AirtelTigo Ghana(i) ............................................................................... 41 40 Other accounts receivable ................................................................................................. 1 1 Total .................................................................................................................................. 73 77 (i) Disclosed under Other non-current assets in the statement of financial position. See note A.2.2. H. IPO – Millicom’s operations in Tanzania In June 2016, an amendment to the Electronic and Postal Communications Act (“EPOCA”) in the Finance Act 2016 required all Tanzanian licensed telecom operators to sell 25% of the authorised share capital in a public offering on the Dar Es Salaam Stock Exchange. Early 2017, Tigo Tanzania, Zantel and Telesis each received from the Tanzanian Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) a notice of material breach of the license giving thirty-days to comply. Millicom has signaled its intention for its subsidiaries to comply with the law and list its businesses but did not complete the public offerings by such time until the incorrect filing related to Tigo Tanzania made in the commercial register was corrected (see note G.3.1.). Accordingly, Millicom’s businesses in Tanzania may face sanctions from the regulator or other government bodies, which could include financial penalties, or even suspension or cancellation of its license although to-date there has been no notification from the TCRA of any indication or intention to proceed with sanctions. Management is currently not able to assess the financial impact on its consolidated financial statements (although the Company deems the suspension or cancellation of the license to be unlikely) and therefore, no provision has been recorded as of December 31, 2018. This said, the Group is currently working on the preliminary steps (e.g., converting Tigo Tanzania into a public limited company) with the view of listing in the first half of 2019. I. Subsequent events Nasdaq On January 9, 2019, Millicom shares began trading on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange in the U.S. under ticker symbol TIGO. Dividend On February 7, 2019, Millicom’s Board decided to propose to the AGM of the shareholders a dividend distribution of US$2.64 per share to be paid in two equal installments in May and November 2019, out of Millicom profits for the year ended December 31, 2018. The AGM to vote this matter is scheduled for May 2, 2019. Telefónica acquisition 188 Millicom International Cellular S.A. Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 – continued On February 20, 2019, the Group announced it has entered into agreements with Telefónica S.A. and certain of its affiliates (Telefónica), to acquire the entire share capital of Telefónica Móviles Panamá, S.A., Telefónica de Costa Rica TC, S.A. (and its wholly owned subsidiary, Telefónica Gestión de Infraestructura y Sistemas de Costa Rica, S.A.) and Telefonía Celular de Nicaragua, S.A. (together, Telefonica CAM) for a combined enterprise value of $1,650 million (the Transaction) payable in cash. The Transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval in each market, and closings are expected during H2 2019. Millicom has secured bridge funding commitments to finance the acquisition, and the bridge will be refinanced predominantly with the issuance of new debt by Millicom and its operating subsidiaries. 189 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Independent Auditor’s Report To the shareholders of Millicom International Cellular S.A. 2, rue du Fort Bourbon, L-1249 Luxembourg Report on the audit of the requirements that are relevant to our tested the operating effectiveness of consolidated financial statements audit of the consolidated financial controls around access rights, system statements in Luxembourg, and we have development, program changes , and Opinion fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities IT dependent business controls to We have audited the accompanying under those ethical requirements. We establish that changes to the system consolidated financial statements of believe that the audit evidence we have were appropriately authorized and also Millicom International Cellular S.A. (“the obtained is sufficient and appropriate to developed and implemented properly Group”) included on page 95 to page 189, provide a basis for our opinion. including those over: set-up of customer which comprise the consolidated accounts, pricing data, segregation of statement of financial position as of Key audit matters duties, and the linkage to usage data December 31, 2018, the consolidated that drives revenue recognition. Key audit matters are those matters that, statement of income, the consolidated in our professional judgment, were of • We tested the end-to-end reconciliation statement of comprehensive income, the most significance in our audit of the from business support systems to billing consolidated statement of cash flows, and consolidated financial statements of the and rating systems to the general the consolidated statement of changes in current period. These matters were ledger. This testing included validating equity for the year then ended, and a addressed in the context of our audit of material journal entries processed summary of significant accounting policies the consolidated financial statements as a between the billing systems and and other explanatory information. whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, general ledger. In our opinion, the consolidated financial and we do not provide a separate opinion • We tested transactions for main statements give a true and fair view of the on these matters. revenues streams (calls, data, SMS, financial position of Millicom International 1. Revenue recognition accuracy of content). Cellular S.A., as of December 31, 2018, revenue recorded given the complexity and of its financial performance and its • We assessed the accounting applied to of systems cash flows for the year then ended in commercial offers, particularly in light accordance with International Financial Risk identified of the revenue recognition criteria set Reporting Standards as adopted by the by IFRS 15. The Group’s revenue consists of mobile European Union. and data telephony services, corporate • We assessed the adequacy of the Basis for opinion solutions, fixed-line broadband, fixed-line assumptions used by the Management telephone, cable TV, and MFS to retail and in the process of determination of We conducted our audit in accordance business customers. significant judgments and estimates with EU Regulation N° 537/2014, the Law relating to the application of IFRS 15. of July 23, 2016 on the audit profession Revenue from these services is considered Those judgments include mainly the (the “Law of July 23, 2016”) and with a significant risk due to both the bundling determination of the Standalone International Standards on Auditing of these services and the complexity of the Selling Price of handsets, assessment of (“ISAs”) as adopted for Luxembourg by Group’s systems and processes used to the Adjusted Contract Term, agent vs. the “Commission de Surveillance du record revenue. Also, the application of principal considerations, and the use of Secteur Financier” (“CSSF”). revenue recognition accounting standards practical expedient in relation to the is complex and involves a number of key significant financing component. Our responsibilities under those judgments and estimates, especially in the Regulation, Law, and standards are light of the IFRS 15 recent application. • We performed tests on the accuracy of further described in the “Responsibilities customer bill generation on a sample of the ‘réviseur d’entreprises agréé’ for Our answer basis and testing of a sample of the the audit of the consolidated financial credits and discounts applied to statements“ section of our report. We are Our audit procedures over revenue customer bills. also independent of the Group in included, among others: accordance with the International Ethics • We tested substantively deferred • We understood and assessed the income, through validation reports used Standards Board for Accountants’ Code overall IT control environment and the in its determination at period end. of Ethics for Professional Accountants IT controls in place, assisted by our (IESBA Code) as adopted for Luxembourg information technology specialists. We by the CSSF together with the ethical 190 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Independent Auditor’s Report–continued To the shareholders of Millicom International Cellular S.A. • We tested cash receipts for a sample of the assumptions, methodologies, CGU the valuation process which involves customers back to the customer invoice. determination, the WACC, and data used significant management judgment, given by the Group, for example by comparing it is based on assumptions that are • We performed substantive analytical them to external data. We have involved affected by expected future market or procedures on revenue and deferred our valuation experts to assist us with our economic conditions. revenue based on our industry assessment of the WACC, expected knowledge, forming an expectation of inflation rates, and the appropriateness of Our answer revenue based on key performance the model used. Furthermore, we have indicators taking into consideration Our procedures included, among others, analyzed sensitivities if a lower growth rate disconnections, installations, changes in assessing the appropriateness of or higher WACC were used. The Group’s rates, and trends in deferred income. management’s assumptions and disclosures about goodwill are included in estimates in relation to uncertain tax • We assessed the adequacy of the Notes E.1.5 and E.1.6. positions, and considering advice received provision for impairment of trade 3. Recognition of tax contingencies by management from external parties to receivables, including the and tax assets support their position. We have involved appropriateness of the methodology our tax specialists, where relevant, to used to calculate the provision, and Risk identified consider management’s assessment of the analyzing individual significant long Income tax positions were significant to tax positions and related provision/liability outstanding balances. our audit because the assessment process accruals when necessary. • We assessed the adequacy of the is complex and involves a high degree of We assessed the business plans to Group’s disclosures in respect of the judgment and the amounts involved are determine the appropriateness of accounting policies on revenue material to the consolidated financial management’s assessment that recognition as disclosed in Note B.1.1 of statements as a whole. The Group’s recovering the deferred tax assets based the Consolidated Financial Statements. operations are subject to income taxes in on future taxable profits within the five various jurisdictions resulting in different 2. Carrying value of goodwill and cash year plan approved by the Board of subjective and complex interpretation of generating units (CGUs) Directors is probable and assessed the local tax laws as uncertainty prevails in the adequacy of the assumptions and Risk identified emerging market economies in which sensitivities in such business plans. Millicom is operating. In addition, the Under EU-IFRSs, the Group is required to global tax environment worldwide We also assessed the adequacy of the annually test the amount of goodwill for continues to evolve and becomes more Group’s disclosures in respect of the tax impairment. This annual impairment test complex. Management exercises contingencies and tax positions as set out was significant to our audit because the judgment in assessing the level of provision in Note B.6 and G.3.2. balance of USD$1,077 million as of required for taxation when such taxes are December 31, 2018 is material to the 4. Capitalization and asset lives based on the interpretation of complex tax consolidated financial statements. In laws. The future actual outcome of the Risk Identified addition, the Group’s assessment process decisions concerning these tax exposures includes significant judgments and is The net book value of fixed assets at may result in materially higher or lower based on assumptions derived from the December 31, 2018 is USD$5,415 million. amounts than the accrual included in the Group’s five-year plan, which are affected The assessment and timing of whether accompanying Consolidated Financial by expected future market or economic assets meet the capitalization criteria set Statements. conditions. out in the relevant accounting standards, The Group’s deferred income tax assets as the estimation of appropriate useful Our answer at December 31, 2018 amount to economic lives, and the assessment of USD$202 million. Under EU-IFRS, the whether any impairment indicators are Our audit procedures included, among Group is required to periodically determine present, such as redundant assets, as well others, an assessment of the historical the valuation of deferred tax asset as the identification and the classification accuracy of management’s estimates and positions. This area was significant to our of leases, all require judgment. budgets, evaluation, and assessment of audit because of the related complexity of 191 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Independent Auditor’s Report–continued To the shareholders of Millicom International Cellular S.A. Our answer general and CICIG executed search the purchase price allocation. The Group, warrants on the offices of Comcel. assisted by its external valuation Our audit procedures included, among specialists, determined the fair value of others: Considering the current situation, the Cable Onda’s identifiable assets and Group has not been able to estimate the • We evaluated the design and testing liabilities, which included a number of outcome of these cases and therefore the the operating effectiveness of controls assumptions such as useful life of assets, potential financial impact on its financial around the asset capitalization cycle. customer churn, and contingent liabilities. position, and accordingly, has disclosed The purchase price allocation resulted in a • We considered material contracts these matters in Note G.3.1of the remaining goodwill of USD$512 million. signed during the year regarding new consolidated financial statements. The purchase price allocation remains indefeasible rights of use (IRU), licenses, provisional as of December 31, 2018. frequency charges, or broadcasting Our answer rights to assess the appropriateness of Our audit procedures included, among Our answer accounting treatment. others: Our audit procedures included, amongst • We assessed management • We inquired of Millicom’s lawyers others: assumptions over the carrying value dealing with the matter and we and useful economic life of key assets • We assessed the sale/purchase obtained external confirmation from by consideration of internal and agreements and tested the payment of these lawyers as part of our audit external available data. the purchase price to the sellers and we procedures. We also inquired of Group assessed the related accounting • W  e tested a sample of fixed asset management on the matter. treatment including for the put and call additions to third-party evidence such • We inquired of the Head of Compliance options and the transaction costs. as purchase invoice and bank to understand the remediation actions statement to assess the valuation and • We assessed the competence and taken from an internal control appropriateness of capitalization of relevant experience of the expert perspective and involved our forensic those additions. engaged by management in order to specialists to discuss such remediation perform the purchase price allocation. • We considered the circumstances as to with management. whether any additions or prevailing • We used our own valuation specialists • We tested that the Millicom’s updated events would give rise to indicators of to audit the reasonableness of Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption policy impairment such as redundant assets. management’s valuation and Code of Conduct have been rolled methodologies and assumptions, using • We assessed the adequacy of the out in the Group’s operations. source data and market data. Group’s disclosures in respect of PP&E • We performed a test of controls over and intangible assets as set out in • We assessed the sensitivity of the procure-to-pay process. Notes E.2 and E.1. management’s estimates and • We assessed the adequacy of the assumptions used in the purchase price 5. Ongoing investigation by the Group’s disclosures in respect of these allocation and audited the adequacy of International Commission Against matters as set out in Note G.3.1. the related disclosures in Note A.1.2 to Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) the consolidated financial statements. 6. Business combination of Cable Risk identified Onda • We performed an audit of Cable On July 14, 2017, the International Onda’s opening balance-sheet as of Risk Identified Commission Against Impunity in November 30, 2018 and reviewed Guatemala (CICIG), disclosed an ongoing The Group acquired control over, and significant transactions up to December investigation into alleged illegal campaign therefore consolidated Cable Onda as of 13, 2018. financing that includes Comcel. The CICIG December 13, 2018. The related • We assessed the adequacy of the further indicated that the investigation disclosures are included in Notes A.1.2. The Group’s disclosures in respect of these would include Comcel. On November 23 acquisition is material, complex, and matters as set out in Note A.1.2. and 24, 2017, Guatemala’s attorney contains significant judgment in relation to 192 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Independent Auditor’s Report–continued To the shareholders of Millicom International Cellular S.A. Other information responsible for assessing the Group’s ability fraud or error, design and perform audit to continue as a going concern, disclosing, procedures responsive to those risks, The Board of Directors is responsible for as applicable, matters related to going and obtain audit evidence that is the other information. The other concern and using the going concern basis sufficient and appropriate to provide a information comprises the information of accounting unless management either basis for our opinion. The risk of not included in the consolidated management intends to liquidate the Group or to cease detecting a material misstatement report on page 92 and the accompanying operations, or has no realistic alternative resulting from fraud is higher than for corporate governance statement on pages but to do so. one resulting from error, as fraud may 57 to 91 but does not include the involve collusion, forgery, intentional consolidated financial statements and our Those charged with governance are omissions, misrepresentations, or the report of “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” responsible for overseeing the Group’s override of internal control. thereon. financial reporting process. • Obtain an understanding of internal Our opinion on the consolidated financial Responsibilities of the “réviseur control relevant to the audit in order to statements does not cover the other d’entreprises agréé” for the audit of design audit procedures that are information and we do not express any the consolidated financial statements appropriate in the circumstances, but form of assurance conclusion thereon. The objectives of our audit are to obtain not for the purpose of expressing an In connection with our audit of the reasonable assurance about whether the opinion on the effectiveness of the consolidated financial statements, our consolidated financial statements as a Group’s internal control. responsibility is to read the other whole are free from material • Evaluate the appropriateness of information and, in doing so, consider misstatement, whether due to fraud or accounting policies used and the whether the other information is materially error, and to issue a report of the “réviseur reasonableness of accounting inconsistent with the consolidated financial d’entreprises agréé” that includes our estimates and related disclosures made statements or our knowledge obtained in opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high by management. the audit or otherwise appears to be level of assurance, but is not a guarantee materially misstated. If, based on the work that an audit conducted in accordance • Conclude on the appropriateness of we have performed, we conclude that with EU Regulation N° 537/2014, the Law management’s use of the going there is a material misstatement of this of July 23, 2016 and with the ISAs as concern basis of accounting and, based other information, we are required to adopted for Luxembourg by the CSSF will on the audit evidence obtained, report this fact. We have nothing to report always detect a material misstatement whether a material uncertainty exists in this regard. when it exists. Misstatements can arise related to events or conditions that may from fraud or error and are considered cast significant doubt on the Group’s Responsibilities of the Board of material if, individually or taken together, ability to continue as a going concern. If Directors and of those charged with they could reasonably be expected to we conclude that a material uncertainty governance for the consolidated influence the economic decisions of users exists, we are required to draw attention financial statements taken on the basis of these consolidated in our report of the “réviseur The Board of Directors is responsible for financial statements. d’entreprises agréé” to the related the preparation and fair presentation of disclosures in the consolidated financial As part of an audit in accordance with EU the consolidated financial statements in statements or, if such disclosures are Regulation N° 537/2014, the Law of July accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 23, 2016 and with ISAs as adopted for European Union, and for such internal conclusions are based on the audit Luxembourg by the CSSF, we exercise control as management determines is evidence obtained up to the date of our professional judgment and maintain necessary to enable the preparation of auditor’s report. However, future events professional skepticism throughout the consolidated financial statements that are or conditions may cause the Group to audit. We also: free from material misstatement, whether cease to continue as a going concern. due to fraud or error. • Identify and assess the risks of material • Evaluate the overall presentation, misstatement of the consolidated In preparing the consolidated financial structure and content of the financial statements, whether due to statements, the Board of Directors is consolidated financial statements, 193 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Independent Auditor’s Report–continued To the shareholders of Millicom International Cellular S.A. including the disclosures, and whether From the matters communicated with accounting records and annual accounts of the consolidated financial statements those charged with governance, we undertakings, as amended, is consistent represent the underlying transactions determine those matters that were of with the consolidated financial statements and events in a manner that achieves most significance in the audit of the and has been prepared in accordance with fair presentation. consolidated financial statements of the applicable legal requirements. current period and are therefore the key • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit We confirm that the audit opinion is audit matters. We describe these matters evidence regarding the consolidated consistent with the additional report to the in our auditor’s report unless law or financial information of the entities or audit committee or equivalent. regulation precludes public disclosure business activities within the Group to about the matter. We confirm that the prohibited non-audit express an opinion on the consolidated services referred to in EU Regulation No financial statements. We are Report on other legal and regulatory 537/2014 were not provided and that we responsible for the direction, supervision requirements remained independent of the Group in and performance of the group audit. We have been appointed as “réviseur conducting the audit. We remain solely responsible for our d’entreprises agréé” by the General audit opinion. Meeting of the Shareholders on May 4, Other matter We communicate with those charged with 2018 and the duration of our uninterrupted The corporate governance statement governance regarding, among other engagement, including previous renewals includes the information required by article matters, the planned scope and timing of and reappointments, is seven years. 68ter paragraph (1) of the law of the audit and significant audit findings, The consolidated management report on December 19, 2002 on the commercial including any significant deficiencies in page 92 is consistent with the consolidated and companies register and on the internal control that we identify during our financial statements and has been accounting records and annual accounts of audit. prepared in accordance with applicable undertakings, as amended. We also provide those charged with legal requirements. Ernst & Young governance with a statement that we have The accompanying corporate governance Société anonyme complied with relevant ethical statement on pages 57 to 91 is the requirements regarding independence, Cabinet de révision agréé responsibility of the Board of Directors. The and to communicate with them all information required by article 68ter relationships and other matters that may paragraph (1) letters c) and d) of the law of reasonably be thought to bear on our Olivier Lemaire December 19, 2002 on the commercial independence, and where applicable, and companies register and on the Luxembourg February 28, 2019 related safeguards. 194 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Disclaimer Forward-Looking Statements • Legal or regulatory developments and • T he capacity to upstream cash Statements included herein that are not changes, or changes in governmental generated in operations through historical facts, including without limitation policy, including with respect to the dividends, royalties, management fees, statements concerning future strategy, availability of spectrum and licenses, and repayment of shareholder loans; plans, objectives, expectations and the level of tariffs, tax matters, the and intentions, projected financial results, terms of interconnection, customer • Other factors or trends affecting our liquidity, growth, and prospects are access, and international settlement financial condition or results of operations. forward-looking statements. Such arrangements; A further list and description of risks, forward-looking statements involve a • Adverse legal or regulatory disputes or uncertainties, and other matters can be number of risks and uncertainties and proceedings; found in Millicom’s annual report on Form are subject to change at any time. This • The success of our business, operating, 20-F, including those risks outlined in “Item includes, but is not limited to, Millicom’s and financing initiatives and strategies, 3. Key Information-D. Risk Factors,” and expectation and ability to pay semi-annual including partnerships and capital in Millicom’s subsequent U.S. Securities cash dividends on its common stock in expenditure plans; and Exchange Commission filings, all of the future, subject to the determination • The level and timing of the growth and which are available at by the Board of Directors, and based on profitability of new initiatives, start-up www.sec.gov. an evaluation of company earnings, financial condition and requirements, costs associated with entering new All forward-looking statements attributable business conditions, capital allocation markets, the successful deployment of to us or any person acting on our behalf determinations and other factors, risks, new systems, and applications to are expressly qualified in their entirety by and uncertainties. In the event such risks support new initiatives; this cautionary statement. Readers are or uncertainties materialize, Millicom’s • Relationships with key suppliers and cautioned not to place undue reliance results could be materially adversely costs of handsets and other equipment; on these forward-looking statements affected. The risks and uncertainties • O ur ability to successfully pursue that speak only as of the date hereof. include, but are not limited to, the acquisitions, investments or merger Except to the extent otherwise required by following: opportunities, integrate any acquired applicable law, we do not undertake any • G lobal economic conditions and businesses in a timely and cost-effective obligation to update or revise forwardforeign exchange rate fluctuations as manner, and achieve the expected looking statements, whether as a result well as local economic conditions in benefits of such transactions; of new information, future events, or the markets we serve; otherwise. • T he availability, terms, and use of • Telecommunications usage levels, capital, the impact of regulatory and including traffic and customer growth; competitive developments on capital • Competitive forces, including pricing outlays, the ability to achieve cost pressures, the ability to connect to savings and realize productivity other operators’ networks, and our improvements; ability to retain market share in the • Technological development and face of competition from existing and evolving industry standards, including new market entrants as well as challenges in meeting customer demand industry consolidation; for new technology and the cost of upgrading existing infrastructure; 195 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Appendix Disclaimer Non-IFRS Measures Non-IFRS Financial Measure Cash Capex represents the cash spent in This document contains financial Descriptions relation to capital expenditure, excluding measures not prepared in accordance spectrum and licenses costs and finance Service revenue is revenue related to the with IFRS. These measures are referred lease capitalizations from tower sale and provision of ongoing services such as to as “non-IFRS” measures and include: leaseback transactions. monthly subscription fees, airtime and non-IFRS service revenue, non-IFRS data usage fees, interconnection fees, Operating Cash Flow (OCF) is EBITDA EBITDA, and non-IFRS Capex, among roaming fees, mobile finance service less Capex. others defined below. Annual growth commissions and fees from other rates for these non-IFRS measures are Operating Free Cash Flow is OCF less telecommunications services such as often expressed in organic constant changes in working capital and other data services, short message services currency terms to exclude the effect of non-cash items and taxes paid. and other value-added services excluding changes in foreign exchange rates, the telephone and equipment sales. Equity Free Cash Flow is Operating adoption of new accounting standards Free Cash Flow less finance charges paid such as IFRS 15, and are proforma for EBITDA is operating profit excluding (net), plus dividends received from joint material changes in perimeter due to impairment losses, depreciation and ventures less advances for dividends to acquisitions and divestitures. amortization, and gains/losses on fixed non-controlling interests. asset disposals. The non-IFRS financial measures are Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) presented in this document as Millicom’s Underlying measures, such as Service is used to assess the Group’s efficiency management believes they provide revenue, EBITDA, and Net debt, include at allocating the capital under its control investors with additional information for Guatemala and Honduras as if fully to and is defined as Operating Profit the analysis of Millicom’s results of consolidated. After Tax, including Guatemala and operations, particularly in evaluating Proportionate EBITDA is the sum of the Honduras as if fully consolidated, divided performance from one period to another. EBITDA in every country where Millicom by the average invested Capital during Millicom’s management uses non-IFRS operates, including its Guatemala and the period. financial measures to make operating Honduras joint ventures, pro rata for decisions, as they facilitate additional Operating Profit After Tax displays the Millicom’s ownership stake in each internal comparisons of Millicom’s profit generated from the operations of country, less unallocated costs and performance to historical results and to the company after statutory taxes. inter-company eliminations. competitors’ results, and provides them Average Invested Capital is the capital to investors as a supplement to Millicom’s Organic growth represents year-on invested in the company operation reported results to provide additional year-growth excluding the impact of throughout the year and is calculated insight into Millicom’s operating changes in FX rates, perimeter, and with the average of opening and closing performance. Millicom’s Remuneration accounting. balances of the total assets minus Committee uses certain non-IFRS Net debt is Gross debt (including finance current liabilities (excluding debt, joint measures when assessing the leases) less cash and pledged and term ventures, accrued interests, deferred and performance and compensation of deposits. current tax, cash as well as investments employees, including Millicom’s and non-controlling interests), minus executive directors. Proportionate net debt is the sum of the assets and liabilities held for sale. net debt in every country where Millicom The non-IFRS financial measures used by operates, including its Guatemala and Millicom may be calculated differently Honduras joint ventures, pro rata for from, and therefore may not be Millicom’s ownership stake in each country. comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies—refer to the Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net section “Non-IFRS Financial Measure debt over LTM (last twelve month) Descriptions” for additional information. EBITDA. In addition, these non-IFRS measures Proportionate net debt to EBITDA is the should not be considered in isolation as ratio of proportionate net debt over LTM a substitute for, or as superior to, financial proportionate EBITDA. measures calculated in accordance with IFRS, and Millicom’s financial results Capex is balance sheet capital expenditure calculated in accordance with IFRS excluding spectrum and license costs and reconciliations to those financial and finance lease capitalizations from statements should be carefully evaluated. tower sale and leaseback transactions. 196 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Appendix: Corporate Responsibility 197 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Corporate Responsibility Appendix Wrapping Up a Great Five Years This appendix highlights what we have achieved over the past year in each of the material CR topics we have identified. 2018 has been a milestone year given that it as the last of the 2014 five-year plan. It has found us with CR firmly embedded in the day-to-day practices of many of our core business areas, leading to mutual learning, as well as an increasingly regional scope and positive impacts of our flagship programs. In the following pages we will share the main achievements and lessons learned which are at the core of the work laid out in our new five-year plan. This corporate responsibility report includes the Honduras and Guatemala joint ventures as if fully consolidated in accordance with our management reporting. Reported indicators exclude Emtelco, Ghana, Nicaragua, and recently acquired Panama operation. Additional exclusions, where applicable, are detailed in footnotes. Measure the success and health of our What we did in 2018 • Strenghthened the collaboration with other business functions to best company beyond financials align CR and business objectives. • Revised our data-management processes to enhance continuous improvement of our reports to stakeholders. • Launched an updated CR Framework that stresses the intrinsic connection between our CR and business strategies. Promote, protect, and strengthen our What we did in 2018 • Continued to actively engage with our investors, partners, and other performance and reputation key stakeholders. • Conducted our first external GNI Assessment. Demonstrate thought leadership What we did in 2018 • Conducted a one-of-a-kind study in Colombia to understand how in areas that link to business success children use the internet. • Relaunched a best-in-class Supplier Training Program on CR. • Rolled out a Women’s Digital Inclusion program in all Latam. 198 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Our Performance Five-year plan objectives (by 2018) Where we are today What we learned 1. Privacy and freedom of expression » Millicom has evolved its » We will continue our Privacy and Freedom of engagements with peers/ » Complete an external assessment of Millicom’s policies and other stakeholders on our Expression (FoE) framework processes relating to privacy and freedom of expression. with a new Global Privacy policies and practices. It is our firm belief that positive Policy and an updated set of outcomes for human rights Law Enforcement Assistance will only come from and Major Events Guidelines, collaboration via a fit for today’s technological multi-stakeholder forum and security challenges. Our such as the GNI this is the LED report has been best way to address such recognized as best practice complex challenges. in the industry. 2. Child rights and online protection » While to our knowledge no »Through our work on COP, we other companies of the learned that our assessment » The Mobile Operator Child Rights Impact Assessment (MO industry have publicly and work needed to be CRIA) tool we jointly developed with UNICEF is used across expanded to the broader adopted the use of the the mobile operator community. MOCRIA, it has been concept of Child Rights. We » Conduct the MOCRIA in all operations in Africa and 50% of conducted in all our Latam are also introducing findings operations in Latam. operations with action plans from the MOCRIA into in place. Parental controls are business processes, products » Integrate promotion of parental controls and distribution of available for digital cable TV and services. safe internet into mobile, fixed, and cable TV customer devices. COP Policy is in processes in Latin America. place, with COP training programs well established » Publish child online protection (COP) policy and across the region, targeting accompanying guidelines, and roll out across all operations. parents, teachers and caregivers. 3. Acting with integrity: anti-corruption compliance » We have established a robust » While having policies and Anti-corruption Program, screening tools may mitigate » Continue external and internal monitoring of the Anticorruption risks, rolling out policies across the Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) program enhancements organization to meet our implementing a with a view to measure the maturity level of the compliance legal compliance obligations comprehensive framework framework over time. and acquired automated where anti-corruption solutions for third party procedures are embedded in » Embed compliance risk management into business risk vetting to improve corruption business processes have management at global, regional, and local level. risk management within the proven effective, as well has » Third-party due diligence for end-to-end process, from organization the risk based training modules that enables landowners to suppliers, IT software providers etc. based on employees to assess risk level. potential risk of corruption in their day to day function. 4. Reducing our environmental footprint » Our operations have directed » While we have examples of investments and technology good practices throughout » Establish a cross-functional steering committee and global into our infrastructure to our operations, an improved energy reduction and green energy strategy. reduce our energy governance process will » Global e-waste process implemented in all operations to consumption, and have allow us to further replicate, manage e-waste through responsible vendors. implemented e-waste scale and measure the programs with vendors. We results of these practices » Extend environmental reporting to consider emissions will establish a steering with common metrics. relating to logistics and supply chain. committee which will focus on a comprehensive climate strategy and targets. 199 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Our Performance–continued Five-year plan objectives (by 2018) Where we are today What we learned 5. Diversity » Percentage of women in Our work towards a more senior management has inclusive workplace focuses on » Increase the number of women among senior managers increased Company-wide a broad range of life each year. from 22 to 29%and gender circumstances and needs. We equality at all levels will are working with our » Establish a Group-wide maternity and paternity leave policy, continue to be at the operations to enhance forefront of our inclusion inclusion across all dimensions to also include a shortened working week for breastfeeding efforts. of diversity. mothers. 6. T aking care of our people » Since 2017, Health and » Learning is part of everyday Safety is part of the management and each » Continue our zero-fatality commitment. Integrated Services’ team incident is carefully analyzed » Review risk assessments for each country on a quarterly basis scope of work for a to enhance prevention. We and update and manage as required. comprehensive approach will continue to focus on across risk categories. management protocols, » Continue reporting to senior management and the Board on reporting, trend analysis to progress and incidents on a monthly basis. identify key risks and » Zero Fatality is a refurbish our mitigation commitment that never controls. These points are expires and we will continue tied in with an extensive to seek ways to reduce the program of accident/ occurrence of all incidents by incident awareness training. root cause analysis, remediation action plans, and targeted training. » We have increased the » We will step up our efforts to 7. R esponsible supply chain management maturity level of our supplier incorporate relevant CR » Full supplier monitoring program in place, including selfassessment and monitoring criteria in our Procurement assessments and on-site audits. programs by integrating a analysis and decisionSupplier Due Diligence making processes, further » Support capacity building of local suppliers to manage platform in our vetting the collaboration between corporate responsibility-related risks. process. CR and Procurement teams, and provide CR training » We have an established tailored to Procurement staff supplier CR training in members. Latam. 8. Social investment » Our Social Investments (SI) » SI is more a tool than an have become more regional issue in and of itself. » Connect 2,100 schools and public institutions to the internet and strategic. We have Therefore, we are by 2030 in Latin America. already achieved 5% of the discontinuing “Social » Implement a volunteering program with digital education goal for 2030. In addition, all Investment” as a separate initiatives in all our markets by 2020. Latam markets have ongoing focus area. Our updated CR volunteer programs focused framework contains our on COP and the use of flagship programs under technology. Responsible Leadership in Action. This will enable a more regional, strategic and measurable approach to our investments. 200 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Our Performance–continued 1. Privacy and freedom of expression KPI 2017 value 2018 value % of operations with controls systematically applied in line with the Group guidelines 1 100% 100% Total number of law enforcement requests (Group) 41,323 45,6662 Number of major events 14 20 1 Based on 11 operations. Law Enforcement Requests KPI 2017 value 2018 value Number of law enforcement requests Latam Interception 971 2116 Customer metadata 32,340 33,868 MFS 181 5232 Content Takedown 1 0 Number of law enforcement requests Africa Interception 0 0 Customer metadata 7,705 8,930 MFS 251 228 Content Takedown 3 1 Overview of Major Events by Type3 KPI 2017 value 2018 value Shutdown or restriction of services 4 2 7 Proposals for significant changes in local laws 5 4 5 Proposals for significant changes5 in technical or operational procedures 1 2 Disproportionate interception or customer data requests 2 2 Politically motivated messages 0 1 Other 5 3 2 MFS values for requests in Paraguay derived from estimates. 3 Data reported for financial year, including 2017 data. 4 Renamed from “Shutdown of services” to “shutdown or restriction of services”. 5 Concerning government surveillance, interception or other (with Privacy or FoE-related implications). 201 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Our Performance–continued 2. Child rights and online protection KPI 2017 value 2018 value % of operations with controls systematically applied in line with the minimum age policy 100% 100% % of operations with child risk impact assessments conducted to date 57% 100% % of operations that have hosted a multi-stakeholder COP workshop to date 86% 100% % of operations with a child online protection portal 71% 71% Number of children reached by COP training (000) 188.6 360.11 % of operations in Latam blocking child sexual abuse content 71% 71% 1 Cumulative from 2016. From October 1, 2017 to September 30, 2018, the number of children reached by COP training was 171,500 in Latam. 3. Acting with integrity: anti-corruption compliance KPI 2017 value 2018 value % of employees who acknowledged the Code of Conduct 96 1 91 % of employees who have completed the Code training 962 90 % of procurement staff trained on ABAC 96 97 % of senior managers trained on ABAC 98 99 % of employees who filled and signed the conflict of interest declaration form 90.5 923 Number of cases of unethical behavior reported and investigated 164 3364 Investigations resulting in written warning 6 72 Investigations resulting in termination of employee contract 58 31 % revenue from MFS represented by operations audited for AML controls 27 975 % of operations (where) we conducted a compliance risk assessment or audit 45 30 Turnover of procurement staff (%) 17 28 1 The percentages of employees who acknowledged the Code and who have completed the Code training are the same as both were done simultaneously for 2017. 2 In the framework of the 2017 Global Compliance Awareness Week, held in November 2017, acknowledgment of the Code was simultaneous with the training, hence the identical percentages. Employees are required to complete a training session on both the Code and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption at least once a year. The Corporate Offices’ training completion rate excludes employees on long-term leave. 3 Guatemala not included because, as of December 31st, 2018, authorization of the conflict of interest form and policy is pending by local compliance committee. 4 Incidents reported through Millicom Ethics Line and Linea Etica TigoUne. Incidents reported from Guatemala were channeled through Millicom Ethics Line in 2018, as Linea Ética Tigo Guatemala, currently going through an upgrading process, was. Incidents reported through Linea Ética Tigo Guatemala are included as of 2017. In addition to the inclusion of the incidents reported through Línea Ética Tigo Guatemala, the increase in incident count can be attributed to the efforts placed in promoting the Ethics lines. 5 In 2018, 6 of our 8 operations offering MFS were audited on their AML controls. 202 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Our Performance–continued 3. Acting with integrity: anti-corruption compliance—continued Overview of cases reported to Millicom Ethics Line1 Bribery and Corruption KPI 2017 value 2018 value Number of cases reported and investigated 7 10 Cases resulting in written warning 0 2 Cases resulting in termination 0 3 Discrimination and Harassment KPI 2017 value 2018 value Number of cases reported and investigated 12 49 Cases resulting in written warning 0 16 Cases resulting in termination 0 10 Human Rights and Labor KPI 2017 value 2018 value Number of cases reported and investigated 22 0 Cases resulting in written warning 2 0 Cases resulting in termination 0 0 Conflict of Interest KPI 2017 value 2018 value Number of cases reported and investigated 7 24 Cases resulting in written warning 0 4 Cases resulting in termination 0 3 Fraud KPI 2017 value 2018 value Number of cases reported and investigated 10 16 Cases resulting in written warning 0 3 Cases resulting in termination 3 2 Other KPI 2017 value 2018 value Number of cases reported and investigated 22 89 Cases resulting in written warning 4 21 Cases resulting in termination 1 4 1 The metric “Cases resulting in written warning or termination” reports number of cases with that outcome; not number of written warning and/or terminations. One case can include warnings and/or terminations to multiple employees. 203 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Our Performance–continued 4. Reducing our environmental footprint e-waste recycled through responsible waste management program (tonnes)1 KPI 2017 value 2018 value Bolivia 474 7.74 Colombia 77 587 Costa Rica 44.5 310 El Salvador 162 147 Guatemala 1,037 400 Honduras 3.52 0 Paraguay 236 105.18 Tanzania 462 400 1 Program also set up in Chad. No values available for this operation. Energy use Total Energy Consumption/Sources of Energy by Asset Type KPI 2017 value 2018 value Base station and fixed network sites 1 Fuel (000 l) 14,732 10,435.32 Energy from fuel (MWh) 147,073 104,178.29 Electricity (MWh) 354,949 444,885.99 Our fleet2 Fuel (000 l) 6,335 4,063.98 Energy from fuel (MWh) 60,756 38,609.45 Electricity (MWh) N/A N/A Datacenters and offices3 Fuel (000 l)3 988 449.74 Energy from fuel (MWh) 24,082 4,489.88 Electricity (MWh) 55,8855 89,582.09 Shops6 Fuel (000 l) 332 23.44 Energy from fuel (MWh) 3,312 233.94 Electricity (MWh)7 15,509 16,916.97 1 Zantel excluded. 2 Fuel consumption for fleet includes gasoline and diesel consumption. 3 Many of our data centers are co-located with our offices. Therefore, they often do not have separate meters to enable us to report on datacenter consumption separately. Zantel excluded for 2017 and Chad excluded for 2017 and 2018. Estimated data for Colombia Movil. 5 Electricity consumption for offices and datacenters in El Salvador excluded in 2017. 6 Zantel and Chad excluded for 2018. 7 Electricity consumption for shops in Guatemala is calculated based on electricity cost. 204 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Our Performance–continued Emissions and e-waste overview KPI 2017 value 2018 value Total weight of e-waste recycled through our responsible e-waste management program 2,496.02 1,956.92 Scope 1 emissions (tonnes CO2e) 1 58,787 39,181 Scope 2 emissions (tonnes CO2e)2 114,883 141,439 Scope 3 emissions (tonnes CO2e)3 NA NA % of operations set up on global responsible e-waste recycling program 91 91 % of operations with controls systematically applied in line with the environment policy 100 100 Tonnes of CO2e emissions per USD$1,000 revenue 0.029 0.03 1 Emissions  from fuel are calculated using World Resources Institute (2015) GHG Protocol tool for stationary combustion, version 4.1. 2 Emissions from electricity are calculated using Electricity Emission Factors from IEA, version 2016, except in the cases of Paraguay and Chad, where other official sources were used. Zantel excluded. 3 Not included, as we are currently reassessing our methodology for reporting Scope 3 emissions. 5. Diversity KPI 2017 value 2018 value % of operations with breastfeeding rooms in Latam 64 100 % of women in senior management positions 33 28 % of women across our employee base 40 41 6. T  aking care of our people KPI1 2017 value 2018 value % of operations with controls systematically applied in line with our Group health and 100 100 safety policy % of operations in line with OHSAS 18001 100 100 % of operations certified against OHSAS 18001 46 91 Number of employee fatalities 1 1 0 Number of contractor fatalities 9 2 Number of health and safety incidents reported 387 369 Lost-time injury rate per 1,000 workers 2.6 0.54 Absentee rate 0.8 1.29 1 N umbers of employee and contractor fatalities reported are aligned with the reporting period from October 1st 2017 to September 30th, 2018. Fatalities for previous years have been reported between the same dates. 205 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Our Performance–continued 7. R  esponsible supply chain management KPI 2017 value 2018 value Total number of suppliers invited to complete an EcoVadis assessment 321 326 Total number of suppliers who completed the assessment 68 129 Total number of suppliers that do not fulfill our requirements 42 58 Number of suppliers with improved scores following implementing corrective 47 73 action plans (CAPs) Number of CAPs requested from suppliers by EcoVadis categories Environmental 58 35 Labor rights 127 81 Fair business practices 88 59 Sustainable procurement 63 36 % of strategic suppliers who signed the supplier code 89 89 % of all suppliers who have signed the supplier code 611 65 % of spend represented by suppliers who completed assessments on EcoVadis to date 47.3 42 % of procurement teams trained on responsible supply chain management 96 2 813 Number of suppliers trained on Millicom's corporate responsibility strategy and requirements 121 108 1 Guatemala’s information excluded from this percentage for 2017 as a different definition was applied to calculate the indicator locally. The 2018 value includes Guatemala. 2 Procurement teams training focused on Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption (ABAC) in 2017, as reported in the Compliance performance table for that year (page 103). 3 Colombia excluded 8. Social investment KPI 2017 value 2018 value Number of volunteering hours 14,841 24,732 Monetary value of employee volunteering (US$ 000) 170 235 Total cash contributions (US$ 000) 3,203 3,776 In-kind giving (US$ 000, at cost) 6,399 6,737 Schools and public institutions connected to the internet 1 1,259 1,361 Women enrolled in digital inclusion programs2 New KPI for 117,340 2018 Women enrolled in financial inclusion programs2 New KPI for 97,978 2018 1 Cumulative since 2016, then the commitment with the ICT 2030 Alliance was signed with the OAS (see page 80 of our 2016 Annual Report). 2 Depending on local curriculum, women enrolled in training programs receive training on both digital and financial inclusion, therefore the two figures partially overlap and should not be combined. 206 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F Independent Limited Assurance Report To the Management and Directors of Millicom International Cellular S.A. Scope of work We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement in relation to the Millicom International Cellular S.A (Millicom) Corporate Responsibility Report (Pages 100 – 109) of the Millicom Annual Report 2018 (the “Corporate Responsibility Report”). The scope determined by Millicom for the preparation of this independent limited assurance report is described below: KPI Reference Reporting Section Indicator Description Review Period 2018 % of operations with controls systematically applied in line with the Q4 2017 -Q3 2018 Group guideline Privacy and freedom of expression Total number of law enforcement requests (Group) Q4 2017 Q3 2018 Number of major events Q1 2018 Q4 2018 % of employees who acknowledged the Code of conduct Q1 2018 Q4 2018 % of employees who have completed the Code training Q1 2018Q4 2018 % of procurement staff trained on ABAC Q1 2018Q4 2018 % of senior managers trained on ABAC Q1 2018Q4 2018 % of employees who filled and signed the conflict of interest Q1 2018Q4 2018 Acting with integrity declaration form Number of cases of unethical behavior reported and investigated Q1 2018 Q4 2018 Investigations resulting in written warning Q1 2018 Q4 2018 Investigations resulting in termination of employee contract Q1 2018 Q4 2018 Turnover of procurement staff Q4 2017 Q3 2018 Reducing our environTotal Energy Consumption / Sources of energy by asset type Q4 2017 Q3 2018 mental footprint Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions Q4 2017 Q3 2018 Diversity % of women in senior management positions Q1 2018 Q4 2018 Taking care of our Q4 2017Q3 2018 Absentee rate people Total number of suppliers invited to complete an EcoVadis Q4 2017 Q3 2018 assessment Responsible supply % of strategic suppliers who signed the supplier code Q4 2017 Q3 2018 chain management % of all suppliers who have signed the supplier code Q4 2017 Q3 2018 % of procurement teams trained on responsible supply chain Q4 2017 Q3 2018 management The Millicom Corporate Responsibility Management’s Responsibility on the content of Millicom’s Corporate Report was prepared in accordance with Responsibility Report according to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard The management of Millicom is responsible scope previously defined. 2008 (AA1000 APS 2008). for the preparation and fair presentation of the Corporate Responsibility Report in Our procedures were designed to obtain a accordance with the Criteria, and is also limited level of assurance on which to base Criteria responsible for the selection of methods our conclusion, and, as such, do not provide used in the Criteria. Further, Millicoms’ all of the evidence that would be required to Our review was carried out based on: provide a reasonable level of assurance. The management is responsible for establishing • AA1000 AccountAbility Assurance and maintaining internal controls relevant to procedures performed depend on the Standard 2008, with a moderate the preparation and presentation of the assurance practitioner’s judgement level of type 2 assurance. Corporate Responsibility Report that is free including the risk of material misstatement from material misstatement, whether due to of the Corporate Responsibility Report, • Standard ISAE 3000, Assurance whether due to fraud or error. While we fraud or error; selecting and applying Engagements, issued by the considered the effectiveness of appropriate criteria; maintaining adequate International Auditing and management’s internal controls when records and making estimates that are Assurance Standard Board determining the nature and extent of our reasonable in the circumstances. (IAASB) of the International procedures, our assurance engagement was Federation of Accountants (IFAC), not designed to provide assurance on with a limited scope of assurance. Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility internal controls. Our responsibility is to provide with Our procedures did not include testing independent third-party limited assurance controls or performing procedures relating 207 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F to checking aggregation or calculation of Conclusions stakeholders. One of the key responses to data within IT systems, which would have these challenges was carrying out the been performed under a reasonable Based on our limited assurance procedures GNI assessment and development of the assurance engagement. described above, nothing has come to our ‘Global Privacy Policy’ in 2018. attention that causes us to believe that the Corporate Responsibility Report is not • In 2018, Millicom developed both a Independence “Corporate Responsibility Reporting presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria (the principles Governance Process” and a “Reporting We have performed our work in accordance established in standard AA1000 APS 2008) Guidelines” that aim at strengthening the with the standards of independence such as: Corporate Responsibility Reporting required by the Code of Ethics of the process by detailing roles and International Federation of Accountants responsibilities, definitions of the key (IFAC). 1. Inclusiveness indicators, data flow, required evidences • In 2018, Millicom continued its efforts to for indicators and calculations and data Applied procedures control. Moreover, Millicom trained the engage and establish relationships with its key stakeholders, with regards to CR, whole “CR team” in the various local Our assurance procedures consisted in such as, quarterly updates for the Board operations including “Data contributors” requesting information from Millicom of Directors and for investors, interactions and “Data validators” to this new Corporate Responsibility department and with civil society and active participation “Corporate Responsibility Reporting business areas participating in the in GNI. Specifically, they used the Governance Process”. preparation of the Corporate Responsibility Report and applying analytical procedures opportunity of the materiality • Through its continuous improvement of and sampling tests as described in general assessment this year to include various learning processes, Millicom further terms below: stakeholders across four key groups, enhanced the training provided to its key namely investors, civil society, customers suppliers with one-on-one follow-up 1. Interviews with senior managers and employees into CR discussions. sessions to ensure that suppliers responsible for management of • Millicom partnered with the EAFIT understand the high expectations and Corporate Responsibility issues and University in Medellin, Colombia to standards of Millicom regarding critical review of selected evidences to support launch a pioneering assessment on the issues, such as Ethics, Privacy, Child issues discussed. The list of interviewees use of ICT by children, that not only Rights, Diversity, Health and Safety and included Executives with overall conducted research but also actively Environment. responsibility for Millicom’s Corporate Responsibility strategy and programmes involved members of civil society and and for specific functions, including Millicom employees. Recommendations Supply Chain, Health and Safety, Privacy We also presented to Millicom our and Compliance. The purpose of these 2. Materiality recommendations regarding areas of interviews was to obtain awareness of • In 2018, Millicom developed a new improvement related to the application of the Corporate Responsibility objectives materiality matrix with the support of an standard AA1000 APS 2008 as well as to and policies as well as how they are put external provider. This materiality matrix actions taken with main stakeholders. The into practice and integrated into has been based on a series of more than most significant recommendations are Millicom’s strategy 40 interviews in total, covering various summarized below: 2. Review of Millicom’s approach to types of internal and external stakeholder’s engagement and outputs. stakeholders. With this initiative, Millicom 1. Inclusiveness 3. Review of the processes for gathering has responded to the prior years’ assurance observations regarding • We support the commitment of Millicom and consolidating the specified materiality assessment and to go further in the holistic performance data and, for a sample, demonstrates its commitment to dissemination of information and checking the data consolidation. continuous improvement in this area. expectations across the entire value 4. Checks on a sample basis of the chain, by ensuring that the content of quantitative information included in the • Millicom has developed the necessary the Responsible Supply Chain Corporate Responsibility Report as well as competencies of internal CR stakeholders Management training, currently its adequate compilation from data to apply the materiality based reporting provided to the procurement team, is supplied by information sources. The process and to strengthen their aligned and made consistent with that tests have been defined to provide awareness on importance of data of the Supplier training program carried limited assurance levels in line with the management and quality. out for LATAM suppliers in 2018. criteria described in this report. • While already implemented throughout 3. Responsiveness 5. Site visits in Millicom’s operations in 2018, we recommend that Millicom Guatemala and Paraguay to review • Millicom’s Law Enforcement Disclosure continues to identify opportunities to process and systems for preparing site (LED) committee is formed by a cross develop communication platforms in level corporate responsibility data and functional team of internal stakeholders order to broaden and strengthen its implementation of Corporate that views relevant issues of privacy, dialogue on CR with all its stakeholders, Responsibility strategy. cybersecurity and freedom of expression such that their expectations and in a combined manner. It keeps track of priorities can be consistently trends and concerns in this sector, and incorporated into Millicom’s CR strategy regularly interacts with key external and action plan. 208 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Financials Appendix Form 20-F 2. Materiality Guidelines”, the on-ground application developing a process and methodology and integration of these processes and of communication on achievements of • We recommend Millicom to not only guidelines needs further efforts. As commitments and progress against continue to implement its plan to already started in 2018, we recommend goals of its CR action plan. conduct the materiality assessment on a Millicom to pursue its implementation in biennial basis, but also to monitor key all locations and departments. In this trends and context that can assist in regard, we also recommend to further Ernst & Young regularly updating their CR action plan. strengthen data collection and control Société Anonyme • We further recommend Millicom to use processes regarding the monitoring and Cabinet de Révision Agréé the opportunity of the results of the new follow up of Health & Safety (H&S) materiality assessment and creation of incidents and continue to develop Olivier Lemaire David Cau the new CR action plan to further refine communication with external providers Partner Director material requirements and their actions on H&S issues. We also recommend at the country level. Millicom to pursue its efforts for an enhanced reporting of Environmental data. 3. Responsiveness Luxembourg, February 28, 2019 • In order to continue and enhance • Although Millicom deployed the dialogue with key stakeholders, we “Corporate Responsibility Reporting recommend Millicom to respond to its Governance Process” and “Reporting stakeholder’s material CR concerns by 209 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T Overview Strategy Performance Governance CR Appendix Form 20-F Corporate Information BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDITOR José Antonio Ríos García Ernst & Young Chairman, Director Société anonyme Pernille Erenbjerg 35E Avenue John F. Kennedy Deputy Chairman, Director Luxembourg, L-1855 Odilon Almeida STOCK TRANSFER AGENT Director Questions or requests related to stock Janet Davidson transfers, lost certificates, or account Director changes should be directed to: Tomas Eliasson Shareholder Services Director 1-800-937-5449 ext. 4801 Lars-Åke Norling 1-718-921-8200 ext. 4801 Director help@astfinancial.com Roger Solé Rafols www.astfinancial.com Director INVESTOR RELATIONS James Thompson Director Investors@millicom.com EXECUTIVE TEAM MEDIA CONTACT Mauricio Ramos Press@Millicom.com Chief Executive Officer ANNUAL MEETING Tim Pennington Chief Financial Officer The 2019 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held on May 2, 2019 at the Hotel Le Esteban Iriarte Royal, 12 Boulevard Royal, Luxembourg, Chief Operating Officer—Latam L-2449. Mohamed Dabbour Head of Africa Division HEADQUARTERS Xavier Rocoplan Millicom International Cellular S.A. Chief Technology and Information Officer 2 Rue du Fort Bourbon Rachel Samrén Luxembourg, L-1249 Chief External Affairs Officer Salvador Escalón General Counsel Susy Bobenrieth Chief Human Resources Officer HL Rogers Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 2 0 18 M I L L IC O M IN T E G R AT E D R E P O R T For further information, please contact: investors@millicom.com millicom.com
