Sustainability Report Our Commitment regarding the United Nations goals on Sustainable Development VISION To be a leading oil refiner and oil products marketing enterprise in Greece and the wider region. CORPORATE MISSION TO CONDUCT our business operations so as to increase the company’s corporate value for the benefit of all stakeholders shareholders, personnel, customers, suppliers, associates and partners, as well as the local and greater community applying technological and commercial innovations. TO MEET our customers’ needs responsibly and effectively, while expanding our share in the domestic market. TO FUNCTION reliably, swiftly and flexibly in our relationship with employees, customers, suppliers, and the general public, by making use of practices that demonstrate responsibility and integrity, as well as respect for people and the environment. STRATEGIC GOALS MAXIMISING THE PROFITABILITY of all the companies of the Group and overall financial performance. MAXIMISATION AND OPTIMISATION OF SALES, by effectively marketing our products and exploiting opportunities in our three markets (domestic, aviation-marine bunkering, and export), for achieving the best possible profitability. STRIVING FOR THE HIGHEST STANDARDS of Health and Safety, Environmental protection and Quality, through the application of technical, operational and organisational innovations and improvements. OUR VALUES 1. INTEGRITY • Respect for laws and regulations. • Applying business ethics and the principles of corporate governance. • Honest and open communication. • Credibility and respectability in all kinds of business relations. 2. EFFICIENCY • Achieving set targets. • Creating value for shareholders and society. • Servicing customers’ needs. • Providing a safe, stimulating and reciprocal workplace. • Continuous improvement and promotion of learning and innovation. 3. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Respect for all stakeholders. • Respect for the environment and commitment for sustainable growth. • Priority for Health and Safety. • Ensuring that the companies of the Group are active and responsible corporate citizens, respecting the local community and society as a whole. OUR PRINCIPLES RESPECT FOR OUR PEOPLE We recognise the value of our people and we promote their personal development, while offering competitive terms of employment, within a working environment of respect and mutual trust. We respect human and labour rights and give priority to workplace Health and Safety assurance. RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT We recognise the value of our natural environment and the necessity for sustainable development and commit ourselves to the implementation of effective operational procedures and technology for its protection. TRANSPARENCY We operate professionally and responsibly, strictly implementing the principles of business ethics and corporate governance. Sustainability Report 47 Years MOTOR OIL The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones Increase of the Purchase of 50% company’s equity of the company’s capital through shares by Saudi public offer of Commissioning Arabian Oil shares and listing of the new on the Athens Truck Loading Company (Saudi Stock Exchange. Terminal at Aramco). the refinery. Relocation of Upgrading of the Lubes Vacuum the Head Office to Distillation Unit. 2004 a modern Offices Commissioning Construction Complex of the refinery. Commissioning of a Power in Maroussi. 2001 It comprises a of the Catalytic Plant, burning Crude Oil Distillation Unit, Reformer Unit for gasoline fuel gas. 1996 a base oils production. 1984 production unit and port facilities. 1978 1972 2002 Acquisition of 100% of the retail oil 2000 marketing company AVIN OIL. 1993 Construction of new units and upgrading of 1980 ISO 9002 quality the Naphtha Reformer certification for into a continuous 1975 Commissioning the entire range 103-octane number of the Catalytic of the company’s catalyst regeneration Construction Cracking Unit commercial and unit for the production of completion of (for converting manufacturing fuels conforming to EU the 100,000 fuel oil to activities. specifications. barrels/day higher added Crude Distillation value products). New Central Control Complex. Room and installation Construction of a Distributed Control completion of the System. 1.5 million cubic Certification of metres tank farm. the Environmental Management System, according to ISO 14001:1996. Commissioning of the new 60,000 barrels/day Crude Distillation Unit, and of two additional Sulphur Recovery MOTOR OIL Units, of a combined achieves 170 ΜΤ/day sulphur record sales for production capacity. the eleventh consecutive year Completion of (14.4 million ΜΤ). the acquisition of Acquisition the shares of the of 90% of the companies SHELL Acquisition of electricity HELLAS S.A. (renamed 100% of the retail company NRG to Coral S.A.), and oil marketing TRADING HOUSE SHELL GAS A.E.B.E.Y. company Cyclon ENERGY S.A. Certification (renamed to Coral of Health GAS A.E.B.E.Y.), as A.B.E.E. and Safety well as of 49% of the 2018 Management aviation fuels trading 2014 Certification of System, company. the refinery’s according to OHSAS Chemical 18001:2007. 2010 Laboratory, according to ISO 17025:2005. 2008 2006 2017 2011 Recertification of the Quality Management System according to 2009 Completion of the new ISO 9001:2015, the construction of the Environmental of 5th gas turbine 2007 Increase of the in refinery’s power Management System participation according to the new in the share cogeneration plant, Registration of ISO 14001:2015 and of 2005 the company in capital of OFC which now has a total capacity the Health and Safety the Hellenic AVIATION FUEL Management System, SERVICES S.A. of 85MW. The Hydrocracker Register of EMAS according to OHSAS Complex is (Eco-Management from 28.0% to Construction 18001:2007. commissioned, and Audit Scheme). 92.06%. completion of facilitating the Issue of the KORINTHOS POWER Certification of the production of “clean first voluntary S.A. power plant, MOTOR OIL Refinery fuels” conforming Environmental located in the according to the to European Union Statement, MOTOR OIL refinery ISO 50001:2011 for specifications. conforming with premises. Energy Management Motor Oil Holdings Ltd EU Regulation and according to ISO acquires the stake EMAS ER 761/2001. 18788:2015 for security. of Saudi Aramco in the Company. Management Message Our Group Sustainability Report for 2018, that we proudly present to you, is the seventeenth consecutive Report outlining our performance on sustainability issues. The structure of the Report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) model and the GRI Standards, as well as on the provisions of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In this context, the Sustainability Report serves as our “Communication on Progress” prepared in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we endorse and support. For yet another year, MOTOR OIL Group, with strategic planning and flexibility, continued to adapt to international developments and achieved very good financial results. At the same time, our subsidiaries operating in the liquid fuel retail sector also had a very good year and contributed to boosting our overall results. In the past year, with the aim to grow in new markets, we started to operate in the electricity and gas sector, aiming to offer integrated energy solutions to our customers, individuals or industries. On a consolidated basis, our operational performance (EBITDA) reached 495 million euros and our net earnings 255 million euros. In 2018, our refinery achieved record high sales for the eleventh year running, and 82.4% of those sales were made to our customers abroad. In recent years, pressures relating to environmental and societal issues have increased on a global scale. Climate change is a reality, while at the same time, the development and improvement of the living standards of societies around the world is a fundamental necessity. These pressures require collective and immediate action, not only from the business side but also from societies and citizens. We, as a socially responsible business, are trying through our operations, to meet these challenges by adding value through investments and a strong development base that respects our environment and our future. In 2018 we continued investing, adopting best available techniques and technologies that are more environmentally friendly. We spent a total of 150 million euros as a Group, of which 28.4 million euros are related to investments and operating expenses for safety at work and 26.1 million euros for the environment and the reduction of our environmental footprint. With more than 2,100 direct employees, our primary concern is to provide a safe work environment that encourages development and utilizes the knowledge and skills of our people. Therefore, the continuous training of our employees is a vital priority, and in this context in 2018 we have carried out training programs of approximately 34,000 man-hours. Our dedication to the principles of “good management” is the compass for setting our course. Having sustainable development and the interests of our various stakeholders as a priority, we are implementing our strategy and carry out investments and development programs that lead us successfully into the future. We accept the global challenges, recognizing the role we are called upon to play in the social, environmental and business spheres, the role of a leading company that moves forward with responsibility and commitment towards its goals. MOTOR OIL Group Management 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Contents The Growth of MOTOR OIL: Important Milestones 02 Responsibility for the Environment Management Message 05 Environmental Management 56 Environmental Investments and Expenditures 59 Identity and Corporate Responsibility Best Available Techniques 60 Motor Oil Group Profile 10 Energy Saving 62 The Refinery 11 Air Quality Management 66 Results 2018 12 Liquid Waste Management 69 Corporate Governance 13 Solid Waste Management – Recycling 69 Participation in International National Agencies 15 Water Management 70 and Networks Noise Management 71 Awards and Recognition 16 Protection of the Marine Environment 71 Managing Corporate Responsibility 17 Responsible Growth and Investments 19 Social Responsibility Responsibility for the Environment, Health and Safety 20 Economic Benefits to Society Social Product 74 Responsible Quality Management 20 Customer Service Respect for the Customer 75 Product Safety 23 Social Solidarity and Sponsorships 76 Communication with Stakeholders 24 Identification of Material Issues 26 Sustainability Report Framework About the Sustainability Report 82 Responsibility towards our Employees Global Compact: Communication on 83 Human Resources Management System 30 Progress 2018 and our Contribution Equal Opportunities and Human Rights 30 to the Sustainable Development Goals Labour Relations and Trade Unions 31 GRI Compliance Level 84 Basic Employment Data 31 Remuneration System and Additional Benefits 33 Education and Training 35 Health and Safety Health and Safety Management Framework 40 Safety Indices 42 Health and Safety Investments 43 Inspections 44 Procedures 44 Planned Shutdowns New Projects 47 REACH and CLP Regulations 47 Emergency Response Plans 48 Safety of Port Installations 50 Safeguarding Workforce Health 50 Training on Safety Issues 51 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 7 Identity & Corporate Responsibility We are an energy group that creates value with consistency and responsibility. In all the years during which the MOTOR OIL Group As a result of all the above, MOTOR OIL managed to has been operating as an oil refinery and oil products achieve record sales (14.4 million MT) for the eleventh marketing company, it has always functioned with year running, significantly exceeding the refinery’s a strong sense of corporate responsibility, aiming annual production capacity. Production grew as well, at sustainable profitability and development in a climbing to 13.3 million MT in 2018, from 12.9 million MT socially responsible manner. It implements investment in 2017. programs aiming at the continuous development and optimisation of its productive activity, always bearing At the same time, overseas sales in 2018 (including in mind the Vision and the corporate values that form shipping and aviation) accounted for 82.4% of the the framework of its operation and business activity. company’s total volume of sales, compared with 82.1% in 2017, owing to the fact that the company exploited 2018 was a positive year for MOTOR OIL with very good to the full its export capacity. financial results. Conditions in the industry, particularly in the last quarter, led to lower refining margins while Lastly, regarding our financial overview, the creation international crude oil and petroleum product prices of positive cash flows allowed, on the one hand, showed significant fluctuations resulting in a lower uninterrupted funding of the company’s turnover and valuation of our inventory, particularly at the end of the operating activities, while on the other hand reducing year. As a result, our financials finished at lower levels its net bank debt for the seventh consecutive year to than in 2017, which had set a historic record for us. achieve a historic low for both the company and the Group. In this climate, company strategy remained stable and focused primarily on attaining a high degree of employment at the refinery, on optimal distribution of products on the three main markets in which it does business (domestic market, exports and shipping/ aviation), and on generating positive cash flows. Identity & Corporate Responsibility Increase in refinery production and sales Record low net bank debt Increase in market share in all sectors 14.4 million tons Motor Oil sales. New historic high 82.4% of sales are exports. Further reinforcement of export orientation 1. MOTOR OIL Group Profile The MOTOR OIL Group on average employs 2,115 people; • In September 2018, the Group gained a foothold in the it had a consolidated turnover in 2018 equivalent to about power and natural gas market with the acquisition of 5.1% of the Greek GDP and total assets of 2.85 billion 90% of NRG TRADING HOUSE ENERGY S.A. NRG offers euros on a consolidated basis. The Group plays a leading electricity and natural gas programmes, and primarily role in the sectors of crude oil refining and marketing aims to provide comprehensive services to home and of petroleum products in Greece, as well as the greater commercial consumers through top-level services that eastern Mediterranean region, supplying its customers meet all energy needs. with a wide range of high-quality products. • The Group has laid the foundations for its presence in The MOTOR OIL parent company was founded in 1970 the electricity generation sector, through a 35% stake and the refinery commenced operations in 1972. The acquired by the MOTOR OIL S.A. in KORINTHOS POWER company has been quoted on the Athens Stock Exchange S.A. (the other 65% stake is held by MYTILINAIOS S.A. since 2001. It is listed on in the general index (ATHEX Group of Businesses). The company has a combinedComposite Index), the high cap index (FTSE/ATHEX LARGE cycle, natural gas fuelled, power station, with a capacity CAP) and the international market index (FTSE/ATHEX of 436.6 MW, located next to the MOTOR OIL facilities at International). Additionally, it is included in the MSCI Ag. Theodoroi, Corinth. GREECE index and the FTSE4Good Index Series. • The Group is active in the aviation fuel services sector • The refining of crude oil and marketing of oil products through OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. in which are the main activities of the MOTOR OIL Group, whose MOTOR OIL and subsidiary AVIN OIL hold an equal stake refinery is one of the most technologically sophisticated, of 46.03% each. OFC is the company which constructed complex and flexible (in terms of production processes) and operates the existing, automated system for refineries to be found anywhere in Europe or elsewhere. supplying aviation fuel to the Eleftherios Venizelos Airport, Athens, as well as the fuel storage facilities at • In the area of trade, the Group has achieved significant the same airport. development of its activities and an expansion of its domestic market share. This is due to the liquid fuel retail • MOTOR OIL also maintains a presence in the sector networks of its subsidiaries AVIN OIL and Coral (formerly of prospection, exploration and exploitation of oil SHELL HELLAS S.A.). Together, these networks consist (upstream), through its 65% stake in MOTOR OIL VEGAS of a total of approximately 1,400 service stations selling UPSTREAM Ltd, based in Cyprus. liquid fuels, accounting for about 36% of the domestic • Finally, the Group has a stake in companies providing market. In 2017, Coral entered Cyprus’ retail market support for its operations, such as MOTOR OIL Finance following the acquisition of Lukoil Cyprus Limited, which plc, a financial services supplier, IREON INVESTMENTS was renamed Coral Energy Products Cyprus Limited. Ltd, a holding company, Corinthian Oil Limited, which is The agreement includes the use of the Shell brand on involved in the marketing of crude oil and oil products, the Cypriot market. Similarly, Coral launched operations and Building Facility Services, which supplies facility on the Serbian market and by the end of 2018 was management and operation services. operating 3 service stations under the Shell brand in that country. The following table sets out the major subsidiary and affiliated companies comprising the MOTOR OIL Group, • In the lubricants sector, the Group is represented by as well as the stakes held in them (directly or indirectly) its subsidiary, LPC S.A. LPC is active in the industrial by the parent company. More detailed information on the production of basic lubricants, the production, and trade companies can be found in the Annual Financial Report of packaged lubricants and the sale of paraffin. The 2018. company exports its products to more than 45 countries and is the agent for internationally known VALVOLINE lubricants in Greece. • The Group enjoys a presence in the liquefied gas sector through Coral Gas S.A. The company stores, packages and markets bottled and bulk liquefied gas and liquefied gas for vehicles (autogas), and has a market share of around 27%. In 2017, the company established a subsidiary in Cyprus intending to expand its activities abroad. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility Νame Activity Percentage Share Direct Indirect AVIN OIL S.Α. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% CORAL GAS S.A. Marketing of liquefied petroleum gas 100% LPC S.A. LUBRICANTS & PETROLEUM Processing and marketing of lubricants 100% PRODUCTS and petroleum products NRG TRADING HOUSE S.A. Power and natural gas sales 90% OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.Α. Aviation Fuel Supply Systems 46.03% 46.03% IREON INVESTMENTS LIMITED Holding Company 100% MOTOR OIL FINANCE plc Financial services 100% CORINTHIAN OIL LIMITED Marketing of crude oil and oil products 100% BUILDING FACILITY SERVICES Provision of facility management and operation services 100% MOTOR OIL VEGAS UPSTREAM LIMITED Prospection, exploration and exploitation of oil 65% MOTOR OIL MIDDLE EAST DMCC Marketing of crude oil and oil products 100% SHELL & MOH S.A. AVIATION FUELS Marketing of aviation fuels 49% KORINTHOS POWER S.A. Production and marketing of electrical energy 35% ATHENS AIRPORT FUEL PIPELINE COMPANY S.A. Supply of aviation fuel via pipeline to E. Venizelos Airport 16% This Report includes results only for parent company MOTOR OIL and for subsidiaries AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC, NRG and OFC. 2. The Refinery The Refinery is located in Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth, about 70 km from the centre of Athens. The Refinery with its ancillary plants and fuel distribution facilities forms the largest privately owned industrial complex in Greece, and is considered one of the most modern refineries in Europe. The complexity of Motor Oil’s refinery stands at 11.54 according to Nelson’s Complexity Index. It has the capacity to process various types of crude oil and manufactures a wide range of oil products. It supplies commercial oil companies in Greece, but the bulk of its production is sold abroad. Moreover, it is the only refinery that produces base oils in Greece. Refinery products meet the European Union specifications, as well as the most stringent international standards. The technical sophistication of the refinery allows MOTOR OIL to manufacture products with high added value, adjusting the final product mix to market needs, ensuring better distribution prices and achieving better refining margins than other composite refineries in the Mediterranean. Characteristics of the refinery standards found in very few European refineries. Also, MOTOR OIL applies the EI/JIG1530 standard in relation • Processing capacity: 185,000 barrels of crude oil per to the production, storage and distribution of Jet Fuel. stream day (BSD). In the context of reducing greenhouse gas emissions • The refinery produces all types of fuel and is one and the sustainability criteria laid down by the EU, our of the most advanced and complex in Europe, with company applies a control system for biofuels and Hydrocracker and Catalytic Cracking units and an 11.54 the blending of fossil fuels with biofuels, having been rating on the Nelson Complexity Index. certified with the 2BSvs Certificate since October 2016. This certification meets the requirements of the biofuel • It produces refined fuels (gasoline and automotive mass balance and expires in 2021. The refinery has diesel) in accordance with the EU specifications. earned two new certificates, the ISO 50001:2011 for • It has ISO 9001:2015 certification for Quality, ISO energy management, and the ISO 18788:2015 for its 14001:2015 and ΕΜΑS III ER 1221/2009 certification for security system. the Environment, OHSAS 18001:2007 certification for • It is the only refinery in Greece with a unit producing Health and Safety, ISO 17025:2005 certification for base oils and finished lubricants, approved by such its Chemical Labs and CE Marking certification for international agencies as the American Petroleum its asphalt products, in accordance with Regulation Institute (API), the European Automobile Manufacturers (EU) No 305/2011 and the requirements of European Association (ACEA) and the United States Army and standard ΕΝ 12591:2009. This is a combination of Navy. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 11 • It possesses a power and steam cogeneration unit, • It has modern port facilities for tanker docking, suitable which now has a capacity of 85 MW following the for tankers of up to 450,000 tons DWT, which can serve recent addition of a fifth gas turbine. more than 3,000 vessels annually. •It uses natural gas as a fuel and as a raw material for • It has a modern truck loading terminal, which can serve the production of hydrogen. 220 tanker trucks per day and significantly strengthens • It has a storage capacity of 2,600,000 m3 (Crude the competitive position of MOTOR OIL in the southern Greek market. Oil: 1,000,000 m3, Intermediate & Finished Products: 1,600,000 m3). The refinery’s requirements in terms of electricity are The refinery is connected to the national natural met by the five gas turbines of the Power Cogeneration gas network, allowing it to use natural gas as a raw Plant, which make it energy self-sufficient. Steam is material for the production of hydrogen and as a fuel provided by the four steam-producing boilers, as well as for its thermal and energy needs. This grants it valuable the steam generated by certain units within the refinery. flexibility in selecting the optimal mix of raw materials and The seawater desalination units provide sufficient water fuels, while further improving the refinery’s environmental of suitable quality to feed the boilers and fully meet the performance. needs of the refinery. 3. Results 2018 The year 2018 was marked by lower refining margins • It is highly important that MOTOR OIL product sales globally. Thanks to the refinery’s high complexity index, have been rising steadily in recent years, reaching 14.44 our Group was able to make continual adjustments million tons* in 2018 – a new historic record. Its products to the crude supply mix in order to respond to these are delivered to the three markets in which it operates circumstances in the best way possible. (domestic market, exports, and the shipping/aviation sector) through a powerful sales network and with the The company strategy focused on attaining a high degree help of long-standing relationships with customers. of employment at the refinery and on the distribution The quantities supplied to each of these markets of its products in the best possible way. This resulted in are determined by the relevant demand, but also by refining margins which were within the sector’s upper the company’s aim of supplying its products to the range and higher than the benchmark for the sector. As markets that offer the highest margins. The sales figures part of this achievement, MOTOR OIL set a new record for show the company’s steady export orientation, based sales, increased both its domestic sales and its exports on which foreign sales, including shipping/aviation and reduced its net bank loans to a historically low level. sales, to more than 45 countries (the main destinations Also within the year, the company expanded its portfolio being Saudi Arabia, the USA, the UK, Turkey, and EU of entrepreneurial activities through targeted acquisitions. countries) accounted for 82.4% of all sales, compared to 82.1% in 2017. MOTOR OIL Sales per Market (thousand MT) MOTOR OIL Sales per Product (thousand MT) 14,354 13,830 14,354 13,830 12,672 12,852 13,042 12,852 13,042 Shipping -Aviation Others 12,672 Lubricants External Market PPC Liquefied Petroleum Gas Domestic Market Gasoline Aviation Fuel Automotive Diesel – Heating Oil Fuel Oil Asphalt 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility Exports are also beneficial to the company on an Consolidated Financial Results (million euros) operational level, allowing it to finance the purchase of crude oil at the current price levels and ensure a Turnover continuous supply of raw material to the refinery. EBITDA • The Group’s turnover went up significantly in 2018, Net profit after tax amounting to 9.49 billion euros (a 21% increase from 621 604 2017). Contributing to this development was the rise in 9,491 the average price of petroleum products (in USD) by 9,050 492 about 27.8%, as well as a 3.6% increase in sales volume, 7,843 though part of the increase was offset by a weakening in 7,060 495 the dollar/euro rate of 4.5%. 6,357 298 314 • The Group’s EBITDA amounted to 495.1 million euros 255 in 2018 compared to 620.5 million euros in 2017, down 205 by 20.2%. Similarly, the Group’s net results after tax for 2018 reached 255 million euros compared to 314 million 52 in 2017, down by 18.8%. The above was the result of the reduced refining margins throughout the year, while the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 contribution of the commercial subsidiaries was positive. • MOTOR OIL’s total domestic market share came to -83 31% from 27.3%. This particular increase is due to the increased share in all sectors, with the most significant improvement noted in sales of aviation fuel. MOTOR OIL’s Domestic Market Share 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * 14,354 thousand ΜΤ sales and 87 thousand ΜΤ from the sale of crude oil to a third party. Fuels 38.0% 35.2% 33.5% 28.3% 30.2% Shipping–Aviation 28.7% 26.2% 25.8% 24.9% 32.2% Lubricants 40.4% 40.4% 52.0% 40.6% 45.7% Total Domestic 35.3% 32.7% 31.4% 27.3% 31.0% Market 4. Corporate Governance The management and control of MOTOR OIL are The company has its own Code of Corporate Governance based on contemporary principles of good corporate (CCG), which was prepared and approved by the Board governance, as prescribed by legislation and the relevant of Directors. The CCG sets out the framework governing regulations, and by other international practices and the company’s key operating areas, and includes the best auditing standards. practices in corporate governance it has adopted. Corporate governance determines the company’s daily The Code is revised as appropriate (amendment of operations with regard to issues such as: articles of association, changes in the organisational chart, or in the institutional and regulatory framework, • the appropriate structure of its Board of Directors, etc.) and is always available in its current form on the • respect for, equal treatment and protection of the company website. interests and the rights of all shareholders, customers, The company’s most senior decision-making body is and suppliers, the Board of Directors, which is elected by the Annual • compliance with legal and regulatory provisions, General Meeting of Shareholders and which represents a • transparency in decision-making, broad range of knowledge, experience and qualifications, tailored to match the objectives of the company while •the reliability and adequacy of all disseminated ensuring, as far as possible, a numerical balance between information, regarding the Group’s strategy and executive and non-executive directors. financial results, or its financial transactions, •the management of personnel and remuneration matters, and •the identification, reporting, and control of all inherent risks. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 13 Composition of Board of Directors Name Board Position Member Identity* VARDIS J. VARDINOYANNIS Chairman and Managing Director Executive IOANNIS V. VARDINOYANNIS Vice Chairman Executive IOANNIS KOSMADAKIS Deputy Managing Director Executive PETROS TZANNETAKIS Deputy Managing Director Executive GEORGE ALEXANDRIDIS Member Non-executive THEOFANIS VOUTSARAS Member Executive MICHAEL STEIAKAKIS Member Executive NIKI STOUFI Member Non-executive ANASTASIOS TRIANTAFYLLIDIS Member Non-executive/ Independent ANTONIOS THEOHARIS Member Non-executive/ Independent PANAGIOTIS KONSTANTARAS Member Non-executive/ Independent * In accordance with Law 3016/2002 Three committees operate within the framework managing financial and operational matters, as well as of the Board of Directors: Remuneration, Audit, and ensuring that issues related to the efficient management Organisation & Corporate Governance. of business risks are given proper attention. Lastly, the company’s financial statements are also audited by The Remuneration Committee comprises four members independent chartered auditors, in compliance with its of the Board of Directors and a company executive. statutory obligations. The chairman of the committee is P. Tzannetakis and the other members are I. Kosmadakis, T. Voutsaras, M. The Organisation & Corporate Governance Committee Steiakakis, and I. Kioufis (Industrial Production Deputy was formed in June 2017 and is charged with overseeing General Manager). The Remuneration Committee has matters related to the company’s organisation which been in existence since 1996 and serves in an advisory include changes in the organisational structure, as well as capacity to the Board of Directors. It deals with staffing issues of complying with the mandates of the regulatory issues and recommends policies on salaries, benefits and and institutional framework of corporate governance. incentives for management and staff, also overseeing The chairman of the committee is I. Kosmadakis, and the implementation of the said policies. other members are P. Tzannetakis, T. Voutsaras and the non-executive member of the Board of Directors N. Stoufi. The members of the Audit Committee are named by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of Law 4449/2017. The chairman of Control and Risk Management Systems the committee is the non-executive member of the Board of Directors, P. Konstantaras and its ordinary members In respect of the operation of the company’s Internal are G. Alexandridis (non-executive member of the Board Control and Risk Management ICRM Systems, of Directors) and K. Thanopoulos (independent member in relation to the procedure for compiling financial of the Committee according to Law 4449/2017). Alternate statements, we should state that the MOTOR OIL financial member of the Committee is N. Stoufi (non-executive reports system uses a sophisticated software package member of the Board of Directors). The committee to produce reports to the administration and to external members are all well-versed in the sector in which the users. company does business. The Audit Committee has also Financial statements and other analyses are submitted been in existence since 1996, and is of considerable to the administration on a monthly basis, and compiled assistance to the Board of Directors in performing its in simple and consolidated form, in accordance with duties, acting as the recipient of all reports on audits the International Financial Reporting Standards, for carried out by the company’s Internal Audit Department. submission to the administration and for general The statutory auditor or audit firm reports to the publication, on a quarterly basis. Both reports submitted committee on all matters relating to the progress and to the administration and financial information released results of the regular mandatory audit, submitting a to the public contain all the necessary information special report on any weaknesses in the internal audit expected from an updated internal audit system, system. featuring analyses of sales, costs, and spending, Since 1990, the company has had its own Internal Audit operating profits and other details. Department, which reports directly to the Board of All reports to the administration contain details for the Directors and is overseen by the Audit Committee. The current period, for purposes of comparison with the company’s independent internal audit system aims at corresponding figures in the budget, as approved by ensuring compliance with the company’s procedures for the Board of Directors, and with the figures for the same 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility period in the previous year. All published interim and manifested in our adoption of the United Nations Global annual financial statements are compiled in accordance Compact, which explicitly refers to actively combating with the International Financial Reporting Standards, corruption (Principle 10 Businesses should work against contain all necessary information and opinions on all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery) the financial statements, are reviewed by the Audit and in the fact that we have undertaken all necessary Committee and approved in their entirety by the Board of actions to prevent any such incidents. Just as in 2017, Directors. there were no confirmed incidents of corruption in 2018 involving our employees or our associates, nor were we fined or penalised for failure to comply with related laws Policy on Corruption and regulations. Moreover, in 2017 we proceeded to draw up the MOTOR OIL Group’s General Operating Principles, Combating corruption and preventing related incidents which include those principles governing all of our is a priority for us and for our stakeholders. Corruption activities and our transactions with internal and external is directly related to environmental degradation, the stakeholders. Our principles have been posted on the infringement of human and labour rights, and the company website www.moh.gr and have been notified to violation of laws. Our commitment to fight corruption is all of our employees and associates. 5. Participation in International National Agencies and Networks MOTOR OIL and the Group’s other companies support It also takes part in a number of innovative research and maintain lasting relationships with international and programmes: national bodies, and are members of: •It works with the National and Kapodistrian University • The Global Compact Network Hellas. of Athens and the Department of Geology and Geoenvironment to determine chemical conditions • The Hellenic Network for Corporate Social prevailing in the refinery’s coastal zone. Responsibility. •Cooperates with 9 European universities, research • The Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV). institutes and companies in the implementation of the • The Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the DIRPIMCOAL project which aims at the environmental Hellenic-American and Arab-Hellenic Chambers, as well optimisation of the liquefaction of coal from industrial as other regional Chambers. and urban waste for the production of biofuels. • The Hellenic Association of Independent Power •Cooperates with 14 European universities, research Producers. institutes and private companies in the implementation • The Union of Listed Companies, etc. of the CARMOF pilot project focused on capturing CO2 at the refinery using innovative hybrid porous adsorbent MOTOR OIL also participates in the following materials. organisations: •Works with the Metallurgy Lab of the National Technical • CONCAWE (CONservation of Clean Air and Water University of Athens, POWER MEDIA PRODUCTIONS and in Europe), providing technical support to European the Municipality of Rafina-Pikermi to implement the refineries on Health, Safety and Environmental European LIFE DIANA environmental project. LIFE DIANA Protection issues. involves constructing a pilot facility at the MOTOR OIL • Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF), an refinery to exploit petroleum sludge in making newly association of petroleum companies with an interest in added value materials. promoting the safe and environmentally friendly marine •Collaborates with the Institute of Geodynamics, the transportation of crude oil and petroleum products. NKUA Department of Geophysics-Geothermics, the • Mediterranean Oil Industry Group (MOIG), the forum Geophysics and Seismology Lab at the Technical of oil companies on issues of prevention and timely Educational Institute of Crete, and Satways Ltd in response to sea pollution. implementing the ARIS national research project to Moreover, we support the academic community in develop an integrated early warning and seismic risk research exploring refining industry issues relating to management system in the refinery area. health, safety, and environmental protection. •Cooperates with the NKUA Department of Biology and the NTUA Biotechnology and Chemical Process Engineering labs to implement the DeepDesOil national research project developing a combined chemicalbiological process for hyper-desulphurisation of petroleum products. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 15 •Works with the Laboratory of Environmental Fuels •LPC works with the Foundation for Research and and Hydrocarbons at the Centre for Research and Technology and the Technical University of Crete on the Technology and the ELPE refineries as part of the APOFASI national research project to develop a portable PROOFF national research project developing innovative optical spectrometry system to detect contamination in catalytic processes for the exploitation of low value oil liquid fuels. fractions towards the production of upgrading fuels and petrochemical raw materials. •Avin Oil works with the NTUA Vehicles Laboratory, the Centre for Technological Research of Central Greece and Real Consulting on the MOTIF national research project to develop and use smart applications and innovative systems to optimise road transport safety in the liquid fuel sector. 6. Awards and Recognition The Group’s companies have received significant recognition for their work and activities from the international and Greek business communities. Such recognition highlights the excellent quality of the Group’s products and services, as well as the positive response from the public. CHRIMA Business Awards 2nd prize in the “Best Company” category for MOTOR OIL. For the 8th consecutive year, MOTOR OIL was named the leading company on the basis ICAP True Leaders of specific criteria (profitability, increase in personnel, leadership position in the sector and credit rating). OFC was awarded for the eleventh consecutive year with the JIG “Certificate Joint Inspection Group of Excellence”. This is a global first, which none of the 250 companies inspected by JIG has achieved ever before. JIG Global Recognition OFC earned the Sustainable Performance Award for the excellent results it has shown Award during the period 2016-2018. MOTOR OIL received a Gold award for its facility processing contaminated soil Environmental Awards at the refinery. 2018 Coral Gas received a Silver award for its recycling and reuse actions in relation to gas cartridges. Business awards MOTOR OIL earned 1st prize for its energy management actions in accordance for the Environment with the ISO 50001 standard. Health & Safety MOTOR OIL received a Gold award for its actions to strengthen the safety culture Awards 2018 and increase personnel awareness of safety issues. e-volution awards Coral received 2 Silver and 2 Bronze awards for its new e-shop, www.allsmart.gr. Loyalty Awards 2018 Avin Oil received a Silver award for its new loyalty programme, AVIN “Kerdizo”. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility 7. Managing Corporate Responsibility The MOTOR OIL Group is engaged in the energy sector, mainly in the oil sector, which is an area requiring special respect for and compliance with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainable growth. This is because crude oil, from extraction and transportation to refining and use of refined products, has environmental effects that must be effectively managed, utilising available technology. In implementing the principles of corporate responsibility, we seek: • to achieve a balanced approach to the economic, social, and environmental impact of the Group’s operations, • to create value for our shareholders, while also serving the interests of other stakeholders, • to show concern for our employees and for society at large. We fully acknowledge the importance of these issues and demonstrate our corporate responsibility by our commitment to pursuing our business activities with due respect for people, the environment and society. Improvement Improvement of Conditions of Performance EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT • Health and Safety • B  est Available Techniques • Equal Opportunities • E  nergy Savings • Competitive Remuneration • R  eductions of Emissions System • Training & Development Corporate Responsibility Management Promotion of Responsible Model Improvement and Ethical Practices of Quality of Life MARKET SOCIETY • Corporate Governance • C  ontribution to Culture, • Quality & Reliability Sports and the • Service Environment • Monitoring & Evaluation • S  upport of socially • Risk Management vulnerable groups • R  esponsible Growth • R  esponsible Employment MOTOR OIL HELLAS 17 MOTOR OIL, With Responsibility towards its Employees, adopts the four-fold approach of attracting, identifying, developing and retaining its human resources by investing in their training, securing a work setting where teamwork, respect, and initiative are key and where Health and Safety are of top-most priority and ensured by the most advanced infrastructure and administrative practices. With Responsibility towards the Environment, strives to ensure that its activities have the minimum impact on the environment, by having in place an effective Environmental Management System and implementing Best Available Techniques, and the most advanced systems for environmental protection, energy management and energy saving. With Responsibility towards Society, pursues constructive social dialogue with the local communities in which it operates, in a climate of trust and respect. It supports these communities by participating in programmes that enhance their economic, social and cultural life, and becomes involved in similar activities that benefit society as a whole. With Responsibility towards the Market, respects market rules and produces top quality products; it focuses on relations of trust with its customers, suppliers, and partners, and strives to ensure the best possible return for its shareholders without compromising its principles of corporate responsibility and sustainable development. Responsible Management of the Supply Chain For us, the proper management of the supply chain is For example, in 2018 we continued the programme an essential component of our corporate responsibility. whereby refinery contractors (570 individuals) We recognise that a sustainable supply chain not only underwent training with exams and certification over minimises social and environmental risks but can also a total of 4,560 hours. Detailed evaluation and training serve as a leading example of values and success for the programs are also implemented in the tanker truck industry and the community. We thus carry out detailed companies which meet our transport needs. We are evaluation of our potential suppliers, on the basis not aware that every day dozens of tanker trucks are only of their economic viability but also of qualitative and travelling the roads on our behalf, and are committed to environmental criteria. Would-be suppliers are asked minimising the risks inherent in road transport. to complete questionnaires detailing their ability to For this reason, we have developed very detailed safeguard the quality of the products and services they programmes in which transportation companies are aim to provide, as well the environmental impact of their assessed and given rigorous improvement targets; if activities and the health and safety systems they employ. they fail to meet them, their contracts are not renewed. In respect of the contractors working at the refinery As a result of this ground-breaking programme, by the and our other installations, we follow a comprehensive end of 2018 our tanker trucks had travelled a total of programme of safety training, the objective always being 27,800,000 km without a single accident. to achieve GOAL ZERO, i.e. zero accidents. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility 8. Responsible Growth and Investments Responsible growth and creation of value for the benefit of all stakeholders is at the core of MOTOR OIL Group’s business model. We, therefore, adopt an investment program allowing the attainment of a good operating performance in all sectors, with substantial financial results as the final outcome. Responsible Growth of Group Value OBJECTIVE VALUE CREATION STRATEGY Maximizing Maximizing / Optimizing Safety Financial Optimizing Sales and Environmental Performance Protection Targeted Effective Effective Dedicated Transparency / METHODS Investments Cost Marketing Staff Corporate Management Governance BASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our vision is the consolidation of MOTOR OIL’s position as Total investment expenditures by the Group in the period a leading refining and oil products marketing company 2000-2018 amounted to 1,827 million euros, not including in the broader region in which we operate. In order to capital used for acquisitions. succeed in this objective, we focus on the following three The outlay for investments in 2018 amounted to 150.5 key targets: million euros and, as far as the refinery is concerned, • Maximisation of financial returns and the refinery’s profit involved upgrades to its units, construction of new tanks, margins. port expansion, and others. Over the last fifteen years, we have completed a series of substantial investments • Maximisation and optimisation of sales, by effectively for MOTOR OIL concerning both organic growth and marketing the refinery products and exploiting acquisitions. The company has now entered a period opportunities in our three available markets (domestic, of maturing investments and optimisation of their aviation/shipping, and exports), for achieving the best exploitation. The most recent major investment was possible profitability. the construction of a new Crude Distillation Unit, which • Striving for the highest standards of Health and Safety, was completed in 2010 and cost 200 million euros, Environmental Protection and Quality, through the including the peripheral units. This unit has substantially application of technical and operational adaptations. strengthened the company’s competitive position and improved its profitability, having been in operation already for more than nine years. Moreover, a large 1,827 million euros investment in the last decade has been the installation of the hydrocracker complex, which made possible the generation of clean fuels to meet European Union Total investments for the period specifications. 2000-2018 The rest of our investment programme has been designed to upgrade the technological capacity and efficiency of the refinery, and to introduce vertical integration, automation, energy autonomy, and environmental protection. The result has been that the refinery is now regarded as one of the most efficient and sophisticated installations of its kind anywhere in the world. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 19 9. Responsibility for the Environment, Health and Safety Ensuring health and safety and environmental protection in a comprehensive management system that includes constitutes a fundamental strategic aim. Thus, we strive the Environmental and Energy Management System, and to conduct our operations without compromising the the Health and Safety Management System (certified to health and safety of our employees and associates, while OHSAS 18001:2007 standard since 2008), which translate maintaining the highest standards of environmental this policy into programmes and quantifiable targets. In protection and respecting the quality of life of those living 2017, the company’s Environmental Management System in the vicinity of our industrial facilities. was recertified to ISO 14001, in line with the revised standard of 2015. Additionally, the Energy Management The emphasis on management of Health, Safety and System was certified to ISO 50001:2011. Environmental Protection, as well as our commitment to continual improvement of specific sectors, is reflected Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy MOTOR OIL operates with due respect for Health, Safety • Applying a coherent Integrated Management System and the Environment. To achieve this, the company is that takes Health, Safety and Environmental Protection committed to: factors into consideration when business decisions and plan are being prepared, and in the operation of its • Setting aims compatible with the continuous facilities. improvement of its Health, Safety and Environmental management systems. • Offering information and training to its own employees and to subcontractors and others working on its • Complying with, or exceeding, the requirements of behalf, so as to ensure their commitment to and raised relevant legislation or other obligations. awareness of safe working practices. • Producing guaranteed quality products in accordance • Actively and uncompromisingly complying with with, or exceeding, Health and Environmental Protection environmental operating standards that set limits on specifications applicable to each, efficiently making use waste and polluting emissions. of raw materials, energy and technology. • Cooperating with all stakeholders in developing and • Reporting its performance, good or bad, as a applying balanced Health, Safety and Environmental responsible corporate citizen. Protection programmes that take into account the • Maintaining emergency action plans and systems which needs of all parties involved. are regularly rehearsed with the appropriate drills. 10. Responsible Quality Management Our commitment to quality is a fundamental element of For MOTOR OIL, the Integrated Management System our strategy. MOTOR OIL’s quality policy is summed up used to implement our Quality policy is oriented to in two key principles, to which both management and customers and their needs and systematically includes employees are fully committed: all quality-related operational and organisational processes. The System was re-certified in 2017 by BUREAU • We produce and sell products that satisfy our VERITAS, in accordance with the newly revised standard customers, always taking into consideration all ISO 9001:2015, valid until 2020, while the first relevant stakeholders’ interests. certification dates back to 1993. • As we focus on our customers, we explore and evaluate The incorporation of the also newly revised ISO 14001:2015 their requirements and apply all necessary technologies Environmental Management System and the recertified and actions, aiming at avoiding compromises in quality OHSAS 18001:2007 Health and Safety Management matters and at constantly improving the effectiveness of System into the Integrated Management System confers our Quality Management System. the necessary internal coherence and links these management systems with other related processes which 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility affect them, thus maximising their effectiveness. Since The refinery has also been awarded CE Marking in 2016, our company has also been certified with the 2BSvs accordance with standard ΕΝ 12591:2009 for asphalt certificate applying to the control of biofuels and blending products, the certification remaining valid until 2020. of fossil fuels with biofuels, and, also since 2016, has met The refinery earned two new certificates in 2017 the EI/JIG1530 standard requirements in relation to the ISO 50001:2011 for its energy management, and ISO management, storage, and distribution of Jet Fuel. 18788:2015 for its security system. The Quality Control process meets the requirements All Management Systems are subject to bi-annual or of the ISO 17025:2005 standard, and the Hellenic annual audits, by the certification bodies, in order to Accreditation System (HAC) has certified the refinery’s confirm their consistent implementation, in line with the Chemical Laboratory as capable of conducting tests requirements of each one, and they are re-certified every in accordance with requirements of the standard, and three, four or five years, depending on the System. issuing Quality Certificates endorsed by HAC for virtually all the company’s products. This certification offers us an additional competitive advantage, ensuring that the quality of our products is guaranteed. Integrated Management System Quality Management HUMAN RESOURCES ISO 9001:2015 PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT Quality Control ISO 17025:2005 MARKETING PRODUCTION Marketing Sales Stock Operating System Management Environmental Management ISO 14001:2015 ISO 50001:2011 EMAS III ER 1221:2009 Delivery of Health and Safety Management Customer Service Products OHSAS 18001:2007 Security Management ISO 18788:2015 Maintenance The appropriate development of these management systems is realised by achieving certification for their updated versions. In addition, customers, if they so wish, and insurance organisations carry out audits. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 21 Certified Management Systems of the Group’s • Coral Gas operates an Environmental Management Subsidiary Companies System, with ISO 14001:2015 certification, and a Health and Safety Management System with OHSAS 18001:2007 • AVIN OIL has in place a Quality Management certification, for all its facilities and ISO 9001:2015 System certified to ISO 9001:2015, an Environmental certification for its Quality Management System. It has Management System certified to ISO 14001:2015 and also been certified by Bureau Veritas with regard to a Health and Safety Management System certified to the quality and quantity of autogas (LPG for vehicles) it 18001:2007 for its Fuel and Lubricant Storage, Trade and delivers through its service stations, in accordance with Distribution sectors. It has also been certified by Bureau the new ISO 9001:2015 quality standards. Veritas with regard to the quality and quantity of fuel • OFC has a Quality Management System, certified to it delivers through its service stations, in accordance standard ISO 9001:2015, an Environmental Management with the new ISO 9001:2015 quality standards. AVIN OIL System certified under ISO 14001:2015 and a Health and subsidiary MAKRAION is certified to the ISO 14001:2015 Safety Management System certified under OHSAS and OHSAS 18001:2007 standards for its management 18001:2007/ELOT 1801:2008. These certifications relate and operation of 10 stations located along major to the main activity of the company which is the delivery, motorways (SEA Service Stations). storage, and distribution of aviation fuel, as well as the • Coral has been certified across all its activities since provision of technical consultancy services and training 2012. Specifically, ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and in aspects of the refuelling of aircraft. In December 2018, OHSAS 18001:2007 certifications were secured for a Fire Safety recertification was granted for the next five Coral’s procedures for taking delivery, storage, mixing, years. loading, transportation and delivery to customers of • LPC has a Quality Management System in place, certified various fuels products, lubricants and chemicals. In 2018, to the ISO 9001:2015 standard for the design, production, Coral subsidiary ERMIS S.A. was certified for the first sale, and distribution of base lubricants, antifreeze, time for the operation of retail stations and trading fuels greases, and chemical products. It has been verified and chemicals in accordance with the ISO 9001:2015, in accordance with the EMAS Regulation (EL 00051) ISO 14001:2015, OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 27001:2013 and certified to ISO 14001:2015 for the waste lubricant standards for the quality of Services, Environment, oil regeneration process and lubricant oil production Occupational Health and Safety and Information Security and packaging. It is in the process of receiving energy (the certification applies to 225 own-operated service management certification to the ISO 50001 standard stations). (the 1st phase has been completed). 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility 11. Product Safety All MOTOR OIL Group companies believe that providing In the area of LPG, Coral Gas aspires to be the leading safe products and high-quality services is of topmost company in Greece and is continuing efforts to offer priority. In this area, lengthy experience and a high level innovative products to its customers. It has introduced of know-how, together with consistent quality, guarantee significant innovations, and it now distributes all its that customers always receive the product they need with packaged products to the market with special safety the appropriate quality and safety specifications. valves (the traditional liquefied gas bottles with FLV, GoGas with triple security and the new container with The Refinery an ILL Flow Limiter Valve) significantly raising the level of safety and protecting the consumer by applying the latest The MOTOR OIL refinery adheres to a standing solutions for all domestic and professional liquefied gas commitment to deliver to its customers’ products applications. that are safe to use and comply with the appropriate specifications established by Greek and international legislation. Guardian of the procedure is our state-ofLeading the way in autogas only from Coral Gas the-art laboratory which is equipped with the latest In 2018, Coral Gas introduced a special innovation technology. The lab supports all of the refinery’s in autogas. It introduced a molecular tracer to its procedures, as well as those of the port and tanker autogas, as part of an integrated quality and quantity loading terminals. It conducts lab tests on both incoming assurance system. products (crude oil, chemicals, additives) and during the refining process, and naturally on final products before The molecular tracer is an addition to the work they are shipped off to customers. To that end, it carries performed by Coral Gas mobile units, certified to out more than 25,000 lab tests a month, with the ultimate quality standard ISO 9001, which conduct spot checks goal of ensuring the safe distribution of products until at service stations to ensure the quality and quantity of they reach end consumers and the products’ excellent autogas. quality, thus minimising any potential risks to humans and The tracer promises that Coral Gas can safeguard the environment. the quality and quantity of autogas purchased by consumers at every fill-up. Our Commercial Companies Our commercial companies have developed innovative products and integrated quality and quantity controls for their fuels which are implemented at all stages of transport from the refinery or facility to the service stations. With the support of our specialised laboratories and purpose-designed quality control mobile units (vans) which carry out spot checks at our service stations, we actively safeguard the quality and quantity of our products. In 2018, monitoring of Shell, Avin and Cyclon service stations was conducted with state-of-the-art vans, which carried out intensive quantity and quality testing throughout Greece. Such testing mostly takes the form of spot checks at all of the companies’ service stations. In 2018, there were 2,100 inspections at our service stations all over Greece. Specifically, Avin’s of Quality & Quantity Control Department has been certified to the new ISO 9001:2015 quality standard by the independent, internationally recognised certification body, Bureau Veritas. Additionally, the integrated quality and quantity control system and the groundbreaking “Shell DNA” molecular marker technology used in all differentiated Shell fuels mean that customers can feel absolute confidence both in terms of the service they receive and the quantity and quality of Shell fuels. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 23 12. Communication with Stakeholders The long-standing communication and cooperation we have developed with stakeholders indicates the importance we attach to this issue, and our desire to openly discuss that any arising issues can be handled in mutually acceptable ways. Direct stakeholders and, in summary, their interaction with the Group companies, as well as the communication approach applied to each of them, are shown in the following table: Social Key Issues Reference in Identity Dialogue Partner of Interaction the Report Ongoing, two-way communication between employees and management through corporate Employees offer their labour, announcements, briefings, knowledge and experience intranet, working groups and 2,115 direct employees, in return for a safe working various events. The refinery with 50% of them environment, competitive and employees are represented Employees Chapter 2 working in the refinery fair salaries and additional by their Trade Union and the (see Chapter 2). benefits as well as opportunities Health and Safety Committee. for professional advancement Official dialogue is regularly and personal development. conducted; employees are also encouraged to submit their individual proposals for improvements in working conditions. Long-standing and close relationships with our customers, based on the quality of our products, The refinery is in continuous The refinery, due to the the service we offer, our communication with its nature of its activity, experience, and our reliability. customers in order to satisfy has relatively few We maintain ongoing their requirements and provide customers. The Group’s communication with refinery high quality products, and is commercial companies customers, and once a year duly rewarded with the income it Customers have an extensive conduct a satisfaction survey. Chapters 1, 5 receives. The Group’s commercial network of customers, In the commercial companies, companies place customer from industrial facilities the customer service service at the very heart of their and commercial departments and staff of our strategy, offering them products companies to final service stations are the public and services of the highest consumers. face of the company. We quality. organize mystery shopping programmes for all our service stations and market surveys. Continuous communication and interaction with local Our industrial activities communities through local impact the local councils and other agencies We closely collaborate with the communities in the such as private associations local and regional communities, vicinity of the refinery and organizations (see whose key concern is the Local (Ag. Theodoroi, Corinth) Chapter 5). creation of jobs and the return Chapter 5 Communities and the facilities of our of the so-called social product commercial companies Our sustained commitment through the company’s social (Perama, Kalochoriand ongoing communication contribution. Thessaloniki, Kavala, allow us to listen to the Hania, Alexandroupoli). local community’s needs and respond promptly and meaningfully. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility Social Key Issues Reference in Identity Dialogue Partner of Interaction the Report We have long-standing and close relationships with We are closely collaborating with our partners and suppliers. our partners and suppliers for There is a structured the provision of products and communication and training Suppliers of products services based on rigid quality programme at the refinery, Partners and providers of and safety criteria. as well as all of our facilities, and contract services at the offering them appropriate Chapters 1, 3 Suppliers refinery, at the other Consequently, they are fairly information on health, facilities and at our rewarded, without problems, for safety and environmental service stations. the provision of products and protection issues, for which services, ultimately resulting compliance requirements in contribution to economic are exceptionally strict development. and closely monitored (see Chapters 1 and 3). The company operates The company’s equity a Shareholder Services is held by private and Department. Regular institutional investors, communication with both Greek and foreign. shareholders is conducted At the end of 2018 Shareholders invest capital in various ways: roadshows the main shareholder in MOTOR OIL, as in any other 7-8 times a year; an Annual was Petroventure Shareholders, company, in the expectation that Analysts’ Briefing once a year; Holdings Ltd, with a Investors there will be long-term financial 4 quarterly teleconferences Chapter 1 stake of 40%. The and Analysts returns, including dividends and with financial analysts; free float percentage an increase in value of their on the company website; was approximately shares. press releases and 54%. The business announcements; the activities of MOTOR Annual Financial Report and OIL are monitored by Social Report, and regular both Greek and foreign attendance at investment financial analysts. conferences. We always operate within We are in close interaction with the confines of the law. the State and create revenues There is an open and honest, Public authorities at a through the payment of taxes two-way communication local and national level, and duties. Public authorities and cooperation with State and and authorities in other Chapters protect the public interest with competent Public Authorities, Public Bodies countries in which we 1, 3, 4, 5 laws and regulations, ensuring ensuring the supply of are active or conduct their enforcement, issuing information required by sales. operating licences and providing each body, as well as support in emergency situations. documented discussion on any issues arising. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 25 13. Identification of Material Issues The decision as to what should be included in our Report, Step 1: Identification and prioritisation of main and the guidelines for our strategy and actions regarding stakeholders who were included in assessing material corporate responsibility, is based on the principle of issues. The process included groups of stakeholders such “Materiality”, which is one of the most important and as employees, representatives of local communities, fundamental guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative customers and sub-contractors/associates. (GRI). Step 2: Identification and prioritisation of key corporate The principle of Materiality states that a company must responsibility topics (financial, environmental, labour report on the topics that significantly impact it and its practices, human rights, social, etc.) using the GRI strategy, as reflected in the organisation’s significant Standards guidelines and additional GRI guidelines for (either positive or negative) economic, environmental and the sector (Oil & Gas Sector Disclosures). Material issues social impacts; and on topics that substantively influence identified in the corporate responsibility reports of other the assessments and decisions of both its internal and companies in the sector were also taken into account. external stakeholders. During the process of identifying The applied criteria related to how significant the impacts material issues, an organisation must actively engage with of the issues were for corporate responsibility, their its stakeholders and review all of the topics and issues importance to the Group’s strategy and the achievement which fall within the boundaries of materiality for inclusion of our goals, as well as their importance to our in the report at the given time. This process also helps us stakeholders. to recognise and assess risks and opportunities related Step 3: A materiality survey was conducted using a to corporate responsibility and our relationships with our qualitative questionnaire to define material issues based shareholders, as well as formulating and informing our on the opinions of stakeholders and management. corporate goals. A qualitative scale was used for each question (Very important, Important, Not very important, Not familiar Process for Assessing Material Issues with the topic). The company responded to the same questionnaire. The answers were used alongside the The process for assessing material issues was updated stakeholder results to identify material issues. in 2017 and includes the assessment of 29 topics related to corporate responsibility. Of these, 18 were Step 4: A materiality matrix (graph) was created to deemed material. Due to the nature of our activities, visualise material issues. The Y-axis represents the our Report places priority on issues of safety and opinions of all stakeholder groups and the X-axis shows environment, financial results, and on matters related the weightier issues as assessed by the MOTOR OIL Group. to social contribution which are very important for our As a result, the issues of greatest importance (“influence”) stakeholders. In selecting and prioritising material issues, to stakeholders and/or the company (“impacts”) were we used the GRI Standards guidelines, which are based included in the Sustainability Report for 2018. on two key parameters: “impacts” (assessment of the impact of each issue of our company’s operation) and “influence” (assessment of how each issue influences our stakeholders and their relationship with the Group). The process, which is described below, was based on the principles of relevance, materiality and prioritisation, and included: 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identity & Corporate Responsibility Materiality Matrix Stakeholders Emergency Waste Installation Preparedness Management Security & Response Health & Safety Product Safety Legislative Environmental Materials/Raw Materials Compliance Compliance Employment Environmental Investments Presence in the Local Market Profitability Education & Training Emissions Personal Data Energy Quality of Products Consumption Protection of Biodiversity & Services Combating Corruption Anti-competitive Behaviour Indirect Economic Impacts Non-discrimination Water Local Markets Consumption Freedom Procurement of Association Diversity Practices Labelling & Marketing Supplier Evaluation Financial Issues MOTOR OIL Group Environmental Issues Social-Labour Issues The following topics emerged from the process as most material: Profitability, Presence in the local market, Anti-competitive behaviour, Materials / Raw materials, Energy consumption, Procurement practices, Water consumption, Emissions, Waste management, Environmental compliance, Employment, Health and Safety, Education and training, Product safety, Quality of products and services, Emergency response, Security depots/ installations. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 27 Responsibility Towards our Employees It is our firm belief at the MOTOR OIL Group, that our people are the most important resource for our success Our employees are our most valuable resource, We are committed to providing the best possible essential to the achievement of our strategic goals, to working conditions, securing respect for human rights the implementation of our growth business plans and and for the freedom of association, upholding nonin ensuring our long-term competitiveness. discrimination and providing equal opportunities for learning and personal development. That is why we have established an organised and modern Human Resources Division for the MOTOR OIL During 2018, the MOTOR OIL Group had an average Group aimed at identifying, attracting, developing and workforce of 2,115 employees. We continued to renew retaining qualified employees and executives who can our workforce through 452 new recruitments over be utilised by all the companies. the last five years, offering an extended training programme and continuing the provision to our We aim to provide a safe and fair workplace, which employees of a structured discretionary benefits promotes trust, team spirit and respect for people, package. along with effectiveness. Employees 2,115 Employees at Group level 452 Recruitments over the 2014-2018 period 33,850 Training hours in 2018 1. Human Resources Management System The MOTOR OIL Group has grown significantly over the • Offering pay and benefits exceeding those provided for last few years and has adopted a contemporary, fully by law and by collective labour agreements. integrated Human Resources Management System. The • A programme of targeted education and training, System is designed to allow proper management of the covering subjects relevant to the Group’s strategic Group’s human resources, with ongoing development development goals, and aiming at the effective and safe and advancement of individual employees. This system discharge of duties. is founded on the principles and values of the Group and defined by its vision and strategic objectives. • Fostering corporate culture and corporate values. The purpose of the Human Resources Management System is to identify and attract the most talented Vision executives on the market, develop and retain them within the Group. All of the above are implemented by the Group’s HR Division within the following framework: Principles Strategic and Values Objectives • Compliance with applicable legislation, and universally established principles of human and labour rights. HUMAN • Fairness and meritocracy in employee relations. RESOURCES MANAGEMENT • Attracting competent young people with a professional SYSTEM approach to work, who share our values: reliability, dedication, integrity and personal responsibility. • Providing equal opportunities and possibilities for the Identification professional and personal development of employees. • A competitive and fair remuneration system linked to employee performance and consistent with prevailing Retention Attraction market conditions. Development 2. Equal Opportunities and Human Rights All aspects of human resources management are pursued MOTOR OIL fully respects international principles of with transparency and are based on meritocracy. We human rights, in particular those set out in the United offer a workplace of no exclusions, in which all are treated Nations Declaration of Human Rights, and in the UN Global fairly and are offered equality of opportunity, and where Compact’s ten principles, to which we are signatories. The diversity is valued. Recruitment, transfers, promotions, Group is opposed to any practice which might encourage benefits, education and training, etc., are governed by the the imposition of any form of forced or child labour. In all principles of our equal opportunities policy, the avoidance countries where the Group operates, it complies fully with of any form of discrimination, and respect for employees’ national legislation on child labour; there are no instances dignity. of forced or child labour anywhere in the Group’s activities, nor would they be acceptable. In applying the aforementioned, we have ensured: In particular, as far as MOTOR OIL’s activities that take • That the composition of management reflects the place on Greek territory are concerned, it should be composition of the workforce. noted that these are carried out in compliance with • That education and training programmes are available the current legal framework, which is aligned with the to all personnel, in accordance with business needs. requirements of the 1998 Declaration of the International • Equal pay for men and women. Labour Organisation (ILO) on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and to which reference is made in the We support attempts to build a society free of exclusion, Constitution and in labour law. The Greek legal provisions in which people with disabilities can be productively include conventions concerning the protection of freedom integrated into the community. We ourselves employ 19 of association and the right to collective bargaining. people with disabilities, who enjoy equal opportunities in employment and education. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Employees 3. Labour Relations and Trade Unions At MOTOR OIL labour relations are regulated by the Since 2006, there has been a Company Collective Labour Employment Regulation which was drawn up in September Agreement between the company and the union, which is of 1974, and is approved by the Ministry of Labour. renewed every year and is then submitted to the Corinth Labour Inspection. Furthermore, since 2014 it has also It is extremely important to our Group – and particularly been submitted electronically to the Ministry of Labour. to the refinery due to the complex nature of the work it entails – that employees can join unions and professional We believe that smooth cooperation between the associations freely and without restraint. Refinery Company and the employees’ union is extremely employees are represented through their trade union and important particularly so in difficult times, like those we the Health and Safety Committee. The union has had a are currently experiencing due to the effects of the severe Collective Labour Agreement with the Hellenic Federation economic crisis. We, therefore, hold regular meetings of Enterprises since 1986. This agreement lays down the with union representatives, the common aim being to terms of employment and pay levels at the refinery. ensure harmonious bilateral relations, avoid disputes and preserve labour peace, while continuing to achieve improvements in working conditions. 4. Basic Employment Data In 2018, the size of the combined human resources of MOTOR OIL’s main area of activity is the refinery at Agioi the Group (MOTOR OIL, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral in Serbia Theodoroi, Corinth, where in 2018 an average of 1,038 and Coral in Cyprus, Coral Gas, OFC, LPC and NRG since persons were employed. Approximately 55% of the 09/2018) averaged over the year was 2,115 employees. In refinery personnel and 44% of its managers live in the addition to personnel directly employed by the companies greater region of Corinth, where MOTOR OIL is the biggest of the Group, a significant number are indirectly employed employer. through sub-contractors. Gender Profile 96.4% We support equal treatment for men and women, with equal opportunities for all. However, owing to the nature of Group employees at the end of 2018 of the work and the skills required at our refinery, the were on open-ended contracts percentage of women employees is relatively low. Thus, in 2018, on average, 17% of all employees were female, while at the Group Offices, the number of women rises to 38.7%. Workforce In 2017, women accounted 16% in the total workforce, (yearly average) whereas at the Group Offices they represented 35%. 2,115 Among management, women made up 16% of the total, 1,983 1,928 1,924 1,925 1,974 1,834 1,800 1,797 a satisfactory reflection of the overall participation of 1,507 women in the total workforce, while in other office and technical jobs the percentage was 17%. Percentages in 2017 were 14% and 16% respectively. Distribution by Gender 2018 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Workforce per Company 2017 2018 MOTOR OIL 1,233 1,269 17% AVIN 181 181 Women CORAL* 294 347 CORAL GAS 106 107 83% OFC 23 22 Men LPC 137 141 NRG 48 * In 2018, the employees of Coral S.A.’s subsidiaries that operate in Cyprus and Serbia were included. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 31 Workforce Breakdown and Professional Advancement Average Age Age Range In 2018, managers continued to comprise 11% of the total The average age of the Group workforce is 44.1. It should personnel of the Group, while technicians-operators and be noted that, in 2018, 54% of the workforce were under administrative personnel accounted for 89% of the total 45. In 2017, the average age was 43.5 and 54% of the number of employees. In 2017, managers again accounted workforce were under 45. for 11%, technicians-operators accounted for 57% and administrative personnel accounted for 32% of the total number of employees. Age Range 2018 Each employee has the opportunity for promotion within the management hierarchy, according to his qualifications 46% and performance, as the main objective is to fill vacant > 45 managerial positions from within the Group wherever and years old whenever possible. In fact, each vacancy is first advertised internally; the position is opened to external applicants only if no suitable internal candidate can be found. 53% 25-45 1% years old < 25 Workforce Breakdown 2018 years old 11% Management Length of Employment and Turnover of Employees Length of employment with the Group was, on average, 56% 15.5 years. 66.4% of employees have been with the Group for over ten years, while only 18.6% have less than five Technical Staff 33% years of service. Administrative Length of Service 2018 Level of Education 26.1% 23.2% We attach great importance to the educational level of our personnel, and our aim is to attract, develop and retain suitable and competent employees. All of the 15.0% employees hired for executive positions in 2018 were 10.7% 11.0% university graduates. 8.0% 6.0% In order to further develop the skills of our personnel and to maintain a high-output culture in the workplace, various further education and vocational training programmes <1 1-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-25 > 25 are organised in new technologies and systems, while year years years years years years years employees are encouraged to participate in long-term external courses leading to recognized degrees. In 2018, staff mobility was 3.3% and is indicative of long-term employment in our companies. Long-term Level of Education 2018 employment is rewarded by additional salary increments. In addition at the refinery, at Coral and at Coral Gas 12% commemorative gifts of value are made to employees College completing periods of long service; these gifts vary from education company to company and commensurate to the years of service. 58% 29% Technical University education education 1% Secondary education 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Employees In 2018, the permanent staff increased by 147 new Staff Mobility employees while 69 persons left for various reasons. 2017 2018 We ascribe great importance to attracting and hiring Recruitments 130 147 new management executives. In the last years, we have Men 112 104 embarked upon new collaborations with top universities Women 18 43 around the world through which we seek to attract new Staff Departures (classified by reason) candidates. These candidates are assessed through a Retirement 21 19 thorough and detailed process that includes behaviour and skills measuring tools, in-depth interviews and a final Men 17 18 selection panel. Women 4 1 Resignation 27 35 Men 24 30 Women 3 5 Various 3 15 Men 3 9 Women 0 6 Total 51 69 Staff Mobility* 2.6% 3.3% * Staff mobility = Departures/Average number of employees x100 5. Remuneration System and Additional Benefits One of the Group’s main objectives is to offer its Breakdown of Workforce Remuneration Expenditure 2018 employees competitive remuneration, both to reward (million euros) their contribution and to maintain a high level of employee satisfaction. The system we implement in order to set, manage and 29.7 review salary levels is in line with current company Additional and sector-specific agreements, and is consistent and Remuneration transparent. 80.6 137.6 million euros 27.3 Employer’s Gross Pay not including Additional total workforce remuneration Contributions Remuneration expenditure in 2018 Breakdown of Workforce Remuneration Expenditure 2017 Negotiations covering collective agreements on salary (million euros) adjustments are in line with sector practices that are applied at national level. Moreover, the structure of the remuneration system ensures equal pay for men and women doing the same work, and rules out any other form 28.9 of discrimination. The factors determining wage/salary Additional levels are mainly the employee’s grade and performance, Remuneration the responsibilities and accountabilities of the position held, the educational level and the seniority/ length of service. 25.6 75.7 Employer’s Gross Pay The Group’s total expenditure on wages/salaries in not including Contributions 2018 amounted to 137.6 million euros. This includes pay Additional for regular and overtime work, mandatory employer Remuneration contributions to social security funds and other additional allowances over and above those laid down in either labour legislation or collective agreements. These additional, non-statutory allowances are discretionary payments to employees intended to reward productivity and acknowledge the contribution of individuals to the Group’s performance. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 33 Additional Discretionary Benefits Sports Activities for Staff The Group introduced many years ago a wide range of To promote and improve team spirit and a healthy supplementary, discretionary allowances and insurance lifestyle, we encourage their participation in a number of benefits for employees and their family members. Such sporting activities. employee benefits are: insurance policies providing both pension and medical treatment coverage for employees, schemes helping employees with the costs of their Athens Classic Marathon children’s education, Christmas parties for employees’ For the fourth consecutive year, MOTOR OIL supported children, long-service awards, support for employees employees from the entire Group taking part in the participating in sporting activities, etc. biggest sports event in Greece the 36th Athens Classic Marathon, which took place on November 11th. To help 9.5 million euros the entrants better prepare, training sessions were held a few months before, at Andreas Sygros Park and the municipal track of Corinth with the help of an the Group’s budget for discretionary experienced trainer. On the day of the race, 85 people benefits to employees and their families took part in the 5K, 75 people in the 10K, and 35 people ran the 42K Classic Marathon, all finishing in the packed in 2018 Panathenaic Stadium. It is worth noting that MOTOR OIL secured 95 of the 195 entries through the “SCHEDIA” Voluntary Blood Donation Non-Profit Organisation that supports the integration of the unemployed back into society. Blood donations by employees of MOTOR OIL have Football and Basketball Teams become a tradition, now with a 30-year history. The In 2018, the MOTOR OIL employees’ football team programmes are run in association with the Corinth performed exceptionally well, winning 6th place in the General Hospital (for employees at the refinery) and the 24-team Amateur Athens Corporate Games League. Metaxa Specialist Cancer Hospital (for employees at the The team has won a total of 18 titles, including 9 MOTOR OIL head offices). Overall, the resulting blood doubles, and has also performed very impressively reserves are used to cover the needs of the blood donors in foreign fixtures. Meanwhile, the basketball team themselves, their families or close relatives, and other competed in a corporate league that featured 46 people, in the event of an emergency. Throughout the company teams and took 13th place in the event. blood bank’s operation, more than 3,800 units have been collected. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Employees 6. Education and Training The education and training programmes are Investment in ongoing training for our employees is implemented through in-house seminars, by attending a strategic choice and a key element in the process domestic or international seminars run by internationally of aligning our workforce’s skills with the full range of recognized educational centres. Also, Group managers objectives and ambitions of the Group. attend conferences both in Greece and abroad, Therefore, given the critical importance of the issue, the participate in undergraduate and postgraduate courses MOTOR OIL Group designs and implements each year, a and are kept up to date through the purchase of books comprehensive programme of education and in-house and subscriptions to specialist technical journals and training for employees. The basic objective served by professional associations. this programme, is to continually enrich the vocational knowledge of our employees, expanding their range of skills, while also upgrading their level of technical training, Training in 2018 allowing them to carry out their everyday and more longIn 2018, 33,850 man-hours were devoted to education term tasks. and vocational training -at an overall cost of 1.8 million eurosinvolving the participation of 1,547 employees 6.7 million euros (76.2% of the total workforce), of which 158 were managers and 1,389 other personnel. The figure of training man-hours includes training related to fire safety, for education and training programmes use of Personal Protective Equipment and other related subjects throughout the refinery and the other Group over the period 2014-2018 facilities. However, it does not include training hours associated with emergency preparedness exercises. The corresponding figures for 2017 were 41,300 manEducation and Training Programmes hours, at a cost of 1.3 million euros which were attended by 1,445 employees, 159 of which were managers and The parameters determining the planning and 1,286 other personnel. implementation of the education and training Occupational health and safety, environmental protection programmes are the educational needs of the workforce and quality were the principal subjects covered by as identified in the working environment each year. training activities in 2018. In these areas training was The education and training programmes cover the provided to cover the relevant management systems, following areas: preventing sea and air pollution and avoidance of related • Training in business and administrative skills, computer incidents, process safety, occupational health, fire skills, as well as personal development issues. safety, the use of Personal Protective Equipment, rescue methods in cooperation with the Disaster Response Team • Introductory training for new operators and (EMAK), safe driving and fuel transport, the provision of maintenance technicians, and for new engineers. first aid and other more specialized topics. • Skills training for technical staff in their particular areas The other education programmes were designed to of employment, as well as in use of personal safety provide the existing technical staff with further training, equipment and working machinery/equipment. in order to develop and further improve their skills in • Training regarding Health, Safety, Environmental various specialized technical areas, and to instruct staff Protection and Quality, with an emphasis on the special of the commercial companies in issues of insurance law, features of each workplace. taxation, management and leadership, internal audit, workforce management and assessment, negotiating • Training of non-technical staff in basic Health and Safety techniques, presentation skills, IT, creating a safety regulations, use of fire-fighting equipment and first aid culture, accounting, procurements, finance, customs provision. policy, customer service, antitrust law, communication • Instruction in safe driving techniques and in the and law. procedures for the safe loading, unloading and The contribution and significant involvement of Group transport of fuels. executives in the in-house training and education • Emergency preparedness exercises, including scheduled programme was also very important. In 2018, this or unscheduled drills. involvement accounted for about 2,000 hours. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 35 Moreover, during 2018, in line with the policy on Negotiation Skills: The goal here was to understand the reimbursement of tuition fees, 20 employees were key structural elements of negotiation and to upgrade the assisted in their efforts to specialise in particular subjects, negotiating performance of participants. or achieve postgraduate qualifications in areas relevant to Customer Service: The aim was to introduce a new the Group’s current operations. philosophy of service that will lead to satisfied customers. Communication Skills – Assertiveness: The goal here was Average Number of Training to reinforce the communication skills of the employees. Hours per Trainee Man-hours of Training per Subject 28.6 21.9 20.0 23,725 15.2 15.2 2018 21,141 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 10,570 Percentage of Trainees over the Total Workforce 76.2% 5,993 5,775 5,736 74.7% 74.1% 919 686 263 292 72.3% 72.4% Technical Health, Safety Finance IT Management Matters and the Environment 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Man-hours devoted to each Educational Training Area 2018 Total Hours=33,850 Management and Employee Training in 2018 We strive to continually develop our management staff 17.0% by offering innovative skills development programmes in Technical cooperation with top educational institutions and bodies. Matters The following programmes were held, with certification by 17.1% Harvard University, to teach leadership skills: Management Leadership Academy Step 1: The objective of this training 62.4% Health, was to develop the skills necessary for all new managers Safety and 0.8% to enable them to lead their teams and cultivate the Environment IT relationships with their colleagues and supervisors. Leadership Academy Step 2: The purpose was to further 2.7% Finance develop the skills required of every manager in order to handle a variety of business challenges that have a direct impact on the success of their work. The following were also held to teach additional skills: Presentation Skills: This session aims at an understanding of key presentation tools so that participants can present their subject with brevity and clarity. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Employees Training Subjects at the Refinery in 2018 Training Tools at the Refinery Internal training at the refinery is provided by instructors Production unit training simulators are used at the refinery who may be refinery managers or highly specialized to train operators of all grades, helping them develop their external instructors from Greece or abroad. skills, expand their knowledge and improve performance through repetition. An important tool is also the Digital The main training areas were as follows: Educational Material File, on the company intranet, • Training of shift workers in the use of fire-fighting continuously posting and updating material like e-books, equipment and Personal Protective Equipment, with conference presentations, training videos and so on. The weekly drills. File is freely available to all, so that both management and • Training of rescue teams by the Elefsina Disaster workforce can stay abreast and study various areas of Response Team in the rescue of persons at risk in interest. inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a great height from Technical Training Manuals prepared entirely by our the ground. own refinery engineers are also available, and are • Training of staff of Equipment Inspection Service for written to reflect the current structure of the refinery and certification and re-certification. This staff is trained meet its current production needs. The manuals, also on all inspection methods used (infra-red, ultrasound, available now in the form e-books, fully cover the training magnetic materials, etc.). needs of the refinery workforce, and can also be used in other activities where information on the structure and • Extensive training of the safety staff in first aid with operation of the refinery is required. relevant certification-, in rescue methods in cooperation with the Disaster Response Team (EMAK) and the Hellenic Police and in safe and fast driving techniques for cars, motorcycles, ambulances and fire engines. • Training of fire safety crews by the Fire Brigade for combating forest fires. The entire staff involved received theoretical and practical training. • Theoretical training on scenarios of security breaches at the refinery by the commander of the Special Police Unit (OPKE) of the Hellenic Police. • Training of newly-recruited personnel (engineers, operators, technicians) in the classroom, in the field and with drills. • Participation of refinery engineers in international conferences, seminars and visits to other refineries. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 37 Health and Safety Ongoing improvements in the area of Health and Safety are consistently our main priority The nature of the Group’s business operations In 2018, investments continued in order to improve refining, storage, transportation and marketing of both the operational and personal safety of fuels combined with our corporate principles and employees, with the aim of consistently improving our values, make occupational Health and Safety a matter performance in Health and Safety and strengthening of exceptional importance, and a priority to which the organisation’s safety culture. our commitment is absolute and permanent. In order to ensure a safe working environment, and achieve Lessons learnt from various international incidents, ongoing improvement in workplace health and safety in the refinery sector were presented, focusing in conditions, we implement a rigorously structured particular on the training of personnel and new Management System, fully aligned with European operators hired at the refinery. Union Directives and other, additional measures. Moreover, a range of investments were made on In pursuit of our established objective of Zero projects that reduce the possibility of an accident and Accidents, we reinforce and safeguard our upgrade the fire safety equipment. management system with: • Continuous training and presentations on safety issues, involving the entire workforce. • Regular maintenance of equipment to ensure it functions properly and safely. • Investment in new technology equipment and control measures. • Risk assessment of critical tasks, in order to ensure that the proper precautions are taken before tasks are carried out. • Introducing an annual safety day across the whole Group, with presentations of relevant material to the entire workforce. Health and Safety 1.7 The Group’s injuries frequency index 28.4 million euros spent on safety in 2018 (investments and operating expenses) MOTOR OIL HELLAS 39 1. Health and Safety Management Framework Health and Safety at work and the prevention of • Continuous training of personnel and briefing on health occupational hazard is a moral obligation and a business and safety issues in order to prevent accidents and necessity, which goes beyond the narrow limits of a simple occupational health problems. legal obligation. Our primary concern is to take measures, • Full compliance with regulatory requirements. and implement projects and programmes, to ensure we attain our permanent objectives for workplace health and • Active involvement of all employees in finding safety, which can be formulated as follows: acceptable and effective solutions for protection and • To reduce the risk of major technological accidents to safety, as well as in establishing regulations, identifying the lowest possible level. hazards and assessing risk. • To eliminate occupational accidents “Goal Zero”. • Frank and open communication between workers and management in health and safety matters. • Continuous monitoring and upgrading of the quality of equipment to ensure that conditions conducive to safe At the refinery, delivering on this commitment relies on work operations are continuously improved. the effective operation of the integrated Health and • Effective protection of people (our personnel, Safety Management System, which is certified compliant contractors’ personnel, our neighbours, associates, -since 2008with the internationally recognised Health and site visitors), as well as the environment and our and Safety standard OHSAS 18001:2007. The same installations, from the hazards that may arise from the certification has been secured by OFC (in 2006), Coral company’s activities. and Coral Gas (in 2013). Health and Safety Management System (HSMS) OHSAS 18001:2007 Management Health, Commitment Safety and Environmental Protection Policy Equipment Integrity HSMS Procedures Continual Improvement Design Compliance Monitoring Implementation Personnel and Corrective and Operation Participation Actions 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Health and Safety Component Parts of the Health and Safety Management System • Description of MOTOR OIL’s commitment to Health and Safety and arrangements Policy for implementing the policy. • Strict compliance with legislation and international standards, codes and regulations. • Preparation of annual schedules and investment plans for upgrading equipment to ensure optimal performance. Planning • Designation of responsibilities and accountabilities. • Systematic identification and recognition of occupational hazards and assessment of risk across all activities. • Visible and systematic management at all management levels. • Provision of appropriate and full training to all employees. • Understanding and analysing operational risks in the course of work and appropriate precautions, by all employees, at all levels of management. • Strict application and documentation of procedures for operational safety and efficiency. • Ensuring that all operations are carried out in full compliance with safety rules and regulations. Implementation • Systematic reporting of incidents. • Excellent cooperation with public authorities and other stakeholders, including providing them with all relevant information. • Systematic measurement of results and target setting, using established industry indicators, so as to ensure constant improvement in performance and identification of malfunctions and vulnerabilities. • Carrying out of exercises for the updating of the company’s Emergency Response Plan. Compliance • Continuous inspections of machinery and other equipment to ensure its proper function. Monitoring • Regular auditing of safety procedures. and • Systematic investigation, and analysis of all incidents. Corrective • Measurement, assessment and communication of results. Actions • Rewarding positive results. • Continuous review of the management system. Continuous • Recommendations for improvement and revision of current arrangements. Improvement • Commitment to the implementation of recommendations. • Ongoing personnel training. The operation of the Health and Safety Management The above Committees are intended to oversee control of System is assigned to the MOTOR OIL refinery’s Health, health and safety conditions, making recommendations Safety and Environment Section. Moreover, the health and for changes and improvements as necessary. safety organisation includes in-house safety engineers, Similar arrangements operate in the other companies of occupational physicians, and nursing staff both at the the Group, taking appropriate account of the particular refinery and at MOTOR OIL’s head office at a level that conditions of each workplace. goes beyond the requirements of the relevant Greek legislation. There are also two statutory committees: • The Safety and Environment Committee made up of the refinery section heads which represents the entire workforce. • The five-member Employee Health and Safety Committee, whose elected members are appointed every two years by the refinery employees. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 41 Steps aimed at achieving the Health and Safety targets 3. O  perator Care Program: the aim is that all employees mainly involved developing a culture of safety and are will achieve the same level of knowledge. There are based on the following actions and tools: defined training objectives for each job position focusing on equipment, processing and area of 1. Toolbox meetings: brief meetings, either scheduled responsibility from the aspect of safety so that unsafe or ad hoc, where predetermined topics on safety are conditions can be identified in time. Experienced discussed. They highlight important safety issues, department staff conducts training sessions, in a gather suggestions for improvement and facilitate room with appropriate training materials and, more two-way communication amongst personnel at all importantly, in the field. The trainer may also come from levels. As topics and recommendations are recorded, another department or an external partner, depending safety issues are continually reassessed and actions on the need. for improvement are set in motion. 4. A  n essential tool which was developed to raise 2. Safety observations: field inspections by all employees employee awareness of safety issues is Time Out For with the aim of identifying unsafe behaviours. These Safety (TOS), which involves convening ad hoc meetings observations do not focus on equipment but on human on safety issues. It is used in cases where a particular behaviour and involve dialogue about safety and good observation has been made or some unsafe condition practices. Employees assume an active role through has been identified in the field. continuous observation and dialogue in the field that provides them with training but also enables them to 5. W  eekly fire safety drills which take place at the refinery train others. Employees develop a responsible attitude where a scenario is developed and supervisors and and are entitled to stop a particular task in the event facility personnel hold discussions to encourage they identify unsafe conditions. Continuous inspections employee proposals for improvements. by personnel result in raising awareness of all risks 6. T  he refinery’s General Manager holds safety meetings inherent in operations and in the improvement of the with employees to provide guidance and exchange culture of safety. Additionally, the findings are recorded views on safety issues. electronically via a special form. It is, therefore, possible to search and display a detailed report based on several criteria and to export statistical data to identify sectors with room for improvement. 2. Safety Indices The extent, to which the Health and Safety Management The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF) came to 1.7. System operates successfully, is reflected in trends in the At MOTOR OIL, the LTIF was 0.7, which historically is the most important safety indices, i.e. the number, frequency second-lowest value for the company. The index was 8.9 at and severity of lost-time injuries. LPC and 11.6 at Coral Gas. Eight (8) lost time injuries were recorded at the facilities of The Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (LTIS) recorded a the MOTOR OIL Group in 2018. Two occurred at the MOTOR value of 0.7 across the whole Group in 2018, with a value of OIL refinery, three at LPC and three at Coral Gas. 0.9 for MOTOR OIL. The LTIS was 1.1 at LPC and 2.7 at Coral Gas. There were no fatal accidents or serious incidents during the course of our activities. MOTOR OIL Group: Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index (LTIF)1 MOTOR OIL Group: Number of Lost Time Injuries (LTI) 1 2.1 9 1.8 1.7 7 8 1.2 1.1 5 5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Health and Safety In this context, the Group’s management is offering its MOTOR OIL Group: Lost Time Injuries Severity Index (LTIS)1 steady support to programmes aimed at training and informing the workforce and strengthening technical and 0.7 organizational measures, remaining committed to our 0.6 0.6 ‘Zero accidents’ objective. 0.5 The LTIs have been analysed in depth to identify their causes and establish the most appropriate corrective measures, which were then communicated to personnel 0.2 through training sessions and briefings. Recommendations for equipment improvements, arising from an investigation of LTIs, were implemented immediately. These statistics 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 relate to accidents involving the Group’s own employees and do not include lost-time accidents involving subcontractors’ employees, the level of which remains These values, in combination with the constantly increasing very low. Accidents involving subcontractors’ employees refinery production and the higher volumes handled by our amounted to οne in 2016, three in 2017 and two in 2018. commercial companies, continue the steady downward Finally, we should note that, as in previous years, no case trend of the last twenty years, demonstrating the ongoing of occupational illness was recorded. effort to reach our Zero Accident target. 1  Note: Includes the companies MOTOR OIL, Avin Oil (since 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (since 2010), OFC (since 2012), LPC (since 2015), Coral Cyprus and NRG (2018). 3. Health and Safety Investments Improvements in safe working conditions are achieved by The greatest emphasis was laid on projects to reduce the making the necessary investments in equipment, through risk of accidents and to improve working conditions, as the upgrading of procedures, and by means of Health and well as projects aimed at upgrading fire safety measures Safety inspections. at our facilities. An investment programme is constantly active at the In 2018 specifically, the upgrade of the sprinkler system at refinery and other facilities to ensure proper maintenance the alkylation unit continued, along with replacement of of electrical, mechanical and electronic equipment the main fire safety valves in the refinery’s fire suppression and to provide technical upgrading and renewal of that system and in segments of the network towards the flares. equipment to stay abreast of developing technology and Works to improve the refinery loading dock were maintaining the highest possible safety and accident completed, and included replacement of pretensioned prevention standards. beams at the dock and upgrading of materials in equipment and piping at the production units. Safety Health and Safety Investments and Operating Expenses (million euros) systems were upgraded at the lubricant loading station. The JET distribution and storage equipment was also replaced and upgraded to meet the EI/JIG-1530 standard, 32.9 and equipment in the closed systems for adding tracers 28.4 24.9 was also upgraded. The upgrade of communication and 19.0 lighting systems and of automated sampling systems 15.7 continued. The upgrade of personal protection equipment continued, and new fire extinguishing equipment was purchased. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Additionally, all our commercial companies proceeded to investments for improvements of the safety systems In 2018, the total cost of the investment program of all in service stations and their facilities. These included Group companies on projects to improve health and safety maintenance and upgrade of facility equipment, and to procure safety equipment amounted to 21 million automation, installation of cameras at services stations, euros, while the cost of operating expenditure of all kinds lighting improvement, maintenance of fire extinguishing in this area was 7.4 million euros. equipment and others. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 43 4. Inspections It is our standing practice to carry out regular health and At the same time, vertical inspections are conducted on safety inspections, which involve scrutiny of production a quarterly basis by the section head, the engineers and and distribution equipment, working areas and fire safety supervisors of the various sections. Field inspections were systems. The inspections allow us to identify hazards and increased through the Safety Observation Cards (SOC) recognise risk. system, with all employees taking part in assessing safety measures while performing their work. At the refinery, planned Health and Safety inspections are carried out by both internal inspection teams and external It is self-evident that the technical inspections and safety auditors, including specialist Greek and foreign monitoring of equipment carried out will lead to findings consultants. For example, hot work and work in enclosed and the taking of measures which reduce hazard and spaces require strict inspection and control procedures. risk and contribute to the improvement of occupational The Health, Safety and Environment Section carries out health and safety conditions. The programming and an average of 6 inspections a day, not including those management of these results of inspections are based undertaken during maintenance periods. on the use of computer systems like the PCMS (Plant Condition Management Software), designed to generate Projects under construction are subject to daily optimal safety results and saving of resources. inspections, while planned horizontal inspections carried out by teams of different composition and mandate, Finally, the company takes special care to ensure the comprising refinery executives and other competent operational readiness of the equipment of the fire personnel are performed according to an annual safety system. The routine and periodically scheduled schedule. checking of this equipment is carried out according to a very carefully planned annual programme under the Recommendations for improvements in working supervision of the Fire Safety Service. conditions and safety also arise following meetings of the Safety and Environment Committee and the Employee Health and Safety Committee. The findings of the above-mentioned horizontal inspection procedures, and recommendations arising from meetings of the two committees, after evaluation, lead to appropriate technical or organizational measures being taken. 5. Procedures Technical integrity of equipment, compliance with international standards/regulations and safe working conditions are amongst the primary factors ensuring safety in the workplace. Even more important is how individuals behave (the “human factor”). Refinery employees can perform their work safely not only as a result of the strict work procedures they are required to follow and because they have been provided with the appropriate skills and competencies, but also because they have been trained in safety awareness. Complying with Legislation only for the legality of our operations, but also for the wealth of information it contains on a wide range of issues, The company is fully aware of, and strictly complies including hazard identification and control, the drafting with, all relevant Greek and European Health and Safety of emergency preparedness plans, maximum acceptable legislation, while it also applies any relevant international levels of exposure to hazardous substances, the use of standards, codes of practice and other operational norms, chemical substances and the relevant precautions, etc. where these are judged likely to help achieve even higher Besides data on legislation, the database contains standards of protection than would be achieved by legal other significant resources relating to refinery safety, compliance alone. An independent third party certifies full including: all training material; the complete internal and comprehensive implementation of legislation in our safety regulations for the refinery; hazard and risk internal procedures and operations. assessment reports covering all individual workplaces; We have also developed an intranet database containing specifications for all safety equipment (e.g. personal all health and safety provisions of Greek law relevant protective equipment -PPEand fire-fighting equipment), to the refinery’s operations. It is constantly updated and material safety data sheets (MSDS), accidents/event/ and made available to all employees on the company near-misses investigations, etc. intranet. This database is exceptionally important, not 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Health and Safety Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Control In respect of the need to assess and minimize operational risks, the HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study is used We are continuously engaged in establishing best to analyse risk and operability in all new units or whenever practices for identification of health and safety hazards in changes are made to an existing unit, and a five-year all areas and in implementing procedures for immediate revision programme is implemented. response. Across the whole range of refinery activities, In 2018, preliminary studies were implemented for hazard studies have been conducted to assess risk for each work identification for safety and the environment (HAZID – station and task; the necessary measures have been taken Hazard Identification / ENVID – Environmental Impact to eliminate or minimize all risks identified. Identification studies) for the new complex of catalytic Whenever changes are made to workplaces or working naphtha reforming units to be built in the near future. practices, these risk assessments are reviewed so as to Likewise, the studies required by the regulations on fire ensure they are always relevant and up to date. Moreover, safety are conducted; other safety studies are prepared in the context of the requirements of OHSAS certification and communicated for approval and registration as the whole monitoring process of our procedures has appropriate with the competent authorities. become more systematic. Special focus is placed on the analysis of near misses, Within each refinery section, risks identified are classified which are classified depending on the severity of the into three categories according to the hazard level: low, consequences and the probability of their occurrence medium or high. For each category of risk, we prepare (RISK= PROBABILITY x SEVERITY). Near misses are a timetable for taking action to eliminate or reduce the discussed with the entire workforce in order to cultivate risk and appoint a manager to be responsible for the a culture of safety and to generate proposals for necessary action. improvement through the exchange of information. We provide appropriate and adequate training to all our In respect of health and safety equipment (personal workers covering: information and instruction relevant protective equipment, fire-fighting equipment, etc.) we to the hazards arising from their work, measures for the implement rigorous specifications based on recognized elimination of hazards or control of risk, correct use of European standards in order to optimize workforce health personal protective equipment, safe working practices, and safety precautions. A particular effort has been made appropriate emergency response procedures and first aid to standardise specifications for personal protective provision. equipment at all companies and facilities within the Group. We ensure that all operations are carried out in full In addition, safety equipment specifications are monitored compliance with safety rules and regulations by taking all continuously so that they can be updated in line with the necessary precautionary measures and by establishing new technological developments. and adhering to specific procedures. Of particular importance during maintenance and repair work is the procedure for issuing of Work Permits, within a stringent statutory framework of rules and procedures. For this reason, the issuing of these Permits is the subject of continuous training activity, covering both those who issue them and those who receive them, both company employees and any sub-contractor personnel who may be involved in work activities on the refinery site. In 2018, we began a review and update of the Work Permit form, accompanied by ongoing briefings of all personnel involved. Final implementation, along with revised written procedures, is expected within 2019. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 45 Indicative Activities in 2018 in the area of Procedures Reports, Measurements, Indicators • We reviewed procedures in the Health and Safety All of the Group’s companies regularly report, record, Management System. investigate and analyse incidents (fires, accidents, • A new procedure was written up and specifications near-misses) using internationally recognised indices in were redefined for personal protective equipment order to take the appropriate corrective and preventive used in waterblasting/water jet cutting and measures. We also augment our experience by monitoring sandblasting, and PPEs were implemented for all investigations of serious accidents at comparable facilities similar tasks performed by contracted personnel. abroad and incorporating their findings into our own • A new procedure was written up for safety practices. We systematically record all elements in our management “tools” (safety observations, toolbox health and safety performance, for monitoring purposes, meetings, operator care program). and at the same time, we use internationally recognized indices suitably targeted to provide a basis for checking • A procedure for cooperating with the Korinthos Fire ongoing improvement and identifying any shortcomings or Brigade was instituted to respond to forest fires. irregularities. • Safety covers were procured for temporary placement when gratings are removed for repair. Protection (Security) • Personal detectors for 4 gases (H2S, LEL, CO & O2) were procured for use in enclosed spaces. We take all necessary preventive measures to protect our • Procurement of a portable fixed 4-gas detector was installations against possible malicious or not security budgeted for use in gas-monitoring areas. threats. The security system is fully automated and includes an automatic identification system of incoming • Full-face masks with intracom communication were employees and vehicles with the issue of RFID cards procured for crew members. during entry, security cameras in the perimeters of the • We continued implementation of the programme to refinery and the port, a motion detection system at the monitor and assess contractors in respect of their enclosure and an automatic monitoring and notification compliance with health and safety rules when working system (video analytics) in case of breach of the refinery’s in the refinery facilities. perimeter. • We continued to update the Safety Data Sheets for Those of our personnel responsible for this protection refinery products, adding new information, as part of are suitably trained, both in security and safety matters, our implementation of the provisions of the European so as to be able to effectively and swiftly fulfil their REACH and CLP Regulations. responsibilities, being fully aware of the duties assigned to them, while at the same time fully respecting individual • Participation continued in international organisations freedoms and fundamental human rights. In this context dedicated to exploring and achieving continual security guards are certified by the National Organisation improvement in rules and practices. for the Certification of Qualifications and Vocational Guidance (EOPPEP) in the specialisation “Private Security Personnel”. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Health and Safety 6. Planned Shutdowns New Projects Every year planned shutdowns of refinery units take place, The following were held: which are necessary to allow for periodic maintenance • Meetings between the refinery General Manager and to be carried out and thus ensure their reliable operation, engineers, section heads and operating personnel, both in respect of efficiency and of safe operation, while aiming at vigilance in respect of safety issues before the construction work on new projects is constantly being shutdown. carried out. To avoid accidents during planned and unplanned shutdowns, a methodical approach is required, • Safety meetings with the purpose of informing the entire with continuous monitoring while work is being carried workforce on safety issues. out. • Meetings with the contractors of all companies In 2018, planned and unplanned maintenance works participating in the works, aiming to achieve strict took place in various units of the refinery over a compliance with the procedures and resolve any safety total of 35 days. Before the start of the maintenance issues before the start of the works. works the schedule was examined in detail, in order to • Daily meetings during the project with the Contractors’ identify any critical works and potential risks and take safety engineers, for reporting any comments and measures. Awareness raising actions and briefings were corrective actions. Safety Engineers and Engineers of also organized, with the participation of all members the Production and Maintenance sections took part in and contractors to ensure smooth cooperation and the meeting from the refinery’s side. avoidance of unsafe actions. • Daily checks during the works by Managers, Safety Engineers and the contractors’ Safety Engineers. • Stocktaking of actions after end of works. 7. REACH and CLP Regulations The REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation and The CLP (Classification, Labelling and Packaging) Authorization of Chemicals) is intended to rationalize Regulation of the European Union came into effect in European legislation on human health safety and 2009, ensuring that risks associated with chemical environmental protection from the potential effects products are clearly communicated to employees and of various chemical substances. The legal framework consumers through proper classification and labelling introduced by the Regulation affects producers, importers of chemical products. The risks which may be posed to and final users of chemical substances and preparations human health and the environment are labelled using in the European Union. a standard system of declarations and pictograms on packaging and on safety data sheets, so that workers The objective is to prohibit the import into, or the and consumers are aware of the possible consequences production within, the EU of any substance at any quantity of handling these products. MOTOR OIL has completed above one ton a year, unless the substance has been the above process of labelling its products on all safety registered with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). data sheets and regularly updates them each time new Along with other companies, MOTOR OIL takes part in information is available. recognised organisations (REACH Consortia) to stay abreast of developments related to the implementation of the REACH Regulation and to be prepared to respond to new requirements. In 2018, three new substances were registered with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) with the completion of the third and last phase of substance registration. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 47 8. Emergency Response Plans The emergency response arrangements at all Group • A Corporate Contingency Plan for reciprocal company facilities are based on the Emergency Response assistance between Group companies in the event of Plan, which is regularly reviewed and updated to take an emergency. This has also been integrated into the account of changing legal requirements and revised Emergency Response Plan of each individual company. “best practices” resulting either from technical advances In this context, MOTOR OIL participated in fire safety drills or experience gained by others in dealing with major at the facilities of OFC. or minor accidents. Additionally, we have prepared • Drills carried out every week and major industrial and submitted studies to the competent authorities in accident response drills carried out regularly during accordance with the EU Seveso III Directive which covers the year, during which the Major Incident Response the most likely accident scenarios, and relative prevention Procedure is activated. In cooperation with the and response measures. Demokritos Research Centre and a foreign company, The Emergency Response Plans describe, with particular emergency scenario reviews and risk analysis are reference to a major accident situation, the public health underway, and methods for response and management protection measures -including warnings for neighbouring are being improved. communities, and related advicethat would be put into • The fixed and portable equipment for leak detection and effect in the event that the Major Technological Accidents fire-fighting, are upgraded according to a regular annual Response Plans were activated; these plans are drafted investment plan. In 2018, a certified body was assigned by the competent authorities and determine how the to maintain and monitor the refinery substations. A state might intervene in emergency situations. permanent fire suppression system was installed at The purpose of the Emergency Response Plans is to the new fuel tanker loading island. The replacement provide the personnel involved with a comprehensive of existing mobile monitors with new, smaller and response plan to address emergencies which may arise more flexible units to meet the fire-fighting needs of from the operation of every installation. The plans provide production facilities was examined. At the same time, the necessary guidelines for taking and executing the the replacement of foam stocks with a more advanced correct decisions and actions, providing information for: equivalent and its compatibility with existing equipment was assessed. • the operational organisation for addressing the event / emergency. •Also in 2018, two new permanent surface foam systems were connected and activated at two pumping stations. • the Action Plans. Safety mechanisms were installed in the fire safety • communication with the company’s staff and the Public pump compression to ensure the safety of the fire safety Authorities and/or other competent services that must network in the event of pressure fluctuations. Refinery be notified in each case. hose racks were also replaced on a large scale. • the communication actions with the other stakeholders. • The availability on the refinery site of six fire engines and Specifically, in 2018, the preparation of a study by an one 12,000-litre bulk foam tender, which are available on internationally recognised company was approved to 24-hour standby. The design and upgrade of fire engine plan and upgrade the operational organisation and No 5 was completed in 2018, and the upgrade of engine means of response on issues of fire protection and major No 3 is being planned. A pick-up truck with capacity for incident response. As part of the effort, updated critical immediate response and fire suppression using water scenarios involving emergencies will be determined. and foam was added to the fleet of fire-fighting vehicles. Following the forest fire that occurred in July 2018 near • The existence of alternative locations for the Incident the refinery and the response to it with refinery fireControl Room at four different strategic points on the fighting vehicles, MOTOR OIL undertook further action refinery site, and the availability of a state-of-the-art to improve available means for responding to such automatic call system that enables contact with refinery incidents, from both the aspect of fire suppression and staff in an emergency. of the management. A new fire-fighting pick-up truck has • In 2018, an alternative method was implemented for already been ordered and improvements to permanent immediate notification of personnel involved using an water supply and fire suppression systems are under automated system to send a mass SMS. consideration. • The introduction of satellite phones at the refinery itself As regards the refinery specifically, the plan includes: and in the administration offices. These phones make • The Mutual Aid Agreement, dating back to 1988, whereby communication possible and allow coordination even in all Greek refineries co-operate in the event of an extreme circumstances, such as a natural disaster, when emergency. The effectiveness of this collaboration plan ordinary landlines and mobiles may be rendered useless. is ensured through joint exercises involving MOTOR OIL, the local fire brigade, and the other refineries. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Health and Safety Our commercial companies The drills are designed to respond to a variety of potential scenarios and the Fire Brigade takes an active part in one Coral and Coral Gas conduct scheduled and unscheduled of these with fire engines and crews. Each drill is followed drills at their facilities and offices in which all personnel by an evaluation and written report, while the evaluation take part. The Emergency Response Plans are activated findings are promptly addressed. In 2018 in particular, a during the drills. The two-fold aim is to provide ongoing joint drill was conducted with engines and crews from the training and ensure personnel preparedness and to Korinthos Fire Brigade based on a scenario involving “Fire verify that fire safety equipment is up to par. The drills are at tank T60 with spread to additive tanks”. The Korinthos designed to respond to a variety of potential scenarios Fire Brigade Fire Chief took part in the subsequent and the Fire Brigade takes an active part in some of evaluation. In addition to the drills above, other drills are these. An evaluation follows each drill and the findings are run at the terminal for responding to earthquakes and promptly addressed. Specifically in 2018, 5 emergency spills occurring during fuel transfer (using a special vehicle response drills were conducted at the Coral Gas facility made for this purpose). in Aspropyrgos. One of these was conducted jointly The LPC facility maintains an emergency response with the Fire Brigade, based on the scenario “Gas leak system. The system includes an emergency response at the bottling platform”. A joint fire safety drill was held study, procedures and plans for various situations (fire, with the Fire Brigade at the Thessaloniki facility, based earthquake, terrorist act, flood, etc.), team organisation on a scenario of a gas leak with fire in a tank, in which (fire crews, evacuation teams, and others), a training four Fire Brigade vehicles, 12 firefighters and all facility programme and training and preparedness drills. LPC personnel took part. Similarly, 4 fire safety drills were is not required to have a Response Plan for Large-scale held at the Coral facilities in Perama around the tanks, Industrial Accidents (SATAME). the loading stations, the open space around the tanker trucks and the area around the new dock. The drills were successful and both fixed and portable equipment functioned effectively. Fire Safety Team personnel responded in accordance with the Emergency Response Plan. Evaluations were subsequently conducted with the Fire Brigade’s participation. In Thessaloniki, 7 drills were carried out related to response to leaks, earthquakes and explosion/fire. Avin conducts at least four scheduled and unscheduled fire drills annually at the tanker loading terminal in Ag. Theodoroi. All personnel and firefighting crews at the terminal and refinery take part in the drill, during which the Emergency Response Plans are activated. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 49 9. Safety of Port Installations Safety measures at port facilities are of great importance access. In 2018, 8,602 people and 1,835 vehicles entered since they ensure the smooth flow of the works in the port facilities, after passing security checks. The the refinery, as well as the protection of the marine security checks are conducted with the permission of the environment from any pollution. Port Authorities, pursuant to the terms laid down in the It should be noted that MOTOR OIL became the first Greek approved Port Facility Security Plan, which is based on the company to be certified by the Ministry of Mercantile International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS Marine for compliance with the International Ship and Port Code). Facility Security (ISPS) Code, which is applied according The Code requires that drills be held at least every to the requirements of chapter XI-2 of the International sixteen months, using security scenarios that are often Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS). The combined with sea pollution and/or fire scenarios, with accreditation is reviewed each year, in accordance with the cooperation and participation of the local Port the existing legislative provisions. Authorities. 1,527 ships berthed at the quays of our port In all areas of the port facilities, security checks are facilities in 2018. carried out on crews and supplies, as well as checks on 10. Safeguarding Workforce Health The health of our workers is a key area of care and • The quality of drinking water is tested through analysis by concern. Therefore, the personnel at the refinery and independent laboratories. the facilities undergo regular check-ups, while all Group • The restaurant staff undergoes medical checks in employees are covered by group hospital care programs. accordance with the requirements of the law. The refinery provides full coverage to personnel and • Measurements are taken to establish levels of infrastructures for the provision of medical services and concentration of chemicals in the workplace, in line first aid, which includes: with the requirements of the relevant legislation. Over • Central clinic staffed by two doctors one occupational the last 10 years, the company has conducted a special physician and one GP and nursing personnel. Along study demonstrating that concentrations of all chemical with the services of the GP, the philosophy of preventive substances were below the limit values for exposure. medicine is extended to outside the work environment A study was conducted in 2017 confirming once to promote employee health from all aspects, while also again that the levels of chemical substances in work meeting the needs for health services of employees and areas were almost nil and well below the limit values. their families. Measurements were taken in 2017 to determine the inhalable and respirable fractions of airborne particles • The clinic is equipped with essential supplies, in the atmosphere of the main warehouse, where it was defibrillators, medicinal and other specialised materials ascertained that average concentrations for an 8-hour (bandages for burns, neutralising chemicals) to treat work day are clearly lower than the statutory exposure emergency cases. limit values. N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP) levels in the work • Pharmacy. area of a lubricant production unit were also measured • A fully equipped first-aid station at the Alkylation Unit, and found to be much lower than the respective with a nurse on 24-hour call. occupational exposure limit value. A new survey will be taken in 2019. • Three properly equipped first aid stations (one at the Main Control Station, one at the laboratory and one at A well-equipped doctor’s office also operates at the Head the hydrocracker unit). Office and is staffed by a GP and a cardiologist prepared to respond to acute cases, manage chronic illnesses, • Three fully equipped ambulances. provide information on health issues, organise blood In addition: drives and check-ups, and to support the medical clinics • Rescue crews (Safety personnel) receive continuous at the Group’s other companies. training in rescue practices and first aid. Finally, occupational physicians and arrangements for • A “First Aid Guide” was published and distributed to all general medical procedures and screening examinations personnel, and first aid classes were also held. are also in place for the benefit of all subsidiary companies of the Group. • Employees are supplied with the necessary personal protective equipment, which is always kept up to date, in line with technological advances and changes in European specifications. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Health and Safety 11. Training on Safety Issues The continuous training of our employees, their briefing The general content of health and safety training includes and the creation of a high level of safety awareness, the following subjects: together with the technical and organisational measures, • Fire safety use of fire extinguishing means. form the essential pillars for accident prevention and the maintenance of a safe work environment. Our • Work Permits. commitment is to train the workforce on safety issues • Work in confined spaces. regarding the entire spectrum of their work, in order to • Identification of occupational hazards and risk increase productivity and reduce risks and the frequency evaluation. of accidents. • Personal Protective Equipment. We also see that our contractors’ employees are kept aware of health and safety issues, with the emphasis • Material Safety Data Sheets. on general principles of accident prevention and the • Emergency response procedures and participation in company’s procedures ensuring safe execution of the relevant drills. work they undertake. Visitors are given safety instructions in the form of a special leaflet, while a special briefing film • First aid. is screened for them on entry to the refinery facilities. • Presentations analyses of Major Technological Accidents. • Safe road transport of fuels (for the Group’s commercial companies). Figures for Health and Safety Training MOTOR OIL Other Companies in Group1 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total Workforce 1,233 1,269 741 846 Workers undergoing Training 1,018 1,054 617 622 Man-hours of Training 20,258 15,032 3,733 3,336 Contractors undergoing Training 580 570 1,329 2,741 Man-hours of Training 4,640 4,560 5,210 5,893 1 Avin Oil, Coral, Coral Gas, OFC and LPC Safety Day 2018 Dilemmas Care Risk Acceptance In recent years, the Safety Day has been organised on an annual basis in the Group. In 2018, Safety Day took place on 3 May with the theme “Dilemmas-Risk Acceptance-Care”. This year featured a more in-depth look at these ideas and the way in which they are interconnected. Safety Day is organised simultaneously throughout the Group, in all the companies, the refinery, offices, facilities and service stations, and the workers and associate contractors dedicate more than an hour from their work to participate in scheduled meetings. In 2018 there were more than 120 meetings throughout the Group with the participation of more than 1,500 workers and associates. At the meetings, videos and slides related to the topics are shown, on-the-job risks are identified and recorded, and employees themselves propose solutions for addressing such risks. The main component of these sessions is the open and honest discussion about how each individual handles the dilemmas, and how to take steps to protect the people around them and contribute towards the Zero Goal: Zero Accidents and Zero Lost Time. As a result, the participants show great interest and make personal commitments to CHANGE their BEHAVIOUR with safety in mind. These Safety Days have the broad support and the participation of the Group’s leadership, and they play an important role in raising awareness and forming a uniform culture regarding the importance of Safety. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 51 Workforce Training Training for Contractor Employees As part of encouraging a culture of safety among In 2018, contractor personnel working at the refinery also personnel, information on various topics is regularly received intensive training from an independent organisation disseminated, while safety messages and posters, the on safety-related issues. A total of 570 workers received results of accident and near-miss investigations are training on key safety issues and best international practices posted on Health and Safety notice boards at all of our from trainers with extensive experience in the refinery facilities. sector. At the end of the training the participants sat for examinations, and only those who successfully completed In 2018, the work permit form was revised and refinery the course could now receive an entrance card for working personnel were trained, certified and recertified in the at the refinery. issuance of work permits, which stipulate the work safety procedures in place at the refinery. As they do every year, Intensive training was conducted at our commercial the rescue crews received training at the 1st Search and companies for personnel working at our own-operated Rescue Team (EMAK) facilities in techniques for rescue retail stations and for contractors at our facilities. A total of from a height in an industrial setting and they carried 2,741 people received training; 2,500 of them were at service out related drills. Specialised Hellenic Police personnel stations and 180 at our facilities. The main training topics also conducted training on issues related to security in covered safe operations, safety check-lists, and others. the refinery area. In addition, the structured efforts to educate the technical staff of our facilities were continued through films and presentations/discussions on incidents, analysing causes, effects and the corrective measures taken. Intensive training was also offered in 2018 for new employees (technicians and operators) in key topics affecting their area, most of which were related to the safety procedures at the refinery and the particular areas where they will be working. Lastly, 12 new engineers were trained in the Emergency Response Plan, as part of assuming duties of the on-duty engineer. Training in Fire Safety In order to improve the readiness of refinery personnel to • Theoretical and practical training was conducted on the respond to emergency situations, as well as to rehearse drill field for 42 new operators and technicians on fire the procedures of the Emergency Response Plan and suppression and respiratory protective equipment. check the operability of equipment, regular emergency • All of Coral’s tanker truck drivers received theoretical preparedness exercises are carried out. In 2018, the and practical training in the use of fire extinguishers and program in question involved 6 training sessions on the respiratory protective equipment. drill field and 1 theoretical training, as well as 43 drills, 1 of which was in conjunction with AVIN and the Korinthos Fire • Training sessions were held to maintain training levels for Brigade, and one with Korinthos Power. fire engine drivers and reserve drivers, familiarizing them with access to various areas and the equipment in new The pre-scheduled drills took place in various areas of the units. refinery and the fire crew training field, involving rehearsal of fire crews in the theoretical and practical aspects of • There were training sessions for new crew leaders, as their duties, and their familiarisation with fire-fighting well as all the new drivers, to familiarize them with the equipment and related Personal Protective Equipment. fire engines and their movement around the refinery. The refinery engineers also participated in the fire safety • The Korinthos Fire Brigade held training for fire safety drills from the incident control room to receive further personnel and crews on responding to forest fires. training in the handling of such scenarios. • Fire safety personnel visited and received training at the In addition, in 2018: Fire Academy. •A ll shift-workers passed the annual training in the use of • Williams Fire & Hazard Control held a seminar on fire Respiratory Protective Equipment. suppression in tanks. • Training of the rescue team continued. • Draeger Hellas conducted training for fire safety personnel on the use and maintenance of breathing •A seminar was held on response to fire in a floating roof apparatus. tank to demonstrate a boilover occurrence on a small scale. It was conducted on the drill field by a foreign company specialising in tank fire suppression. Taking part in the drill were members of the Korinthos Fire Brigade and the Fire Academy. 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Health and Safety Road Safety Road safety is a priority for the Group’s commercial The road tankers undergo a thorough annual safety companies, which every day transport more than check in accordance with the «Regulations on Safety 6,000,000 litres of liquid fuel and 450 metric tons of gas of Loading of Tankers with Liquid Fuels at Petroleum across Greece and the Balkans. On an annual basis, they Facilities». This check extends to the full compliance travel more than 27 million kilometres delivering fuel in with the terms included in the European Agreement Greece and abroad without accident or injury to drivers concerning the Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road or others, demonstrating in practice our commitment (ADR). and dedication to road safety, and our contribution to the To comply with the ADR agreement, in 2016 all Group common good. In 2018, more than 300 drivers of private companies prepared the transportation security plan, and public use tank trucks received training in their describing the procedures followed in case of any threat special skill areas. to the transport equipment or the hazardous cargo Fuels are a category of hazardous materials and their (terrorist attack, theft, etc.). safe transport requires precautionary measures to be There is also an ongoing training programme focusing on taken at three levels: defensive and safe driving, loading/unloading procedures • The maintenance of a high technical standard of and fuel handling, anti-skid and anti-roll over manoeuvres, transport equipment, i.e. road tankers. fuel chemistry, handling of customer complaints, vehicle • The promulgation of strict safety procedures and the safety equipment, fume recovery, security, etc. constant monitoring of their implementation. In recent years the programme has also incorporated a • Ongoing training of our own tanker drivers and drivers of detailed analysis of the routes taken by our tanker drivers, the transport companies working with us. so that the safest route is always taken for each journey. GPS tracking devices have also been fitted to tankers to The Group’s commercial companies, carrying out allow closer monitoring of driver behaviour (speed, route their activities with a keen sense of responsibility, are taken, stops etc.). continually engaged in striving to meet the above requirements, in the context of the rules laid down by the state, the Greek and global petroleum industry, and their own company policies and procedures. To succeed in this objective they operate integrated systems for recording and monitoring of road tankers carrying fuel on their behalf (company-owned or belonging to partner companies), as well as training programmes for drivers, while also undergoing tests and certification from external accreditation agencies under the standards ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Protection) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety Management). MOTOR OIL HELLAS 53 Responsibility for the Environment Protection of the environment and energy-saving are among our primary concerns. Respect and care for the environment is a common Our commitment to continuing to decrease our denominator in all activities of the MOTOR OIL environmental footprint, as seen in the diagrams Group. We operate as a responsible corporate of the related indicators, remains consistent and organisation and espouse the principles of sustainable uncompromising. In 2018, the specific values for energy development, which is based on environmental consumption, and carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide protection, mutual respect and a sense of duty emissions were at about the same levels as in 2017 and towards future generations. even dropped slightly, while the specific value for water consumption was slightly higher due to the regular For these reasons, we continue with investments maintenance of the units. aimed at the steady improvement of our environmental performance. In 2018, we spent 26.1 As part of ongoing improvement and review of the million euros in our investment programme with both environmental management system, as certified large and smaller scale projects, making a direct or under the ISO 14001 standard, eleven communication indirect contribution to environmental protection. procedures were revised in 2018, and the annual In 2018, we continued with investments at the refinery Environmental Statement 2017 was issued in to upgrade and replace furnaces in the Lubricant accordance with the EMAS III ER122/2009 regulation. Vacuum Distillation Unit and the Reverse Osmosis Units In compliance with provisions of Law 4403/2016 to further enhance energy savings. We completed requiring corporate groups to publish non-financial the application of the Advanced Process Control information, as well as the requirements of Circular (APC) system to the alkylation unit with the aim of 62487/07-06-2017, we have included data on the maintaining consistent product quality, efficiency environmental performance of MOTOR OIL and and safety. In addition, as part of general equipment subsidiaries CORAL, CORAL GAS, AVIN OIL, LPC and maintenance, we completed projects to reduce energy OFC in this report. These data reflect energy and fuel consumption and emissions. consumption, along with greenhouse gas emissions related to this energy and fuel consumption. Environment We use best available techniques and state-of-the-art anti-pollution technology 26.1 million euros Investments and operating costs related to the environment in 2018 1. Environmental Management The company’s primary goal to minimise the • Pre-empting risks of environmental pollution, minimising environmental impact and energy footprint of its the probability of environmental accidents, and operation, as part of our sustainable development preparing, implementing and testing appropriate strategy, is based on the Environmental and Energy emergency intervention procedures. Management systems, certified according to ISO 14001 • Training of, and awareness-raising among, all our and ISO 50001 respectively. personnel and contractors’ employees who work on our The Environmental and Energy Management systems are premises, on the implementation of our environmental part of the Integrated Management System and serve protection policy. as effective management tools for implementing our • Evaluating our environmental performance and environmental protection policy objectives, which are: continuously improving our Environmental Management • Complying fully with all Greek and EU environmental System. protection legislative requirements. • Developing communication and dialogue with all • Operating the refinery facilities in accordance with stakeholders, especially with local communities in areas approved environmental conditions. around the company’s facilities. • Distributing products that comply with the European The Environmental Management System ensures that quality and environmental protection norms, by taking suitable procedures are in place to identify and evaluate steps to upgrade production facilities accordingly. the significant environmental impacts of our activities, • Planning and implementing projects with minimised and forms the basis for drawing up strategies and environmental impacts. implementing technically feasible and financially viable programmes to protect the environment. • Implementing Best Available Techniques. The company’s Environmental Management System • Monitoring and continually minimising the emissions was first certified in 2000, in accordance with the ISO of greenhouse gases, as well as those of other gas 14001:1996 standard. This was followed by re-certifications, pollutants, and reducing solid and liquid waste as far as and in 2017, certification was expanded to include the technically and economically feasible. production, trade and delivery of fuels, biofuels, basic • Monitoring and, as far as possible, minimising, the lubricants, lubricants, paraffins, asphalt, sulphur, and consumption of energy. special petroleum products with the new re-certified ISO 14001:2015 standard. Environmental Management System Planning Environmental aspects Statutory and other requirements Goals and objectives Environmental programmes Implementation and Operation Structure and responsibilities ΙSO 14001:2015 Health, Safety Education – awareness raising ISO 50001:2011 Communication and Environmental EMAS III ER 1221/2008 Documentation Policy u uo e Document inspection t in Operational control Con vem Emergency response I m p ro nt s Control Monitoring and measuring Management Non-compliance Review Corrective and preventive action Improvement Proposals Records Implementation commitment Inspections 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment The Environmental Management System is part of the Compliance with Environmental Legislation company’s Integrated Management System, which has also been recertified to the revised ISO 9001:2015 standard A key element of MOTOR OIL’s environmental policy, for quality. Therefore, the various internal operations and which is applied to all company activities, is to comply procedures of the Environmental Management System with environmental legislation. are themselves subject to the rigorous documentation Our commitment to rigorous adherence to Greek and imposed by the standard. European legislation is reflected in our environmental In 2018, as part of efforts to ensure the ongoing fine-tuning performance indicators, which are reported to the and improvement of the Environmental Management competent authorities and stakeholders. System, eleven communication procedures were reviewed The refinery facilities, which include the principal in regard to: and auxiliary units, operate under the terms and 1. Implementing environmental conditions at the refinery; conditions described in detail in the Decision Approving 2. Managing gas, liquid, and solid waste; Environmental Conditions for the refinery’s operation. The above decision is governed by the regulations of 3. Managing communication with stakeholders on Directive 2010/75/EU (the Industrial Emissions Directive) environmentally related issues; which mandates the implementation of best available 4. Handling environmental management programmes; techniques to achieve an integrated approach to preventing and controlling emissions into air, water, and 5. Managing neighbour complaints; soil. The refinery facilities also fall under the greenhouse 6. P rocedure for monitoring and reporting related to CO2 gas emission allowance trading scheme within the emissions from combustion/processing. European Community as part of Directive 2003/87/EC Our commitment to publish our environmental aimed at promoting efficient and cost-effective reduction performance figures and the impact of the operations of greenhouse gas emissions. at our facilities, as explicitly set out in our Policy on Prior-period reports are submitted to competent the Environment, led to our voluntary adoption and authorities annually, outlining: implementation of the Community Eco-Management • Emissions and plan for monitoring carbon dioxide and Audit Scheme ΕΜAS ΙΙΙ, provided for by European emissions. Regulation 1221:2009. • Quantities and type of produced solid waste and its Within the framework of EMAS, the company is management. required to publish, on an annual basis, information about its environmental performance in the form of an • Quantity and quality of liquid waste. Environmental Statement, allowing it to remain in the • Results of monitoring and recording environmental EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme System, by quality. the decision of the Ministry of Environment and Energy renewed annually. In 2018, MOTOR OIL issued its BVQI• Emissions from main combustion plants. certified Environmental Statement 2017, its twelfth such • Annual final report for the European Pollutant Release annual report. It is available on the website, www.moh.gr. and Transfer Register (EPRTR), in compliance with Additionally, in 2017, MOTOR OIL certified its Energy Regulation (EC) No 166/2006. Management System at the refinery to the ISO 50001:2011 • Quantities of ship-generated waste offloaded at MOTOR standard, which binds the company to using energy OIL’s port facilities. efficiently with the aim of conserving natural resources, In addition, the annual Environmental Statement is reducing greenhouse gas emissions and helping to filed in accordance with the requirements of EMAS ER alleviate the effects of climate change. 1221/2009. The company is registered with the European In 2018, MOTOR OIL’s Energy Management System Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), and in received 1st prize for Organisation and Management of the corresponding Hellenic Register, under number EL medium and large enterprises from the Greek Association 000067. of Environmental Protection Companies (PASEPEE) as part of the Greek Awards for the Environment. It should be noted that, in the oil refining sector, the combined certification to ISO 14001:2015, ISO 50001:2011 and EMAS for the environment and energy, and ISO 9001:2015 for quality management, is particularly significant and provides advantages at many levels. Such a multiple certification is unusual among European refineries with such high complexity as MOTOR OIL’s. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 57 Similarly, LPC submitted: Environmental Impact Assessment •A  nnual statements to the Electronic Waste Registry regarding waste collection and transport activities (Reg. In striving to consistently improve its environmental No 15-1) and waste generation (Reg. No 15-2) for the year performance over and above what is legally required, 2018. MOTOR OIL identifies and assesses the environmental aspects and unavoidable impacts of its operation and •A  nnual statement to the Electronic Waste Producers implements programmes to prevent and mitigate them. Registry (EWP Reg. No 616) for 2018 (Hellenic Recycling Agency-ΕΟΑΝ, alternative management of waste An important tool in this endeavour is the identification of lubricating oils). environmental aspects and the systematic assessment of environmental impacts at all stages of the production •A  nnual final report for the European Pollutant Release process. and Transfer Register (EPRTR), in compliance with Regulation (EC) No 166/2006, for 2018. The following are taken into account when identifying environmental aspects: •T  he verified annual Environmental Statement (BV) in accordance with the requirements of EMAS ER • Current legislative requirements and their amendments 1221/2009. The company is registered with the European • Stakeholder views Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), and in • The refinery’s operation under normal and abnormal the corresponding Hellenic Register, under number EL conditions, and potential emergency situations. 000051. The assessment of impacts and their classification as significant or non-significant is based on a number of Refinery/facilities communication with local criteria. Specifically, impacts are considered significant stakeholders when: All of our companies maintain open channels of • They constitute legislative requirements for the facility. communication with local administration authorities and • They are related to the company’s environmental policy other stakeholders, either by sending representatives to or some predetermined purpose or objective. conferences and meetings, or keeping local organisations informed about its investment plans and its programmes • An objection or complaint has been expressed or is relating to environmental protection. considered vital following evaluation of stakeholder views. Besides briefing local authorities, the company also maintains open communication lines with refinery Environmental Impact Evaluation Criteria neighbours, listening and responding to any complaints they may have. Recording, investigation, and evaluation of complaints from local residents are all covered by a specific procedure to ensure the appropriate immediate or long-term corrective action is taken, in line with the causes YES Legal Requirement of the nuisance. The fact that in recent years the number of complaints YES Purpose/Goal from the local community has been kept at low levels demonstrates the efficacy of the measures described YES Objection above. Specifically, for 2018, we received 7 complaints by NON-SIGNIFICANT IMPACT YES SIGNIFICANT IMPACT neighbours, with one of them concerning nuisance from 3 Complaints/Year emissions, 5 from noise and 1 from odors. The number of YES Stakeholder Opinion complaints was significantly lower compared to 2017, when Founded 22 complaints were lodged. Of the 7 complaints, 3 were determined to be groundless and no corrective measures YES Indirect were necessary, while 4 were deemed justified, but not NO significant, as they were related to essential processes or Irregular Circumstances matters of unit operation which were promptly addressed. Accident NO No complaints were received in 2018 from neighbours of Emergency the Coral, Coral Gas and LPC facilities. High Low Impact Severity High Low Frequency of Appearance 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment The assessment mentioned above is a dynamic process • Gas emissions from fixed combustion sources and from that monitors changes to the refinery’s configuration and the refinery’s production processes. redefines the significance and classification of impacts. • Energy and water consumption. The company’s environmental records are reviewed • Hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste. regularly; where new activities or changes have been introduced, such review seeks to identify any new • Liquid industrial effluents and urban liquid waste. environmental aspects / impacts that may arise from: • Noise. •N ew compliance requirements due to changes in The above environmental impacts are monitored regularly legislation. using suitable environmental indicators, based on •N ew activities, products or services, or changes in which targets are set to address, properly manage and existing ones. improve environmental performance by implementing programmes. • Objections from or the views of stakeholders. When new projects are being planned, alternative This procedure for classifying the environmental impacts designs are evaluated taking account of their respective associated with the refinery’s operation, and their environmental impacts, with the aim of minimising these significance classification, has led to the following impacts impacts as far as practicable, incorporating Best Available being classified as significant, therefore constituting the Techniques and choosing the most environmentally challenges we are called upon to manage: friendly solution. 2. Environmental Investments and Expenditures The company’s investment policy is oriented towards producing products that comply with European quality specifications, using technologies that minimise environmental impacts, and towards capital investments aiming at improving and enhancing the refinery’s environmental performance. Between 2000 and 2018, the Group realised an investment programme totalling 1,827 million euros (as shown in the relevant table), the major part of which related to the construction of the new Crude Distillation Unit, as well as the Hydrocracker Complex, which produces clean fuels. From 2000 to 2018, investment related to the environment amounted to 841.2 million euros, i.e. 46% of the total investment programme. In 2018, total investments amounted to 150.5 million euros, of which 26.1 million euros concerned investments and operating expenses to improve and protect the environment. Environmental Investments and Operating Expenses 2000 2018 (million euros) Year 2000-2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Total Level of Investment 1,166.3 71.3 67.6 68.7 60.7 42.4 86.4 113.3 150.5 1,827.2 Investment Relating to Environment 624.1 36.1 16.4 18.7 11.0 8.4 18.9 18.7 20.6 772.9 Environmental Operating Expenses 31.3 4.0 3.3 4.0 4.5 5.7 5.1 4.9 5.5 68.3 Total Environmental Investments and Operating 655.4 40.1 19.7 22.7 15.5 14.1 24.0 23.6 26.1 841.2 Expenses In 2018, the installation of the Advanced Process Control (APC) system for the alkylation unit was completed, and will ensure optimal control and ongoing automated regulation of its operation. There are multiple benefits from the operation of the new system, in terms of both process and environmental safety, due to the significant savings of energy and the consequent reduction of the carbon footprint in the production process. In 2018, the upgrade of the Lubricant Vacuum Distillation Unit continued with the replacement of the 3 old furnaces with 2 new, technologically advanced and more efficient ones with a shared system to preheat combustion air and increase thermal efficiency. Regarding the above project, it is important to note that it is a modernisation project, with significant environmental benefits, including: MOTOR OIL HELLAS 59 • Optimisation of Energy Efficiency In 2018, MOTOR OIL participated in the implementation of the European LIFE DIANA environmental programme The thermal efficiency of the new furnace is as high as aimed at installing an innovative pilot facility at the refinery 91%, making an important contribution to optimising to stabilise residual petroleum sludge. At the same time, energy efficiency. it took part in research projects aimed at environmental • Energy-Saving protection, specifically: the DIRPIMCOAL project to produce The new furnaces incorporate forced draft technology, biofuel from industrial and urban waste; the CARMOF and use less energy than the older furnaces. project to capture CO2 at the refinery production facilities; and the DeepDesOil project to develop a combined • Reduction in Point Emissions of Pollutants chemical-biological process for hyper-desulphurisation of The enhanced energy efficiency achieved by the petroleum products. replacement of the old furnaces has a direct impact 841.2 million euros on the reduction of atmospheric emissions (because of the improved combustion process and reduction in use of fuel). The burners in the new furnace are low NΟx burners, which helps reduce the quantity of NΟx emitted environmental investment and operating in the furnace fumes. expenses from 2000 to 2018 Also as part of decreasing our energy footprint, in 2018 an upgrade of the seawater desalination units was planned, which involved the addition of a new reverse osmosis unit. The new unit will replace the desalination system which uses multi-stage flash technology. The new, stateof-the-art osmosis unit will achieve a reduction in energy consumption for water production, rendering its operation more environmentally friendly. 3. Best Available Techniques Best Available Techniques (BAT) are techniques that can It also submitted environmental impact studies for prevent (primary prevention measures that are intrinsic permitting of the following upgrade projects, which will to the production process itself), or control (secondary optimise its environmental and energy performance: measures or “end-of-pipe” techniques) in the most • Upgrade of the Μ200 Vacuum Distillation Unit furnaces. efficient manner the pollution caused by an industrial activity, while being economically feasible and technically • Installation of a new reverse osmosis unit. practicable. The BAT application technical report describes: Best Available Techniques per sector are described in • measures to prevent or reduce emissions during the the corresponding Reference Documents (BREFs). These facility’s operation and emission levels achieved with include the best available techniques and information their application; on their feasibility, emissions levels, related monitoring, • emissions monitoring; consumption levels and measures for site remediation once the facility has ceased operation. • automations and control systems that contribute to the efficient management of raw materials and energy, while The BAT conclusions (Commission Implementing Decision ensuring high levels of reliability and safety in the units; 2014/738/EU) for refineries were issued in 2014, and under Directive 2010/75/EU on integrated pollution prevention • incorporation of BATs either into the initial design of a and control, all refining installations are required to apply unit, or when existing units and processes are expanded them to the greatest possible extent in order to receive or modified. environmental permits. Additionally, the Directive imposes the review of the installation environmental permits within four years of the issuance of BREF conclusions to ensure that BATs are being applied. In view of the above, in 2018, MOTOR OIL submitted a request for a review of environmental conditions along with the technical report on BAT application at the refinery, in accordance with Decision 2014/738/EU. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment A summary of BAT application at the refinery is provided below: A. Management and Automated Control Systems D. Anti-Pollution Technology Units • Application and maintenance of quality, environmental • Gas processing and sulphur recovery units. and energy management systems that meet ISO • Sour water stripping units. 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 50001:2011 standards to ensure ongoing improvement of the refinery’s overall • Industrial and municipal wastewater treatment units. environmental performance. • Contaminated soil processing unit using bioremediation. • A Distributed Control System (DCS) to monitor its • Sludge de-oiling/decanting units to reduce sludge production process and emissions into air and water, volume. which plays an important role in reducing environmental • Electrostatic filter at the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit. impacts of the production process. • Vapour recovery system at the Truck Loading Terminal. • The use of Advanced Process Control systems to minimise operating fluctuations and reduce energy • Emergency systems for maintenance work and demand. response to system disruption (load-shedding systems, emergency amine systems, multiple wash down systems). B. Efficient energy use • Optimal use of steam in the stripping process and use E. Ancillary facilities to minimise use of energy and of steam traps. natural resources • Promotion of energy integration in production • Water desalination using reverse osmosis technology. processes, through analysis of optimal energy use. • Power and steam cogeneration plant. • Promotion of heat and energy recovery at the refinery. • Recycling of cooling water. • Use of heat recovery boilers to reduce consumption of fuel in generation of steam. • Partial use of cooling tower with desalinated water aiming at decreasing the use of seawater. • Optimised combustion. • Balancing generation and consumption of energy using automated control systems. F. Prevention and Monitoring Measures • Placement of second-tier seals on floating-roof tanks, using low-leaking valves and double-seal pumps, C. Minimised gas emissions implementation of international construction and piping • Maximised use of refinery gas fuel. codes to minimise fugitive emissions from various • Use of fuels with low sulphur content. sources. • Use of good combustion techniques. • Implementation of leak detection and repair programme (LDAR) to detect and rectify fugitive • Minimised fuel consumption through the installation of emissions of volatile organic compounds from forced-draft furnaces (increased energy efficiency). equipment. • Installation of Low-ΝOx burners in new units or when • Automated tank cleaning method. modernising existing ones. • Heat exchanger maintenance and cleaning programme. • Use of high thermal efficiency techniques. • Equipment inspection programme. • Use of steam injection techniques. • Solid waste management to reduce generation at • Use of a catalyst which will resist wear caused by friction source and disposal through specialised companies. in the catalytic pyrolysis unit. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 61 4. Energy Saving For us, the rational use of energy is an important Energy consumption and the overall performance of the parameter in conducting responsible business activities facilities is systematically monitored with the application and is indicative of our commitment to the principles of of an integrated Energy Management System. It is noted sustainable growth. that energy consumption for 2018 in absolute numbers showed an increase from 2017, as overall production Thus: increased. Nevertheless, per-unit energy consumption • Our goal is to measure and improve, on a continuous showed a decrease and amounted to 2.13 TJ, down basis, our performance with respect to the use of energy 0.9% from 2017. Our long-standing commitment to and the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. continue to reduce energy consumption is depicted in the • We invest in the application of economically feasible diagram below showing the decrease in specific energy technologies that contribute to the reduction of consumption over time. emissions. Cooperating with the competent state authorities and other agencies in planning and Energy Consumption implementing technologically feasible and financially viable environmental protection policies. 30,707 Energy • We report our actions and results to all stakeholders. Consumption (TJ) 29,444 Specific 29,183 Energy 4.1. Energy Efficiency Improvement 28,774 Consumption (TJ/thousand ΜΤ of Raw Materials) Our “energy footprint” is an important consideration 27,298 that leads us to actively identify areas with potential for enhancing energy efficiency, and to implement 2.48 2.37 appropriate projects through the use of Best Available 2.26 2.15 Techniques or equivalent technologies. 2.13 The MOTOR OIL refinery has drawn up and is 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 implementing an investment programme aimed at improving energy efficiency, primarily in the older units which were less energy-efficient due to their design. Thus, Use of Natural Gas in recent years, one additional power-steam cogenerator was installed to minimise boiler use; the thermal pyrolysis Introducing the use of natural gas to the refinery in 2008 furnace was upgraded; the air preheating furnace of was an important step towards reducing its energy the Crude Distillation Unit was replaced, while additional footprint, while also improving financial and environmental heat recovery exchangers were installed in the Thermal results, given that the use of natural gas usually reduces Pyrolysis Unit. Meanwhile, in 2016, the project to upgrade CO2 emissions and is, for the most part, the economically the furnaces at the Lubricant Vacuum Distillation Unit into most efficient way of generating electricity and producing forced draft furnaces began, with initial positive results hydrogen. indicating a significantly lower fuel consumption, while the upgrade of the furnace in the Lubricant Extraction Unit Natural gas is used: is currently in progress. At the same time, the application • As an alternative raw material for the hydrogen of the Advanced Process Control (APC) systems to the production unit (instead of naphtha or LPG), which allows alkylation unit was completed. In the past, APC systems the quantities of carbon dioxide emitted to be reduced by had been installed in almost all production units, and this approximately 8% and 19%, respectively. year marks the eleventh since natural gas was introduced. • As an alternative fuel for the Power Cogeneration Plant As part of optimising operations, in 2018 the catalyst in gas turbines, instead of either fuel gas or propane, the mild hydrocracking unit was partially replaced. achieving a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 16%. • As an alternative or supplementary fuel for the refinery’s pre-heat furnaces and steam boilers, thus both increasing energy efficiency and significantly reducing emissions of air pollutants. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment Power and Steam Cogeneration Plant Recovery of Gases and Condensates The Cogeneration Plant now includes five gas turbines, The recovery of condensates, which are then used in the with a total active power of 85MW, and three boilers steam boilers to produce steam, was maintained at high recovering heat from the exhaust fumes generated. These levels. Using the energy content of the condensates means boilers generate about 140 tons of highand low-pressure reducing the gas and liquid fuel required to generate steam per hour, making the refinery self-sufficient in steam in the steam boilers. Continual care is also taken to electricity – as it eliminates the need to draw power from maximise recovery of gases, so that they can be used as the Public Power Corporation grid – and meeting most of fuel and their combustion in the flare minimised. its need for steam. The operation of the plant also contributes to the Desalination reduction of greenhouse gas emissions on a national level by drastically reducing electricity consumption from Desalination of seawater using reverse osmosis the national grid, the production of which would require technology is the most energy-efficient method. This a different fuel mix. Moreover, heat recovery and steam technique is being widely used with an array of units generation at the refinery reduce the use of boilers. The providing a total capacity of 500 m3/h, and results in resulting benefit for the environment in terms of lower making the use of thermal desalination units completely CO2 emissions due to own generation of electricity is unnecessary. indicated in the following table. In addition, the Power Management System (Best Available Monitoring and Daily Practice Technique), which was upgraded in 2011, protects the refinery from partial or complete shutdown owing to The energy performance of production units is constantly a failure of the internal or external power network, monitored, to correct any malfunctions that come to significantly increasing the level of safety and reliability light. The Advanced Process Control system, through and thereby improving environmental efficiency. continuous monitoring, achieves the optimisation of energy use in the units where it has been installed. The APC system is fully operational for the crude Αvoiding CO2 Emissions (tons) by Cogeneration of Electricity distillation units, the Vacuum Distillation units, the and Steam Hydrocracker and Hydrogen Production units and the 2017 2018 Diesel Hydrodesulphurisation units, making a significant 346,000 385,448 contribution to optimising operations and providing direct control of their most important operational parameters. Automated sulphur and distillation analysers have also been installed and are used by the APC to adjust the Upgrading of Preheating Furnaces and Boilers processes and minimise energy consumption accurately. With the same aim, the refinery’s preventive maintenance The upgrading of the furnaces is intended to ensure programme provides for: more effective use of the heat from the exhaust fumes, •T he systematic re-tubing, repair, and cleaning of heat thereby reducing consumption of fuel, CO2 emissions exchangers and air coolers in order to maximise heat and emissions of other atmospheric pollutants. A rolling recovery and reduce consumption. programme is underway to upgrade the refinery furnaces, introducing forced draft technology – which increases the •R eplacing, through annual programmes, of pipeline efficiency of a furnace by more than 6% – and replacing and equipment insulation, thus minimizing losses to the the existing boilers with new, more energy-efficient environment. boilers emitting fewer NOx. In 2014, with the completion •T he maintenance and/or replacement of rotating of upgrading of the visbreaker unit, a new improvedequipment, whose energy performance has fallen below efficiency pre-heating furnace was installed, allowing a specified levels, as a result of length of use. savings of up to 30% in fuel use compared with previous years. Moreover, the project to upgrade the furnaces of •R epairing and/or replacing of the refractory material, the Vacuum Distillation Unit got underway in 2016, with burners and tubes of pre-heat furnaces. initial results in 2018 showing a corresponding decrease in fuel consumption. A study is planned for 2019 on the further upgrade of the furnace of one of the two crude distillation units and the reconfiguration of its preheating exchangers in order to achieve an even greater energy savings. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 63 Our commercial companies Energy consumption and related emissions by the subsidiaries are not considered substantial for us, since the most significant environmental impact derives from the operation of the refinery. That is where we focus the majority of actions as part of our strategy. Nevertheless, we commenced documenting our performance to meet the requirements to publish environmental data of Law 4403/2016, which was adopted to incorporate European Directive 2014/95/EU into national legislation. Energy Consumption for Buildings and Facilities of our Commercial Companies 2017 2018 Company Type of Energy MWh ΤJ MWh ΤJ Electrical Power (Aspropyrgos, Kalohori) 1,157 4.17 1,347 4.85 CORAL GAS LPG (Kalohori) 144 0.52 153 0.55 Electrical Power (Perama, Ikonio, Hania, Kalohori, 2,975 10.75 3,762 13.54 CORAL Kavala, Alexandroupoli) Heating Oil (Perama, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 4,923 17.72 4,974 17.91 Electrical Power (Agioi Theodoroi, Kavala) 329 1.19 1,738 6.26 AVIN OIL Heating Oil (Kavala) 26 0.09 17 0.06 Electrical Power 5,946 21.41 6,142 22.11 LPC Natural Gas 41,843 150.63 56,825 204.57 Fuel for Own Use 20,640 74.30 8,324 29.97 Electrical Power 564.8 2.03 571 2.05 OFC Heating Oil 111 0.40 94 0.34 Automotive Diesel 71 0.26 76 0.27 Energy Consumption by Privately Owned Fleet of our Commercial Companies 2017 2018 Company Type of Energy Lt MWh/lt MWh ΤJ Lt MWh/lt MWh ΤJ CORAL Automotive Diesel 106,931 0.0119 1,272 4.58 108,804 0.0119 1,295 4.66 GAS LPG (Autogas) 832 0.00708 6 0.02 CORAL Automotive Diesel 419,212 0.0119 4,989 17.96 407,169 0.0119 4,845 17.44 AVIN OIL Automotive Diesel 414,958 0.0119 4,938 17.78 404,000 0.0119 4,808 17.31 LPC Automotive Diesel 108,650 0.0119 1,293 4.65 134,490 0.0119 1,600 5.76 Automotive Diesel 5,629 0.0119 67 0.24 5,260 0.0119 63 0.23 OFC Petrol 1,293 0.0097 13 0.05 1,398 0.0097 14 0.05 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment 4.2. CΟ2 emissions The year 2018 was the sixth year of implementing the Total CO2 emissions for the refinery in 2018 were at 2,162 new system to monitor greenhouse gas emissions for thousand tons. A slight increase in overall emissions was the period 2013-2020. Apart from the need to reduce noted in 2018 compared to 2017, due to an increase in the CO2 emissions, this phase of application will also be coefficients for calculating the National Inventory. The subject to rigorous specifications relating to the accuracy specific value remained at the same level as in 2017. of measurements and assessment of their relative uncertainty. CO2 Emissions In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR OIL: 2,216 •U  ses the appropriate methodology to monitor CO2 Annual Emissions (thousand ΜΤ) emissions from its facilities, the methodology resting Specific on methods of calculation based on flow analysis Annual Emissions 2,164 2,158 2,162 measurements and analyses of fuel quality. (ΜΤ CO2 per ΜΤ of Raw Material) • Calculates at the refinery chemistry laboratory – certified to ΕΝ 17025:2005 standards – the quantity of 2,111 carbon contained in the refinery gas fuel using the gas chromatography method. 0.178 0.179 0.174 • Submits to the competent ministry annual reports on 0.159 0.156 CO2 emissions, which are verified as to their reliability and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 validity by a certified external agency. Our commercial companies Here is the documented performance of our commercial companies, in accordance with the requirements to publish environmental data under Law 4403/2016. Emissions of CO2 in ΜΤ from Energy Consumption for Buildings and Facilities of our Commercial Companies 2017 2018 Company Type of Energy tn CO2 eq tn CO2 eq CORAL GAS Electrical Power (Aspropyrgos, Kalohori) 673 850 CORAL GAS LPG (Kalohori) 37 35 Electrical Power (Perama, Ikonio, Hania, Kalohori, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 1,731 2,373 CORAL Heating Oil (Perama, Kavala, Alexandroupoli) 793 1,321 Electrical Power (Agioi Theodoroi, Kavala) 191 1,097 AVIN OIL Heating Oil (Kavala) 7 4 Electrical Power 3,460 3,875 LPC Natural Gas 9,095 12,223 Fuel for Own Use 5,825 2,349 OFC Electrical Power 329 348 OFC Heating Oil 27 25 Automotive Diesel 17.7 19 Emissions of CO2 in ΜΤ from Energy Consumption by Privately Owned Fleet of our Commercial Companies 2017 2018 Company Type of Energy Lt tn CO2 eq tn CO2 eq Lt tn CO2 eq tn CO2 eq / 1,000 lt / 1,000 lt Automotive Diesel 106,931 2.6 278 108,804 2.639 287 CORAL GAS LPG (Autogas) 832 1.52 1.26 CORAL Automotive Diesel 419,212 2.6 1,090 407,169 2.639 1,075 AVIN OIL Automotive Diesel 414,958 2.6 1,079 404,000 2.639 1,066 LPC Automotive Diesel 108,650 2.6 282 134,490 2.639 350 Automotive Diesel 5,629 2.6 15 5,260 2.639 14 OFC Petrol 1,293 2.27 2.9 1,398 2.27 3.17 Emission factors of electrical energy and fuels were taken from the National Inventory Report (NIR 2018 and NIR 2019). MOTOR OIL HELLAS 65 5. Air Quality Management It is a fundamental duty of our company to assure air quality at and around our facilities. The achievement of ongoing improvement in this area is not just a response to legal requirements; it is also due to our commitment to the principles of Corporate Responsibility, according to which we regard air quality as an important issue. • Furnaces CO2, NOX, SO2, Suspended particles. • Boilers – Burners Gas emissions from focal combustion sources. • Gas Wash down Unit • Sulphur Recovery Units (Catalytic SO2, H2S conversion of hydrogen sulphide into H2S gas emissions are very low due to sulphur and then burning of the flue their complete conversion into solid sulphur. gases) VOCs emissions • Fuel storage Emissions of organic volatile compounds • API oil separators come from fuel storage tanks, the operation • Loading-unloading of raw materials of the API oil separators as well as the leaks and products there may be from the distribution of the • Leaks from distribution network fuel within the refinery. Emissions Monitoring Moreover, in conformance with the refinery’s environmental terms, the supply of gases to the flares in To protect and improve air quality, a state-of-the-art the Combustion, Lubricant and Hydrocracking units is also metering equipment is employed. The measurement constantly monitored. At the Catalytic Cracking Unit there programme covers both point and diffused emissions on a is continuous monitoring of the flow, humidity, pressure and continuous and regular basis. temperature of the flue gases, the concentration of oxygen and carbon monoxide, of sulphur dioxide, of nitrogen In the peripheral zone of the refinery, air quality is oxides and of suspended particles. monitored at four stations, which are equipped with contemporary, automated tools with multiple measuring It should be noted that all analysers are connected to the and monitoring abilities: refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS), a configuration that allows for the complete control of the units’ function •T hree fixed monitoring stations are capable of with the aim of minimising air pollution. continuously measuring the concentration of hydrogen sulphide (H2S) and sulphur dioxide (SΟ2). Emissions from the refinery’s other stacks are monitored every three months by a suitably accredited external •A mobile station which can perform continuous organisation. measurement of meteorological parameters (wind speed and direction, air temperature and relative An automated performance control system operates humidity), and concentrations of nitrogen oxides (ΝΟ, at the Sulphur Recovery units which continuously monitors ΝΟ2 and NOx), sulphur dioxide (SΟ2), hydrogen sulphide and records H2S concentrations at the entry points, and (Η2S), carbon monoxide (CO), methane, hydrocarbons H2S and SO2 concentrations at the exit points of these excluding methane, and total hydrocarbons (CΗ4, ΝΜΗC, units. The H2S/SO2 ratio is also continuously measured, ΤΗC), benzene and particulate matter ΡΜ10 and PM2.5 recorded and adjusted to ensure maximised recovery (particulates with an aerodynamic diameter of <10 μm performance (which is >99.5% in the case of the new SCOTand <2.5 μm respectively). type units). The smooth operation of the afterburners (incinerators) associated with these units is achieved Within the refinery, flue gases from the stacks of the through continuous monitoring of SO2 and O2 at the exit main combustion plants (point emissions) of the Fuel, points, and of the temperature at the radiant section of the Hydrocracking and Lubricant complexes and the furnaces. Operation of both the Sulphur Recovery units, electricity generation units are continuously monitored by and the afterburners, is automatically controlled via the online analysers, which are controlled and calibrated to the refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS). EN14181 standard. In addition to pollutant concentrations, the oxygen concentration, and temperature, flow and pressure of flue gases are also monitored. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment Clean Fuels • Furnace cleaning while in operation, aiming at increasing heat induction, saving fuel and decreasing flue gas Integrated Sulphur Management System temperature. Refineries face the following challenge: the amount • Installation of closed circuits in the gas processes, of sulphur in the available crude oil types is increasing relieving pressure of gases by safety valves to the over time, while the specifications for allowable sulphur flares, placing of second-tier seals on floating-roof content in the fuels produced have reached extremely tanks, placing of floating tops on the oil separators low levels (e.g. for petrol and automotive diesel, the 2009 and installation of a steam recovery system at the specification for sulphur content is a maximum of 10 ppm Tanker Loading Terminal, as well as measures to reduce or the equivalent of 0.001%). Moreover, the maximum emissions of hydrocarbon gases, in tandem with the acceptable level of sulphur emissions is also low, implementation of the system of bottom-loading tankers. since the content of sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere • Installation of steam recovery units for loading of petrol around a refinery, on an hourly basis, should not exceed at all AVIN OIL and Coral facilities, as provided for in 350 μg/m3. In this context, the removal of sulphur coming legislation, and at all service stations for use in unloading into the refinery with crude oil at a concentration which of petrol from tankers to tanks (in accordance with the in 2018 ranged between 0.31% and 4.1% is a significant provisions of Directive 94/63 [Stage I]). challenge. • Bottom-loading of tankers. MOTOR OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen with respect for the environment, has in place a particularly effective system which incorporates Best Available Techniques, Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) in order to achieve the best results, both in terms of A modern refinery comprises many different types of maximising the degree of sulphur removal and minimising installed equipment, through which large quantities of the amount of energy consumed. raw materials circulate, as well as intermediates and In this way, and through the Hydrocracker Complex, final products. In such a system, it is to be expected MOTOR OIL produces and markets petrol and automotive that there will be particular points with a higher risk diesel with a sulphur content below 10 ppm. This results of hydrocarbons being accidentally released into the in reduced sulphur emissions from the refinery, while atmosphere. In order to limit fugitive emissions from the overall rate of hydrogen sulphide conversion into the equipment, a programme has been implemented elemental sulphur in the new SCOT-type Sulphur Recovery featuring regular controls at selected points (better units is in the order of 99.95%. known as LDAR – Leak Detection and Repair) in order Elemental sulphur is initially produced in liquid form, which to identify and repair possible leaks. by cooling and appropriate processing, is converted to Fugitive emissions may arise from leaks in valves, a solid granular form, stored in silos for sale as a raw pumps, flanges and other related equipment installed material for the production of sulphuric acid and fertilisers. on pipelines, pressure vessels, reactors or storage The whole process is carried out in a completely closed tanks. circuit, thus avoiding the dispersing of sulphur particles in In 2018, 6,171 points were inspected as part of the the air, and minimising entirely any environmental impacts. LDAR programme at the MOTOR OIL refinery, covering all production units, the truck loading terminal, port Minimizing Emissions facilities and storage tanks. The various points are checked by refinery staff at least once a year, using Apart from the measures to control concentrations of portable equipment to measure volatile carbon airborne pollutants, a range of measures has been taken concentration. In the event that concentrations are within the refinery to limit atmospheric pollution, such as: found to exceed 5,000 ppm, a repair request for the • Installation of an electrostatic filter on the outlet of the equipment checked is issued. In 2018, there were 18,575 Catalytic Pyrolysis unit, intended to reduce emissions of checks. suspended particles from the catalyst. This reduces total emissions of suspended particles to levels far below the permitted limits. •D  esulphurisation of gases used as fuel in the refinery before they enter the gas fuel system, reducing emissions of sulphur dioxide. • Installation of burners with low NOx emissions, both in the design of new furnaces and in the upgrading of old ones, in order to reduce their emissions. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 67 In Numbers Average Annual Concentration SO2 The diagram below shows total annual emissions of sulphur Daily Limit 120 dioxide, as well as emissions per ton of raw material. In Value 2018, there was a continued decrease in the total emissions 100 and the emitted SΟ2 value per ton of raw material (13%) compared to 2017. 80 The specific SΟ2 value has seen a decrease in recent 60 μg/m3 years due to favourable economic factors prevailing in the oil refining industry in 2018 which allowed for the use of 40 environmentally friendly fuels instead of traditional ones (fuel oil). 20 0 Sulphur Dioxide Emissions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Annual Emissions 3.5 (thousand ΜΤ) Average Annual Concentration ΝΟ2 3.3 3.2 3.1 Specific Annual 2.7 Emissions 250 (kg SO2 per MT of Raw Material) Hourly Limit 200 Value 150 0.27 0.28 0.27 0.23 0.20 μg/m3 100 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 50 0 As far as air quality during 2018 is concerned, the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 processing of the recordings at the four air quality monitoring stations, in the context of the emissions monitoring programme, has shown, as in previous years, Average Annual Concentration of Suspended Particles PM10 that air quality in the vicinity of the refinery remains highly satisfactory. Detailed figures for the last five years show 80 that there has been no exceeding of the hourly limit values and daily levels permitted by legislation, and the recorded 60 Daily Limit values are much lower than the limit values allowed. Value 40 μg/m3 The following diagrams show the average annual values of the last five years for SΟ2, ΝΟ2 and suspended ΡΜ10 20 particles. We note that in 2018, the daily ΡΜ10 particle limit was exceeded during the periods 5-7/3 and 23-24/7. In the 0 first case, the excess was due to climate conditions, while in 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 the second, to a forest fire in the area. Further information on MOTOR OIL results for 2018 is available in the Environmental Statement 2018, which presents diagrams relating to all air pollutants. See the following link: http://www.moh.gr/Default.aspx?a_id=10492 Similarly, more information about LPC is available at the following link: http://lpc.gr/perivallongr/perivallontikes-diloseis/ 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment 6. Liquid Waste Management Liquid waste produced by the refinery’s various processes fall into two categories: industrial waste and urban waste. The management and processing of liquid waste is a material issue for the company, which incorporates Best Available Techniques, while due to their different pollutant load, the industrial and urban waste streams undergo different types of processing prior to their final disposal. Industrial liquid waste is pre-processed and then taken to the Liquid Industrial Waste Treatment Plant, while urban waste is removed to the Urban Waste Treatment Plant. The effective operation of the Industrial Waste Water Treatment Plant is evidenced by the fact that concentrations of various pollutant substances at the plant outlet are clearly below relevant limit values. In the case of some substances (including benzene, toluene, ethyl benzene, xylene and a number of heavy metals), their concentrations are very much below corresponding limit values, approaching the limit of detection in some cases. Supply and Concentrations of Pollutant Parameters at Outlet of Liquid Industrial Waste Treatment Plant (average annual values) Parameter Average Value Limit Value 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Supply (m3/day) 9,817 10,070 9,592 8,323 9,133 pH 7.5 7.6 7.1 7.4 7.3 6-9 Temperature (οC) 25.4 27.5 30.2 29.8 29.0 35 Hydrocarbons (mg/l) 2.5 2.1 1.6 1.4 1.4 10 BOD5 (mg/l) 24.5 23.8 24.6 24.4 24.5 40 COD (mg/l) 106.0 105.3 106.0 106.3 106.1 150 NH3 (mg/l) 13.5 13.4 13.5 13.5 13.5 15 Phenols (mg/l) 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.5 Sulphurs (mg/l) 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 2 Suspended solids (mg/l) 17.7 19.0 19.6 20.1 21.1 40 •M onitoring and control of subsoil and aquifer quality, based on hydro-geological studies submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, takes place at ten boreholes. According to the approved environmental terms, during 2018, two sets of samples were taken at these boreholes – one every six months – in order to determine the value of a number of parameters, such as concentrations of heavy metals and hydrocarbons, the results of which were found to meet legislative requirements. •S ampling and measurements continued in 2018, to check and monitor the quality of the seawater and to determine the conditions prevailing in the coastal zone near the refinery port facilities. The study was conducted by the Geochemistry section of the Faculty of Geology and Geoenvironment at the University of Athens. 7. Solid Waste Management Recycling Solid waste management is a material issue for the Solid waste management is handled by appropriately company. Waste management is based on an integrated licensed, specialised companies. Spent catalysts, which, process covering all stages in the life cycle of the waste depending on the particular case may be classified as and includes the following methods: processing and rehazardous solid waste, are disposed of in a number of use, recycling, recovery and final disposal. The main aims ways (either exported, or regenerated for re-use by of the solid waste management programme are: specialised firms abroad, or used in cement manufacture). Empty hazardous substance containers are also disposed • Reduction of quantities produced, at source, of by licensed companies. • Separation into hazardous and non-hazardous waste at Specifically, as part of the integrated solid waste source, management programme, the MOTOR OIL refinery has • Maximum exploitation prior to final disposal, through already implemented bio piling technology for processing recycling or re-use or recovery of useful components or contaminated soil and installed a bioremediation regeneration, and finally, facility. The company electronically submits an annual • Safe transportation and final disposal without putting at report to the competent departments of the Ministry of risk human health or the environment. Environment and Energy which lists all types of solid waste generated by its operations and outlines how solid waste is handled and who the recipients are. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 69 As far as used lubricants and their packaging is Recovery and reprocessing of raw materials concerned, contracts are in place with a firm specialised in used mineral oil recycling and with a firm specialised The main product traded by Group companies is fuel in handling packaging materials. These two contracts burned in various types of combustion engines in industry provide for recycling of used lubricants and their or by our final customers/consumers. Nevertheless, in packaging, thus contributing to the protection of the view of our acute environmental conscientiousness, we environment and the rational use of raw materials. We endeavour to recover whatever is feasible at the various also collaborate with accredited firms for recycling other stages of our activity. categories of solid waste. At the refinery, the stages of refining create by-products with specifications that deviate significantly from the Recycling Solid Waste Disposal (MT/year) desirable ones, making reprocessing necessary. The effort 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 made is towards the direction of utilising them, as much as Batteries 11.1 1.04 5.32 9.12 1.3 possible in later stages of refining, in order to minimise the consumption of energy and the capacity that is committed Tyres 2.9 0.7 5.0 9.0 5.4 for reprocessing. The goal is to restrict the overall Lubricants 27.5 1.4 82.8 201.0 122.6 reprocessing to the crude oil units. The quantities that were Wooden packaging 98.4 115.7 130.1 107.3 249.3 reprocessed are presented below. Paper and paper 171.8 203.0 167.2 88.6 103.6 packaging1 Recovery of Raw Materials (MT) Plastic and plastic packaging 233.4 214.8 215.7 41.6 35.2 2017 2018 Metal (scrap) 1,597 2,198 2,205 2,352 2,120 107,300 77,790 Electrical/electronic 5.7 1.9 1.2 10.2 13.9 equipment Our commercial companies work with the Alternative Remediated soil 0 403.4 567.0 446.0 545.8 Management of Waste Lubricating Oil company (ENDIALE Contaminated packaging 13.8 8.7 16.8 27.0 6.9 S.A.) to collect used internal combustion engine lubricants. Asbestos-containing Waste lubricating oils are a particularly hazardous type materials 0 12.7 17.8 0 0 of waste because they contain heavy metals, chlorinated Printer cartridge packaging (units) 825 712 494 472 1,333 compounds and sulphur and must not escape into the Spent catalysts air or into aquifers. In 2018, through this management for recycling 2,818 2,747 2,129 2,767 2,363 programme, 73,760 litres were collected from Coral service Mixed packaging 263 393 220 919.5 824.3 stations and 15,860 litres from Avin’s. Coral Gas participated in a programme to recover and recycle gas cartridges. 1 R  ecycled and non-chemically bleached paper is being used by all the companies of the Group. 8. Water Management MOTOR OIL views water resource management as The new, state-of-the-art osmosis unit will achieve a a material issue and has consistently implemented reduction in energy consumption for water production, measures to reduce and rationally manage water rendering its operation more environmentally friendly. consumption at its refinery. Meanwhile, the replacement of the older unit is expected to improve the reliability of existing desalination units and The water used in the various parts of the refinery contribute to the refinery’s smooth operation, while the originates 100% from sea water processed at desalination use of seawater with the capacity for incorporating the units. cooling water recycling system to meet the unit’s needs The desalination is effected using both Multi-Stage is deemed to be the best solution in terms of energy Flashing and Reverse Osmosis techniques, the latter efficiency. being the preferred method from an environmental and economic perspective. Annual Water Consumption In 2018, as part of decreasing our energy footprint, an 4,089 4,089 3,932 3,932 3,576 3,576 3,658 3,658 upgrade of the seawater desalination units was planned, which involved the addition of a new reverse osmosis unit. 3,462 3,462 The new unit will replace the desalinated water production system which uses multi-stage flash technology. The older 0.303 0.296 0.285 0.289 0.290 system will be used as a back-up in the future when the 0 0 0 0 0 osmosis units are undergoing maintenance. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Incoming Water (thousand m3) Desalination (thousand m3) Total Consumption (thousand m3) Specific Water Consumption (m3/MT of Raw Material) 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment The steady increase of production at the refinery in recent Re-use and Recycling of Water years has resulted in a subsequent increase in total water use. On the other hand, a downward trend is noted in the One of the important processes at the refinery is the quantity of water consumed per ton of raw material, which processing of the acid water flows generated in different at the end of 2018 was 0.296 m3. This was slightly higher phases of the production process. About 46% of this than in 2017 (0.29) and is due to the regular maintenance water flow is recycled to feed the crude oil desalinators, of units requiring water without contributing to production. while the rest is channelled to the Industrial Waste Water The effort to reduce the quantity of water used per ton Treatment Plant, allowing a proportional reduction in of raw material is part of our primary goals and a number consumption of fresh water and in the volume of wastes of actions and investments have been made in this regard needing treatment. with projects to improve energy efficiency at the refinery (reduced steam consumption, operational improvements, etc.). 9. Noise Management Every feasible effort is made at both the refinery and all Special measures are taken when designing any new Group facilities to minimise environmental noise levels. project (e.g. construction of new tanks, regular unit In order to mitigate any potential nuisance, regular maintenance), such as the installation of silencers, measurements are made at set points on the refinery’s the placing of sound curtains and the procurement of perimeter, and appropriate noise-protection measures equipment with low noise emissions, in order to ensure any are taken in the event levels exceed legal limits. Results of nuisance resulting from the facility’s operation is kept measurements for 2018 are set out in the following table to a minimum. and show that noise levels are lower than the legal limits laid down in the environmental operating conditions Average Measurement (DBA) of the refinery. JAN JAN JUL JUN OCT OCT Legal 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Limits Noise levels are also measured in the work areas (DBA) (platform, loading stations, etc.) at our commercial Perimeter companies’ facilities and found to be below established of Refinery 54.8 55.3 55.0 54.8 55.4 55.2 65.0 allowable limits. The same is true at the borders of our Facility facilities where noise levels are below legal limits. Southern Refinery 52.3 52.2 52.7 52.1 52.6 52.7 55.0 Particular care is also taken with the new projects being Perimeter carried out. 10. Protection of the Marine Environment Due to its location, the operation of MOTOR OIL’s refinery • Keep on hand all necessary equipment for response to and several of the facilities of our commercial companies a small or medium-scale local contamination incident are fully integrated with the marine environment. Owing (Τier-1/2). They also keep on hand a stock of oil slick to the impacts of a potential pollution incident, extensive dispersant, which can be used only with the consent of prior planning and preparation is imperative, particularly the Port Authorities. to prevent but also to effectively respond to such events. • Check the readiness for implementing the existing It should be noted that no parts of the refinery or of our anti-contamination plans and maintain a high degree other facilities abut on natural habitats or protected areas of readiness among staff in the use of necessary which might be affected by their operation. equipment, in cooperation with internationally recognised companies such as Oil Spill Response Limited In this area, MOTOR OIL, and our commercial companies: (OSRL), with an annual programme of drills and training. • Implement all necessary active and passive protection It should be noted that the scenario in the above drills measures to minimise the risk of oil spills within the involve more general refinery/facility safety issues as well boundaries of the refinery. In 2018, not a single leak was as security issues for the port and vessels. reported. • Have in place a reception and handling plan for ship• Implement all necessary measures and provide all generated waste and cargo residues. equipment for the safe sail in and sail out of tankers • Are members of international and regional organisations at their port facilities, as well as for their safe loading/ whose aim is the prevention and timely response to oil unloading. spill incidents (see Participations Collaborations section in chapter 1). MOTOR OIL HELLAS 71 Social Responsibility We stand side by side with the community, offering consistent and long-lasting support. Our standing objective is to follow a course of constant It is one of the Group’s strategic objectives to bring growth and creation of value for all stakeholders, prosperity to the communities around or in the general effectively playing our social role, and increasing our area of its refinery and the facilities of its commercial contribution to society. companies through job creation, support for the local market, and general social care. Our sense of responsibility to society is expressed, first and foremost, through our contribution to the general Finally, according to the supplementary indices of recovery and consolidation of our nation’s economy. the Oil & Gas Sector, our Group does not operate in It is of vital importance to us that our activities should areas where there are native populations, or where benefit the society in general, by way of direct and such populations might be affected by our activities, indirect job creation, fostering local entrepreneurial nor were there any significant disputes, involuntary activity and purchasing goods and services from movements of personnel or other impacts on local domestic and local suppliers. communities or native populations in 2018. Moreover, we wish to see all our business activities interact positively and productively with the social environment in which we operate. It is for these reasons that the Motor Oil Group implements a programme of donations and sponsorships, addressed directly to local communities, designed to help improve the quality of life, protect the environment and foster a healthy social and cultural life in local communities and across the country as a whole. In this context, in 2018 we spent 4.6 million euros on Social Solidarity projects and various sponsorships. Society 757 million euros The social product 37 million euros Social solidarity projects and sponsorships in the past 10 years 4.6 million euros in 2018 1. Economic Benefits to Society Social Product The scale of the Group’s operations, combined with It also encompasses the cost of securing operations, its consistent focus on steady growth, resulting in a including expenditure for Health, Safety and the very significant contribution to the country’s economic Environment, insurance of facilities, repairs and preventive development. This contribution, based on our successful maintenance. activities, is made through the generation of value for our Based on the above, the Social Product returned shareholders and other stakeholders, the creation of jobs to stakeholders in 2018 amounts to 757 million euros, and our contribution to the broader social progress. compared to 755 million euros in 2017. Moreover, our interaction with stakeholders creates primary value for their benefit and secondary value too, Allocation of Social Product 2018 in that it contributes to the value they, in turn, generate Total: 757 million euros for the economy and the society as a whole. In 2018, the Group’s total revenues from economic 22.8% 19.5% activities amounted to 9,671.3 million euros. Out of these, 8,020 million euros were used to purchase crude oil and other raw materials. This represents 83% of revenues, a justifiable amount given the nature of Group activities. 8.7% 22.4% 757 million euros 0.6% the social product in 2018 19.6% 6.4% The Social Product is that part of our income allocated Staff: Gross remuneration, other fees, insurance contributions to selected stakeholders, which include: the workforce, (own and employer’s) the state, shareholders, banks, suppliers (not including Public Sector suppliers of crude oil, other raw materials and Shareholders finished products), as well as society at large (donations Banks Sponsorships/Donations and sponsorships). Assurance costs (Health & Safety, Environment, Maintenance, Premiums) Other purchases Social Product 2018 (million euros) Total Income Stakeholders Balance to be Distributed 9,671.3 8,768.7 902.6 Suppliers Raw Materials Investments for Development, Health, 8,012.1 Safety and Environment 150.5 Staff: Gross remuneration, other fees, Payment of Debt Liabilities 72.7 insurance contributions (own and 147.2 employer’s) Cash 679.4 Society: Donations – Sponsorships 4.6 Public Sector: Taxes and Duties 169.2 Shareholders: Dividends 148.4 Other Purchases 172.4 Banks: Interest 48.9 Assurance: Health & Safety, Environment, Maintenance, Premiums 65.9 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Society Support of Local Entrepreneurship As the largest enterprise and employer in the Prefecture We have a policy of preferring local businesses of Corinth, MOTOR OIL makes a direct or indirect financial when it comes to supplying the refinery with services, contribution to a large number of businesses and families consumables, food, etc. even when there are financially in the region (approximately 600 refinery employees live more advantageous offers from outside the area. In in neighbouring municipalities). Moreover, the company 2018, we spent 18 million euros, thereby providing further supports local initiatives to encourage entrepreneurship. support to the economy of Corinth and the surrounding region. We further paid roughly 1.1 million euros in municipal and property taxes. 2. Customer Service – Respect for the Customer All the Motor Oil Group companies operate having Our service stations are also subject to inspection by customer service as a top priority. The Group’s long unannounced visitors in the Mystery Motorist programme. experience in combination with a high level of expertise, The scheme evaluates the level of service and customer and its rigorous insistence on quality, guarantee satisfaction using a questionnaire covering such areas as comprehensive, integrated service and ongoing efficiency, service, cleanliness and speed of transactions. development of relations of trust with customers and In 2018, about 2,800 secret visits were carried out at Shell associates. service stations and 900 visits at Avin service stations. The results were presented to the companies’ Retail Sales The Refinery divisions, which in turn discussed them with the retail station managers to take corrective measures where MOTOR OIL conducts quantitative and qualitative necessary. customer satisfaction surveys covering the full spectrum Shell retail station customers can now express their of its clientèle. Survey data are evaluated, with a view to opinion through the Voice of Customer tool, an innovative building on the company’s strengths and to detecting, online consumer survey application for PCs and mobile in particular, the company’s weaknesses and taking phones, through which customers can register their appropriate corrective action. Over time this process opinions after a visit to a retail station. This platform has led to a reduction in the number of complaints about generated more than 172,000 completed questionnaires the refinery; in 2018, there were just 2 complaints about in 2018, giving us the opportunity to quickly analyse the delayed deliveries which were successfully resolved. results and resolve any problems our customers may encounter. Our Commercial Companies Additionally, in October 2018, Shell service stations took The Group’s commercial companies have integrated part in the National Customer Service Week, sponsored systems for serving the thousands of customers who by the Hellenic Institute of Customer Service, with various place their trust in them every day. events at selected stations. More specifically, a number of market surveys are carried Finally, in 2018, significant steps were taken in order to out to collect and evaluate data on levels of service, fuel improve the level of service for our final consumers and quality, customer selection criteria, etc. corporate customers. As part of updating its systems and to improve its shipping customer service, Coral launched A market survey is conducted each year through the Coral Marine Portal, which facilitates monitoring of fuel a worldwide programme aimed at systematically delivery (e-vessel) to ships, amongst other things. monitoring customer perceptions of Shell service stations. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 75 Avin made use of the new state-of-the-art call centre, and established procedures and monitoring systems to AVIN launches pioneering “AVIN Win” loyalty program automate and quickly respond to customer requests. It Wishing to reward customers for their trust, AVIN also joined the Hellenic Institute of Customer Service with launched the new “AVIN Win” loyalty programme in 2017. the aim of optimising the quality of its customer service Through this program, customers can collect points and provide ongoing training of employees working in the each time they purchase fuel, lubricants or heating sector. oil by using their “AVIN Win” card or app. Once they Lastly, the Coral NET, Avin Portal and Cyclon Portal online have 250 points, they automatically win a 3 euro platforms are used by most of our corporate customers, coupon, which they can redeem the next time they buy providing faster and better service. something at the service station. The programme was a great success in 2018, with more than 500,000 members and over 2 million euros in gift certificate redemptions. 3. Social Solidarity and Sponsorships Through our social responsibility projects, we endeavour Allocation of Social Responsibility to provide ongoing, consistent support for the community Funds 2018 and particularly for those pillars that improve the community’s quality of life: education, healthcare, culture, sports and entrepreneurship. 14.8% Culture In 2018, as in previous years, our Group’s social actions focused on the financing and promotion of social solidarity programmes across the country, though our primary focus was mainly on organisations and agencies based in municipalities in the vicinity of our facilities. 22.8% Our key objective was to provide relief to the most 57.8% Youth (Education, Social Sports) vulnerable social groups and to meet their basic needs. Solidarity To this end, we have promoted actions designed to assist our fellow citizens, while also supporting cultural 4.6% agencies, educational institutions, organisations engaged Heating Oil in charitable and humanitarian work, as well as local government agencies. The actions we supported are in line with the following key Allocation of Social Responsibility Funds axes: (thousand euros) • Social solidarity 2017 2018 • Culture Social Solidarity 2,313 2,666 • Youth education Culture 626 685 Youth (Education, Sports) 1,284 1,053 Heating Oil 194 208 Total 4,417 4,612 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Society 3.1 Social Solidarity Our company’s objective is to promote and support Fighting Poverty actions designed to relieve the needs of disadvantaged social groups. As we have been doing through the The economic crisis affecting Greece over the last few years, in 2018, we supported many community actions, years has directly resulted in a dramatic increase in cases provided food for the indigent through municipal and of poverty. In response to this need, our company has church organisations, supported the work of charitable undertaken to support the most vulnerable social groups, organisations and foundations, supported actions for both by supplying the neediest with staple goods and by health and supplied large quantities of heating oil to the offering financial assistance. municipalities bordering on our refinery facilities and other Actions have focused mainly on the Prefecture of selected areas across Greece. Corinth, the final recipients included the Municipality of Loutraki-Agioi Theodoroi, the Municipality of Corinth and bordering communities, members of low-income families, Devastating fire in Mati-Attica associations, agencies providing support services, and so Wanting to help respond to the devastating effects of on. the fire that swept through areas of East Attica, MOTOR OIL immediately contacted the local authorities and The Food Bank the Lyreio Children’s Institution Board of Directors and promised to make the necessary repairs. The MOTOR OIL Group has supported the food bank operating in the municipalities of Loutraki, Corinth, Specifically, the company undertook to rebuild Perama and in the Municipal Ward of Agioi Theodoroi, structures destroyed in the fire, such as the children’s playing an active part in meeting the basic needs of dormitory, the reception and day-use building, the families in financial difficulty. accounting and social welfare building and the food storeroom. Among other things, our company has provided foodstuffs, helping to ensure the continued operation In 2018, we restored the Institution’s grounds, cutting of an institution responding to the difficult social and down burnt trees and cleaning up the area. In 2019, we economic challenges of the present day. intend to plant new trees and rebuild structures once the necessary permits have been approved. The donation by the MOTOR OIL Group has helped the endeavour, through which more than 1,700 families in Meanwhile, immediately following the fire, the company need have found relief. contributed diesel to vehicles and generators for the Municipality of Rafina, and covered other emergency needs in the area. Additionally, in an effort to help families facing financial difficulties in Corinth and the surrounding region during the Christmas and Easter holidays, MOTOR OIL distributed 1,240 food stamps to help them meet nutritional needs and put food on the holiday table. During the holiday period, the company financially supported, through donations, the Region of Peloponnese, the Municipality of Corinth, the Municipality of Loutraki, the Kivotos tou Paidiou children’s charity, churches, etc. The company has also supplied foodstuffs to the food and clothing bank set up by the Metropolitan Church of Corinth and to the Church of the Annunciation of the Theotokos and helped provide meals to students in the Agioi Theodoroi area. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 77 Donation of Heating Oil and Lubricants • In the area of healthcare, we supported the Hellenic Institute of Cardiology and the Agioi Theodoroi regional In 2018, the company provided around 209,000 litres of section of the Hellenic Red Cross. free heating oil, worth more than 210,000 euros. This programme is intended to help with the cost of heating orphanages, kindergartens, municipal childcare Support for the Elderly centres, secondary schools, elderly people’s homes, For more than ten years, MOTOR OIL has been churches and church foundations located in municipalities continually engaged in a very important social bordering on our facilities, as well as other recipients in initiative in collaboration with the Open Care Centres other parts of Greece. Among the recipients were the for the Elderly (KAPI) of the Municipalities of Corinth “Smile of the Child” charity for the protection of minors, and Agioi Theodoroi. The initiative involves the the “Amalieion” Girls Boarding Home, the Foundation provision to elderly people of a full lunch and milk and of Thracian Art and Tradition, the “Konstantopouleios” yoghurt for supper – supplied every day, 365 days elderly care facility, numerous monasteries and churches, a year. The food is prepared at the refinery canteen such as the Monastery of Agios Haralampos Isthmios, the and is the same meal that is enjoyed by the refinery church of Agios Ioannis in the Municipality of Saronikos, workforce. the church of Panagia Giatrisa in Loutraki and others. In 2018, the refinery canteen provided meals for 107 Other recipients included all schools in the municipalities elderly people at the Corinth, Agioi Theodoroi and of Corinth, Loutraki and Perama and the municipal Examilia KAPI. communities of Agioi Theodoroi, Isthmia, Saronikos, Solygeia, and others. We also provided lubricants to a number of government services, such as the Fire Support for Local Authorities and other agencies Academy in Kifisia, the Coast Guard Headquarters, the Regional Fire Administration of Peloponnese, and others. The Group has traditionally supported the local communities in which it operates. To this end, we do our Supporting Charitable Organisations and Institutions best to provide effective assistance to meet the needs of local authorities and actively help them in their work. Our objective is to make a contribution to improving living In 2018, for example, the MOTOR OIL Group donated to the conditions for people with problems, helping organisations Fire Brigade a fire bucket for use by a military helicopter and foundations which offer high-quality services to assist in fire-fighting, along with low-pressure fire hoses. It them in their rehabilitation and reintegration into the also donated a tanker truck to the Hellenic Navy base community. in Rhodes for its needs. Protective equipment was also Specifically: donated to the Kranidi Fire Brigade and the Corinth Police Department. • We have supported the activities of the Marianna V. Vardinoyannis Foundation. Set up by its president, Moreover, in 2018, our company also provided financial UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador Marianna V. assistance to various agencies, including the Federation Vardinoyannis, the Foundation seeks to promote issues of Local Improvement Societies of Agioi Theodoroi, the related to protection of children’s rights while improving local improvement societies “Glykia Zoi”, “Klara Elias” of living conditions for children in all areas. Sousaki, Corinth, the improvement society of Ano Sousaki, the “Psiloritis” Cretan Society of Corinth and others. • We supported Elpida Youth, the youth committee of the ELPIDA Association of Friends of Children with Cancer. The financial aid we provided comprised donations for operating needs, indoor and outdoor revamping projects, • We have supported the humanitarian agency “Lifeline building maintenance, road completion and clearing, road Hellas”, helping with the organisation of an event, the surfacing, lighting, water supplies and rainwater drainage revenues of which will be used to support neonatal units pipes, cement laying, covering fixed expenditures, at state hospitals. advertising, safety and creation of children’s playgrounds, • We have provided financial support to associations and and so on. agencies involved in community work, such as the Agioi Theodoroi Women’s Association, the “Eliza” Association against Child Abuse, the “Faros Elpidas (Beacon of Hope)” non-governmental organisation, the “Agapi gia zoi (Love for life)” national association to prevent traffic accidents and support for persons with disabilities, the “Mazi Niko (Together I Overcome)” association for patients with cancer and their supporters, the union of persons with disabilities of the Prefecture of Corinth , the “Porta Anihti (Open Door)” Centre and others. 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Society Environment Lastly, the MOTOR OIL Group has provided financial support for cultural associations and agencies not just in We support activities and programmes which make an communities near its facilities, but elsewhere in Greece as active contribution to improving infrastructures and well. raising public awareness of environmental protection and sustainable development issues. 3.3. Education and Youth MOTOR OIL provides support to many environmental associations and organisations, such as MEDASSET We support education because we believe in the power (Mediterranean Association to Save the Sea Turtles) of knowledge to cultivate our minds and characters and others, making an active contribution to policies and shape us into active and conscientious citizens. promoting environmental protection. That is why we take such a keen interest in assisting MOTOR OIL has also consistently provided support to and promoting the work of education, research and the “Agioi Theodoroi” Forest Protection Society, which technology. plays an important role in forest protection, security and In 2018, the MOTOR OIL Group: fire-fighting within and beyond the Municipality of Agioi • Provided financial support for the Ermioni Music School Theodoroi. In the same realm, it has offered financial to stage a special event marking its 30th anniversary. support for the Sofiko forest protection volunteers. It also supported the Almyri Primary School to replace In respect of water supplies, the company this year met wall maps, natural science experiment instruments and the water needs of about 190 homes near the refinery. old computers. The water, produced at the refinery by reverse osmosis, • Provided assistance to the 1st Primary School and is used to water gardens and for cleaning purposes. The the Upper Secondary School of Agioi Theodoroi, the supply of water to these houses, which are not on the children’s day care centre and the 2nd Kindergarten of Agioi Theodoroi water system, relies on the network of Kranidi, the 1st Kindergarten of Ermioni, and the Special pipes laid and maintained by MOTOR OIL. In 2018, 84,000 Vocational Lower Secondary School of Rethymno, cubic metres of water, worth more than 84,000 euros, helping all the schools to meet their operational were supplied free of charge. needs. Moreover, it provided computers, interactive whiteboards, projectors and printers to the 2nd Primary 3.2. Culture School of Imitos, the 1st Special Kindergarten and 5th Lower Secondary School of Rethymno, the 5th Primary We believe in the role of the arts, culture and history as School of Panormos in Mylopotamos, Rethymno, the 1st key components of healthy social development. We strive Kindergarten of Ermioni, the six-year Primary School to offer support to activities which highlight and promote of Vouvas-Sfakia, and the Lower Secondary School of our cultural and historical heritage. Music in Corinth, helping the schools to provide more Specifically, the Group: effective teaching for their students. • For yet another year sponsored the Botsis Foundation • Financially supported the 4th Primary School of for the Promotion of Journalism, providing financial Argyroupoli, the Isthmia Primary School and support for its invaluable social, cultural and educational Kindergarten, the Ermioni General Upper Secondary work. School and others. • Supported the Mikis Theodorakis Orchestra in holding a • Financially supported the school trip programme concert. of the Episkopi 6th Primary School in Rethymno, the General Upper Secondary School of Fourfouras-Amari• Provided support to the Pancretan Association by Rethymno, the Episkopi Upper Secondary School, the covering the expenses of its children’s festival. Ermioni General Upper Secondary School and the 1st • Once again endorsed the “Friends of Music” Association Lower Secondary School of Rethymno. of the Municipality of Loutraki Perahora, which staged • Purchased games, invitations and lottery tickets to the Loutraki Festival 2018, featuring many young support the Corinth Special School, the 1st Kindergarten musicians. of Agioi Theodoroi and the schools of Agioi Theodoroi. • Supported via donations the cultural work of • Financially supported the 1st Vocational Upper organisations such as the Loutraki Cultural Association, Secondary School of Kranidi to improve its playing fields the “Agios Pavlos” Cultural Association of Kechries, and and enhance the school’s sports programme. the “Kamari” Cultural Association of Gerani, amongst others. • Provided heating oil to dozens of schools in Corinth, Perama, Loutraki, Ermioni and Skiathos as well as other • It also supported the journal Periplous Naftikis Istorias [A areas in Attica and across Greece, helping schools Voyage through Maritime History], published quarterly to run smoothly and providing better conditions for by the Greek Maritime Museum, and assisted the Hellenic learning. Maritime Association in publishing its journal Naftiki Ellas [Maritime Greece], a traditional maritime magazine published monthly by the Naval Print Shop since 1928. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 79 Educational Visits to the Refinery Scholarship programme in association with the Athens School of Fine Arts Every year, we arrange visits to the refinery and our In 2012, Motor Oil embarked on a strategic collaboration facilities for students at universities and technical with the Athens School of Fine Arts, in an effort to colleges, Armed Forces academies and secondary support the arts and to help young people wishing to schools. Through presentations and a guided tour of the continue their studies abroad. production facilities, the idea is to provide visitors with information on the company’s environmental protection The collaboration involves granting a 12,000 euro programmes and its safety and protection actions, scholarship each year to a graduate of the School to amongst others. As part of the 2018 programme, around cover the costs of postgraduate studies in the visual 665 persons visited the refinery and the facilities of our arts at a foreign university and 2 additional awards of commercial companies. 4,000 and 2,000 euros each. The successful candidate is chosen by a six-member panel assisted by a wellStudent Internships known art curator, and the award-winning work becomes the property of MOTOR OIL, the hope being Every year, the company takes on a number of students that over time a permanent collection of works can be for paid summer internships, lasting from one to two built up for display at the company’s premises. months. The students fill various positions in the refinery, At the same time, along with their portfolios, the the facilities and head offices. candidates submit 1-2 original works to be shown in an In addition, we give a number of students the opportunity exhibition at the Group’s head offices for one year. of a six-month internship, when this forms part of the degree course they are taking. We also provide positions for international students to gain work experience, in The Vardinoyanneion Foundation collaboration with the International Association for the Exchange of Students for Technical Experience (IAESTE). The Vardinoyanneion Foundation was established in 1989 to provide scholarships, awards and grants to candidates As part of this activity, in 2018 we filled 108 trainee who have distinguished themselves academically or positions of 1-2 months, and 40 positions of over 2 who need financial support for undergraduate studies at months, at a total cost of more than 240,000 euros. colleges and universities in Greece or abroad. The areas of study and the scholarships available are not fixed but change each academic year, by decision of the board of trustees. For the 2018-2019 academic year, support was given to 69 students in the following areas (by way of example): Economics, Psychology, Law, Chemistry, Mathematics and Medicine. Undergraduate scholarships were also given to 5 students in the areas of IT, Chemical Engineering, Naval Architecture, Mechanical Engineering, Maritime Studies and Medicine. Since the Foundation began its scholarship programme, 177 scholarships and 1,919 bursaries have been granted. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Society Sports Shell Eco-marathon Coral actively supports the Shell Eco-marathon, We offer our support to athletics and competitive sports a global initiative whose main aim is to promote and provide assistance to smaller clubs and sporting sustainability in transport, innovation and energy associations in the amateur sector. During 2018, our efficiency. Coral invites university students from Greece Group supported the Episkopi Sports Club in Rethymno, to compete in this leading educational programme and the Rethymno Wrestling Club. We also supported organised by Shell and including teams from Europe the “Ermis” Athletic Club of Zoniana, the “Poseidon” and beyond to construct energy-efficient vehicles. The Athletic Club of Loutraki, the Poseidonas Athletic Club of winning team will be the one travelling the greatest Gerani, the Koronis Athletic Club of Koilada, the Sports distance with the equivalent of 1 litre of fuel of its own Fan Club of Iliokastro, Argolida, the University of Crete choice: Traditional internal combustion engines running Sports Centre, the Rethymno Nautical Club and others. on petrol or diesel, biofuel engines, electric motors, The Group was also a major sponsor of the famed hydrogen cells or solar panels are concealed beneath half-marathon, “Athlos kai Energeia”, which takes place the exterior of modern, futuristic vehicles which cut a in Loutraki, and supported the 2018 Special Olympics striking figure on the race track. Loutraki event. Greek teams from leading universities and technical As it does every year, the company assisted in the staging colleges in Greece, as well as schools all over the of the famous “Spartathlon” long-distance race by country, have been participating since 2004 in the Shell providing a doctor and equipped ambulance, and also Eco-marathon. In 2018, the Greek teams stood out for supported the Control and Aid Centre located in front of their achievements and managed to win a prize in the the refinery. off-track trials. Finally, AVIN OIL S.A. was the major sponsor of the Team Poseidon, from the departments of Mechanical Rethymno KAE basketball team, once again supporting it Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Automation during the 2018-2019 season. Engineering and the departments of the School of Management and Economics at the Piraeus University of Applied Sciences, took part in the competition for the seventh consecutive year. It was entered in the Prototype (Battery Electric) category and won the 10th place, achieving a rate of 458 km/kWh and significantly improving on last year’s performance. The “Prometheus” Team from the National Technical University of Athens School of Electrical and Computer Engineering took part for the 10th year running. It was entered in the Prototype (Battery Electric) category with the prototype electric vehicle “Pyrphoros” and won the 23rd place, achieving a rate of 201 km/kWh. The team also distinguished itself in the off-track trials, winning the Vehicle Safety award. The judges were impressed by the way in which the team handled and incorporated safety concerns throughout the project from the vehicle design to track safety. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 81 Sustainability Report Framework The Report underlines the Group’s commitment to a responsible and sustainable growth. As an active member of the community, the MOTOR OIL Group strives to achieve sustainable development by responding to the environmental challenges deriving from its operations while at the same time trying to meet the needs of the local and wider society. 1. About the Sustainability Report This Sustainability Report of 2018 is the seventeenth such At the end of the Report there is a summary table record of the annual activities of the MOTOR OIL Group matching the contents of the current Report to the (1 January 2018 31 December 2018). The primary goal GRI indicators and Global Compact principles. In this of the Report is to provide comprehensive information sense, the Sustainability Report 2018 also serves as a for all stakeholders in the Group: workforce, customers, “Communication on Progress” for the Global Compact, suppliers, shareholders, investors, creditors and local setting out the way in which its ten principles have been communities. implemented. The structure of the Sustainability Report 2018 complies Furthermore, through this Report we testify our with the totality of aspects of corporate responsibility. commitment to the United Nations Sustainable It focuses, therefore, on actions that demonstrate Development Goals for 2030 by noting the specific Goals respect for human values and the environment, the which are relevant to us and to which we contribute implementation of an effective health and safety policy through our corporate responsibility strategy. At the end and support for efforts to achieve sustainable social of the Report we present a detailed link of our programs, development. The various sections of the Report describe actions and material issues with the Goals relevant to our in detail the Group’s activities, with presentations of the operations. latest quantitative figures and data. Supplementary data for the Group’s activities can be found The terms ‘Group’ and ‘MOTOR OIL Group’ refer to the in the Annual Financial Report 2018 and the Environmental MOTOR OIL Group and its constituent subsidiary Groups Statement 2018, as well as at the companies’ websites, and companies, AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC, NRG and www.moh.gr, www.lpc.gr, www.avinoil.gr, www.coralenergy.gr, OFC. The term ‘company’ refers to the parent company www.coralgas.gr, www.nrgprovider.com. ‘MOTOR OIL’; the terms ‘other companies’ and ‘remaining companies’ refer to the aforesaid set of companies, while Communication the term ‘commercial companies’ refers, once again, to The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report 2018 has been the aforesaid set of companies, not however including edited and compiled by the Group’s Communications, OFC. Corporate Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. We wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to UN Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative all other Divisions and Departments whose contributions Sustainable Development Goals of data have allowed us to produce a comprehensive The selection of topics for the Sustainability Report 2018 Report. was based on the new “GRI STANDARDS” guidelines of the We welcome all views and observations on the structure Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), on the Oil & Gas sector and content of the report your input will help us to keep supplement and on the ten principles of the United Nations improving its quality. Global Compact. Please contact us on +30 210 8094004, or send your comments to csr@moh.gr 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability Report Framework 2. Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2018 and our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals MOTOR OIL participates in the United Nations Global We are committed to these principles, which we have Compact, which constitutes the biggest Corporate integrated in the policies and processes of the company. Responsibility initiative in the world. In year 2008, MOTOR MOTOR OIL’s Sustainability Report 2018 contains OIL became a signatory of the UN Global Compact; at the information relating to our social and environmental same time the company became a member of the Global practices and the outcomes thereof, which underline our Compact Network Hellas. commitment to the Global Compact. The following chart lists the compliance of MOTOR OIL with the ten Global The Global Compact incorporates ten fundamental Compact Principles, by making reference to the relevant principles relating to human rights, labour rights, chapters of the Sustainability Report 2018, and to the GRI environmental protection and anti-corruption. indicators taken into account in compiling the Report. Reference in the Sustainable GRI The Ten Principles Material Sustainability Report Development Standards of the Global Compact Issues or Description of the Goals Indicators Implementation Approach HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 102-8 PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses GRI 102-41 Chapters 2 and 3 should support and • Health and Safety of GRI 403-2 Full compliance with relevant respect the protection of employees GRI 403-3 Greek legislation and internationally proclaimed • Human Rights GRI 403-4 international conventions. human rights. GRI 407-1 PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses Chapter 2 should make sure that they Full compliance with relevant • Human Rights GRI 407-1 are not complicit in human Greek legislation and rights abuses. international conventions. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom GRI 102-41 of association and the Chapter 2 GRI 407-1 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Chapter 2 compulsory labour. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation and •  Full compliance with international conventions. relevant legislation and GRI 419-1 Cases of forced, compulsory conventions (Socialor child labour do not exist economic compliance) and are not accepted in any way. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 83 Reference in the Sustainable GRI The Ten Principles Material Sustainability Report Development Standards of the Global Compact Issues or Description of the Goals Indicators Implementation Approach LABOUR • Presence in the local GRI 202-2 PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses marketplace GRI 401-2 should uphold the elimination • Labour GRI 403-1 of discrimination in respect • Health & Safety of Chapter 2 GRI 403-4 to employment and employees GRI 404-1 occupation. • Education and Training GRI 404-2 ENVIRONMENT GRI 301-1 PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses GRI 301-2 should support a GRI 301-3 precautionary approach GRI 302-1 to environmental challenges. GRI 302-2 GRI 302-3 • Materials and Resources GRI 302-4 • Water Consumption GRI 303-1 • Energy Consumption GRI 303-2 PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses • Emissions GRI 303-3 should undertake initiatives Chapters 1 and 4. • Effluents and Waste GRI 305-1 to promote greater MOTOR OIL Environmental • Compliance with the GRI 305-2 environmental responsibility. Report 2018 and LPC Environmental Legislation GRI 305-4 Environmental Report 2018. • Safety and Security of GRI 305-5 depots and installations GRI 305-6 • Emergency Response Plans GRI 305-7 PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses GRI 306-1 should encourage the GRI 306-2 development and diffusion GRI 306-3 of environmentally friendly GRI 306-4 technologies. GRI 306-5 GRI 307-1 OG13 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against • Anti-corruption corruption in all its forms, GRI 205-3 Chapter 1 and www.moh.gr mechanisms including extortion and bribery. 3. GRI Compliance Level The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report, which has been published every year since 2002, is the main tool available for communicating with our stakeholders about the Group’s efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development through the application of the principles and objectives of Corporate Social Responsibility. It contains the most important facts and data relating to the previous year’s financial, social and environmental performance. The Sustainability Report 2018 has a similar structure to previous editions, so as to facilitate comparisons of performance over time. The compilation of the Sustainability Report 2018 is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, just as in the six previous editions, and specifically of the new GRI STANDARDS edition. The GRI guidelines have provided a sound basis for the selection of the material issues that had to be covered by the Report, for an effective communication with stakeholders. The Sustainability Report 2018 is not certified by an external certification authority. 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability Report Framework BOUNDARIES AND LIMITATIONS OF MATERIAL ISSUES MATERIAL BOUNDARIES LIMITATIONS ISSUES Within the Organization Outside the Organization Within the Organization Outside the Organization • Shareholders, investors, Financial Performance analysts MOTOR OIL GROUP (Profitability) • Partners and suppliers • Customers Presence in the local MOTOR OIL GROUP • Partners and suppliers Marketplace • Shareholders, investors, analysts Anti-Corruption MOTOR OIL GROUP • Partners and suppliers • Customers • Public authorities • Local communities Materials and Resources MOTOR OIL GROUP • Suppliers • Public authorities Energy Consumption MOTOR OIL GROUP • Local communities Water Consumption MOTOR OIL GROUP • Local communities • Local communities Waste Management MOTOR OIL GROUP • Public authorities • Local communities Emissions MOTOR OIL GROUP • Public authorities • Shareholders, investors, Environmental MOTOR OIL GROUP analysts Compliance • Public authorities •Shareholders, investors, Environmental analysts The management of material issues MOTOR OIL GROUP Investments • Local communities and the selected performance indices • Public authorities concern the parent company MOTOR OIL GROUP MOTOR OIL and its subsidiaries Employment • Local communities AVIN OIL, Coral, Coral Gas, LPC, NRG Employees and OFC which are controlled • Partners and suppliers by MOTOR OIL except is otherwise MOTOR OIL GROUP Health and Safety • Contractors’ staff and indicated in specific indices. Employees tank lorry drivers • Partners and suppliers, MOTOR OIL GROUP Training and Education • Contractors’ staff and Employees tank lorry drivers • Local communities MOTOR OIL GROUP Product Safety • Public authorities Employees • Customers • Local communities, Service and Product MOTOR OIL GROUP • Public authorities Quality Employees • Customers • Investors, shareholders • Local communities Compliance with laws MOTOR OIL GROUP • Public authorities and legislations • Partners and suppliers • Customers • Local communities • Public authorities Emergency MOTOR OIL GROUP • Partners and suppliers Response Plans Employees • Contractors’ staff and tank lorry drivers • Local communities • Public authorities Safety and Security of MOTOR OIL GROUP • Partners and suppliers depots and installations Employees • Contractors’ staff and tank lorry drivers MOTOR OIL HELLAS 85 Overall in the Sustainability Report, where numerical data The symbols used in the table are: or performance indicators are presented, the method of data collection and calculation of results is also stated. Indicates the page(s) of the Sustainability Report The Environmental and Health and Safety performance 2018 that include information on the indicator. indicators are specifically calculated according to internationally accepted procedures. Indicates reference to the Annual Financial The following table records the GRI Indicators, and in the Report 2018. column headed “Reference” the source of information Indicates reference to the company’s website. relating to each indicator is given. GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Disclosure Description Reference ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 Name of the organization. Back Cover GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services. 8-12 11-13, 20-35 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters. Back Cover GRI 102-4 Location of operations. 10 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form. 10-11, 13-15, 25 35-36, 47-51 GRI 102-6 Markets served. 10-13 11-12 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization. 8-13, 19-20, 31-36, 74-75 9-20 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers. 31-33 GRI 102-9 Supply chain. 18, 20-22 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain. 2-3, 10-11, 19 19 GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach. 14-15, 20-23, 40-42, 48-53, 56-58 GRI 102-12 External initiatives. 15-16, 77-81, 82-83 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations. 15-16 STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker. 5 5, 28-29, 38-39, 54-55, 72-73 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. 35-39 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Inside Cover GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. 5, 17-18 GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure. 13-14 44-50 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups. 24-25 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements. 31 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders. 24-25 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement. 24-25 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised. 24-25 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability Report Framework GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Disclosure Description Reference REPORT PROFILE GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements. 10-11 20-33 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries. 26-27, 84 GRI 102-47 List of material topics. 26-27 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information. 26-27, 82 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting. 26-27, 82 GRI 102-50 Reporting period. 1/1/2018 – 31/12/2018 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report. 90 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle. Annual GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report. 82 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards. 84 GRI 102-55 GRI content index. 86-89 GRI 102-56 External assurance. 84 GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Topic Indicator Description Reference ECONOMY GRI 103 Management Approach. 12-13, 19-23 47-51 Direct economic value generated GRI 201-1 12-13, 74-75 9-10 and distributed. Climate change impacts regarding Economic the possible financial implications, Performance risks or opportunities, constitute Financial implications and other risks (Profitability) GRI 201-2 parameters thoroughly taken into and opportunities due to climate change. account in the process of analysing, evaluating, approving and planning for investments or other initiatives. MOTOR OIL has not received Financial assistance received from GRI 201-4 financial assistance from the the government. government. GRI 103 Management Approach. 13-15, 72, 75 Market Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender GRI 202-1 33-34 Presence compared to local minimum wage. Proportion of senior management hired GRI 202-2 13-15, 31 form the local community. GRI 103 Management Approach. 18, 74 Procurement Practices GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. 75 MOTOR OIL HELLAS 87 GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Topic Indicator Description Reference GRI 103 Management Approach. 15 Anti-corruption GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. No such incidents. GRI 103 Management Approach. 13-15 Anti-competitive Behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, GRI 206-1 No such incidents. and monopoly practices. ENVIRONMENT GRI 103 Management Approach. 70 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume. 11-13 Materials GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used. 69-70 GRI 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials. 69-70 GRI 103 Management Approach. 62-63 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization. 62-64 52-64 Energy GRI 302-2 Indirect energy consumption. 19,286 MWh from the Electricity Market. GRI 302-3 Energy intensity. 62-64 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption. 62-64 GRI 103 Management Approach. 70-71 GRI 303-1 Total water usage. 70-71 Water GRI 303-2 Impacts from withdrawal of water. 70-71 GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused. 70-71 GRI 103 Management Approach. 54-61, 65-68 GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions. 65 GRI 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 65 Emissions GRI 305-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity. 65 GRΙ 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse emissions. 65 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone depleting substances. Non existent. GRI 305-7 Emissions of NOx, SOx etc. 66-68 GRI 103 Management Approach. 69-70 GRI 306-1 Water discharge. 69 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method. 69-70 Effluents There were no significant and Waste GRI 306-3 Significant spills. spills. GRI 306-4 Hazardous waste. 69-70 Water bodies affected by water discharges GRI 306-5 71 and/or runoff. GRI 103 Management Approach. 54-71 Environmental Compliance Significant fines and sanction for non-compliance GRI 307-1 No such fines. with environmental laws and regulations. 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability Report Framework GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD FOR “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Topic Indicator Description Reference SOCIETY GRI 103 Management Approach. 28-31 Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover. 33 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full time employees. 33-34 GRI 103 Management Approach. 38-42 Employee representation in formal joint GRI 403-1 management-employee health and safety 41 committees. Occupational Health Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational and Safety GRI 403-2 42-43 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism. Employees with high incidence or high risk of GRI 403-3 42-43 diseases related to their occupation. Health and safety topics covered in formal GRI 403-4 31, 40-42, 50-53 agreements with trade unions. GRI 103 Management Approach. 35, 51-53 Training and GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee. 36, 51 Education GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills. 35-37, 51-53 GRI 103 Management Approach. 30 Freedom of Association and Operations and suppliers in which the right to No such operation Collective Bargaining GRI 407-1 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk. 31 GRI 103 Management Approach. 23, 47 Assessment of the health and safety impacts Customer Health GRI 416-1 23, 47 of the organization’s products and services. and Safety Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health GRI 416-2 No such incidents. and safety impacts of products and services. GRI 103 Management Approach. 20-22, 47 Product Labelling Incidents of non-compliance concerning laws GRI 417-2 No such incidents. and regulations about product labelling. 13-15, 17-23, 44, 83-84 GRI 103 Management Approach. Socioeconomic 47-51 Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI 419-1 No such fines. in the social and economic area. GRI 103 Management Approach. 38-42 Mechanisms used to involve local communities Emergency in the development of emergency plans for existing Preparedness and new operations (e.g. risk communication, preparation, 40-53 rehearsal, regular review and modification, arrangements for the management of crises, timely and transparent incident communication). GRI 103 Management Approach. 40-53 Safety of Processes and Facilities Number of process safety events, by business OG 13 40-43 activity. MOTOR OIL HELLAS 89 Sustainability Reports of Previous Years ALL THE MATERIALS USED FOR PRINTING THE MOTOR OIL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ARE FRIENDLY TO THE ENVIRONMENT Headquarters Irodou Attikou 12A 15 1 24, Μaroussi Τ+30 210 8094000 Refinery PO Box 23 20 100 Kοrinthos Τ+30 27410 48602, 48702 www.moh.gr
