John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Contents Introduction Foreword 03 Our vision and values 04 At a glance 05 Our business model 06 Our approach 08 Materiality 10 Governance 12 People Overview 14 Respecting human rights 16 Investing in our people and culture 20 Health, safety & security of our people 38 Investing in our communities 54 Planet Overview 60 Managing environmental risk 62 Reducing our environmental impact 64 Raising environmental awareness and competence 54 Profit Overview 82 Creating sustainable profit 84 Responsible business practice 90 Driving innovation 94 Advancing sustainability on projects 98 Looking forward 110 Mapping our report to the UN SDGs 112 Foreword Introduction fair and equitable behaviour which drives talent retention, repeat customer People activity and confidence amongst our shareholder base. Across our business, we have adopted the ‘triple bottom line' approach to sustainability – this report will give you insights into our activity. I am focused on our people, keeping them safe, treating them fairly, and with respect and dignity. In 2018, we Our purpose is to create sustainable value for our appointed a global diversity and inclusion manager, and published our global customers, our people, investors and the communities diversity and inclusion policy. Wood where we live and work, using our collective energy to is also a founder member of Building Responsibly, an industry led initiative to create a better tomorrow. tackle common issues around worker Planet welfare and has adopted the 10 Worker Welfare principles. Climate change is the biggest challenge the global Sustainable Development of our generation. I passionately believe Goals and provide the world with cleaner, In 2018, we suffered the tragic loss of that we are all obligated to be part of more reliable solutions to rising energy a colleague undertaking a pressure the solution, our future generations are demand. testing operation – exhaustive effort has relying on us. been devoted to making sure this never I'm proud to say, Wood has been active happens again. Our thoughts are with With big challenges comes great in this space for a number of years and the family and we have offered support opportunity and undoubtedly there we will continue to grow our renewable to them through this difficult time. Our is huge potential for Wood to bring energy service capability across the relentless focus on safe delivery remains innovative solutions to the market place. life cycle of assets and see this as unwavering and in 2018 we developed We have transformed and broadened our an important area of growth for our Wood's Safety Shield. The objective is business with a platform for significant business. to bring a consistent approach to safety and sustainable growth, keeping our eye no matter what you do. In essence, the Profit Just as important, is to ensure we on our customer's future needs. We are continue to support assets that operate Safety Shield requires us all to take committed to focusing on delivery and today. This remains an imperative, personal accountability for preparing to fully unlocking our potential to achieve keeping the lights on now is as important do work safely, engaging the rules and solutions to the world's ‘big ticket' as our future. We are proud to continue tools we use to keep safe and intervening sustainability goals. to support our clients in this area. when something looks wrong. Our vision is to inspire with ingenuity, Sustainability forms a foundation across Sustainability will always remain at the partner with agility and create new the Wood business, touching every heart of Wood's business. I sincerely possibilities. aspect of our strategy from what we do, believe that it is key to a healthy growing At Wood, we believe innovation powers to how we do it. To be truly sustainable business and will be the differentiator to us forward, and we empower our people and I believe this is an imperative every carry Wood into the long term. to unite our ingenuity and unrivalled decision must be made with an eye on technology capability in delivering game our future. changing solutions to our customer's Robin Watson Sustainability is not just about what challenges. Our focus, is to harness our Chief Executive services we offer to the market, but technological advantage to become also the way that we deliver them. leaders across the energy transition, Sustainable growth is delivered through bring innovative solutions that support John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 03 Our vision and values Our vision is to: Inspire with ingenuity, partner with agility, create new possibilities... Our values are: Care Commitment Courage Working safely, with integrity, Consistently delivering to Pushing the boundaries to create respecting and valuing each all our stakeholders smarter, more sustainable other and our communities solutions 04 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 At a glance Wood is a global leader in the delivery of project, engineering and technical services in 160+ Introduction energy, industry and the built environment. year history We provide performance-driven solutions across the asset life cycle, from concept to decommissioning across a broad range of 11bn+ industrial markets, including the upstream, revenue midstream and downstream oil & gas; power & industrial; environment & infrastructure; clean energy; mining; nuclear and general industrial sectors. 60,000+ employees People 60+ 400+ Global business of Sector breakdown skilled professionals We operate in more than 60 countries, countries offices 4% employing around 60,000 people across more than 400 offices. 4% 47% Planet 13% 32% Oil & Gas: Upstream (29%) Downstream & chemicals (18%) Power & industrial Profit Environment & infrastructure Minerals processing Automation To find out more about our geographies visit: To find out more about our sectors visit: www.woodplc.com/geographies www.woodplc.com/sectors For a full list of our locations visit: To find out more about our business: www.woodplc.com/our-locations www.woodplc.com/ataglance John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 05 Our business model Inputs Core capabilities Project, engineering and technical capability throughout the asset life cycle and across broad industrial markets Performance driven and innovative solutions Asset Solutions (AS) Specialist Technical Environment & Solutions (STS) Infrastructure Talented, flexible Capital projects and motivated Focused on new capital We provide a range of Solutions (E&IS) workforce investments where there is specialist services including: either no existing infrastructure We plan, design and engineer or a significant upgrade is • Automation & control infrastructure and tackle planned to an existing site. complex environmental • Consulting We add value from concept challenges. Our services to start-up through our • Subsea & export systems range from assessments management, commissioning • Clean energy solutions and planning through Operating structure and project services. project management, • Nuclear services optimised for construction management sustainability, agility • Minerals processing and monitoring. Operations solutions and future growth Focused on supporting infrastructure that is already in place. Our services ensure safety, increase production, improve efficiency, reduce cost Flexible commercial and extend asset life. model with a measured risk appetite Broad sector capabilities Efficient capital structure and allocation Oil & gas Power & Environment & Minerals Automation industrial infrastructure processing Underpinned by our culture Our vision We are a diverse global business providing a huge range of services across different sectors. But common to everything we do are our Inspire with ingenuity, values, which set out a simple, clear expectation to deliver a high partner with agility, standard of service with the right behaviours. To find out more about our vision and values visit: create new possibilities... www.woodplc.com/values 06 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Creating value through Value Introduction our differentiated model outputs Our differentiators: For investors • Strong shareholder returns and progressive dividend policy Unrivalled capability & technical knowledge • Reduced cyclicality through broad industry exposure Across our markets we have an extensive range of services and can deliver at every stage of the life cycle of our customers' assets. We Total Dividend provide solutions to some of the world's most complex projects 35.0 and draw on our extensive expertise and know-how to bring new perspectives to the challenges that these projects present. cents per share People Execution excellence For employees Rewarding careers and focus We have a long track record of consistently delivering safe and best on retention in class projects. Our know-how differentiates us and we maintain this by recruiting and retaining industry leading talent. Employees c 60,000+ Technology enabled We design and deploy leading edge technology that creates efficient and sustainable solutions for our customers. Planet For customers • Delivery of predictable project outcomes • Global reach with balanced portfolio Commercial discipline & versatility of long term partner relationships $ We employ an asset light, flexible model allowing us to respond with customers • Leading technical services and quickly to changes in market conditions. Our contracting structures smarter, more sustainable solutions are predominantly reimbursable although we offer a range of • Track record on industry leading contracting structures to align with customer needs within our projects measured risk appetite. Profit For communities Platform for sustainable growth Significant contribution to local employment and communities Our broad end market exposure means we are less exposed to volatility in individual markets and are aligned to global energy Employee fundraising matched and industrial transitions. We have a good balance of exposure to opex and capex spending providing through-cycle stability. We are strongly cash generative allowing for a prudent long term capital structure. £300,000 Our values Our behaviours Care Listen up Team up Commitment Lift others up Don't give up Courage Stand up Speak up John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 07 Our approach Our Sustainability programme seeks to Our values of Care, Courage and Commitment underpin our approach create long-term sustainable value, through to sustainability. Wood operates within a wider economy, which in the consideration of how our company turn operates within a global society operates in the ecological, social and economic all within one environment, our planet. We believe that we have a environment. By embedding sustainability responsibility to operate in a way strategies at the heart of Wood, we will that balances our impact on the environment, society and economy to ensure successful longevity. To do this, we build ensure that future generations are not compromised by Wood's activities. We sustainable thinking into our daily decisionpassionately believe that it is neither making, ensuring we identify and assess responsible nor acceptable to make a profit at any cost. Our employees the risks and opportunities of our business, do not want to work for a company to create sustainable value for our clients, which exploits people and communities or causes irreversible environmental employees, society and the environment damage. Wood wants to be a part of the solution to global sustainability around us. issues. Built around our values and behaviours, the culture we seek to nurture at Wood, is one of care for our people, our planet and our business. For our business to be sustainable over time, we understand the importance of planning for the future. As well as mitigating the risks associated with the breadth of sustainability issues, we have an opportunity to help bring sustainable solutions to the market, that will help drive the mega trends we see today that seek to advance People global sustainability goals. We must create balance in our decision making and act responsibly to help sustain our business over time, our contribution to society and the impact we have on the environment around us. Our approach is simple; focussing Bearable Equitable on three factors, People (social), Planet (Environmental) and Profit (Economic). Our strategy embeds Sustainable sustainable practice into every aspect of our business; ensuring our approach aligns to global priorities and the part Planet Viable Profit Wood plays in a sustainable future for us all. Our People, Planet and Profit model allows us to clearly demonstrate the key risks and opportunities we face, how our strategy aims to tackle these issues, and how we link this to the global agenda and our contribution to the wider economy. 08 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Aligning our approach with global sustainability goals Introduction Wood is a member of the United Nations Global Compact and is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations. We're also committed to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Agreed by all UN Member states and launched in September 2015, the sustainable development goals focus on 17 key areas with 169 underlying global targets that seek to create a sustainable world. Tackling a broad range of social and economic development issues, the global goals promote a socially fair, economically secure, prosperous and inclusive planet; which our Wood sustainability strategy supports and aims to work towards. In each section of this report, we detail the Sustainable Development Goals and the targets relating to our activities and areas of focus. Woven throughout, we aim to create a continual narrative around the goals, linking Wood's contribution to advancing the global sustainable development goals. Our approach Our focus United Nations sustainable development goals People Respecting human rights Investing in our people and culture People Health, safety & security of our people Investing in our communities Planet Managing environmental risk Reducing our environmental impact Planet Raising environmental awareness and competence Profit Creating sustainable profit Responsible business practice Driving innovation Profit Advancing sustainability on projects John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 09 Materiality At Wood, our approach to sustainability and Determining our material aspects across the people, planet and profit the foundation of our programme centres scope is vital to ensuring we integrate sustainability into the heart of our on creating sustainable value, by adopting business, whilst ensuring Wood aligns sustainable practices throughout our value with global imperatives that further the Sustainable Development Goals agenda. chain. We seek to build a sustainable culture at Wood, that recognises the needs of our clients We conducted our first sustainability materiality assessment in November and other key stakeholders. We understand 2017, and this formed the base the importance of planning for the future, foundation of our approach to launching our sustainability programme in early working to bring sustainable solutions to the 2018. As our programme develops, periodic reviews of this assessment will marketplace. We seek to execute our work in be conducted to ensure we capture any a sustainable way that respects the need to fundamental changes as our business grows. balance our people and planet impacts, in a way that assures a sustainable and ethical profit. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The first step in undertaking our materiality assessment, was to review our impact towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, reflecting the impact of our organisation against the goals, is a key factor to ensuring we align our approach and guide Wood's efforts in contributing to global sustainability. Not all of the SDG targets are relevant to Wood's operations, however the majority are addressed through the actions of our people, the services we provide and use. In creating the elements to Wood's sustainability programme, we utilised the 17 SDGs as our reference guide, to ensure we aligned our focus to demonstrate Wood's contribution and impact towards each of the goals. Understanding our risks Sustainability risks are growing and across the globe, executive attitudes towards sustainability are gradually changing; how companies assess and understand the business impacts that come from their operations is an increasing concern for investors and non-financial stakeholders. At Wood, we recognise both the risks and opportunities that sustainability presents, and the appetite from our investors, customers and regulators for transparency around the actual risks arising from the impact of our operations. 10 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality mapping Ethics Introduction HIGH Licence to operate People and engagement Supply chain Health and safety Environmental management Labour relations Likelihood of impact Environmental technology Waste production Community relations Transport Driving innovation Biodiversity Human Rights Indirect economic impacts People Product and service labelling Degree of impact HIGH Being open and honest is central to Outlining our impact areas Structuring our report Wood's values and behaviours. We apply a transparent approach to Sustainability is an all-encompassing To ensure the information contained how we report on the material issues agenda and recognising this means we in this report remains meaningful, we and significant risks that affect our cannot reasonably tackle all aspects at have identified and focused on our business, detailing this in our Annual once. Determining the key aspects of most significant social, environmental Report and Accounts (pages 39-43). sustainability that were most relevant to and economic impacts and those that We have used the company's principal Wood was an important step in building influence the decisions made within our Planet risks and uncertainties to inform our our materiality assessment; ensuring we business. The topics included are those materiality assessment and contribute tackle the most tangible issues that will that have a direct or indirect impact on to the development, understanding and help build capacity and in return provide our ability to create, preserve or erode management of risk throughout our the greatest value back to our business. economic, environmental and social sustainability programme. value of Wood, our stakeholders, the In this light, we assessed the key areas environment, and society at large. of social, environmental and economic Looking back to our history impact to our business, taking into We have organised our reporting consideration the maturity of our structure around the Global Reporting Wood was formed by the coming organisation, short and medium-term Initiative and Global Compact, although together of two long established risks and opportunities, and the ongoing our alignment at present is still evolving companies. Aligning our business on integration throughout the course of as we mature our approach. We aim to sustainability was an immediate focus 2018. Mindful that this initial assessment clearly communicate Wood's support for for Wood, to ensure we continued to is a ‘snapshot' in time, we will frequently the UN SDGs, through the content and balance our decision making across the revisit this as our programme develops, actions described within. To achieve this, Profit economic, social and environmental to ensure we continue to focus on the each section of the report refers to the spectrum. As a new company, it was material impacts of our business. The relevant SDG and targets that align to important for Wood to understand the elements identified by this assessment, our efforts and content, with a an ‘SDG rich history of each legacy organisation. namely those of the highest value to roadmap' at the end of the report to We took stock of the important aspects Wood, have become the foundations of guide the reader to specific SDG goals that shaped direction and sought our sustainability programme. and where the relevant content sits to understand the context on which within the report. decisions were made at that time. We recognise the importance of keeping Many great tools, thoughts, processes pace with the emerging global mega Our report should enable internal and and ideas were born in our heritage trends that help shape industry direction external stakeholders to understand companies which we have made sure in tackling sustainability issues. At Wood, our approach to sustainability and raise to retain where possible, and which we we seek to actively address the trends awareness of what we consider to be our believe will help develop and mature our within our sphere of influence and reflect material aspects. Using this approach new approach. these within our business and longerenables Wood to focus on specific issues, term strategic direction. We address this helping mitigate and improve our impact To be clear, Wood is not following the topic in more detail, within the ‘Creating on society, the local economy and the same trajectory as either Amec Foster sustainable profit' section of this report. environment. Wheeler or Wood Group – we have forged a new path, informed by our rich heritage. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 11 Governance Why is good governance important in Sustainability oversight sustainability? Corporate governance is Oversight of Wood's sustainability programme is hardwired into the essential to embedding sustainability into the governance structures of the business. heart of Wood. Corporate governance is about At Board level, Sustainability is considered by the Safety, Assurance and leadership. It sets the parameters for decisionBusiness Ethics (SABE) Committee, for more information, refer to the Wood making with accountability, transparency, plc website for the SABE Charter. This responsibility and ethical behaviour. Wood's Committee is chaired by a non-executive of the board and attended by the Chief governance practices translate the culture Executive. behind which decisions are taken in our At the Executive Leadership level, the company. Put simply by the UK Corporate CEO has appointed the Executive President for HSSEA as the Executive Governance Code: “it is the system by which Leader for sustainability. The Executive Leadership Team provide oversights, companies are directed and controlled”. support and approval for the Wood sustainability programme. Our approach is to weave sustainability throughout our governance structures with the aim of making sustainable behaviour “business as usual”. We believe that great companies with great futures have this in common. Moreover, adopting this approach enables Wood to consistently deliver value to our customers and stakeholders impacting our return on investment, growth and risk management opportunities. Board The Board focuses its time and energy on strategy, significant acquisitions, the annual budget and performance against it, monitoring the performance of the management team and risk management, specifically focusing on principal risks and the overall system of internal control. The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and the Board Committees – the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. Safety, Assurance & Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Business Ethics Monitors and reviews Responsible for compliance Committee Committee the structure, size and with financial reporting Advises the Board on Responsible for the composition of the Board, standards, consideration of executive remuneration Group's safety strategy makes recommendations the internal financial and and sets the packages and performance and with regard to any changes IT control environment and of each of the executive for ensuring compliance and ensures board the relationship with the directors within the with laws and regulations succession plans are in external auditor. approved Remuneration including business ethics. place. Policy. 12 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Executive Leadership Team Stakeholder consultation Managing our sustainability impacts Introduction The ELT operates under the authority of We recognise the importance of the Chief Executive and comprises the stakeholder engagement in advancing As a large, global business, we recognise Group CFO plus the CEOs of our four our programme, and believe through the importance of managing our Business Units, and the leaders of our client interaction, industry forum sustainability impacts. As well as our own other key functional areas: Health Safety participation and engagement with local impacts, our supply chain is also a vital Security, Ethics and Assurance; People & community groups, we achieve a more element in Wood successfully delivering Organisation; Strategy & Development. thoughtful approach to maturing our to our stakeholders; it is important They are responsible for delivering strategy. for us to extend our management of against the strategy approved by the environmental, social and economic Making sustainability a core element of Board. impacts to our portfolio of approved our business means that engagement suppliers and strategic partnerships. is both frequent and all-encompassing Find out more about the ELT: in terms of business delivery. We 30,000+ www.woodplc.com/leaders have multiple channels through which For more information on our corporate sustainability aspects connect with People governance and committees, see pages 50-76 our stakeholders. Our Strategy & of our annual report and accounts: Suppliers Development function are, for example, www.woodplc.com very active in the energy transition space to enable informed development of $4.5bn This reporting structure provides Wood's energy transition agenda. an unbroken chain of sustainability Our sustainability report is shaped by the accountability from Board level all the multitude of issues our key stakeholders Annual spend on third party way through to operations. want to understand in terms of our materials and services approach. Engaging with our workforce Key stakeholders and aspects: Externally, Wood is a member of the For our programme to be successful, United Nations Global Compact and we recognise the need for our approach • Clients through the production of this report, to sustainability to resonate with our eg safety performance, worker we provide an annual update on the employee base and be meaningful at a Planet welfare progress of our sustainability strategy local level to truly advance our strategy. • Employees and our alignment with the global At the start of 2018, each of our four eg diversity and inclusion sustainable development goals. business unit CEOs nominated a global sustainability champion to become • Prospective employees Through the publication of our Annual ambassadors for sustainability in eg Wood's approach to sustainability Report and Accounts, we report their businesses; alongside the global and culture annually on our social, environmental sustainability manager, our sustainability and economic performance, in line with leadership team was born. • Shareholders regulatory non-financial information eg risk management disclosures, and provide key updates on The purpose of this team is to help progress and strategy development. advance our sustainability strategy, Additionally, Wood also voluntarily ensuring the programme continues discloses to the annual CDP Climate to reflect our evolving business needs Change questionnaire, which seeks to and creates accountability within the provide transparent insight into how Profit business to drive sustainable practice. we manage the risks and opportunities The sustainability leadership team is also associated with climate change. tasked with building and maintaining a network of regional and local champions. Every employee has a responsibility to protect, nurture and promote our people, on Wood's CDP Climate Change submission, planet and profit focus; we believe the refer to page XX of this report or visit: www.cdp.net/en/climate key to a sustainable business comes from active employee engagement, driven as much from our employees on the ground as from the leadership of our business. Read about our sustainability champions network on page 77 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 13 People People are our greatest asset and at the heart of our sustainability programme. At Wood, we believe in not People just protecting the wellbeing of our own but also the people and communities in which we impact. We strive through our operations to leave behind a positive legacy through nurturing and supporting current and Respecting human rights future generations who, in turn, have the potential to become our customers, Investing in our people and culture clients and workforce of tomorrow. Health, safety & security of our people Investing in our communities 14 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Respecting Investing in our people human rights and culture People Ensuring we maintain a standard of People are the heart of our business business that complies with the law, and through living our values we respects the rights of others and seek to create a safe, diverse and protects human rights is crucial to the inclusive workplace that showcases long-term future of Wood and our Wood as an employer of choice. operations. Building a culture that creates value and promotes growth for We pride ourselves on being a employees, investors, customers and responsible employer and recognise communities ensures we remain a the global role we play in helping to sustainable business. advance human rights. We recognise that building a culture of respect for human rights issues is not just the ‘right thing' to do but also helps to strengthen our brand, business relations and become a desirable Planet employer. Profit Health, safety & Investing in our security of our people communities At Wood, we care about our people. Investing in our communities Our expectation is that wherever we contributes to building a sustainable work the health, safety and security future that aims to address both of our people is our top priority. We local and global challenges. We aim aim to build a culture defined by our to make a positive difference to the values, strong leadership, personal communities in which we operate accountability and a commitment to and recognise our social responsibility achieving excellence; this ensures we to respect, nurture and empower the safeguard our people and business people and locations impacted by our from harm. business. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 15 People Respecting human rights Wood is committed to the We seek to build a culture of care at Wood that respects and nurtures our people and the communities we impact. Integrity protection and enhancement is the cornerstone of our business that allows us to retain the respect of our people, customers and suppliers. Embedded in of internationally proclaimed our values and behaviours, we set clear expectations of our human rights. We understand the people and business to maintain high standards of ethics and integrity, demanding collective accountability to promote a importance of addressing and fair, respectful and dignified working culture at Wood. upholding basic human rights issues and this is reflected in the culture of our organisation, our values, policies and code of conduct. 16 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Policy Governance Modern slavery and human Introduction Wood respects and enforces the We recognise that leadership for human trafficking principles established in the Universal issues must come from the top and At Wood, we are committed to Declaration of Human Rights which sets in 2018, to aid the construction of our eradicating all forms of modern slavery a common standard of achievement first modern slavery and human rights and human trafficking within our for all peoples and all nations. We statement we set about creating a business and sphere of influence. In our understand the importance of managing governance structure to determine published statement on Modern Slavery and continually assessing human rights our approach, with the creation of our and Human Trafficking, updated annually, risk across our operations and wider Human Rights and Modern Slavery we acknowledge our responsibility to supply chain, to ensure we enhance the Steering Committee. The steering ensure our people, as well as those in our our systems and policies in place to help committee, led by our sustainability value chain are not subject to any form drive continuous improvement. Setting programme and influenced by Wood's of modern slavery, whether this is human down Wood's fundamental governance involvement with the industry led trafficking or forced and bonded labour. documents has been a priority though initiative Building Responsibly on worker 2018 postacquisition of the Amec welfare, is tasked with providing effective Foster Wheeler business. This has given direction and stewardship over our People In our annual statement, we seek to us the opportunity to ensure a consistent commitment to identify, prevent, detect provide a transparent overview of approach to human rights across Wood's and remedy human rights issues within how we assess, manage and mitigate core governance processes and aligning Wood and our supply chain. the risk of modern slavery and human to Wood's vision and values. trafficking. We recognise the nature of Our human rights policy, updated in our business creates challenge and risk 2018, documents and affirms Wood's Wood for the manifestation of human rights commitment to upholding basic human Board & and modern slavery issues, that requires rights. This policy is supported by global Committees dedication to identify and mitigate in our policies that address how Wood conducts operations or of those we work with. For business to maintain high standards of this reason, over and above compliance, ethics and integrity, promoting dignity we ensure that our modern slavery and Executive and respect for how we treat our people human trafficking report is global in Leadership and with those we interact. Team (ELT) nature and updated to this effect. Planet • Code of Conduct Training and capacity building • Supply Chain Code of Conduct Human Rights Wood's & Modern Building We believe that communication and • Equal Opportunities Policy Sustainability Slavery Responsibly training is vital to increasing awareness Programme Steering Programme and capacity around the management of • Harassment Policy Committee human rights and modern slavery issues. In 2018, we placed a focus on embedding • Diversity and Inclusion Policy our Code of Conduct and training our • Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking workforce on the various aspects of an Statement ethical approach to business, including content focused around key areas such Our Human Rights Policy and other global as equal opportunity, harassment, labour policies can be found on our website: and wage laws, as well as modern slavery www.woodplc.com/ and human trafficking. The mandatory training launched to over 35,000 Wood Profit employees online, with a completion rate of over 90%, as well as site-based face to face training packs, deployed to 20,000 additional employees. Additionally, in 2018 our business conducted targeted awareness training on modern slavery and human trafficking to over 240 of our supply chain professionals. As we progress into 2019, our focus will be on the development of our own, in-house training around human rights to support further targeted training and increase general employee awareness. Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement can be found on our website: www.woodplc.com/ John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 17 18 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Supporting the Global Introduction Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) An example of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation to human rights: Building Responsibly Worker welfare principles 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, People In 2018, Building Responsibly launched At Wood, we believe everyone end modern slavery and human the Building Responsibly Principles deserves to work in a safe and healthy trafficking for members to adopt and promote environment, and we recognise our 8.8 Protect labour rights and across the engineering and construction responsibility to ensure we care for our promote safe and secure working industry. These Principles provide a employee's welfare in the workplace. environments for all workers, framework for the group's ongoing Additionally, we recognise the need including migrant workers development of good practice notes, and importance of sector and cross implementation guides, and tools. Given 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, sector collaboration on worker welfare differing local and national requirements, trafficking and all forms of violence issues to have a meaningful impact against and torture of children and external guidelines, these Principles on the common challenges faced in establish a common, global baseline for 16.10 Ensure public access to our own and other industries globally. the treatment of workers; By collectively information and protect fundamental Wood is a founding member of the committing to and promoting these freedoms, in accordance with industry-led, business financed initiative Building Responsibly. Launched in 2017 Principles, we believe we can foster a national legislation and international business environment that advances the agreements Planet with six industry-leading engineering and construction companies, Building safety, security, and welfare of all people. 16.B Promote and enforce nonResponsibly is a global, business-led discriminatory laws and policies for To access the Building Responsibly principles coalition committed to promoting the visit: sustainable development rights and welfare of workers, specifically https://www.building-responsibly.org/ for those in the engineering and worker-welfare-principles construction industry. The initiative hinges on the belief that Growing membership pre-competitive collaboration is essential Through bi-annual stakeholder events, for companies to improve standards, member outreach and support from the policies, and practices to accelerate initiative partners Humanity United and impact across the industry, focusing on BSR (secretariat), we seek to actively advancing programs by: grow the initiatives member base, • Adopting common principles and further promote the Building Responsibly practices Principles and develop further good Profit practice guidance notes and tools to • Developing tools support continual advancement of • Engaging workers, clients, worker welfare across our industry. governments, civil society, and In 2018 we saw our core steering group international organizations membership grow from the 6 founding • Driving innovation and continuous companies to 10, alongside an additional improvement 20 companies signing a statement of support for our Building Responsibly Principles in a cross-industry effort to improve the rights and welfare of workers. To learn more about Building Responsibly, our members and supporters visit: https://www.building-responsibly.org/ John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 19 People Investing in our people and culture Operating in over 60 countries, At Wood, we recognise the long-term sustainability of our business relies upon the talent, efficiencies and drive of our employing around 60,000 people employees to ensure our collective success and continual growth. We believe in promoting a diverse and inclusive culture our business relies upon the that promotes acceptance and ensures a fair and balanced talent, efficiency and drive of our approach to employment and conditions for all. employees to ensure our collective success and the growth of our business. Wood takes a holistic overview of our people and their capabilities to provide the right people, in the right place, at the right time and at the right cost. 20 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Building a sustainable Introduction workforce We believe in having a positive impact on the communities in which we operate, providing local employment and developing local talent helps build a solid foundation for our business, whilst contributing to the local economy ensuring we leave a lasting legacy for future generations. We want to give every employee a meaningful opportunity to develop their talents and career, focusing our strategy on ensuring we identify, attract, nurture Culture development Culture club People and retain talent across the breadth The culture club is a multi-disciplinary Wood was established in 2017 following of our business. Additionally, our aim global team that represents the business. the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler is to ensure our total compensation is It was established as part of the by Wood Group. Most mergers and internally fair and externally competitive; integration programme in 2017 and acts acquisitions have a winner and a loser; our benefit plans are aligned in every as a regular governance mechanism. The this wasn't the ethos of this transaction. country in which we operate and are purpose of the group is to ensure that the We were all in it together and this was our valued by our employees. intent of our values and behaviours are opportunity to create something new for embedded into all ways of working. The We take a blended approach to learning the benefit of our people, our company and group meets on a monthly basis to oversee and operate on the principle of career our industry. key culture projects. partnership, believing that everyone As part of the integration of Wood has the ability to grow their career Group and Amec Foster Wheeler, it was Workforce engagement within Wood. Ongoing conversations considered critical to take the time to between managers and employees help Engaged employees are those who involve the business in creating the ideal to align aspirations with organisational are involved in, enthusiastic about working environment and create employee Planet needs and opportunities to ensure we and committed to their work and who momentum around developing a new retain a sustainable employee base to contribute to their organisation in a vision, values and behaviours for the support our business operations now positive manner. Engaged employees combined organisation. We developed and in the future. We take a coaching are the ones who are most likely to drive a cross business work stream which method to learning that builds trust innovation, growth and higher revenue included operational and functional leaders and support internally with a focus on that companies desperately need. These who used their experience and input to regular feedback throughout the year; in engaged workers build new products and determine how to optimise our working turn, this helps build a healthy workplace services, generate new ideas and create environment. We also created a campaign culture and has benefits to both new customers. They also contribute to across the business which aimed to employee and the business in retaining building great company cultures where involve as many people as possible in cotalent. We post internal global vacancies people feel part of a team, achieving their creating our vision, values and behaviours. in a central location to provide a fair potential and stay safe. Employees were invited to take part by recruitment process for all. bringing their own ideas and perspectives We have created a work environment to interviews and workshops. The key that enables employees to thrive both as highlights of the campaign included: individuals and as contributors to business Profit success. We strive to create a positive Career employee experience, fostering innovation management and collaboration and creating the best place to work. Engaging our people means connecting with them through 5,552 Assessment Performance regular conversations about vision, values, & selection development performance and career development. Completed surveys across business We are a people business, so it's important Leadership Learning that people in all locations and in all jobs development are informed and have the opportunity Succession 121 28 to share their views and are involved in decision making and problem solving. Interviews Workshops management We have developed mechanisms to facilitate employee voice and two-way 20 5 communication to raise engagement levels. Locations Continents John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 21 People Investing in our people and culture Listening Group Network Impact of the listening group network: Managing careers We have developed a listening group 1. The direct feedback of this group At Wood we believe in career partnership network in order to make two-way helped establish our new global and our leaders play a pivotal role in communications simple. The forum recognition program – Inspire awards helping our employees flourish. We meets on a bi-monthly basis and is 2. It supported the development and believe that a leader's role is not just hosted by an executive leadership team embedding of our vision, values and about managing the output of the team, member. Twice a year, a nonexecutive behaviours but they have to lead, which means director chairs the forum. We have developing, coaching, guiding colleagues over 500 focal points representing 48 3. It suggested ways in which we could and promoting their wins. countries and we continue to grow. get better connected with people at our most remote locations As part of our cultural framework, The LGN is our most important direct we believe in leaders at all levels and communication channel between 4. The LGN has also helped us to define have remained consistently focused on employees and leadership; it's a and improve our diversity and inclusion leadership development. Our leaders consistent way of hearing from all goal have they key to unlocking the potential parts of the business. It's important of their people and we believe that to provide safe, anonymous spaces for Engagement surveys it is their influence that impacts how any discussions that might venture into engaged our people are in their work. sensitive areas. Active listening goes a We are committed to hearing the views long way towards making everyone feel of the people working for us and we In 2016 we created a simple yet heard. Making real, noticeable changes commit to regular employee surveys innovative Front-Line Leadership based on that feedback is even more in order to seek, listen and act on Development Programme (FLDP). This important and this is what we have employee's views in a consistent way was successfully piloted in our North Sea endeavoured to do through the LGN. across the business. The purpose of business and then rolled out in Houston, the survey is to “take the temperature” USA. Since we established this channel, of our workforce and identify areas of we have shared lots of important strength and weakness in topics such The integration of Wood Group information, heard great, honest as leadership, line management and and Amec Foster Wheeler gave us feedback both positive and negative, employee well-being. A simple survey, the platform to align and create a and asked for grass roots opinion on key unique to Wood, was developed using programme that would be globally issues. All feedback to our leaders has the fundamental building blocks of our applicable and create a common been received positively and followed up. values and leadership expectations. We leadership language across cultures. Our network members also facilitate conducted our first global Wood survey the exchange of information to, from in July 2018, partnering with an external What is Front line leader's and on behalf of their local teams, partner, Peakon, who is renowned for development (FLDP)? offices and sites. its progressive approach to continual listening. This approach fits well with FLDP is not a conventional Leadership Wood's culture and allows managers Training course, there are no PowerPoints direct access to engagement data. In within the programme. FLDP creates 2018, we achieved a global participation the right space for participation, level of 55% across 60 countries. Our collaboration and raising self-awareness employee net promoter score improved by with opportunity for self-reflection, 18 points. During 2019, we will continue to providing a unique experience to listen to the business and will conduct 4 delegates to allow them to shape their quarterly pulse surveys. leadership style. As a Wood leader... Know your people Let others know too Make it Possible Have great conversations. Share what you know. Be proactive and skilled. Have regular conversations. Be proactive in letting others who Be present and aware of the options Understand their objectives, how can enable their performance and for ongoing development and do they're tracking, their development development know about your what is possible to make it possible opportunities, future aspirations and people's aspirations, needs and for them at Wood. your role within that. potential. Use other leaders, intranet sites and Provide regular coaching and Promote their wins, fly the flag for P&O to facilitate learning and career constructive feedback. Have the them and celebrate their successes moves. Help them get the next challenging conversations. so they are known to others also. project, the next job. Make sure you're on the same page. Use the Wood community. Don't Take care of those in your charge. Be Ask, don't guess. trap them in their current job. the leader you wish you had. 22 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 What did we do in 2018? and testimonial has been overwhelmingly positive with 94% of those asked saying Supporting the Global Introduction In 2018, we worked with key stakeholders in the business to review the course. We they would recommend the course; it has Sustainable Development exceeded the expectations of participants developed a Global Facilitators Reference Goals (SDG) Guide comprising 14 modules, providing Led by our global people development An example of the SDG targets guidance on core messages to promote team, A facilitator community of practice relative to our business in relation to global consistency. Due to the modular allows us to continually improve, share our people and culture: nature of the programme, many of challenges and best practice. In 2019, the topics can be used independently we will be launching leading indicator to support other training within the training metrics to capture evidence of organisation. behavioural changes in the workplace. We invested time and resource, holding FLDP has strengthened our leadership face-to-face train-the-trainer events in capability, contributing to improvement in the UK and USA with colleagues from safety performance by giving our people as far away as Australia and the Middle tools and techniques to accelerate their People East. This allowed us to increase the own, others and business growth. It is number of facilitators globally and upskill creating a common language at Wood everyone on new guidance material, and is becoming “how we do things supporting through co-facilitation. By 2020 around here!” 8.6 Substantially reduce the Course duration was reduced from 4 to 3 proportion of youth not in days, saving 25% on cost to the business What's next for leadership employment, education or training without compromising quality of content development? or delivery yet still allowing flexibility of We are currently developing Wood's duration based on location and business By 2030 leadership model, which will determine requirements. Business benefits aside, the 4.4 Substantially increase the number the key leadership capabilities we believe reduced length of the course improved of youth and adults who have that will differentiate Wood leaders. This relevant skills, including technical and participant wellbeing by reducing time is an internal consultancy project that vocational skills, for employment, away from family and personal life and will engage our leaders and employees decent jobs and entrepreneurship the potential burden of an escalating Planet and will form the basis for leadership workload from being away from the 8.5 Achieve full and productive development program for our operational office. employment and decent work for all and business leaders. We will engage women and men, including for young In 2018 we completed delivery to over across a number of focus groups, in order people and persons with disabilities, 330 Front Line leaders in the UK with a to involve our employees in the decisionand equal pay for work of equal value further 318 from America, Australia and making process. 9.5 Encouraging innovation and Russia, India and Iraq. Delegate feedback substantially increasing the number of research and development workers per 1 million people and public and private research and development spending 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making at all levels Profit John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 23 People Diversity and inclusion Wood is committed to creating a more diverse workforce and inclusive environment, where diversity of thought is both encouraged and enabled throughout our business. Our focus on diversity and inclusion is We believe that making Wood a great Progress to date in 2018 fundamental to our efforts in creating a place to work for everyone, will not great working environment and culture only benefit our people but all our • Appointment of a Global Diversity & where: stakeholders as well, by helping us to: Inclusion Manager • Our people feel involved, respected, • Attract, engage and retain a high • Comprehensive discovery exercise valued, trusted, connected and performing, diverse workforce which completed to understand current empowered reflects the communities which we practices and activities taking place operate in and the customers that we across Wood to drive greater diversity • All our people have opportunities for and inclusion work with growth and development • Ensure we are fully valuing and • Employees meaningfully engaged in • We create relationships of mutual developing Wood's global diversity leveraging the potential of all our trust and respect and inclusion action plan through people the Listening Group Network and • We respect and celebrate the variety • Create deep and responsive Yammer. of local cultures, people and ideas in partnerships with our increasingly Wood • Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy diverse customers published • We support our people to be • Be innovative, solving business themselves and bring their • Six employee networks established problems efficiently and creatively ideas, backgrounds, values, and and launched on Yammer. (Armed through diversity of thought perspectives to the team, to our Forces Network, Developing customers and to the business • Work collaboratively and effectively Professionals Network, Listening regardless of location or background Group Network, Minerva Gender • We leverage our differences and seek Balance Network, Pride and We Care) inclusive participation by individuals • Demonstrate our commitment to our from different backgrounds and values as well as being a sustainable, • Early careers recruitment and organisational levels to achieve ethical company selection guidelines developed better business results ensuring diversity and inclusion is Ultimately, this will contribute to considered at each stage of the • We are proud to work for Wood improving our overall organisational process by all stakeholders performance, including market share and financial returns. thought processes, geographic location, gender expression, behaviours, faith, pastimes, perspectives, marital status, life experience, creed, seniority, language, indigenous peoples, working style, education, sexual orientation, belief, ancestry, military experience, age, communication style, heritage, religion, personal values, skills, accent, thinking style, carer, work experience, personality, functional specialism, gender identity, disability, family status, job role, citizenship, race, nationality, ethnicity, colour, talents, sex, socio-economic background, parental status, thought processes, geographic location, gender expression, behaviours, faith, pastimes, perspectives, marital status, life experience, creed, seniority, language, indigenous peoples, working style, education, sexual orientation, belief, ancestry, military experience, age, communication style, heritage, religion, personal values, skills, accent, thinking style, carer, work experience, personality, functional For Our For For Our specialism, gender identity, disability, family status, job role, citizenship, race, nationality, ethnicity, colour, Colleagues talents, sex, socio-economic background, parental Wood status, thought processes, geographic Clients location, gender expression, behaviours, faith, pastimes, perspectives, marital status, life experience, creed, seniority, language, indigenous peoples, working style, education, sexual orientation, belief, ancestry, military experience, age, communication style, heritage, religion, personal values, skills, accent, thinking style, carer, work experience, personality, functional specialism, gender identity, disability, family status, job role, citizenship, race, nationality, ethnicity, colour, talents, sex, socio-economic background, parental status, thought processes, geographic location, gender expression, behaviours, faith, pastimes, perspectives, marital status, life experience, creed, seniority, language, indigenous peoples, working style, education, sexual orientation, belief, ancestry, military experience, age, communication style, heritage, religion, personal values, skills, accent, thinking style, carer, work experience, personality, functional specialism, gender identity, disability, family status, job role, citizenship, race, nationality, ethnicity, colour, talents, sex, socio-economic background, parental status, thought processes, geographic location, gender expression, behaviours, faith, pastimes, perspectives, marital status, life experience, creed, seniority, language, indigenous peoples, working style, education, 24 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 sexual orientation, belief, ancestry, military experience, age, communication style, heritage, religion, personal values, skills, accent, thinking style, carer, work experience, personality, functional specialism, gender idenGender diversity performance 2019 key milestones Supporting the Global Introduction At Wood we are committed to placing a focus on the gender balance of our Review business processes: Sustainable Development Goals organisation. We are committed to • Implement meaningful changes to key (SDG) quarterly reviews people processes to support greater An example of the SDG targets relative diversity and inclusion in Wood to our business in relation to our of the gender make-up of our leadership prioritising reviews on: diverse and inclusive culture, and case and management teams, as well as the studies contained within this report: organisation overall. This allows us to -Flexible working focus on ensuring we have a broader succession plan in place, particularly in -Talent identification, selection and the technical and operations areas of development Wood, and reflects our desire to ensure a -Family leave broad range of backgrounds, experience and thought leadership. • Increase our capability to collect (on a voluntary basis) diversity data from People our people, in line with Oracle People 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere Overall Board deployment, whist also complying with legal requirements to improve 5.4 Recognize and value unpaid 16% 40% our overall understanding of the care and domestic work through (4) diversity profile in Wood and how the provision of public services, representative it is. infrastructure and social protection 60% policies and the promotion of shared 84% (6) responsibility within the household and Focus on education and the family as nationally appropriate engagement: 5.5 Ensure women's full and effective Leadership teams • Expand and embed our employee participation and equal opportunities ELT (incl. ELT) networks globally ensuring each for leadership at all levels of decisionis sponsored by a member of our making in political, economic and public 33% 31% life (3) (468) Executive Leadership Team. Planet 67% 69% • Establish a global diversity and (6) (1,019) inclusion community of practise By 2030 which will report progress and provide 3.4 Reduce by one third premature feedback to our Culture Club. mortality from non-communicable Functions Operations diseases through prevention and • Provide all leaders with awareness treatment and promote mental health leadership leadership training on Wood's expectations and well-being around diversity and inclusion. 44% 10% 10.2 Empower and promote the social, (414) (57) economic and political inclusion of all, Deliver a robust communication irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, 56% 90% (518) (508) plan: ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status • Develop an effective, accessible communication plan to share 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, Profit Key: Male Female successes which includes: including by eliminating discriminatory -profiling the diversity of our people, laws, policies and practices and Note: what makes them who they are promoting appropriate legislation, and how they experience inclusion policies and action in this regard Functions leadership includes the three levels of leadership below ELT in Finance & in Wood Administration, Strategy & Development, People & Organisation and HSSEA. -celebrating our communities, local traditions Operations leadership consists of the three levels of leadership below ELT not -promotion of our events that are included in functions leadership. linked to diversity and inclusion John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 25 Case Studies Investing in skills: developing potential Dedicated to development With more than 3000 people working across the Middle East in countries such as Iraq, Oman, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, we are committed to supporting long-term national development visions and economic diversification. In Saudi Arabia, our Engineer Your Future (EYF) programme, has been established to build a proactive learning culture and focus on the development of employees by identifying what skills, knowledge and experience individuals need to progress along their chosen career path. The programme's framework consists of four elements: leadership and business skills, a global early careers network, technical competency development and social responsibility. As part of the framework, members of EYF take part in a range of development activities including training and eLearning modules, attending seminars from management and sessions with an assigned mentor. Employees can also be seconded to different Wood locations worldwide to acquire new skills, experience and Wood remains committed to our promise of broaden horizons. To date, EYF has been rolled out across the company's leaving a positive legacy in the communities operations in Iraq and Dubai and includes engineers, human resources and other where we work. As we expand our reach business professionals. in the Middle East, we are building our One Iraq graduate had this to say workforce to develop local employees and “EYF's ethos is to ‘connect, increase in-country value. learn and grow' – something the programme is helping me to do by widening my network within the company and gaining valuable experience from senior engineers and business professionals. It's been great getting to know my fellow junior engineers, sharing best practice and our experiences as our careers progress.” 26 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Wood scoops people development award People In July 2018, Wood made a splash in the UK local water sector as winners of the People Development category at the UK Constructing Excellence North East Awards. Wood is part of a team of six companies working collaboratively to provide unique opportunities for young people through the Run2 Academy. The Run2 Academy is a working group with representatives from Northumbrian Water, Our graduate Commitment to talent Planet Esh-MWH Joint Venture, MMB, development In 2016, the local people & organisation Interserve, Turner & Townsend and Wood, all key players in UK (P&O) team met with representatives programme in Basra, from Basra Engineering College and water projects. The Run2 creates programmes to promote the Iraq has been running agreed to invite their top graduates from the civil and mechanical industry and develop the workforce for two years and engineering classes to attend two of the future by attracting talented students. assessment days at Wood's Basra continues to go from office. From the 16 applicants who “Supporting students at key strength to strength. were assessed, three graduates were stages of their education offered and accepted engineering related roles in Wood. We receive a helps them to develop their high volume of applications to get skills and better understand onto the Wood graduate development the career options available Profit programme (GDP) in Basra. In 2017, 55 to them in the utilities sector. graduates applied for the four places The success of the Run2 available and in 2018 we employed an additional five graduates, with a Academy has been achieved further nine planned for 2019. by six companies working collaboratively to achieve The benefit of the graduate programme is not only about offering a common goal. We're a job opportunity, it is about the delighted that Wood is part scope of development the graduates of the programme and look get by working for an international forward to its continued engineering company and learning success.” from knowledge experts based on a four-year development plan. Associate Director, Wood John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 27 28 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Developing the workforce of tomorrow Introduction People Spotlight on our people Jen was delighted to be the only solo Promoting a career finalist for this year's awards, only At Wood, we believe everyone narrowly missing out on the top three. with Wood has the potential to succeed She says of the contest: In Milan, a team from Wood and recognise the importance of joined more than 120 Italian and encouraging success and celebrating “Spark! has been great for international companies at a the achievements of our people. my continued professional career's day for students and Jen Carroll, a junior nuclear scientist development and working graduates of Politecnico di Milano at Wood, made it onto the shortlist towards chartership as it university in Italy. This event, organised by Politecnico di Milano, for the 2017-2018 Spark! Contest. has encouraged me to go to The contest, which consists of a is aimed at shortening the distance Institute lectures and engage between industry and the academic two-round writing competition, invites early careers employees with a wider range of people world. Our Milan office, home to from the energy industry in the UK from the nuclear industry. You our Capital Projects business, has Planet and France to present innovative also get to make connections been attending this event since its inception more than two decades thinking to contemporary energy with prominent industry challenges. In creating a fun and ago. leaders and influencers.” competitive atmosphere, the The annual event is a one-day show contest aims to foster a Francowhere top ranked companies set British community of clean energy up booths and give presentations professionals, bringing together to prospective employees and industry leaders of today with the students. It is the ideal opportunity future stars of tomorrow. to establish first contact with the best students and graduates, often well before graduation. Over 5000 people registered and attended the event, including some recent graduates, sharing their experiences of working at Wood and Profit showcasing the career development opportunities available. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 29 Case Studies Developing the workforce of tomorrow Recruiting Wood's next generation In a bid to inspire the next generation to see the energy sector as an exciting career path, in 2018 an energetic group of volunteers hosted “Take our daughters and sons to work day.” The event included 12 departmental demonstrations with hands on activities to help the kids understand what we do at Wood. Each booth represented a different part of our business. Activities included make your own brand with marketing, illustrate the importance of facilities operations and maintenance through bike safety with our operation services team, and make snow with the downstream and chemicals group. As our little ‘employees' engaged in activities, they received a stamp on their timecard and after they completed their 'workday', the cards were entered into a raffle where a variety of STEM prizes were awarded. One Wood employee commented: One Wood employee What happens when you bring over 300 commented “My 12-year-old kids ranging from infant to college age to grasped many of the concepts being presented – it was simple the Wood Houston campus? Lots of fun, enough yet detailed enough learning and energy! to show the complexity or technical side of what we do. For my nine-year-old, there were lots of great hands on things that immediately engaged him. Spot on! Building for the future means investing in attracting the next generation and showing them the world of opportunity in our sector. 30 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction People Building positive for every year in the school, from year Our relationship with Planet S1 right through to S6. To meet the Northfield Academy started partnerships objectives of the partnership, Wood and Northfield established a calendar of when we reached out to the Wood's relationship with local Aberdeen school, Northfield Academy, events that targeted pupils in all years. DWY,” began when we reached out to the says Wood's senior manager for early Activities included: STEM (science, Developing the Young Workforce careers. technology, engineering and maths) (DYW) programme as part of our sessions for S1; the chance for all S2 global cause: education. pupils to visit Wood offices to find out “Our previous approach Developing the Young Workforce more about the business environment had been for employees to (DYW) is the Scottish Government's and complete a STEM activity; a establish relationships with Youth Employment strategy to better careers fair; advice on CVs and personal schools due to personal prepare young people for the world statements for 3rd year pupils; sessions connections. This is something of work. Our DWY partnership with for all in S4 to provide advice on we continue to encourage, but Profit Northfield Academy allows us to applications and interview techniques; have a strategic approach to how we mentoring for 12 pupils in S5 and S6 we also wanted to achieve a engage with schools, adding greater offering careers guidance and advice; more strategic approach to value than we might have done in the and classroom workshops. how we engage with schools to past. Our partnership with Northfield add greater value to our local Academy has succeeded in giving community. access to interaction with Wood John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 31 Case Studies Developing the workforce of tomorrow Looking to the future We live in interesting times, Recognising commitment Whilst delivering a speech at the and I was pleased to have the In 2018, Wood was recognised for Scottish Council for Development and opportunity to share Wood's our genuine commitment to helping Industry's annual lecture in Aberdeen thoughts on how organisations young people enter the workplace; in January 2018, our CEO Robin must learn to embrace change, cementing our place in the 2018 Top Watson announced Wood's £20,000 and plan for it rather than Intern Programs in Australia, ranking investment in supporting promotion of 27th in the top 40 for the country. STEM subjects (Science, Technology, hope to avoid disruption. The Australian Association of Engineering and Maths) by acting as a Going on to add Graduate Employers (AAGE) new principal partner of SCDI's Young It is in looking to the future recognises organisations that Engineers & Science Clubs (YESC) provide the most positive experience Programme across Scotland. This too that we have chosen to for their interns, as determined is just one such example of Wood's support SCDI's work with the by interns themselves. This year, commitment to STEM learning. Young Engineers and Science over 900 interns were surveyed; Founded in 1931, The Scottish Council Clubs, promoting interest all current undergraduates who for Development and Industry (SCDI) in STEM subjects through were part of their employer's intern is an independent membership programme. activities and events among network representing a crosssection of the private, public and schoolchildren across Scotland. Over the past seven years, Wood This is a cause close to our has run internship and graduate social economy sectors; SCDI's Young programs over a range of disciplines Engineers and Science Clubs (YESC) heart, and we hope to perhaps for a number of highly talented Scotland programme has played welcome some of those students and graduates. Some a key role in inspiring young people children to work with Wood of these interns have joined us towards STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Maths) careers since 1987. one day in the future. as a part of the Career Trackers programme which aims to increase Addressing the SCDI members, Robin Indigenous involvement and said . To read more about SCDI and their Young opportunity in the workplace. Engineers and Science Clubs Scotland (YESC) programme, visit: For Wood, this is a significant www.scdi.org.uk/yesc/ achievement to be recognised and ranked amongst some of Australia's most prestigious companies – including the Commonwealth Bank, Woodside Energy and Telstra – for our contribution to the development of the next generation of workforce. 32 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 33 Case Studies Diversity and Inclusion We Care Having the right information at the right time can make all the difference when you're looking after someone, explains Mark Brightburn, an associate from the E&IS UK business who founded our We Care network in 2015. Part of our diversity and inclusion group, the network aims to increase awareness of balancing working with care responsibilities. Mark founded the We Care global network to pool knowledge, experience and support for people who find themselves balancing work with caring for someone at home too. It's a superb demonstration of our great new company values of care, courage and commitment, as we live this everyday of our lives at home and bring that strength back into the office too , says Mark. The network was started in the UK, but quickly linked up Every day 6,000 people in the UK become people from around the globe carers. That's 1 in 8 adults and around 6.5 including the US, Australia million in total – which often includes child & South Africa. Caring is a global issue, and with rapidly carers. In November 2018, Wood joined increasing aging populations, hundreds of organisations across the UK as the demographics show this they came together for Carers Rights Day will be a more important consideration for individuals to help carers know their rights and find out and businesses over the coming how to get the help and support, they are years. We currently have 150 entitled to. Carers Right's Day is a national carers in our network. event and the 2018 campaign focused on supporting people to prepare for the future through the theme: Caring for Your Future. As part of the event, Carers Rights Day makes carers aware of their rights, but it also raises awareness of the needs of carers. 34 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction People Planet Joining forces competencies and skills of this expert group. Joining forces with this key In June 2018, we pledged our support group is just one way we celebrate to the Armed Forces community by diversity throughout the business signing an Armed Forces covenant Our commitment to honouring and committing to support the UK's the Covenant includes pledges to servicemen and women. Bob MacDonald, proactively seek opportunities to CEO of Wood's Specialist Technical share best practise, lessons learnt and Solutions, attended a special ceremony collaborate with other Armed Forcesto sign the covenant at Edinburgh Castle. friendly organisations. We will also The document was co-signed on behalf seek to support employees who choose of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) by to be members of the reserve forces Commander Andy Poulton-Watt, SO1 and offer support to local cadet units, Reserves Engagement, Scotland and where possible. Profit Northern Ireland. Additionally, towards the end of 2018, Talking about the covenant, Bob said he Wood received the bronze award from was proud of our historic and ongoing the armed forces covenant Employer relationship with the Armed Forces Recognition Scheme (ERS) for our community which continues to grow commitment to supporting armed from strength to strength. forces personnel. The Bronze award is presented to employers who pledge Supporting the Armed Forces to support the armed forces, including community is very important existing or prospective employees who are members of the community. to us because ex-service people and reservists play a vital role in many of our teams. Throughout our global network, we have successfully transitioned many servicemen and women into our business, recognising the transferable John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 35 Case Studies Diversity and Inclusion Wood has a long history of working for and with Indigenous communities and businesses across Canada. Indigenous peoples of Canada, including First Nations, Inuit and Métis, are the fastest growing segment of Canada's population; in 2016, 4.9% of Canada's population had Indigenous ancestry. Indigenous peoples have higher birth rates, resulting in younger and growing populations. This has implications for our present and future workforce, particularly in natural resource industries in remote areas, which are often closest to Indigenous communities. At Wood we acknowledge and respect • Increase the diversity of our staff by the value Indigenous peoples have increasing the number of Indigenous and continue to bring to Canada. employees with appropriate technical We recognize the value of diversity skills; and and collaborative relationships with • Increase the awareness of Indigenous Indigenous peoples to successfully deliver histories, cultures and current issues more informed project solutions. by providing cultural awareness Through our Indigenous Relations & training. Partnerships Program, we recognize the We recognize the importance of fundamental importance relationships building new and fostering existing have towards effective inclusion of the relationships, effectively addressing unique perspectives and meaningful concerns throughout our operations, and participation of Indigenous peoples. providing opportunities for inclusion as Aligned with our commitments to part of successful project delivery. As inclusion and diversity, and backed by our part of this recognition, we are a member core values of Care, Commitment and of the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Courage, we: Business (CCAB), an organization focused • Seek opportunities to work for and on driving business opportunities and with Indigenous communities and advancing corporate social responsibility businesses and explore mutually for the Indigenous community. beneficial partnership opportunities; 36 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction People Supporting Indigenous travelled to the community of Raising the bar Peppimenarti, where he spent the communities week working with primary school In June, we celebrated International Since 2013 Wood colleagues and their children and supporting teachers in Women in Engineering Day, a global families have continued to support comprehension, literacy, football, art, annual awareness campaign to raise the Australian organisation Red Dust. cooking and swimming. the profile of women in engineering Working in the northern territories of and focus attention on the amazing Australia, Red Dust delivers innovative “I was blown away by the career opportunities available to health promotion programs in remote resilience of the people I met. women in the industry. communities to encourage Aboriginal They have adapted their This year's theme was ‘Raising and Torres Strait Islander youths to lives remarkably despite the the Bar', celebrating some of the learn more about health and inspire challenges they face including brightest female engineers who are them to live a healthy lifestyle. The paving the way. At Wood we hosted programs delivered, help reduce remoteness and access to a variety of activities throughout healthcare.” Planet chronic disease amongst Aboriginal our global locations. From speed and Torres Strait Islander children mentoring sessions with senior Joining Karl on the trip, Alex through the promotion of nutrition, school pupils, panel discussions Thompson added hygiene and physical activity. with employees, STEM (Science, Helping to organise and participate “Following the experience, I Technology, Engineering and in their annual fundraising event: The have a greater appreciation Mathematics) activities with schools, Lake Mountain Challenge, to date the of the challenges and to collaborating with customers Wood team has raised over $52,000 events. disadvantages faced by to date to support the Red Dust indigenous communities At Wood, we are committed to Healthy Living Program. Additionally, actively encouraging women into Wood also provides ambassadors to in remote locations, but I STEM subjects and to help them travel to remote Northern Territory also experienced first-hand recognise the varied opportunities communities to assist in the delivery of the strong bonds these within these disciplines. We hope these programs. communities have to their that by sharing these stories we In 2018, two of our employees land and their families, and will encourage the next generation Profit travelled to the Northern Territory the benefits this connection of women to pursue a career in to support the Red Dust program. engineering – be it as an engineer or brings.” in an engineering support role. Karl Lodder, one of the volunteers John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 37 People Health, safety & security of our people At Wood we care about our Our Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) culture relies on strong leadership, personal accountability people. Everyone has the right and a commitment to achieving excellence in HSSE. This is fundamental to executing our operations in a responsible and to a safe, healthy and secure sustainable manner. workplace; our expectation is that wherever we work, the security, safety and health of our people remains our top priority. 38 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 HSSE policy Our HSSE strategy Introduction Our HSSE policy builds on our Values by Our HSSE strategy provides the setting out our key HSSE promises to criteria for continuous development our stakeholders and the key principles and improvement against our policy of action by which we will deliver our promises. The strategy supports the commitment to protect our people and implementation of Wood's HSSE policy the environment. and applies to all Wood operations Wood's Safety Shield wherever they are in the world. Wood is a learning organisation and communicating effectively with HSSE strategy Inspiring leadership our workforce is key to our success, ensuring we remain a sustainable business. We created the Safety Shield to help us to simplify and Safety assurance Learning culture Values and Behaviours communicate our management People system processes more simply. In simple terms we are committed to making sure that we prepare effectively to deliver safely every day. Key performance indicators Engaged workforce To do this we take care to engage with our people, making sure that HSSE management everyone understands their safety standard leadership role. HSSE policy HSSE plan Our Safety Shield a metaphor for protection pulls together our HSSE processes and procedures to drive a Our HSSE management The Blue Book is supported by a number simplistic and consistent message to of specific HSSE standards, procedures our workforce around HSSE. Aligned system and guidance such as Occupational with our values, the three elements of Planet Our HSSE strategy is underpinned by Health and Environmental which provide the shield are: the HSSE management system which the framework and place requirements • Prepare is defined by our HSSE Management on our Business Unit HSSE management System Standard the Blue Book which teams to meet encompassing group• Engage provides the ‘backbone' of out HSSE wide learning and best practice. • Intervene management systems across all Wood The Blue Book aligns with recognised operations. It consists of fifteen core The Safety Shield builds on our international HSSE management elements setting mandatory minimum values of care, commitment and standards and the continuous standards for the management of courage and asks our employees to improvement cycle of Plan-Do-CheckHSSEA across Wood. They define how we have the commitment to prepare Act. must lead, plan and organise ourselves to correctly, the care to engage with the ensure HSSE risks are controlled and to safety requirements of a task and deliver continuous improvement in HSSE the courage to intervene if they see performance. something unsafe. Profit More about Safety Shield can be found on our website: www.woodplc.com/safetyshield John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 39 People Health, safety & security of our people 0 Our safety essentials Life Saving Rules Effective safe systems of work rely on more than safety Our Life Saving Rules have been established through learning standards to make them work effectively. Behaviours directly and are there to help us plan and control our work safely influence the way we work; the way we do things and the providing a minimum standard to which everyone is expected way we follow processes. The Wood Safety Essentials raise to comply. They raise awareness of safety critical activities that awareness of how the right Behaviours can help prevent that have shown to be those that have the greatest potential to incidents and improve our safety performance. They are cause fatalities. The LSR's detail the simple actions individuals designed to complement our Life Saving Rules and apply to all must take to protect themselves and others. The adoption office and site personnel. and enforcement of our rules helps us to ensure the safety of everyone that works with Wood. 40 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Wood HSE performance (employees and subcontractors) A key priority of integrating our business has been to combine our Introduction Wood achieved a 31% reduction in our total safety data; giving our business recordable incident rate in 2018 – we are oversight of our collective performance and key areas of risk. stronger and safer together. At the end of 2018 we achieved this through consolidation to our single reporting tool ‘CAIRS'. Our safety performance in 2018 saw a reduction across all three of our frequency rate metrics; a 20% reduction in LWCF, 31% reduction in TRCF and 6% reduction in AICF. Key performance indicators Sadly, we did report a fatality in March of 2018, at a construction site People Wood *LWCF *TRCF *AIFR Hours 2018 in the United States. The incident Combined 0.04 0.18 1.32 173,517,229 involved an employee undertaking a Employee 0.04 0.21 1.44 128,305,321 pressure test on a water pipe which Subcontractor 0.02 0.11 1.00 45,211,908 failed, and the pipe thrust upwards causing a fatal injury. The incident 2017 Combined 0.05 0.26 1.41 174,930,763 led to a thorough review of all Employee 0.05 0.23 1.3 134,867,536 pressure testing operations and the establishment of a standard approach Subcontractor 0.06 0.35 1.8 40,063,227 which has been implemented across the company to ensure a minimum standard of safety compliance. Reporting overview Key findings Planet 1 Reports Harm to Property Environmental Security Raised 2018 People Damage Fatality Employee 2292 59% 34% 5% 2% Tragically, Wood lost one of our Subcontractor 796 52% 40% 8% 0% colleagues in 2018, as a result of Combined 3088 58% 35% 6% 1% pressure testing work. Incident classification overview 3088 Incidents Reported in 2018, excluding non-workrelated incidents, compared to 2017 this equates to a 10% decrease in overall FAT* 1 2 ↓50% incident reporting. Profit LWC* 32 43 ↓26% RWC* MTC* 39 85 56 122 ↓30% ↓30% 20% Reduction in LWCF With a focus on safety throughout the FAC* 992 1016 ↓2% integration process in 2018 and a specific focus on key operational priorities as part HiPo* 83 102 ↓19% of our safety campaigns and initiatives we also saw a reduction of 28% in our NM* 546 673 ↓19% TRCF and including our first aid incidents, 2018 2017 % difference a 6% reduction in our AIFR. Lost Work Case Frequency (LWCF*) Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF*) First Aid Case (FAC*) High Potential Incident (HiPo*) 19% Reduction in total high potential incidents All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR*) Near Miss (NM*) We have seen our number of high Fatality (FAT*) potential incidents drop from 105 in 2016, Restricted Work Case (RWC*) All frequency rates are calculated per to 102 in 2017 and a further 19% reduction Medical Treatment Case (MTC*) 200,000-man hours to 83 reported incidents in 2018. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 41 People High potential incidents High potential incidents are those events Key findings that could, in slightly different circumstances realistically result in serious injuries or one or more fatalities. Investigating 42% A focus on Dropped Object and and understanding our high potential Working at height incidents would address 42% of our high potential incidents allows us to form a picture of the incidents. effectiveness of our management systems and ensure our efforts are best placed to target our high-risk activities. 39% A further focus on Line Strike/ Our safety staircase is designed to provide simple communication around our Contact with energy source principle risks and the opportunities that a targeted focus can realise in reducing incidents, Driving/Vehicle incidents reoccurrence. Designed around our top five high potential incident types, over a and Process Safety Incidents would 24-month period, the staircase gives focus on the incident types causing these address an additional 39% of high serious events. potential incidents. 83 High potential incidents 21% Targeting dropped object incidents 21% Targeting working at height incidents 18%Targeting line strikes / contact with energy source incidents 13% Targeting driving / vehicle related incidents 8% Targeting process safety incidents Step change = 81% reduction 42 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Country incident reporting Introduction Supporting the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) An example of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation to safety, and case studies contained within this report: Low (0-5) People Medium (6-20) By 2020 High (21-50) 3.6 Halve the number of global Extreme (51+) deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents By 2030 2016 2017 2018 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working Lost Time Incidents 1 1 1 environments for all workers Restricted Work 0 1 0 Medical Treatment 1 3 1 First Aid 14 7 9 Planet Sprain/strain Sprain/strain Bruise/contusion Top 3 injury types Bruise/contusion Fracture/dislocation Fracture/dislocation Fracture/dislocation Bruise/contusion Cuts/laceration Behaviour Behaviour Behaviour Top 3 root causes Mental capability Mental capability Mental capability Risk management Risk management Risk management Focus on driving related incidents Our high potential incident staircase, highlighted driving related incidents as one of our top five principle risks. To provide additional support to our business in tackling these incidents, in 2018 we produced a serious of fact sheets, that broke down each incident type to provide additional support for a targeted focus by our Profit business. These fact sheets focused not just on high potential incidents but on incidents overall; by extending our analysis over a three-year period, we are able to Key findings highlight the trending nature, location and cause of these events and help guide 20% focus on preventing their occurrence across our business. In 2018, we reviewed and re-issued our driving management standard to the business; taking steps such as, to reduce our maximum duty hours for personnel, Since 2016, we have seen a 20% including air travel time & ensuring a minimum of eight hours break before allowing decrease in driving incidents globally, our employees to continue driving. Additionally, we developed a group wide driver showing a decrease of 12% in 2017 training e-learning module, which will be rolled out across Wood in 2019. and a further 9% decrease in 2018. 3% Only 3% of incidents resulted in injury, across each of the three reporting years. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 43 44 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Benchmarking performance Benchmarking our safety performance against that of our clients, Introduction competitors and industry, allows us to compare our safety record against those facing similar challenges, as well as guide performance target setting, to improve performance. The International Total Recordable Case Frequency Comparison Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) The Global Oil and Gas Industry trade association (IOGP) is the voice People to the global oil and gas industry representing members producing 40% of the world's oil and gas. IOGP publish annual safety performance data showing the 2015 2016 2017 2018 performance of their members. As the most relevant sector to Wood's Wood 0.28 0.28 0.25 0.18 operations, we are able to compare our performance against company IOGP Overall 0.24 0.21 0.19 specific, contractor specific and overall IOGP Contractor 0.26 0.22 0.20 performance. IOGP Company 0.18 0.16 0.15 Planet Wood LWCF IOGP comparison 2015 2016 2017 2018 Profit Wood 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.04 IOGP Overall 0.06 0.05 0.05 IOGP Contractor 0.06 0.06 0.05 IOGP Company 0.06 0.05 0.06 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 45 People Security of our people Look forward Wood's security team provides the tools Security risk management in Wood is led by the Group Head of Security necessary to secure Wood's global business and represented on the Executive operations, while simultaneously focusing Leadership Team (ELT) by the Executive President HSSEA. Each on preparedness in order to safeguard our Business Unit is partnered with a people, assets, and reputation. Security Director as their primary point of contact, and in turn, the Directors are supported by a network of Security Managers, who are the regional SMEs for their geography. Country risk map Group Security also have oversight of Crisis & Emergency management; providing the overarching standard and framework by which Wood prepares for and responds to emergencies through to crises. Looking forward A number of focuses for group security in 2019 include: • Identification, training and testing of four Incident Management Low Teams; each centred around the Medium leadership of the four Business High Units. Extreme • Development of Emergency Management and Business Continuity guidelines, to drive greater consistency in these areas across the business. • Full utilisation of our new travel Low Namibia Medium Tobago security platforms to ensure 100% Australia Netherlands Angola Tunisia of our business travellers are Azerbaijan New Zealand Argentina Turkey prepared, accounted for, and can Belgium Norway Bahrain Ukraine be communicated with; wherever Brunei Oman Bangladesh in the world they may be. Bulgaria Poland Bolivia High Canada Puerto Rico Brazil Algeria • Integration with other functions Chile Qatar Cameroon El Salvador and processes in order to provide China Romania Chad Nigeria better planning and bid support to Czech Republic Saint Lucia Colombia Papua New all parts of the business. Finland Singapore Egypt Guinea • Development of a library of advice France Slovakia India regarding responses to securityGabon Spain Indonesia Extreme related emergencies, which can be Germany Sweden Israel Afghanistan accessed globally and used for local Ghana Switzerland Kazakhstan Iraq level briefings and response plans. Guam Thailand Mexico Ireland United Arab Mozambique Italy Emirates Peru Japan United Kingdom Philippines Korea, South United States Russia Kuwait Uruguay Saudi Arabia Lithuania Wallis and South Africa Malaysia Futuna Tonga Marshall Islands Vietnam Trinidad and 46 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Countries in focus for 2019: Introduction Ukraine Iraq Turkey Kuwait Pakistan Algeria Saudi Arabia Mexico Nigeria Colombia Papua New Guinea Case Studies: People Columbia Iraq Ukraine Group Security supported Wood 2018/2019 continues to see growth In 2018/19, Wood security supported Planet Colombia during the planning, startfor the Company in Iraq. Fundamental STS' clean energy team activities in up and execution of a maintenance to this development is the continuous Black Sea coastal areas of Ukraine. and operations project located in and efficient management of staff While Wood does not have a Barrancabermeja, north-east of safety & security. The security strategy, permanent in-country presence, there Colombia in 2018. Barrancabermeja is developed by the Iraq Security were frequent short-term assignments considered an important geographical Operations Manager in conjunction to wind farms and manufacturing area in Colombia on account of one of with MERC Regional Security Manager facilities in Zaporizhia, Kherson, the country's largest refineries being and SVP Middle East, is built on Mykolaiv, and Odessa Oblasts. Safely located there; however, the activity two fundamental principles; Human operating in these areas required deep of criminal groups known as BACRIM Rights compliance and Host Nation and very current understanding of and the presence of the ever-present engagement. the risks associated with the dispute guerrilla ELN increase the level of between Ukraine and Russia over The integration of these two principles security risk, mainly to international Crimea, ongoing fighting in Luhansk on our existing projects with ExxonMobil companies who become a target for and Donetsk Oblasts, occasional and Basra Gas Company in Basra Profit the illegal groups. Group Security clashes between Ukrainian and Russian proved invaluable in protecting our conducted a risk and threat assessment forces in the Black Sea, and varying staff in-country during the violent mass to define the security measures to be sources of Ukrainian political, ethnic, protests and civil unrest of summer implemented in conjunction with our and religious unrest. Group Security 2018. Group Security closely supported client and produced a resultant set provided the Clean Energy team with both projects and Regional Leadership, of risk treatments. Working with the advice on the threats, worked with providing advice and recommendations project leadership, Group Security clients to establish suitable mitigations, on the best courses of action to keep created a security management and monitored the situation within staff safe during this challenging period. framework that could then be taken and around Ukraine throughout Working closely with our contracted 3rd on by the project team, enabling them deployments so that Wood's Clean party security providers, Group Security to manage their day-to-day security in Energy engineers could continue to oversaw all operations to ensure that a complex operating environment. The deliver on their important work, whilst security support provided to Wood was project remains ongoing with 0 security also being ready to rapidly depart the both consistent with international best incidents since the beginning of the area should the situation deteriorate. practice and compliant with our own operations. security standards. Group Security also actively engaged local staff and security providers' local information sources to gain access to accurate and up to date intelligence on the security environment. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 47 Case Studies Award winning safety Mining Industry Safety Recognition What did we do? As KSPC's design and project management partner, Wood led an integrated execution team tasked with delivering all aspects of engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning for the solution mine and processing facility. Over 23 million manhours were put into the project, with a site workforce that peaked above 3,000 people daily. Wood and KSPC worked in partnership on health, safety, security and environmental aspects of the project as it evolved from a pure greenfield site to a fully operational production facility. As a result, the project team achieved over 11 million hours without a lost-time injury. Wood's Project Manager, delighted to have accepted the award, praised the collective effort in gaining safety recognition: “Achieving a world-class safety record in this complex and variable work environment In May 2018, Wood was awarded the required a collective commitment to personal prestigious 2018 Canadian Institute of engagement and the courage to Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) intervene.” Mining & Minerals Project Development He added Safety Award. The award recognizes the “On two separate occasions, outstanding project safety systems, culture workers from our site maintenance contractor and performance achieved during the intervened in offsite traffic project execution of K+S Potash Canada's emergencies, attributing their $4.1bn Legacy Project (now the Bethune confidence to step in and control the scene to the training Mine) in Saskatchewan, Canada. It is the and coaching received on the first greenfield potash mine built in the project.” province in more than 40 years. 48 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Award Winning Safety: Focus on Safety: Going for Client recognition in Gold Malaysia In 2018, the Wood team working on Receiving safety recognition from the Çöpler gold mine in Turkey, reached our customers truly affirms the 10 million man-hours worked without care, courage and commitment of a single LTI (lost time incident). This our people and the safety culture impressive milestone reflects the we nurture at Wood. Our team in tremendous hard work, teamwork and Malaysia, received the ExxonMobil unwavering commitment to safety Exploration & Production Malaysia Inc that has been the focus of the project. Wood wins US National (EMEPMI) Chairman's Safety Award One of the largest gold mines in the Safety Council awards 2018 for their work on the EPCM world, Wood provided engineering, contract. procurement and construction People Our Environment & Infrastructure Solutions (E&IS) celebrated The team has achieved many management services for the double success in 2018 for their milestones since the beginning of the expansion of the Çöpler gold mine achievements in workplace safety, contract in 2014 but are particularly from 2015 until 2018. Situated in through recognition from the proud of this achievement as it a remote area, with difficult road National Safety Council in Houston, acknowledges their continued focus access and at an altitude of 1,200m, Texas. on all aspects of safety even through the CSEP Wood team employed a period of considerably high activity people from six continents and at Receiving the 2018 National Safety least 20 different countries. Wood's on the contract and celebrates Achievement Award for exceptional safety culture was embedded by the their exemplary safety record. The safety performance in the workplace construction management team award specifically recognises the for going above and beyond to on the project and all the separate contracts excellent Health, Safety advocate for safety, and receiving disciplines worked together as one and Environment (HSE) Management the 2018 Operational Excellence to ensure a cohesive focus on safety. System and the milestone Achievement Award for safety From the beginning, the team unified achievement of no recordable incidents Planet performance better than the industry around a shared goal: To ensure this or lost time incidents over more than average. By continuing to promote project goes down in the history of 1.5 million man-hours. education and the implementation Turkish projects as one that sets a of our life saving rules and safety Wood's contract manager said that new standard for health and safety essentials, safety hazards are being a key factor in their team's success in the Turkish construction industry, recognised in advance and are being in winning the award was EMEPMI's striving to deliver a zero-harm project controlled or avoided. sharing of learning's and support of a to completion. variety of HSE initiatives. Additionally, two of Wood's Wood HSSEA Manager commented: geographical operations were Given the significant amount honoured for working at least one We believe in giving ownership of offshore work executed million consecutive work hours to the trade supervisors and without an occupational injury or by the team along with the foremen. There is no separate illness, resulting in a day away from high volume of office-based safety culture here; the safety work. Our US operations received an engineering design and award for 27 million lost time injury procurement activities in culture of the company is Profit (LTI)-free work hours and our South embedded in the project and maintaining process safety, America operations were recognised all the separate disciplines for 1 million LTI-free work hours. this is a fantastic effort by work together as one to ensure everyone. a cohesive focus on safety... Wood's Senior Vice President South East Asia if you have the COURAGE to INTERVENE – to not walk by an unsafe act or condition – Anything is possible. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 49 People Health and wellbeing at Wood People are the foundation of our business and supporting their health and wellbeing has never been more important as we not only face an ageing workforce, but increasing risks of new and emerging infectious diseases as well as increasing mental health and physical wellbeing challenges in our lives. Rehabilitation Hazardous Thermal Emergency Noise Workplace substances hazards medical and first at work monitoring management aid management Fatigue Hygiene and Travel Vibration Ergonomic Preplacement Wellbeing management cleanliness health at work and manual screening and handling health 50 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainable health was a key focus of the these illnesses. The library forms the Global Occupational Health Standards ongoing framework for supporting the Introduction Supporting the Global Sustainable rolled out in 2018 and which drives the crucial messaging necessary to both reduce Development Goals (SDG) overall Wood Occupational Health strategy. stigmas as well as provide the necessary knowledge to help minimise risk from these An example of the SDG targets Embedding the standards is enabling preventable illnesses. relative to our business in relation Wood to work at meeting its commitment to health and wellbeing, and case of caring for its people by understanding, Raising further awareness of the studies contained within this managing and supporting the health and importance of proactive preventive health wellbeing of not only its employees but the activities will be the focus of the first Global report: communities in which it operates. Occupational Health Week planned for 2019. The aim of this week is to focus on The standards have been further supported the major health areas of travel health and by the development in 2018 of a dedicated infections illnesses, heart health, lung health Occupational Health Hazard library. This from exposure to hazardous materials expanding library provides both knowledge as well as smoking, mental health and and resources to assist the necessary musculoskeletal health. These have all been health risk management activities required identified as core target areas to improve People to protect and prevent ill health in Wood health and wellbeing at Wood. employees and their communities. 8.8 Protect labour rights and The successful use of health champions promote safe and secure working Linking the library development with global in 2018 saw increased awareness of the environments for all workers, coverage of the World Health Organisation importance of mental wellbeing within the including migrant workers, in Day's including those for malaria, hepatitis, UK with planned expansion of their role and particular women migrants, and HIV and tuberculosis has also helped to activities to be developed in the future and raise awareness and provided a means of those in precarious employment linked with the planned improvements in conveying messages on how to minimise occupational health for Wood the risk of both acquiring and spreading By 2030 3.3 End the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and combat ical and men understand hepatitis, water-borne diseases phys tal ort • ing ac y• we supp •r es and other communicable diseases er llb • Planet e pe lit ei n alu ct th g •v 3.4 Reduce by one third premature •h mortality from non-communicable tion • innovation ea l and alcohol e • physical and diseases through prevention and ug du cy nica m dr lth risk manageme ra e treatment and promote mental n health and well-being ss tio healt fitne for tas being • e •i well mu ca hl hea Healthy Healthy m ite 3.9 Substantially reduce the m al k• nt number of deaths and illnesses pr workforce company pl nt om from hazardous chemicals and ov air, water and soil pollution and •c ion• contamination e ntion rehab ilit rete g• ee torin at Sustainability oy ni • exp d Profit ty os fe ure sa m lue o • va retention roved safet ployee productivity • imp action • attr Better pro y em performance • fi lues vision an ity • • vi n• dv bil sio tio a ta n rac an •a d tt s• lue ductivity • profita va pro bili ty John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 51 Case Studies Promoting health and wellbeing Rock the ribbon World AIDS day is an opportunity to show solidarity with the millions of people living with HIV worldwide. Talking about the importance of World AIDS day, chair of Wood's Pride Network within our diversity and inclusion group, which supports our LGBT+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) employees, said: “Although diagnoses are falling in the UK, more than 101,000 people are currently living with HIV. Globally, it's 36.7 million. Many people still don't know the facts about how to protect themselves and others. That's why the National AIDS Trust (NAT) plays an important role in the UK, championing the rights of people living with HIV, educating the public and campaigning for fair treatment.” Red ribbons were sold and worn proudly by our colleagues in many of On 1 December, Wood employees joined our UK offices, throughout the week of the campaign, including Aberdeen, in support of World AIDS day by rocking a Darlington, Edinburgh, Glasgow, red ribbon and helping to end HIV and HIV Gloucester, Gosforth, Knutsford, Leamington, London, Reading, stigma for good. Shrewsbury and Warrington. Wood's director of occupational health added: “Supporting world health days throughout the year reflects the commitment of Wood to positive and sustainable working environments and aligns strongly to our values. Good health in the workplace is a key enabler to Wood operating effectively in addition to creating an inclusive Wood community based on mutual respect and trust.” 52 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 The Facts Raising malaria awareness Malaria It is a life-threatening illness which is treatable and preventable Fever Sweating 91 Nausea countries had ongoing malaria transmission in 2016 Fatigue 216 445,000 Shaking million cases Vomiting deaths Diarrhoea Jaundice Fatal if not treated Introduction Malaria is caused by plasmodium parasites. People They are transmitted through bites of infected mosquitoes. Know your ABCD In 2017, there were an Malaria is a serious and potentially fatal infectious disease that poses a Awareness Knowing the enemy and how to estimated 219 million significant health risk to those working protect yourself. in 87 inSubtheSaharan Planet malaria belt of South America, cases of malaria Awareness Bite prevention A B Africa, India and South Bite prevention countries around the East Asia. The global response to Do not ignore the symptoms. malaria is at a crossroads; after an Avoiding bites through personal world. treatment period of success in Early diagnosis andunprecedented Apply protection Sleepcontrol. insectand mosquito in insect malaria control, progress has stalled and repellent treated mosquito prevents deaths. (DEET) on clothes nets or air the World Health Organisation is calling Chemoprophylaxis and exposed skin conditioned room on countries for greater investment and Taking all prevention medication as expanded coverage of proven tools that Spray indoors Screen doors with recommended. prevent, diagnose and treat malaria. before dusk with mesh or gauze insecticide In April 2018, through a global Diagnosis communication campaign Wood helped Avoid pots Wear loose Seeking immediate containing water attention for early clothes cover bare Fever Sweating Nausea Fatigue Shaking Vomiting raised Jaundice awareness Diarrhoea Fatal ifaround not the disease diagnosis treated by marking World Malaria day and the around theand treatment. house arms theme ‘Ready to beat malaria', which Malaria is high on the agenda for Profit Mild Severe reinforces the importance of continued employee inductions in countries in the medical prevention and control. Sadly, malaria belt and we carry out Incident in Wood, we are not immune from Review Panels (IRPs) when there has this disease. Cases of our employees been a spate of malaria cases. The being infected by malaria are regularly information uncovered in these panels reported and while we make every effort is then shared online so our global Chemoprophyaxis Diagnosis C D to reduce these figures to zero, tackling HSSEA teams can learn best practice malaria is a huge undertaking and it all and implement new and revised Take the appropriate antimalarial starts with prevention. Seek diagnosis controls. and e-learning We also offer treatment for drugs recommended for you to immediately employees based in or develop if you a travelling to We have a number of programmes high risk regions. prevent infection. and initiatives that raise awareness of fever one or more weeks after malaria prevention, and we promote entering an malarial area or up an ABCD model to help educate and to 3 months (rarely more) after a support employees working in high risk departure. countries: John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 53 People Investing in our communities Investing in our communities Our colleagues continue to demonstrate daily, the difference we make to our shared communities, through the compassion contributes to building a and care of our people, the culture we actively promote and the unwavering commitment we show to create positive impact sustainable future that aims to through our actions. address local and global challenges. As we continued to integrate and adapt to change across our At Wood we believe our role business throughout 2018, our focus on community support remained constant and the continued enthusiasm and kindness extends beyond the donation of of our people shone through the multiple actions of support for our shared communities. money, just as important is how Establishing a group wide programme to support Wood's we show up in the communities we community investment activities was a priority for Wood, as part of the wider sustainability strategy launch, to ensure are a part of. We care about the continuity of support for our employee efforts and the communities in which we operate communities we impact. and recognise our responsibility to respect, nurture and empower the people and locations we impact. 2018 by the numbers Matched funding Global cause £300,000+ Funds raised by our employees for causes 11,628 18 Total hours volunteered by 1,469 New or existing educational close to their hearts and £300,000 employees organisations sponsored Wood matched donations 54 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Our approach With over 40% of the 6,600 votes cast, our employees chose education as our Introduction Supporting the Global Sustainable Wood's community investment Wood global cause in support of SDG Development Goals (SDG) strategy focuses at an individual level 4 and Quality Education. In addition Our varied community investment on supporting our employee actions, to improving quality of life, access to activities tackle a number of the SDGs, strategically uniting our business inclusive quality education can improve however an example of some of the around a single global cause and placing sustainable development by helping SDG targets relative to our efforts to focus on the actions we take through equip people with the tools required support our communities, and case volunteering our time and skills resources. to develop innovative solutions to the studies contained within this report are: The program elements include: world's greatest problems. Employee Matched Funding Across the business, our activities to support education are far reaching Supporting our employee fundraising and varied in nature. we recognised a efforts to benefit personal choice need to structure how we collected our charities, Wood will match up to 100% efforts, to best direct our focus as well of the amounts raised, up to a specified as to allow us to measure our collective People limit. impact. In December 2018, through Employee matched funding forms the engagement with each of our business basis of our core charitable giving and unit global sustainability champions, we launched our education framework to is open to all employees. Focused on better define our approach and how this supporting employee actions, the fund relates to our business, as well as guide By 2030 helps to provide monetary support to our activities and reporting. the good causes chosen by our people; 1.2 reduce at least by half the aiming to engage the greatest number Volunteering proportion of men, women and children of people, across the breadth of our Our community investment programme of all ages living in poverty in all its business. dimensions according to national focuses on the actions we take to definitions Launched in March 2018, the matched support our communities. We don't funding programme has reached almost believe providing monetary support is 2.1 End hunger and ensure access solely the answer and the foundations by all people, in particular the poor every region Wood operates in and of our programme places focus on and people in vulnerable situations, Planet gained business wide support in its first including infants, to safe, nutritious demonstrable action that ensures our year. As we continue to communicate and sufficient food all year round efforts make full use of our time, skills the programme, we hope to gradually and resources to provide sustainable 3.4 Reduce by one third premature increase engagement and more evenly support to the communities we impact. spread the wealth of our support across mortality from non-communicable As we progress through 2019, diseases through prevention and our employee base. treatment and promote mental health the challenge to our business is Our global cause and well-being to demonstrate support for our We believe we can help address local communities through volunteering our 4.4 Substantially increase the number and global community challenges and time, skills and resources; our efforts to of youth and adults who have relevant working together as Wood, our combined support education as our global cause skills, including technical and vocational focus can truly make an impactful will be central to this challenge and with skills, for employment, decent jobs and difference to the communities where we as we introduce our Sustainability Action entrepreneurship live and work. Tracker in 2019, this will help provide a 4.5 Eliminate gender disparities in means to capture our actions and to education and ensure equal access to Profit In a similar way to how we produced demonstrate our impact, over and above all levels of education and vocational our vision, values and behaviours, we monetary support. training for the vulnerable, including turned to our employees for help in persons with disabilities, indigenous deciding Wood's direction through a Demonstrating our impact peoples and children in vulnerable group wide survey and vote. We aligned Every day, across our global business, situations our global cause criteria with the United people are showing commitment and Nation's sustainable development goals courage to care for the communities (SDGs) and shortlisted these to the we live and work in. From adrenaline four goals most relevant to Wood and fuelled skydives to marathon running, the services we provide; poverty, good moustache growing to head shaving, health and wellbeing, quality education as well as countless bake sales and and sustainable cities and communities. community events; our people really have Once selected, we then passed the baton gone above and beyond for the causes to our regional teams to get involved in close to their hearts. the way that best suits our people and business. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 55 Case Studies Community investment Sleep on it! In December 2018, Wood partnered with Scottish social business, Social Bite, for ‘Sleep in the Park', the world's largest sleepout event aiming to raise funds to help make a better future possible for homeless people in Scotland. 38 Wood employees joined over 10,000 people taking part in the event, which raised over £3.6 million to help tackle homelessness. Funds from Sleep in the Park 2018 have gone towards Social Bite's innovative Housing First initiative, which aims to get people out of temporary accommodation and into a secure home. Backed by the Scottish Government, the Housing First scheme is expected to take 830 rough sleepers off the streets by April 2021. Dave Stewart our CEO for Asset Solutions EAAA and his wife Margaret were among the participants. He said: “It was an eye-opening experience to have even a small glimpse into what life must be like for homeless people across In December 2018, Wood partnered with Scotland. I am incredibly proud of the team that took part and Scottish social business, Social Bite, for want to thank everyone who ‘Sleep in the Park', the world's largest braved the elements to sleep sleepout event aiming to raise funds to help out. We raised over £20,000 and the amazing generosity of those make a better future possible for homeless supporting the Wood team was people in Scotland. very much appreciated.” 56 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction People It's in the bag! Cycling for Red Dust Despite having the largest economy in the world, one in six On a crisp March morning, more than 20 Wood employees, Planet people in the United States lack access to enough food for clients and families headed to Marysville, a small town all household members. Once used as a means to provide nestled in the Victorian high country, for our sixth annual relief following an emergency or unexpected event, for Lake Mountain cycle & family day; a charity event many food banks have now become a weekly stop to put supporting our Indigenous beneficiary, Red Dust. Starting food on the table. in Marysville's Gallipoli Park, our riders clipped in to tackle the 22-kilometre uphill cycle through the Cathedral Ranges, At an early April management strategy meeting, leaders ending at the Lake Mountain Alpine Resort. from Asset Solutions Americas put a whole new twist on teambuilding when they packed 5,000 pounds of food This year's event brings our total fundraising amount into family bags for the San Antonio (Texas) Food Bank. to over AUD $50,000. Supported by Wood's matched They formed 20 small teams for a round robin competition funding programme, the total 2018 donation of $17,000 will around a circuit of dexterity and carnival game challenges support Wood in sending another company ambassador to win food to donate. Like classic overachievers, the teams to the Northern Territory to participate in a Red Dust battled fiercely to pin the tail, bounce ping pong balls into healthy living program. These programs are held in remote Profit solo cups, transfer small items with chopsticks, etc. But communities and help reduce chronic disease amongst when the final bell sounded, the team focused on packing Indigenous Australian children through the promotion of hundreds of bags of non-perishable food to donate to the nutrition, hygiene and physical activity. Food Bank. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 57 58 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Advancing our global cause supporting quality education Introduction People Getting job ready Making a difference in Lighting a spark for In November, ten students from Cameroon engineering Dream Learn Work, a non-profit Wood has supported the CEREN At the end of 2018, fourteen organisation created to help young Orphanage in Cameroon for colleagues in the Developing Brazilians from less developed areas more than five years and in midProfessionals Network (DPN) in to have a chance for a better future, November, a number of employees Calgary visited St. Helena Junior visited Wood's office in Barra da visited the children to provide food High to have some fun with the Tijuca (in the west zone of Rio de and other essentials. Our business students, while teaching them Janeiro, Brazil). The group were given in Cameroon supports three local about engineering and construction. the chance to learn about Wood, orphanages. On this occasion, the The group came together for the oil and gas industry and to find team went to the CEREN (Centre ‘Engineering Day,' a day dedicated out more about writing CVs, job Evangelique de Reinsertion des to helping teach the junior high interviews, and the world of work. Enfants de Ntolo) orphanage, students about engineering and the Planet Dream Learn Work was just one of three hours' drive from Douala, world of work. Many of the students the educational organisations Wood which is home to about 60 children. do not come from families with chose to sponsor and support in Ranging in age from three months professional backgrounds, so for 2018. to 18 years, the centre provides some this was their first time being good health, general and basic exposed to a career in engineering. Learn more about Dream Learn Work at: education, psychological support, One of the team said: http://dreamlearnwork.com/2017/ accommodation and other basic visit-at-wood-getting-ready-for-the-jobneeds to the children. it's extremely rewarding market/ The orphanages supported in to have the opportunity to Cameroon are heavily dependent engage the next generation on donations. Wood supports with in their future education many essential items including paying school and exam fees for and aspirations. I remember around 20 children for more than being that age and not seven years, providing food and knowing what options Profit laundry supplies, school equipment were out there for me, so such as school bags, uniform and to be able to shed a little sportswear, medicines, toys, games, clothing and organising a Christmas light on the possibilities is feast. encouraging and I'm hopeful that for even just one, we've managed to light a spark. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 59 Planet At Wood we aim to minimise our impact on the environment and seek to contribute positively towards the global sustainability of the planet we all share. Our efforts to minimise environmental Planet risk, reduce the impact of our operations and raise environmental awareness and competence amongst our employees, ensures we protect our Managing environmental risk people, the business and locations we operate in. Reducing our environmental impact Raising environmental awareness and competence 60 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Managing environmental Reducing our risk environmental impact People Managing our environmental risks We aim to reduce the impact of ensures we protect our people from our operations on the environment harm, retain our license to operate through sustainable business and helps to protect our business as practices that seek to protect both well as the locations we operate in. our business, our people and the Good environmental management planet. Ensuring the protection and is not only the right thing to do but efficient use of our planet's resources makes business sense to ensure the is vital for not only our business to sustainability of our business. remain sustainable but ultimately safeguarding the future of our environment for generations to come. Planet Profit Raising environmental awareness and competence Creating a culture of care towards the environment is crucial in helping drive action against climate change and environmental matters. Raising awareness and competence around environmental issues amongst our employees is vital to ensuring we embed environmental considerations into our daily thought process, enabling our people to make informed decisions on their day to day activities. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 61 Planet Managing environmental risk We care about the environment Our HSSE policy states our commitment to protect the environment and underpins our approach to environmental and assume a responsibility to management; Our integrated HSSEA management system provides the framework for how we manage environmental protect and minimise the impact of risks, ensuring we remain in control and deliver continuous our operations. Never before have improvement in our environmental performance. businesses been under such scrutiny In 2018 we continued to implement our environmental strategy, focusing on the three key areas outlined in the structure of this for the impact they have on the section of the report: environment. Ensuring we manage • Managing environmental risk and control environmental risk to • Reducing our impact on the environment our business is essential to protect • Raising environmental awareness and competence not only our business, but also our people and the locations impacted as a result of our operations; the risk of not managing our impact on the environment threatens our social license to operate, our reputation as a business that cares and ultimately the planet we all share. 62 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Managing environmental risk Raising environmental detail the minimum requirements for managing environmental risks Introduction We recognise that understanding what awareness and competence and ensure a consistent approach our risks are is the first step in protecting It is vital that our employees understand to environmental management, the environment. Having a thorough why we care about the environment supporting the framework of our HSSE understanding of the environmental and why it is important to our management system. Developed risks posed by our operations is critical. business. Employees who have specific following a comprehensive review of This allows for clear expectations and environmental responsibilities associated Wood's environmental commitments minimum standards to be developed to their roles must be equipped with the and performance, the standards which ensure effective mitigation and competence and tools to discharge these consider environmental best practice management. requirements appropriately. (including ISO 14001:2015), regulatory performance, environmental incident Launched shortly after the formation Reducing our impact on the of Wood in late 2017, the strategy investigations and environmental KPIs. To accompany the standards, we have environment addresses the key areas of environmental our environmental standards selfWe care about the legacy we leave risk associated with our operations. This assessment tool, accessible to all to People behind as a result of our operations. As includes but is not limited to pollution conduct local level compliance against a responsible business, Wood strives to control and remediation management, the requirements of each standard. eliminate or reduce as far as possible any legal compliance, impact assessment negative environmental impacts likely to and preservation and protection. Additionally, Wood retains ISO result from our operations. 140001:2015 certification in many In 2018, we launched Wood's parts of the business and drive the environmental standards, applicable fundamental learning throughout the to all global locations. These standards company's operations. Environmental performance We classify our environmental incident Supporting the Global Sustainable based on the worst credible outcome Development Goals (SDG) We record all near miss and Planet that could have occurred. An example of some of the SDG environmental incidents globally, reporting these through monthly and targets relative to our business Low Minor pollution with reversible quarterly management reports, ensuring in relation to managing our or short-term impact senior leadership and board visibility of environmental risks, and case studies Medium Moderate pollution with contained within this report: environmental performance. localised impact Number of environmental incidents High Severe / long term damage to 2017 2018 the environment 258 171 Severity of environmental incidents 2017 2018 Low 95% 95% The number of environmental incidents Medium 5% 5% in 2018 reduced by 34% compared High 0% 0% with the previous year's reporting. An By 2020 ongoing focus on incident classification 12.4 achieve the environmentally sound Profit throughout 2018 resulted in an Number of environmental incidents management of chemicals and all improvement to environmental reporting. reported to the regulator wastes throughout their life cycle, in The reporting of leaks from hydraulic accordance with agreed international lines were the most frequently reported Of the 171 environmental incidents frameworks, and significantly reduce incidents resulting in small volume recorded in 2018, 16% were reported their release to air, water and soil pollution events. Reviewed regularly for to the relevant statutory body. As with in order to minimize their adverse patterns of occurrence this led to several our 2017 report, this is higher than we impacts on human health and the investigations into why hydraulic lines would normally expect due to the close environment. rupture in order to rule out overloading or relationship between one specific project working beyond safe working limits. and the local statutory bodies. The By 2030 sensitive nature of the work location of Environmental Incident Frequency the project means that all environmental 3.9 Substantially reduce the number of Rate*: incidents, no matter how minor they are deaths and illnesses from hazardous in nature, are reported to the relevant chemicals and air, water and soil 2017 2018 pollution and contamination. body(s). 0.29 0.20 During 2018, Wood faced no environmental prosecutions and did 11.6 Reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention *Environmental Incident Frequency Rate per not receive any improvement notices in 200,000 hours worked relation to environmental issues. to air quality and municipal and other waste management. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 63 Planet Reducing our environmental impact Our operations touch many parts of the world, and how At Wood we recognise our we choose to manage our impacts on the environment is responsibility to protect the important to not just ensure our business is sustainable, but that the communities we impact and the world we share is environment around us and protected for generations to come. minimise our impact on the We support the current scientific understanding of how carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions effect the global environment. climate and the longer-term impacts that climate change will have on society, economy and our planet. As a responsible business, we strive to reduce our own and our clients carbon emissions. We recognise the role we play in driving a low carbon economy. Through innovative thinking and proactive challenge, we believe it is possible to achieve a low carbon future that strikes a balance between acceptable environmental parameters and commercial viability. 64 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 2020 Target setting timeline Introduction Until we are able to set group wide targets for carbon reduction, Wood has adopted an interim target of 2.5% reduction, normalised per unit of revenue and driven through our sustainability programme. Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Migrating to one reporting system Align and begin reporting combined Align and begin reporting scope 3 People and laying the process foundations to scope 1 & 2 emissions on an emissions based upon a materiality support data collection operational basis assessment of the business conducted in year 1 Our carbon footprint strategy Where do we want to be? Our three-year strategy To reduce our carbon footprint, we must Based upon a carbon year from 1 Our carbon footprint and how we first set a reduction target. In order to October to 30 September, our three-year manage that within our business is vital to achieve a unified approach, we require strategy to align reporting commenced in realising our own as well as global carbon a holistic carbon strategy and need to October 2017 with the objective of being reduction targets. In 2015, more than 190 create a baseline year in which to set our fully aligned by October 2020. Utilising Planet countries ratified an historic agreement target reduction. consumption data from year three of our on climate change in Paris. Aiming to strategy will allow us to set our baseline limit the rise in global temperatures to To reach a Wood carbon footprint we and create group wide carbon reduction well below 2°C, the agreement will come recognise our strategy must: targets. into effect in 2020. We recognise the role Wood plays in helping the global economy • Create an aligned carbon reporting As well as allowing us to reach a reduce its carbon footprint and realise the process for the business reduction target, our three-year strategy importance of providing targeted focus to • Provide a singular platform for will also allow us to align the various achieving our global goal. periodic data collection voluntary and legislative compliance schemes applicable to John Wood Group • Create sufficient time for the business PLC. to adapt and implement the required changes In 2018 we released our Wood Carbon Reporting and Accounting Standard, Profit prepared in line with the principles of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This provides a standardised approach to ensuring Wood's carbon footprint is reproducible and comparable on a like for like basis year on year across the business, to allow appropriate discharge of legal and voluntary reporting requirements. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 65 Planet Carbon performance overview Our three strategy to align carbon reporting for both legacy companies began with our 2017/18 carbon reporting year. In 2018 we retained our legacy reporting boundaries of financial for legacy Wood Group and Operational for Legacy Amec Foster Wheeler. Total global GHG emissions data for both legacy companies is detailed for the period 01 Oct 2017 to 30 Sept 2018: SCOPE 1 and 2 emissions Legacy Wood Group Legacy Amec Foster Wheeler SCOPE 1: SCOPE 2: SCOPE 1: SCOPE 2: Direct GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions Direct GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 1 comprises of Scope 2 comprises of Scope 1 comprises of Scope 2 comprises of company vehicle fuel purchased electricity for our company vehicle fuel purchased electricity and consumption, natural gas office locations. consumption, natural gas steam for our office locations from our offices and on-site from our offices and on-site as well as the manufacturing fuel supplying generators and fuel supplying generators and plants of our GPG business. other site equipment. other site equipment. 2017: 2017: 2017: 2017: 19,907 2,213 565,705 50,132 tCO₂e tCO₂e tCO₂e tCO₂e 2018: 2018: 2018: 2018: 19,621 2,174 396,017 39,595 tCO₂e tCO₂e tCO₂e tCO₂e ▼ 1% ▼ 2% ▼ 30% ▼ 21% A small decrease in scope 1 The decrease in scope 2 Amec Foster Wheeler The decrease in scope 2 absolute emissions, due in absolute emissions is mainly emissions include one owned absolute emissions is mainly part to a focus on business attributable to on-going power plant making up 87% attributable to on-going travel reduction and efforts real estate consolidation of the total 2017/18 emissions. real estate consolidation to reduce consumption across throughout the year. The reduction compared with throughout the year and a the group. the previous reporting period focus on carbon reduction. is mainly attributable to the sale of an owned power plant in Chile in the first quarter on the 2016/17 carbon year and a planned outage at our remaining power plant in 2018. . 2017 (tCO₂e) 2018 (tCO₂e) 2017 (tCO₂e) 2018 (tCO₂e) Natural Gas 334 553 66% ▲ Natural Gas 7,530 6,471 14% ▼ Onsite Fuel 19,573 19,068 3% ▼ Onsite Fuel 3,804 2,155 43% ▼ Electricity 2,213 2,174 2% ▼ Company Vehicle 17,586 8,780 50% ▼ Total 22,120 21,795 1% ▼ Direct Emissions 536,785 378,611 29% ▼ Electricity 48,038 39,455 18% ▼ Steam 2,094 140 93% ▼ Total 615,837 435,612 29% ▼ Note: Data is for a full carbon year on a Note: Data is for a full carbon year on an operational financial boundaries basis boundaries basis 66 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 SCOPE 3 emissions Introduction In 2018 we conducted a materiality assessment of our scope 3 emissions, as part of our Supporting the Global Sustainable strategy to align our legacy business to a single approach in scope three reporting in Development Goals (SDG) 2020. The outcome of this resulted in the diagram below, detailing Wood's sources of An example of some of the SDG emissions, once we reach the end of our strategy in 2020. targets relative to our business in relation to managing our carbon The current difference in reporting boundaries between our two legacy companies and footprint, and case studies contained where we are on the timeline of our strategy means we are unable to report combined within this report: 3 emissions; we can however provide legacy Amec Foster Wheeler data for 2018 on an operational basis based on the current global collection of data. SCOPE 3: Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 3 emissions are attributable to business travel, including air and rail as well as mileage travelled in personal vehicles and hire cars. 13.2 Integrate climate change People measures into national policies, 2017: 2018: strategies and planning 49,054 39,455 By 2030 tCO₂e tCO₂e 9.4 upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resourceuse efficiency and greater adoption ▼ 20% of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes The decrease in scope 3 GHG emissions are mainly attributable to a reduction in business long haul and short haul air travel; due in part to the rationalisation of travel, 12.2 achieve the sustainable promotion of technological alternatives and enforcement of the group wide travel management and efficient use of policy. natural resources Planet 2017 (tCO₂e) 2018 (tCO₂e) Long Haul Air 20,044 13,660 32% ▼ Short Haul Air 12,887 13,003 1% ▲ Non-Company Vehicle 12,491 9,074 27% ▼ Train & Bus 198 165 17% ▼ Transmission & Distribution 3,434 3,553 3% ▲ Total 49,054 39,455 20% ▼ Note: Transmission & Distribution emissions associated with electricity which is lost in the Transmission & Distribution system used for delivering purchased electricity. Look ahead Profit We will progress with our strategy in 2019, developing our business capacity to report scope 1 &2 emissions on an operational basis and prepare for scope 3 reporting in 2020. We will continue to report our carbon performance in both a legal and voluntary capacity; this includes: Legislative • The Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) scheme • Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive (2012/27/EU) • The Companies Act 2006 (strategic and directors' Reports) Regulations 2013 Voluntary • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) – Climate Change John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 67 Planet Minimising resources The world's natural resources are vital to sustaining life on earth and non-renewable resources, such as oil, natural gas and coal, although naturally occurring, are limited in supply. How we manage and conserve resource helps us to not only reduce our global carbon footprint but also minimise our impact on the environment. Energy management Our direct energy consumption is associated mainly with our office and site locations utility consumption of electricity, natural gas, heating oil, steam and generator fuel. In line with our three-year strategy to align our carbon data collection, the current collection of energy data across both our legacy companies has meant we cannot at present fairly compare consumption; however, we can give a legacy overview for each in terms of intensity and volume consumed. Due to the volumes reported by our single power plant facility, for the purpose of fair comparison, we have separated Martinez Power Plant consumption and shown this detail at the end of this section. Annual fuel and energy consumption (MWh) Legacy Wood Group Legacy Amec Foster Wheeler 2017: 2018: 2017: 2018: 94,804 86,824 168,538.43 139,933.74 MWh MWh MWh MWh ▼ 8% ▼ 17% The decrease in total energy consumption (MWhs) is mainly The decrease in total energy consumption (MWhs) is mainly attributable to a fluctuation in contracts throughout 2018 in attributable to a reduction in onsite fuel use at our Transmission our UK business. and Distribution business site projects and closure of our Global Power Group business and our manufacturing plants in Poland, Finland and Sweden in 2018. 2017 (Mwhs) 2018 (Mwhs) 2017 (Mwhs) 2018 (Mwhs) Natural Gas 1,807 2,760 53% ▲ Natural Gas 41,366.61 47,345.38 14% ▼ Electricity 10,853 6,769 38% ▼ Electricity 101,743.81 82,309.06 19% ▼ Onsite Fuel 82,144 77,295 6% ▼ Onsite Fuel 15,530.62 8,944.60 42% ▼ decrease 17% Heat & Steam 9,897.39 1,334.70 87% ▼ Total 94,804 86,824 8% ▼ Total 168,538.43 139,933.74 17% ▼ Note: Data is for a full carbon year on a financial Note: Data is for a full carbon year on an operational boundaries' basis boundaries' basis. Figures exclude our power generation site Combined energy consumption 2017 (Mwhs) 2018 (Mwhs) Natural Gas 2,234.70 2,018.35 10% ▼ Electricity 15.75 22.86 45% ▲ Diesel 23.87 60.48 153% ▲ Total Energy Consumption 2,274.32 2,101.69 8% ▲ 68 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction People Energy performance intensity In a similar vein to how we have compared absolute energy consumption, we are able to normalise consumption by two key metrics; Planet per number of employees (average full time equivalent) and per unit of revenue (per $1million). We have excluded our Power Generation Plant in Martinez, California due to the scale of consumption, to better provide comparison of our global consumption. Legacy Wood Group Legacy Amec Foster Wheeler 2017: 2018: 2017: 2018: 3.55 3.28 5.02 5.58 MWh per Employee MWh per Employee MWh per Employee MWh per Employee Profit 2017: 2018: 2017: 2018: 16.31 16.35 35.89 24.44 Mhw per $1m Revenue Mhw per $1m Revenue Mhw per $1m Revenue Mhw per $1m Revenue Note: Data is for a full carbon year on a financial Note: Data is for a full carbon year on an operational boundaries' basis boundaries' basis. Figures exclude the power generation site John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 69 Case studies Resource resilience Supporting the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) An example of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation to minimising resources, and case studies contained within this report: 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries By 2020 15.8 Introduce measures to prevent the introduction and significantly reduce the impact of invasive alien species on land and water ecosystems and control or eradicate the priority species 14.2 Sustainably manage and protect marine and coastal ecosystems to avoid significant adverse impacts, including by strengthening their Water management is placed upon our environmental resilience, and take action for their strategy, key integration projects in At Wood we recognise the risk that restoration in order to achieve healthy 2018 and the development of our and productive oceans water scarcity, pollution and weak first Wood CDP Climate Change water governance can have on our submission. Learnings from our organisation and the adverse impacts previous assessment of water risk will By 2030: this poses to communities and the be incorporated into our approach, 2.4 ensure sustainable food environment. Water is an essential focusing on three key risk categories; production systems and implement ingredient to business operations, and Physical quantity/quality, regulatory resilient agricultural practices that we acknowledge our responsibility to and reputational. increase productivity and production, enable more sustainable management that help maintain ecosystems, that of shared freshwater resources. Additionally, through our service strengthen capacity for adaptation offering we provide global support to climate change, extreme weather, Our environmental strategy includes around a number of areas of water drought, flooding and other disasters a group wide focus on water stewardship. Our integrated approach and that progressively improve land consumption, which will take a riskto water creates a balance between and soil quality based approach to assessing Wood's the needs of today and smart planning 6.3 Improve water quality by reducing operations in water scare regions for tomorrow. Helping to evaluate pollution, eliminating dumping and to target the areas of our business multiple and competing objectives minimizing release of hazardous with the greatest exposure to water and priorities to determine the best chemicals and materials, halving the related risk. Following on from this the possible outcome and usage of water proportion of untreated wastewater strategy will look to work with those resources is what we do best. From and substantially increasing recycling operations identified as at risk from establishing new water resources and safe reuse globally water scarcity to monitor usage and to achieving the most from existing 6.4 Substantially increase waterdevelop reduction plans. Work on this resources, our experts support use efficiency across all sectors and element of our strategy will begin in thousands of projects every year. ensure sustainable withdrawals and late 2019. supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially Our legacy Wood Group business reduce the number of people previously submitted to the voluntary suffering from water scarcity Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 7.3 Double the global rate of Water, however since coming together improvement in energy efficiency as Wood we have declined to submit towards CDP Water to ensure focus 70 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction People Improving water quality in the Andean highlands The Challenge The Colpitas catchment (a watershed within the Lluta) is home to a small indigenous community, and local waters are characterised by high mineral content (specifically boron and arsenic). Further downstream, approximately 1,000 agricultural workers grow crops in the Lluta Planet Valley, a region where agriculture Protecting 10,000 acres of What did we do? must be specially adapted to harsh conditions, with elevations above coastal habitat Our onsite project team worked on a $17M design-build contract to restore 5,000m. Wood's challenge was to 1,500 acres of damaged tidal salt improve water quality to provide a The Challenge marsh to create tidal channels through sustainable resource for irrigation During severe storms, most notably draft hydraulic dredging, planting and agricultural production. Hurricane Sandy in 2012, the dunes and invasive species management. along the beach were breached, Combining creative thinking with What did we do? causing salt water inundation, beach technical expertise, Wood developed Wood designed a sustainable, erosion and flooding. advanced processes to safely install integrated framework, executed in more than 1,000,000 native marsh To re-establish native plants and two phases in order to determine grasses and remove invasive plants. wildlife to the area, the U.S. Fish and the best methods for mitigating Wildlife Service modelled potential Our work on the project strengthened contamination: scenarios for restoring a sustainable, Profit community resilience to future storms • Phase 1: Identification resilient coastal ecosystem and tasked and increased the refuge's ecological and characterisation of Wood with executing the construction. resources as part of the Hurricane contamination Sandy Resiliency projects. • Phase 2: Preliminary design of mitigation measures To effectively deliver this project, we leveraged our water resources, hydrogeology, water quality and engineering expertise from our Santiago office in Chile. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 71 Planet Managing climate risk The world today faces At Wood, we support efforts to tackle climate change and the United Nations As a global organisation of over 60,000 employees in over 60 countries, how no greater risk than Paris Agreement on Climate Change we communicate and conduct our day seeking to limit global warming this to day business can have a significant that posed by climate century to below 2 degrees above Impact on our carbon footprint and change. The modernpre-industrial levels. Increased social global greenhouse gas emissions. In and environmental issues as a result of 2018 we made significant steps to day challenge of climate change has meant an increasing improving our internal technology to managing increasing focus on resilience and innovation, to strengthen and promote sustainable better connect our people, integrate and connect our legacy businesses demand for energy, growth. We invest in technological and advance methods to support solutions that aid management of remote working, wherever possible. while finding ways to climate risk, which we believe advances Through promotion of remote working limit carbon emissions our own and our customers resilience and a focus on essential travel and and low carbon ambitions. enforcement of our global travel policy is a collective risk As well as our operational activities has resulted in reduced carbon emissions we must confront to to support action on climate change and reduced cost to our business. ensure a sustainable mitigation, coupled with our efforts to join the global conversation in leading Our journey to better connect is still ongoing as part of our integration future for our planet. transformative change in the markets efforts; consolidating to a single, we influence, we also look to our internal standard IT platform, upgrading our actions to mitigate and reduce our operating environment and some of impact on the environment. our aged assets and enhancing security measures to meet the level of attack we now face as an organisation of our scale. All of this helps Wood to be flexible, agile and stay secure. 72 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Advancing resilience innovation “It was an incredible experience Introduction to discuss how our resilience and sustainability business drives shared value from our projects but also to share ideas with some of the most significant organisations in the world. Wood has a tremendous opportunity to drive benefits across social, economic and environmental areas from our projects that can result in a business benefit to our global organisation.” Wood's program manager of climate People resilience & sustainability In 2018, Wood's program manager of climate resilience & sustainability, spoke at the Shared Valued Leadership Summit, in New York. The annual summit brings together like minded business leaders Planet seeking to leverage their assets and resources to address societal challenges, whilst still delivering to stakeholders and investors. Topics ranged from artificial intelligence (AI) and healthcare to connecting technology, finance for inclusive value chains and driving business value from shared value among the business sector. Profit Wood's involvement in events of this kind are key to advancing our work around global resilience and energy transition towards a more equitable, healthy and sustainable world. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 73 Case studies Industry collaboration on reducing CO₂ emissions In late 2018, Wood The OGCI CI is a billion-dollar investment fund that invests in promising Bob MacDonald, CEO of Wood's Specialist Technical Solutions business, was awarded a technologies and business models that said: first-of-a-kind, have the potential to significantly reduce the carbon footprint of the energy and “Wood is delighted to be multi-millionindustrial sectors. supporting OGCI Climate Investments on its gas power dollar contract by The industrial carbon capture design and industrial carbon capture will initially cover five of the principal the Oil and Gas industrial emitters of CO₂: the conceptual design project. Climate Initiative production of hydrogen, fertiliser, petrochemicals, cement, and steel. “We are working closely with Climate Investments As part of the scope of work, Wood's our customers to lead the technology and consulting team will energy transition, a global (OGCI CI) to complete engineering and concept challenge facing many industry provide conceptual design work for a full-scale gas power sectors. Being at the forefront plant with carbon capture, levering its engineering for global expertise in consulting, process of this important, industry-led initiative further demonstrates its gas power and technology, pipelines and capital projects. our ongoing commitment to industrial carbon mitigating climate change by capture conceptual reducing CO₂ emissions.” design work. 74 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Climate change reporting At Wood we recognise the need to be transparent in reporting our efforts to Introduction tackle climate change. As a business seeking to lead transformative change in the markets we impact, it's important that we manage our own impact on the environment. Through the voluntary Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change, we are able to report our approach and actions towards tackling climate change. CDP is the largest registry of corporate GHG emissions in the world and allows investors & cities to better understand risk, capitalise on opportunities and make investment decisions that drive action toward a more sustainable world. People There are numerous advantages for Wood Supporting the Global Sustainable in gathering data in response to the CDP Disclosure scores overview Development Goals (SDG) Climate Change questionnaire, including: An example of the SDG targets relative • Identification of key risks associated 2018 Score: to our business in relation to managing with climate change climate risk, and case studies contained Wood plc: Awareness : C within this report: • Increased transparency to shareholders, clients and the general public • Allowing us to benchmark our 2017 Comparison: organisation against our peer and Legacy Wood Group: Management B industry groups Legacy AmecFW: Awareness C In 2018 we produced our first report to CDP Climate Change as Wood, building on both legacy companies' previous input Sector benchmarking to the initiative. Country: United Kingdom Planet CDP Program: Investor How did we perform in 2017? Sector: Energy Industry activity group: Oil & Gas 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive A capacity to climate-related hazards Leadership Industry activity group average and natural disasters in all countries AB Awareness: C Management B17.16 Enhance the Global Partnership C CDP program average for Sustainable Development, Awareness CAwareness: C complemented by multi-stakeholder D Disclosure Dpartnerships that mobilize and share Our performance in the 2018 CDP knowledge, expertise, technology Climate Change report shows Wood and financial resources, to support to be aligned with the energy industry the achievement of the Sustainable CDP submissions are assessed across Development Goals in all countries, in Profit average, however we hope to improve four consecutive levels which represents particular developing countries this score as we continue to integrate our the steps a company moves through as business and progress with our carbon By 2020 it progresses towards environmental strategy in setting more ambitious stewardship. The score assesses the 11.b substantially increase the number reduction targets. level of detail and comprehensiveness of of cities and human settlements the content, as well as the companies' adopting and implementing integrated awareness of climate change issues, policies and plans towards inclusion, management methods and progress resource efficiency, mitigation and adaptation to climate change and towards action taken on climate change. resilience to disasters By 2030 1.5 Build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disaster John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 75 Planet Raising environmental awareness and competence Employees are the foundations of our sustainability team At Wood, we believe it is and it is important that we give them the knowledge to make vital that our employees informed decisions in their day to day activities embedding environmental considerations into their thought process. By understand why we care about doing so, environment does not simply become a ‘bolt on' to our work but becomes ingrained in the psyche allowing for the environment and why it is better management of our operations. More importantly, important to our business. employees who have specific environmental responsibilities associated to their roles must be equipped with the competence and tools to discharge these requirements appropriately to both safeguard our people and the sustainability of our business. How we communicate our overall sustainability programme, which includes but is not limited to, environmental awareness is vital to ensuring we connect with our global business. For our projects and functions to truly drive sustainable action and awareness we need a robust method of communication throughout the different levels of our organisation. 76 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability champions The Global Sustainability Champions engaged individuals that are enthused led by our group Sustainability Manager to drive forward our sustainability Introduction network form part of our Sustainability Leadership programme; together these groups will In 2018 we placed a focus on growing Network (SLN). The network meets on help drive local action and encourage a network of sustainability champions a monthly basis to help advance and communication back to the global across our business. Beginning with embed our sustainability programme, sustainability team via the sustainability four CEO nominated global champions focusing on how best to communicate action tracker; in turn providing input for each of our business units, we set the key messages of our programme and into Wood's Sustainability strategy and about recruiting local champions, with helping to shape our strategy through direction. one simple goal, to grow our network engagement with the wider champions Additional networks across our business, to include at least one sustainability network. such as our employee group wide champion in each location we operate, Every local sustainability champion acts Listening Group Network help to further supported where possible by a local as a key point of contact for employees, communicate key messages to our sustainability team. local groups and management on local employee base, whilst maintaining that efforts to support sustainability. Through two-way communication between our People the creation of a local sustainability team, workforce and senior leadership. each champion will gain the support of Communicating and Reporting Our Actions: CEO Nominated Champions: Available for all our employees to report any Lead and drive actions designed actions taken to support our sustainability to advance and embed our strategy. The information held within the sustainability strategy SAT will help us to have greater visibility Sustainability Global within their BU. of the actions being taken across Wood and aid reporting Action Tracker Sustainability (SAT) Champions Planet Reporting our Lead & embed actions BU direction Sustainability Network Local Regional/ Local Champions: Communication Points Sustainability Service Line of Contact Passionate, self-nominated, Champions Points of Contact Driving local action employees who help facilitate Facilitating Identified points of contact meaningful local action, aligned to communication within a specific region or service our sustainability strategy. line in place to help facilitate Profit communication between the Global Sustainability Champions and the Local Champions. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 77 Planet Environmental Standards Beat Plastic Pollution if you can’t reuse it, HSE-STD-100053 Rev.0 20 July, 2018 refuse it! Raising awareness 1 million plastic bottles are bought of environmental around the world evey minute... this management number is set to increase by another Raising awareness around 20% if we dont act now! environmental management ensures we retain a consistent Solution: Reusable water bottles and minimum level of compliance across the business. In 2018, we launched our environment standards, with a communication campaign aimed at targeting those areas of the business with specific environmental responsibilities within their role. Supported by regular communications channelled through senior HSSE management and targeted groups across the business, the standards support the framework of our HSSE management system and are promoted through regular channels of communication across the HSSE community. As part of our environmental strategy, a suite Global awareness campaigns Day and the theme for the year being #BeatPlasticPollution; linking in with our of awareness materials will be At Wood we recognise the importance internal efforts to create awareness and created in 2019, to support the of supporting internationally recognised action around single use plastic. With standards as well as improve general days that help promote issues of our sustainability week celebrations environmental awareness with the international interest and concern. in September each year, we're able to development of an environmental Wood observes two main dates in our recap on these global campaigns and awareness online training package. global calendar of events dedicated place additional focus on environmental to environmental awareness, Earth issues, ensuring we have three key Day in April and World Environment points throughout the year to keep the Day in June. In 2018, we observed both conversation moving and promoting dates in the calendar, with particular sustainability across our business. focus placed on UN World Environment 78 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Reducing plastic waste At Wood, we recognise the negative impact disposable plastic use has on Introduction 160,000 plastic bags the environment and as a responsible business we want to play our part in reducing our reliance on single use plastic are used globally every and work towards more environmentally friendly and sustainable solutions. second In the first half of 2018, we set about establishing a global working group of passionate employees to help us tackle As most plastic does not biodegrade, if plastic usage single use plastic in our business. To isn’t curbed, the amount of plastic in our oceans will focus our efforts where we can make the outweigh fish by 2050. biggest impact, we asked our employees during our first sustainability week celebrations to complete a quick survey on People their personal and workplace use of single use plastic. As well as raising awareness on the topic, the survey provided statistics from a cross section of our business Beat plastic pollution against the six most common types of plastic found in our oceans. Averaging if you can’t reuse it. refuse it. the response to the survey, we calculated the average Wood employee generates 103.8g grams of plastic waste per day. This is 23% less than the global average, Plastic pollution is one of the biggest but more than five times that of the environmental challenges of our time, with world's lowest plastic-waste-producing country. between eight and 12 million tonnes of Encouraging better understanding within plastic believed to enter the oceans each the business of how single use plastics Planet year, statistics warn that by 2050, there will impacts the environment is the first step in our journey. The complexity of tackling be more plastic (by weight) in our oceans plastic waste varies across the regions we operate, and we understand a ‘One than fish. size fits all' approach does not work, and the approach taken by the global working Our working group approach to reducing group is structured with this in mind. plastic waste: Through the course of 2019, starting with our general awareness campaign, we aim to shine a spotlight on our addiction to plastic. Case studies will be recorded through our upcoming Sustainability Profit Action Tracker, set to launch in early 2019, Launching and used to build the business case for the working Highlighting further action to be taken across Wood. group and the issue understanding and a call to from our Survey General action to our employees' Our Awareness employees potential areas Employees Campaign of focus Reporting Sharing through our Sharing of examples Our means to Sustainability Case Study showcasing report actions Action Materials the great across the Tracker initiatives business, in being trialled turn providing across Wood, metrics to the challenges feed back on faced and the progress resolutions to gain traction John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 79 Case Studies Sustainability week 2018 People. Global objectives • Demonstrate support for HSE initiatives and awareness campaigns • Demonstrate support for your community and our global cause: education • Development starts with you; How we communicate our actions around hold an annual discussion with your line manager about your sustainability and connect our global personal development conversation around sustainability is vital to ensuring we remain focused, engaged and passionate about providing sustainable On 24th September 2018, we launched our first sustainability week. This will value. be an annual occurrence in the Wood calendar and a catalyst for sustainable action all year round. The week is about showcasing and sharing local action that supports our global sustainability efforts, as well as how we align to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The event was formally launched by our Executive President for HSSEA. As part of the week's celebrations we introduced our Sustainability Commitments, which are nine global objectives around People, Planet and Profit that seeks both personal and local team commitments towards local sustainable action. We recognise that turning our global objectives into local actions will help us become a more sustainable business and demonstrate our contribution to the economy, society and world we all share. 80 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Supporting the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) An example of some of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation to environmental awareness and competence, and case studies contained within this report: Planet. Profit. People Global objectives Global objectives 13.3 Improve education, awareness• Demonstrate commitment to • Complete your annual ethics raising and human and institutional reducing our carbon footprint training and promote ethical capacity on climate change behaviour in your part of the mitigation, adaptation, impact • Demonstrate efforts to mitigate business reduction and early warning or reduce the use of disposable plastic • Demonstrate efforts that support the profitability of our • Reduce business miles by finding By 2020 business an opportunity to do one less 12.4 achieve the environmentally business journey, perhaps by using • Demonstrate innovation and Planet sound management of chemicals Skype or conference calls ways of working better together and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to Through our sustainability week internal linked to both internal and external minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment homepage, employees were able to sources. Nine one-page fact access multiple resources, aimed at sheets around People, Planet and By 2025 supporting activities throughout the Profit helped to provide key facts, 14.1 Prevent and significantly reduce week and beyond, including: available resources and prompts to marine pollution of all kinds, in • Our sustainability awareness training action particular from land-based activities, module including marine debris and nutrient As we progress with our sustainability -An online training module, pollution programme, sustainability week will Profit accessible to all as an introduction continually develop as a platform to By 2030 to sustainability and Wood's communicate our year-round actions to programme structured around 11.6 Reduce the adverse per capita support sustainability. As we develop environmental impact of cities, People, Planet and Profit our networks and seek to create local including by paying special attention • Plastic waste survey teams, how we measure and embed our to air quality and municipal and other -Open to all employees, the survey sustainability commitments will only waste management. measured both personal and improve, as will how we report these 12.8 Ensure that people everywhere business use of single use plastics actions back through our upcoming have the relevant information as well as capturing our people's Sustainability Action Tracker. and awareness for sustainable opinions on tackling the issue development and lifestyles in Our activities around sustainability • Sustainability Commitments harmony with nature week cut across a wide range of the -Global objectives to support local UN SDGs. In particular, the relevant action around key elements of our SDG targets that centre around raising People, Planet and Profit strategy, awareness and ensuring people have aimed at both an individual and the relevant information to adapt local team their lifestyles to promote sustainable • Fact sheets and useful resources development. -Aimed at helping facilitate action, the resources made available John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 81 Profit At Wood we are not motivated by ‘Profit at any cost'. Our values and behaviours underpin our approach to building a culture where we continuously provide positive value for our employees, clients, investors and communities. Profit We recognise the need to future proof our business, driving innovative thinking across our operations to develop Creating sustainable profit sustainable solutions to current and future sustainability challenges. We Responsible business practice realise that to remain relevant and Driving innovation forward thinking we must be bold in our Advancing sustainability approach to bring positive disruption to on projects the industries we impact and harness our ability to revolutionise the services we bring to market. 82 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Creating sustainable profit Responsible business We are not driven by the concept practice People of profit at any cost. We recognise We are committed to improving and the long-term value to our business sustaining a strong ethical culture at by embedding sustainable thinking Wood. We believe in always ‘doing the into our daily operations, creating right thing'; Common to everything a foundation of success for our we do are our values, which set out employees, clients and investors. a simple, clear expectation to deliver Taking a measured approach to a high standard of service with the risk, our strategy assesses our triple right behaviours. Doing the right bottom line to provide sustainable thing makes good business sense, value to our social, environmental and enhances Wood's reputation through economic impacts. the choices our people make and ensures we continue to operate now and in the future. Planet Profit Driving innovation Sustainability on projects At Wood we believe that in order to The pace of change across all our deliver sustainable growth we must industries is increasing and we face embrace technology to create new continuous pressure to evolve and possibilities and transform how we adapt. We operate across multiple use information to innovate and sectors and regions, with a diverse differentiate our business to help portfolio of projects that bring ever meet the evolving needs of our clients increasing demands to manage our and the world around us. Through business in a sustainable way. As pioneering innovation, we seek to well as providing the opportunity to solve global industry challenges whilst demonstrate our own sustainable providing sustainable solutions that practices, our projects give us the address global sustainability goals. opportunity to advance global sustainability goals, climate resilience and energy transition to a low carbon future. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 83 Profit Creating sustainable profit We recognise the value proposition of sustainability to our Like most businesses, Wood business model and the importance this plays in our daily is focused on realising value decision making, determining the impact that Wood has on wider society, the economy and the world around us. At Wood, providing a sustainable return to we believe our success is determined by how well we manage our social, economic and environmental impacts and risks, to our investors, shareholders and ensure we make informed decisions about how we chose to run employees. our business. We employ an asset light, flexible business model allowing us To do these goals, it is important to respond quickly to changes in market conditions. Our broad end market exposure means we are less exposed to volatility that we can deliver a sustainable in individual markets and better placed to help advance global level of profit, and address multiple energy and industrial transitions. Our focus on technological advantage means we design and deploy leading edge stakeholder needs to ensure our technology that creates efficient and sustainable solutions for our customers. long-term sustainability. The share of Annual Earnings Dividend per ordinary share Per Share (AEPS) distributed cents to shareholders. Dividend per 34.3 35.0 share increased by 2% in line 30.3 33.3 with our progressive dividend policy, taking into account 2015 2016 2017 2018 cash flows and earnings. 84 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Planning for success Wood's business strategy Financial summary Introduction Our purpose is to create sustainable value Built around 4 core competencies, our Revenue including joint ventures2 for our customers, our people, investors strategy will help realise our vision to and the communities where we live and inspire with ingenuity, partner with agility $11,036m work, using our collective energy to create a better tomorrow. and create new possibilities. Wood's strategy has historically focused (2017: $6,169m) ▲ 78.9% on transforming our business to broaden (Proforma 20171: $9,882m) our service and sector portfolio. Forming % Movement vs. proforma: ▲ 11.7% Wood in late 2017 accelerated that strategy in a number of significant ways, giving us the diversified and differentiated Adjusted EBITA2 company we now operate. Today, we recognise the significant and sustainable $630m growth opportunity our new platform affords us. The priority of our current People strategic cycle focusses on delivery, to (2017: $372m) ▲ 69.4% fully unlock our potential and create a (Proforma 20171: $598m) sustainable business that creates value in the eyes of our people, customers and % Movement vs. proforma: ▲ 5.4% investors. Agile Teams used on delivery.. Foc er .En gy Deploying our most talented people with agility to deliver the right solutions now and in the future. Our ability to adapt keeps us relevant Planet Talented, passionate and offers great opportunities for our people. people g in ns ad tio -le lu ry o st al s du ic In hn c te ye ar Agile he rit Teams Exceptional Execution ag e Outcomes focused 150 Exceptional We are differentiated by our shared Realise our Execution commitment to consistently deliver exceptional sustainable outcomes that add value and build trust with Future focused and growth opportunity, our stakeholders. powered by... Technological strategically proactive Advantage st Th om eb er Commercial s uil Profit cu try te Commercial Acumen ch Acumen ip us nv Ind Blue gh k hi o iro le bo nm yc er t c rd ent We are rewarded for the value we bring; we or y o Sh alit qu Asset light and cash balance risk and reward and use our extensive generative experience to allocate capital where it impacts most. ...u ial nloc king our potent Technological Advantage Continuously finding greater efficiencies and creating new solutions by uniting our ingenuity Our business unit strategies align with and support our and deep heritage with game-changing overall Wood strategy, ensuring we are all working towards technologies. the same goals at every level of the business. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 85 Profit Our strategy in action Case example of our commercial acumen in Case example of our exceptional execution in action: action: Working smarter together Simplifying for our people As part of Wood's effort to streamline the use of software Ensuring we are consistently exceptional in our execution, across the organisation, our Technical Applications delivering outcomes that add value and build trust with our Consolidation (TAC2) project aims to bring consistency and stakeholders is one of the components that will power our simplicity to the way we work. Ensuring we demonstrate success. In order to achieve this, we need the management commercial acumen by allocating capital where it impacts system that supports our business to be simple and efficient, most is demonstrated through the TAC2 project, which has so giving our people information that is pertinent, helpful and easy far identified over $4.5 million in savings, and more than 300 to navigate, while establishing best ways of working. applications and versions to be removed and retired from the In 2018, our employee survey told us that removing complexity organisation. Now in its second phase, the project will help and simplifying how we work together was important to ensure we are: our people. We listened and quickly established a dedicated • Using the right applications for the job integration project to look at our management system • Leveraging our agreements with our suppliers to obtain information. Having already simplified our approach to optimum costs for our toolset, and so remaining competitive management system certification, we are currently collecting for our customers information to understand the critical processes which define how we work. The team tasked with driving forward the project, • Minimising our risks across business and IT by removing outwill then work with the business to identify and harness good of-date or unsupported software from the network practice, standardise where appropriate and remove duplication • Achieving consistency and the ability to move work and and non-value adding content from our management system. personnel around the business with ease By driving standardised ways of working, the project will • Establishing improved control and utilisation of licenses allow us to share work across the business, facilitate greater collaboration as we continue to grow and make it easier for our talented people to move around our global business. Case example of our agile teams in action: Wood's enterprise programme Launched in 2018, Wood's Enterprise Programme is a Case example of our technological advantage major integration project and a key enabler in reducing the in action: complexities around our business systems and processes, standardising our operating model and rationalising our global Get Inspired! entity and business structures. Ultimately, this will create a Wood brings new thinking and fresh ideas to every project. Our more agile business with greater opportunity to sell more drive to continuously improve runs throughout our organisation. joined-up solutions to our customers. A key part of our culture, innovation applies to our people, Through Enterprise we can drive significant benefits that will processes and technologies. It pushes us to perform better and realise: look for opportunities to move our business forward. We take • Improved collaboration and workshare across our business advantage of digital technologies at every stage of our work units and yet there remains enormous potential to integrate these methods further into our operations to make our lives safer, • Realising the benefits of our shared service model for finance easier and more effective. and People & Organisation • Increased opportunities for growth and development of our Our in-house magazine, Inspired, showcases some of our latest people developments. Our improvements take many forms, from cutting edge technologies, to progressive thinking and new • Improved Cash management behaviours. • Stable applications for business continuity • A Single source for people data management Download the latest copy of Inspired from our website: www.woodplc.com/who-we-are/our-advantage 86 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 87 88 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Profit Our strategy in action Energy Digital & Urbanisation Future Introduction Supporting the Global Sustainable Transition Technology & Sustainble Skills Development Goals (SDG) Infrastructure An example of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation to strategy and creating sustainable profit, and case studies contained within this report: Leveraged Wood solutions will be an enabler across both the near-term strategies and the mega-trends People Supporting strategic Recognising the generational advancement horizon Supporting the business, our internal The world population currently sits strategy and analysis function within at 7.7 billion, increasing by 75 million Wood seeks to provide our global senior people annually. This level of growth has 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic leadership with the insight, people, introduced significant global challenges productivity through diversification, process, tools and culture required to around our resource consumption technological upgrading and produce an aligned strategic direction management, the resulting effects of innovation and engaged strategy community, all climate change and increasing social 13.3 Improve education, awarenesssupporting strategy execution. impacts. Coupled with technological raising and human and institutional advancements, changing consumer capacity on climate change Our business is continually evolving preferences and evolving policies, these mitigation, adaptation, impact and at Wood we recognise the need reduction and early warning challenges are felt by organisations to manage that change responsibly to Planet across all sectors, and the pressure to ensure the operational risk we expose affect change has never been greater. ourselves to is sufficiently managed By 2030 Global ‘megatrends' create long term and, at a minimum, compliant with all change that has the power to reshape 7.1 Ensure universal access to applicable laws in the regions where how governments, business and affordable, reliable and modern we operate. Integrating our legacy societies think and act; at Wood we see energy services businesses, post the acquisition of Amec the importance of actively addressing Foster Wheeler in 2017, was a key priority 4.4 Substantially increase the number these megatrends, reflecting these and focus for Wood in 2018. It provides of youth and adults who have against our own business to shape our relevant skills, including technical and both opportunity and challenge in equal long-term strategy. vocational skills, for employment, measure, to ease stakeholder uncertainty decent jobs and entrepreneurship and build a future ready, sustainable We recognise 4 key megatrends business. that directly affect the long-term sustainability of our business; our work Wood's simplified organisational in 2018 and beyond will look at how Profit structure was established before Day these trends impact our operations, 1 and we completed the integration reflecting these against our long-term in October 2018, twelve months after strategy to ensure Wood contributes completion of the acquisition. Our to shaping a sustainable future for actions during the year focused on generations to come. establishing our organisational structure, high-grading management, integrating business development functions and merging bidding pipelines, implementing enhanced processes for management of contract risk and working capital, establishing common ERP systems, rationalising IT systems and consolidating real estate to co-locate offices in key hubs. The operational cultures of the legacy businesses were already well aligned allowing us to roll out our Vision, Values and Behaviours which are the foundations of our cultural framework, in the first quarter. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 89 Profit Responsible business practice We share the expectation that to be successful we must all At Wood, doing the right thing act with honesty, openness and fairness. Through consistent guides how we work and live. application of our leadership framework and values, we expect all employees and business partners to demonstrate the We are deeply committed to the same high standards of ethical leadership at every level and position. Regardless of our business location, we share the values that underpin our business collective responsibility to maintain, protect and strengthen the practice to deliver excellence to reputation of Wood and ensure we embed and sustain a strong ethical culture across our global operations. our people, clients and investors through an unwavering focus on ethical business conduct. We are committed to ensuring a safe and ethical approach to business in every location where we operate, implementing consistent programmes, measuring our improvement, and reinforcing our messages. 90 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Our policy Additionally, in late 2018 we launched Building an ethical culture our Supply Chain Code of Business Introduction Our standards of ethical conduct are Conduct. Aligned to the Wood Code of We are committed to creating a culture set out in Wood's Code of Conduct, Conduct, together these two documents of care at Wood, for our business, our launched in August 2018. Setting a set the expectation of our employees clients and those impacted by our standard, cohesive ethics and compliance and those working on our behalf to operations. In 2018, we continued to code was a priority upon the creation comply with all laws and to act ethically strengthen our culture with the launch of Wood, with significant effort made and with integrity at all times. Our of Wood's new vision statement and to successfully integrate both legacy subcontractor award and administration defined set of organisational values, compliance programmes. The Code is policy further helps to define how we Care, Commitment and Courage, our guide to doing the right thing. It identify and select subcontractors, how supported by six Behaviours that we underpins Wood's values and ensures we we administer these subcontracts and expect our people to demonstrate: operate at the highest ethical standards. engage with contracting companies. This The Code is constructed around four key policy helps to standardise the way we elements: manage our subcontractors, ensuring we deliver best value for our customers Listen Up People • Protecting our vision and values • Doing the right thing whilst working in a transparent and ethical manner. Wood only wishes to work with companies who understand Lift Others Up • Caring for each other and our communities and share our commitment to the principles set out in our code of conduct Stand Up • Committing to honest and fair business dealings and require our supply chain partners to adhere to these principles and reflect these upon their own supply chain. Team Up The new code is also supported by eight core consolidated ethics and compliance Working together, we believe we can build a sustainable business relationship Speak Up policies: Don't Give Up that will enable shared success. Competition Law; Conflicts of Interest; Gifts and Hospitality; Business Ethics Our Supply Chain Code of Conduct is Reporting and Anti-Retaliation; available at: Planet Ethics Investigation; Commercial www.woodplc.com/scm Our values are reinforced by our Code of Intermediaries; Anti-Bribery and Conduct which provides our people with Corruption; and Sanctions Export clear expectations for the proper course Controls and Anti-Boycott. of action when they are faced with ethical decision situations. Compliance with the Wood Code and corresponding polices is mandatory for As part of our efforts to continuously our directors, officers and employees improve Wood's business ethics and as well as all contractors, consultants, compliance program, the business ethics representatives, intermediaries and and compliance team conduct periodic, agents retained by Wood. independent external assessments as well as internal risk assessments to Our Code of Conduct and information on our regularly evaluate the effectiveness and helpline is available at: continual development of our compliance Profit www.woodplc.com/ethics program. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 91 Profit Ethics training campaign 2018 In late 2018, Wood's annual business ethics training campaign quickly focused on our Code of Conduct upon its release to the business. Number of employees in scope: 57,000 globally Online format was launched to: 35,000+ office-based employees Online format percentage complete: 90+% Combating bribery and an ethical culture throughout the business and ensuring the continuous Face-to-face format for site-based corruption enhancement and development of the employees delivered via group Wood realises that corruption impacts global Ethics and Compliance program. discussion: 40% societies politically, economically, Our code of conduct and related policies socially and environmentally. In the include guidance on avoiding and worst cases, it costs lives. Short of this, declaring potential conflicts of interest, it costs people their freedom, health as well as guidance on the offer and of overall workforce or finances. Corruption corrodes the acceptance of gifts and entertainment. social fabric of society, and undermines We ensure that our anti-corruption people's trust in the political system, in policies, standards and procedures are The annual business ethics training was its institutions and its leadership. communicated to all directors, officers, supplemented with targeted risk-based Our business ethics and compliance employees, and, where necessary training and communication campaigns program is built on the essential and appropriate, to our commercial throughout the year, including our elements of an effective compliance intermediaries and business partners. dedicated business ethics week. program as defined by the Official Guidance – UK Bribery Act, US DOJ / Training and awareness FCPA Compliance Program Hallmarks, and the Good Practice program At Wood, we believe that how we guidelines endorsed by the Organization choose to communicate with our for Economic Co-operation and employees is crucial to creating a Development. robust ethical culture and building a sustainable programme to support Wood has a Corporate Ethics and this goal. Periodic training to raise Compliance Officer (CECO) with direct awareness and confidence amongst our access to the Executive Leadership workforce is a vital component of our Team (ELT) and board of directors. approach to maintaining our business Working with the ELT and Board, the ethics culture. CECO is responsible for implementing 92 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction In response to GDPR which became effective in May 2018, we also published appropriate data protection policies and procedures. We assure compliance by continual monitoring of potential data breach incidents and ensure that Wood continues to comply with regulatory reporting obligations. As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we shared lessons learned from data breach incidents with relevant business functions. While the focus for the year was on GDPR, legal protection People of personal data and privacy is developing in countries across the world. We developed a Data Protection Ambassador network which crosses all Wood businesses to share key messages on privacy and drive towards a global privacy approach. In November, our new Group Data Reporting suspected During 2018, a total of 89 allegations Protection Officer (DPO) was were added to the register of reported misconduct matters. Further action was required appointed. We support and encourage our to be taken on 30 of these entries employees and third parties to and 21 resulted in disciplinary action, Planet speak up if they have a concern or including termination of 6 personnel if they see something they believe contracts. is inconsistent with our values or policies. Anyone who raises a concern Data protection is protected by our anti-retaliation policy. In today's digital age, our data and how we use and look after it is more Supporting the Global Sustainable We maintain an independent and more important. As well as the Development Goals (SDG) third-party, confidential, multipersonnel and payroll details of our An example of the SDG targets lingual business ethics Helpline 60,000 employees, we also hold relative to our business in relation to where anyone, anywhere, anytime commercially sensitive data for our building a responsible business and can raise a concern or report a ethical culture: customers across the 60 countries suspected violation of our policies, we operate in. We are committed to procedures or the law. Any report, ensuring the privacy and integrity of if so desired, and whether by phone Profit all the data that we hold, working or by using the email address, can with our people and customers to be made anonymously. Reports are create sustainable value for a better investigated, and any necessary tomorrow. disciplinary and/or remediation action is taken as appropriate. Wood During the year we undertook publicizes the Helpline through the actions to ensure Wood's compliance 8.8 Protect labour rights and Code of Conduct, the display of with the General Data Protection promote safe and secure working posters at offices and worksites, Regulation (GDPR). The EU General environments for all workers, including Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) migrant workers, in particular women a link to the Helpline on both the migrants, and those in precarious intranet and internet sites, and in is the most important change in employment discussions about the Helpline in data privacy regulation in 20 years business ethics training sessions. and is fundamentally reshaping the 12.7 Promote public procurement way in which data is handled across practices that are sustainable, in A register of reported matters is every sector. In 2018, more than 500 accordance with national policies and maintained by Wood's Chief Ethics priorities of our people attended specialist and Compliance Officer who provides training sessions on GDPR, before 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption the Board of Directors and senior a more general roll-out of GDPR and bribery in all their forms leadership with regular updates. training to our wider employee base. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 93 Profit Driving innovation Everything around us is becoming smarter and more Our vision of tomorrow comes digitally connected: cars, factories, ports, mines, refineries, from the ideas of today. At roads, office buildings, and even entire cities will be wired together in new ways, and this will fundamentally change Wood we believe in being bold, how Wood does business in the future. Sustainable innovation has the potential to revolutionise the way we challenging the norm and working do business and we recognise the need to become more to create transformative change disruptive, to invest heavily in developing game-changing technologies, systems and tools that will not just improve that will help to sustain the future but completely transform our services. of tomorrow. We live in an everIn 2018, we announced the appointment of our chief technology officer, a new role within Wood to lead our changing world and recognise digital and technology capabilities. Supported by our new that to remain sustainable, our digital and technology team, the group's focus will be on harnessing technology to further compliment our deep business must be forward thinking industry domain knowledge, further differentiate our business and position Wood in leading our chosen markets. and innovative in meeting the Taking a more strategic look at how we develop technologies and feed these into our service lines, our digital and needs of tomorrow, through technology capability is structured to develop improvements improving the way we work today. across the asset life cycle, exploring solutions for connected design, connected build and connected operations. Connected design Connected build Connected operate In the design stage, there is tremendous At build-level, enhancements to project Connected operations will leverage our potential to enhance our performance management and construction support outstanding automation knowledge. and reduce costs for our customers. will capitalise on the efficiencies created Control systems allow us to operate Collaborative technologies will help us at design stage. New software and remotely, gathering and processing data, share and review solutions with a much hardware solutions will transform not just across assets but across entire wider audience, refining our concepts workflow through construction and into infrastructures, connected facilities and targeting design challenges commissioning. and networked ecosystems. This allows before they reach the later stages of us to predict and respond accordingly, development. optimising schedules through machine learning and monitoring equipment to maximise operations and prevent failure. Our diverse global portfolio, across a broad range of industrial sectors gives Wood a unique platform to spot innovative solutions where applying ideas, innovation and business transformation from one sector to another can be a major differentiator. 94 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Embracing the digital revolution Introduction Digital technology and Architecture team must keep on top of 2,500 stations, 1,500 footbridges and Although this was an innovative application for the Alexa technology, it presents exciting 15,000 lineside buildings, a major task. If combined existing, reliable technologies People we also include NR's responsibilities as a that were relatively straightforward to opportunities for landlord and its need to be accountable integrate. It is also scalable, so there is businesses to realise for each asset – as well as compliance potential for additional features to be with standards on the civil, mechanical added to NR's custom Alexa skill. cost efficiencies, and electrical engineering of each asset – It is also scalable, so there is potential accelerate then the data management task quickly snowballs. for additional features to be added to operational NR's custom Alexa skill. The simplicity of using Alexa was appealing, as was its effectiveness and How did we help? requirement for minimal training. Since early 2018, use of the technology the viability of behind Alexa, Amazon's ubiquitous speech “It worked pretty much existing operations. recognition device that enables voice straight out of the box. It has control of internet enabled equipment, really opened our eyes to the Advancement of has made interrogation of this material possibilities of this technology. technology and the Planet much quicker. An eight-week proof of concept period led to development of a Getting this kind of information impact of digitisation working prototype, sparking ideas on how used to be a time-consuming easy managing this data could become. and laborious task for one on our organisation is person but is now an enjoyable Wood programmers in the US used the making measurable built-in capabilities of Alexa, known as interactive experience.” difference to our skills, developing a custom skill specifically for NR. says Andy Jannaway, NR's principal people, our customers engineer within the Buildings and Architecture team. and our business. What benefits did it bring? While the technology has been The implementation of Alexa technology introduced through the Buildings and was customised to Network Rail's needs Architecture team, Network Rail plans to and operating conditions, and flexible of Innovation that speaks for roll it out to the regional routes through Profit the technology in its ability to understand a support agreement with Wood. Any itself a wide range of synonymous voice business that needs to access complex commands in multiple dialects, allowed Wood's recent work with our client asset or procedural databases would be for quick and easy access to data and Network Rail (NR) provided the able to implement this approach. Like asset information. opportunity to bring current household Alexa, the benefits speak for themselves. technology into the workplace to solve Mark O'Connor, associate director for complex data and asset management environment and infrastructure solutions Read more on our work with Network Rail in challenges. at Wood and a specialist in asset edition 5 of our inspired magazine at: management and digital solutions says: www.woodplc.com/who-we-are/ourThe challenge advantage/inspired5 Network Rail (NR), owner and operator “It was well known that finding of the railway infrastructure in England, asset information was taking Wales and Scotland, manages 20,000 too long, Alexa sweeps through miles of track, 30,000 bridges and the database and announces viaducts, and thousands of tunnels, the corresponding result. From signals, level crossings and points – all of which must be logged and here, engineers quickly have the maintained in a register. NR's Buildings information they need to hand. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 95 Case Studies Collaborating today to transform tomorrow Wood is not alone in our passion to drive innovative thinking and create positive industry change. We recognise the value in business collaboration to tackle common industry challenges and seek ways to embrace technology and digitisation, using our collective energy to create a better tomorrow. In early 2018, Wood entered into an are deeply engaged, such as process “Building on Wood's experience agreement with IBM, the American industries, automotive, nuclear, clean in asset development and multinational information technology energy and mining. company to conceive and offer innovation, this will dramatically compelling new digital products and What will we do? advance, and differentiate, services that will advance operational our digital skills. By combining The initial phase of the collaboration efficiencies for customers in industrial will focus on oil producers and utilities in Wood's engineering innovation, and energy markets. This multi-year three key areas where IBM and Wood can understanding of client agreement combines Wood's engineering innovation and industry expertise bring immediate value to clients: operational objectives and with IBM's advanced market leading domain expertise with IBM's Project design & planning technologies in areas such as artificial Combining digital processes and data market leading advanced intelligence (AI), blockchain and analytics. management tools to provide predictable technologies such as cognitive, costs and seamless integration from blockchain, and Quantum, we The challenge design to commissioning. will help unlock new insights, to The pressure on asset intensive industries learn from and make predictions is increasing. Development investments, Asset insights Offering leading edge analytics on data.” especially for brownfield infrastructure have further added to the cost and platforms to provide insight to asset Bob MacDonald, CEO, Specialist complexity of projects. Additionally, more owners and operators looking to Technical Solutions, Wood stringent regulations and requirements improve operational efficiency, predict are increasing industry constraints. In operational or safety issues and drive “Across asset intensive this new economic environment, digital down costs associated with brownfield industries, the next industrial assets. technologies are critical to ongoing revolution is being led by success. Project execution excellence digital technologies that are Wood and IBM will look to develop The use of blockchain and cognitive challenging existing business solutions and explore new ways to apply capabilities to ensure effective and safe models. Together with Wood AI and advanced platforms to improve execution of the work scope through we are embracing this industry productivity and expand digital insights. advanced control of work solutions that The collaboration will ultimately expand manage worksites, personnel, materials opportunity to deliver new to a broad spectrum of industries – and equipment in accordance with the industry solutions and services including those where Wood and IBM project plan. that improve operational efficiencies, advance digital capabilities and build innovative ecosystems.” John Sullivan, IBM Business Services Leader for the Industrial Sector 96 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Innovation leading to new markets Introduction Supporting the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) An example of the SDG targets relative to our business in relation innovation, technology and digitisation, and case studies contained within this report: As global demand for energy increases, to substantially increase the share of demand for innovative solutions renewable energy in the global energy for sustainable consumption is ever mix. Wood's work in this areas has People challenging. Innovation in renewable included advising on the Leeds Citygate energy sources is essential in driving the H21 hydrogen gas project, looking at a 17.8 Enhance the use of enabling transformative change needed to sustain UK-wide conversion to hydrogen gas as a technology, in particular information our presence on earth. potential to helping the UK reach its and communications technology emissions reduction targets. At Wood we place strong focus on the 14.a Increase scientific knowledge, delivery and innovation that supports develop research capacity and business growth. Our strategic thinking Renewable transport transfer marine technology, taking into account the Intergovernmental around global decarbonisation and energy Emissions from transportation makes up Oceanographic Commission Criteria transition has given focus to our efforts approximately 23% of the world's global and Guidelines on the Transfer of to advance available technologies and greenhouse gas emissions, with almost Marine Technology our influence in leading the global shift to all (95%) of the world's transportation renewable energy sources. energy coming from petroleum-based By 2030: Planet fuels, largely gasoline and diesel. Wave and tidal power The transport sector has proven the 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, Ocean energy has the potential to hardest to decarbonise thus far, leading technological upgrading and provide a substantial portion of our to increased efforts from governments innovation. future global energy mix. Compared to and industry to focus on renewable energy the progress of solar and wind power, sources. Wood has supported projects 9.5 Encouraging innovation and wave and tidal power has been slower optimising the design of electric vehicle substantially increasing the number to progress, with challenges around of research and development workers charging systems and investigating the per 1 million people and public and technology, commercial viability, extreme potential for clean hydrogen to power private research and development environment and marine conservation transport systems. One example is the spending delaying growth. Wood's trusted SWIFTH2 project where Wood led a expertise in this field has led to inclusion project to establish the feasibility of 9.4 upgrade infrastructure and of our personnel on the International retrofit industries to make them hydrogen as a fuel for ferries operating sustainable, with increased resourceElectrotechnical Commission's (IEC) to the Scottish islands. Technical and Profit use efficiency and greater adoption marine energy committee; responsible economic analysis has supported of clean and environmentally sound for the development of standards in the innovation and engineering work to technologies and industrial processes, field of marine energy, wave and tidal confirm the prospects for this technology with all countries taking action in energy converters. Our involvement in and we will continue to apply our expertise accordance with their respective the committee will provide a platform for to overcome challenges for all forms of capabilities our experts to influence thinking and to renewable and low carbon transport. 11.2 Provide access to safe, shape the industry standards, advancing affordable, accessible and sustainable the viability of ocean energy in the future. transport systems for all We also provide services to the world's first tidal array installation, owned by 7.2 Increase substantially the share of Nova Innovation, and the world's largest renewable energy in the global energy mix operating tidal array, owned by Meygen. Renewable heat Renewable heat technologies, including biofuels, solar, geothermal, heat pumps and renewable gas aim to reduce our reliance on non-renewable sources and meet global sustainability targets John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 97 Profit Sustainability on projects At Wood we believe that to create long term sustainable Our sustainability strategy seeks change, we must responsibly manage our own operations, to provide a safe and sustainable as well as drive global sustainable development through our projects, utilising our influence for good in the markets environment for our people as well we impact. We recognise that the global megatrends shaping our world today present significant opportunity, as the communities in which we as well as extreme risk to our collective future; Wood has operate; embedding sustainable a responsibility to seize those opportunities and mitigate those risks, not just for our people but also our customers, practice into our projects is a investors and society as a whole. key component to achieving our Sustainable practice in what we do is vital to protecting our licence to operate, our reputation and maintaining our sustainable development goals. ability to build a strong, sustainable business. 98 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability framework Social Environmental Economic Introduction Our Sustainability Framework helps to impact impact impact breakdown the social, environmental and economic impacts of our operations, placing focus on key areas of assessment Environmental Health, safety & security Supply chain that will ensure we build sustainability into management our projects. Applicable across the lifecycle of any Carbon Business conduct & project, from identifying and acquiring, Human rights management ethics through to delivery and close out, the framework seeks to provide a standardised structure to how we Diversity & Anti-bribery & assess the key risks and opportunities Resource efficiency inclusion corruption presented by our projects to ensure we People evenly balance our approach. We believe our projects provide a unique window Community / stakeholder Driving into our organisation, allowing us to Biodiversity engagement & investment innovation demonstrate sustainable practice through our operations, ensuring we maximise the positive impact of Wood's efforts to Building sustainability in projects support global sustainable development. Advancing global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our projects Through our work on projects, we are able to demonstrate our commitment to advancing the global sustainable development goals. We recognise that to remain forward focused we must adapt our business to the challenges of tomorrow, driving our decision making through our ability to identify the potential for change. At Wood we seek to be at the forefront of driving the Planet megatrends we see today, that are shaping the global economy and we recognise the key role we play in helping to advance these in line with the global SDGs. In this report we focus on two key areas, demonstrating our actions through some of our key projects. Energy transition Urbanization and sustainable 13.1 Strengthen resilience and Energy accounts for 60% of the infrastructure adaptive capacity to climate-related worlds total green house gas Currently, more than half of the world's hazards and natural disasters in all emissions. Energy transition is a population lives in urban areas and countries rapid movement that will change the this is expected to increase to 70% 13.2 Integrate climate change way we generate and use all forms by 2050. At Wood we seek to provide Profit measures into national policies, of energy. Our focus on renewable sustainable solutions for our customers strategies and planning energy has enabled Wood to become that help promote sustainable cities and a leading force in the clean energy communities. market, bringing our expertise and passion for innovation to help advance By 2020 the global energy shift 11.B Substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting By 2030 and implementing integrated policies 7.1 Ensure universal access to and plans towards inclusion, resource affordable, reliable and modern efficiency, mitigation, adaptation energy services to climate change, and resilience to disasters. 7.2 Increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy By 2030 mix 11.2 Provide access to safe, affordable, 7.3 Double the global rate of accessible and sustainable transport improvement in energy efficiency systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 99 Profit Advancing energy transition At Wood we recognise the role we play According to leading research, global CO₂ in leading the global energy transition emissions will grow by 70% by 2040 unless from traditional unsustainable fossil fuels to renewable and sustainable energy there's a transition towards a lower carbon sources. We see two primary technology energy mix and we begin to better manage drivers of this transition: demand by using energy more efficiently. To meet 1. Renewable Technology within the power sector; solar, wind and grid the requirements of the 2015 Paris agreement, storage are becoming established on a rapid growth path and emerging global emissions will need to half in the same as viable alternatives to fossil fueltimeframe. based supply. By 2040, over 40% of global power needs will be met by renewables. 2. Electric-based technology, such as battery-powered vehicles used for transportation, is growing. It's estimated that by 2035, 20% of all miles travelled globally by cars, trucks, buses and bikes will use electric motors rather than gasoline or diesel. The transition of energy requires policy at the national, state and city level to pave the way for the age of oil and gas to transition into the age of power and renewables. Through combining technical excellence with innovation, research and development, Wood's design and engineering expertise spans all forms of energy and supports the global transition to clean energy. 100 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Tides of change Introduction Tidal energy is one of most abundant and concentrated forms of renewable energy; with seawater being 832 times denser than air, and 70% of our planet covered by oceans, the stored energy potential of tidal power is enormous. Power generation from tidal energy is intermittent but also entirely predictable, with the suitability of the resource influenced by tidal forces on large bodies of water as well as seabed topography and roughness. Cost is a major factor in making tidal energy commercially viable but advancements in technology are beginning to realise efficiencies that have attracted renewed interest in this form of renewable energy. At Wood, we are currently involved in some of the world's leading tidal projects, seeking to demonstrate the viability of the technology and its potential for growth, as well as helping to develop industry standards to support technological advancement and application. People Proving reliability and cost reduction Wood's collaboration with eight other organisations on the Enabling Future Arrays in Tidal (EnFAIT) project, led by Nova Innovation, aims to prove that the reliability and availability of tidal energy arrays can be significantly increased and that the cost of tidal energy can be reduced by at least 40%. The project builds on Nova's existing operational tidal power station in Bluemull Sound off the Planet Shetland Islands in Scotland, which was the world's first grid-connected offshore array of tidal energy turbines. What are we doing? Joining the global Bob MacDonald, CEO of Wood's Specialist Technical Solutions business, Wood is the independent technical conversation said: and commercial expert on the project, In 2018, Wood and four of our commissioned to verify each stage of employees joined the British Standards “We're delighted that Andy, the development process from project Institution (BSI) as committee Robert, Roisín and Katie engineering design to operation in the members on the UK working group tidal stream environment. have been invited onto this providing input into the International Electrotechnical Commission's (IEC) committee to represent Profit What will the project achieve? marine energy committee. Wood. Not only is this a huge Over the next four years, the EnFAIT privilege but also a fantastic project will extend the Bluemull Sound What does the committee aim to opportunity to help shape the array to six turbines and demonstrate achieve? future of wave and tidal energy that high array reliability and availability The BSI committee, part of the UK standard development.” can be achieved using best practice national standards body, provides the maintenance regimes. The layout of UK with input into the IEC marine the turbines will be adjusted to enable energy committee, and is responsible array interactions and optimisation to for the development of standards be studied for the very first time at an in the field of marine energy – wave operational tidal energy site. and tidal energy converters. Gaining support from the industry expert community is vital to developing strong standards that will enable industry growth and generate commercially viable opportunities to advance wave and tidal energy. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 101 Profit Hydrogen is the most common element in the universe, with the highest energy content of any fuel we use today. The use of hydrogen produces virtually no impact on the environment at the point of use, with only water and heat released as a by-product. However, hydrogen is not itself readily available in its unreacted form and must therefore be produced; the challenge is ensuring we produce hydrogen from renewable sources to limit the carbon cost. Hydrogen produced from non-renewable sources can still become carbon neutral, through the introduction of a carbon capture and storage (CCS) system to store sequestered CO₂ emissions for re-use, as opposed to being sent to the atmosphere, known as Blue Hydrogen. Wood is currently developing technology, based upon a pre-combustion CCS system that will cut the CO₂ emissions of a standard hydrogen unit by 90%, reaching better results than a standard postcombustion system. This is also helping to improve commercial viability and reduce the impact of non-renewable hydrogen production on the environment. Fuel cell technology, converting hydrogen energy into electricity has the potential to be used across a number of sectors, where there's a need for electrical supply independent of grid, in particular the transport sector, where there's real challenge to decarbonise. 102 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Developing the use of hydrogen Introduction In 2018, Wood collaborated on a feasibility study to challenge the creation of ‘Green' hydrogen, from remote renewable resources, to its electrification and use in the transport industry. People Electrifying Marine Transport Providing Renewable Heat In the UK 30% of total carbon emissions come from What was the challenge? domestic heating and cooking; with commitments to cut The Scottish Western Isles are a chain of Islands located emissions by 80% compared with their 1990 levels by 2050, in the west coast of the Scottish mainland. As a result of the challenge on the heat sector to realise reductions is limited capacity (a weak connecter between the islands significant. A UK-wide conversion to hydrogen gas, as a and the mainland) of the National Grid, the development potential reduction solution, would reduce emissions in of new wind farms for the purpose of power production is the domestic heating sector by a minimum of 73%, as well currently constrained in this region. as supporting decarbonisation of transport and localised electrical generation. The report assessed the feasibility of developing otherwise constrained remote island onshore wind in the Scottish Wood's collaboration on the H21 Leeds City Gate feasibility Western Isles for the purposes of generating green study, led by Northern Gas Networks, is a key example of hydrogen via electrolysis. This hydrogen would be utilised our work to advance the use of hydrogen as a renewable Planet by a new class of hydrogen-powered passenger ferry source of heat. operating from the island hosting the wind and hydrogen infrastructure. The report highlighted a number of benefits: What was the challenge? • Potential solution to a weak transmission network, Northern Gas Networks are responsible for supplying allowing for displacement of stationary island diesel and delivering natural gas to 2.7 million homes across the generators used to meet peak power demand through North of England. The H21 Leeds City Gate Project is a the provision of wind power storage options. feasibility study, led by Northern Gas Networks (NGN) and supported by several project partners, including Wood. The • Decarbonisation of the marine transport sector, project aims to establish if it is technically and economically essential for meeting the Scottish Government's possible to convert the existing natural gas supply in Leeds, emissions reduction commitments. one of the largest UK cities, to hydrogen. • Establish a route to market for new onshore island wind developments. The outcome Profit • Improved air quality and decreased noise pollution from The report's initial findings confirmed nationwide the abatement of diesel-powered internal combustion conversion to a hydrogen gas grid is technically possible, engine ferries operating in the area. economically viable and will be a significant contributor to meeting the UK's decarbonisation targets. The report goes on to outline that a hydrogen gas grid could use the existing The outcome underground gas pipes already installed in the UK, and that The feasibility study highlighted two ferry routes as the household appliances can be converted to run on hydrogen most viable options, both technically and economically, for with far less disruption and expense than converting to conversion to hydrogen. The modelled assumptions are alternative energy sources. high level given the early stage of the feasibility study; the next stage would involve a more detailed feasibility study The H21 project predicts that a hydrogen gas network could (development stage) which would seek to advance the become an anchor for further innovations in the sector, project design and produce more refined assumptions. and in other industries such as transport and electricity generation. More widely, Scotland has a number of complementary hydrogen projects, both in existence and planned, in what can be considered a nascent hydrogen economy with a promising future given the right economic and political support. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 103 Profit Building resilient, sustainable and smart cities and communities By 2050, the world is estimated to be home to 9.7 billion people, with 70% of the population living in cities and commanding 80% of the global Partnership with 100 Resilient Cities (100RC) and the UN Global Compact Cities Programme energy consumption. Through key partnerships, we are able to align our project work to help advance At present, 75% of the world's cities are the SDGs and provide scalable, sustainable solutions to help build resilience in located on coastlines, where the impacts cities and communities. of climate change will see increased threats from rising seas and storm Wood has been a partner of 100 Resilient Cities (100RC), pioneered by the surges. Around 90% of coastal regions Rockefeller Foundation, since 2015. 100RC is a global program aimed at are predicted to be affected by varying providing urban centres around the world with access to innovative tools degrees and many coastal cities have yet that allow them to better plan for potentially destructive weather events. to prepare adequately for this increasing Through our work with 100RC we have been able to provide numerous safe and threat and build resilient infrastructure sustainable project solutions around the globe that not only secure us work to meet the needs of modern day society; contracts but also gives us a platform to best utilise our sustainability and collaboration with the private sector and climate resilience expertise; a growing part of our business model. civil society will be vital to addressing Following on from our partnership with 100RC, Wood is also in discussions with complex global challenges on the local the United Nations Global Compact on the potential opportunity to partner level. with their UN Global Compact Cities Programme, which is dedicated to the At Wood we recognise the role business promotion and adoption of the Global Compact's ten principles by cities and plays in advancing global resilience translating the principles into day-to-day urban governance and management. and sustainable development, by Additional to this, Wood is already a part of a UN global expert working group, helping address the SDGs through our seeking to accelerate SDG investments in cities, with a deliverable to publish project work. We believe our expertise a ‘Guide on investing in the SDGs in cities' in celebration of the milestone 10th and experience in climate resilience, World Urban Forum, taking place in February 2020. sustainability and infrastructure can help cities around the world better deliver on the SDGs, building projects that meet ever growing, social, environmental and economic demands, and future challenges. 104 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Developing our resilience implementation framework for delivery Wood is leading a consortium (that includes Impact Infrastructure, Social Introduction Finance, 100 Resilient Cities (RC) and the Rockefeller Foundation) to develop a resilient infrastructure investment screen, that can be applied to a global pipeline of infrastructure projects to increase their resilience and evaluate those assets for potential funding from an investorbacked $750million Urban Resilience Fund (TURF). The TURF is primarily funded by institutional investors (pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies, etc.), focused on investing in scalable resilient urban infrastructure projects. These projects help to address People the global critical infrastructure financing gap (SDG 9), whilst demonstrating the value of the resilience dividend to address other key sustainable development goals including making cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable (SDG Goal 11), reducing inequality (SDG Goal 10), and reducing poverty (SDG Goal 1). The Urban Resilience Fund Project Screen To build resilience, cities must be enabled and Investment Fund is being developed to prioritise, design and fund critical in partnership with leading global organisations to optimize the impact this infrastructure that will help to address innovative program will have on global social, economic and environmental shocks infrastructure and the communities that can directly benefit from these Planet and stresses that will strengthen resilience integrated and resilient projects. projects. With urbanization, globalization What did we do? and climate change impacts affecting Wood has developed and implemented a individuals, and in particular vulnerable ‘Resilience Implementation Framework' that supports the integration of populations, city resilience is one of the resilience and sustainability into our project delivery. The framework is being absolute things we “have to get right”. utilized to address the key challenges faced towards building resilient infrastructure that supports sustainable communities. By integrating resiliency, Profit sustainability, finance and engineering into the project planning, Wood is helping cities build solutions that are reliable and perform in their greatest time of need protecting society and ensuring assets that are reliable. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 105 Case Studies Developing our resilience implementation framework for delivery Here are some powerful examples from our public infrastructure, urban development and resilience framework: • Norfolk, Virginia • St. Augustine, Florida, US • Vietnam, Asia A “retain your rain” project providing Using the city resilience framework Applying the resilience framework to innovative solutions for water to prioritize, allocate funding and the Nile Basin Initiative Workshops management and storage to revitalize implement projects that protect for engineers, planners and other a vulnerable and underserved area, critical infrastructure and deliver the staff on integrating climate risk into allowing individuals to thrive and services needed for sustainable cities infrastructure development; with prosper – connecting resilience to and communities. a focus on dams in Ethiopia and community benefits and serve as Tanzania these projects are being solutions for other cities with similar used as in-country case studies to challenges. support capacity development • British Virgin Islands (BVI) ▲ • Los Angeles, US ▲ • Washington DC, US ▲ Implementing flood risk management, Adaptation planning to address Developing resilience design guidelines an important part of rebuilding cities historical oil infrastructure risks in for public schools, roadways and in the BVI to be stronger, greener the region, assessing the potential waterfront assets that are integrating and more resilient. This will serve impacts on vulnerable communities proactive resilience, sustainability and as the model for effective flood risk and emergency responders from smart connection solutions to projects management in the Caribbean that future earthquake impacts and and services as a resource to other can allow communities to prosper. flooding. cities. • Maine Coast, US ▲ • Balkans, Europe ▲ • Welland, Ontario, Canada ▲ Integrating climate impacts (sea level Project Assessment of natural The community has developed a deep rise/storm surge/extreme rainfall) hazard risks and the resilience of the understanding of climate vulnerability to improve adaption and resilience trade and transport network in the and is advancing its adaptation plan for working waterfront towns along Western Balkans. In doing so, the that includes update of municipal the Maine coast that is scalable to robustness of potential engineering standards to integrate resilience other coastal areas requiring resilient and non-engineering interventions directly into engineering design – infrastructure. will be analysed to ensure that limited this approach is supporting cities to available resources (e.g. finance, better manage infrastructure risks, infrastructure, technical expertise) can by increasing the understanding of be deployed to enhance the transport uncertainty related to infrastructure connectivity and socio-economic planning and design. resilience of the region. 106 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction People What are the benefits? The Wood ‘Resilience Planet Implementation Framework' is addressing the financing gap to achieve the SDGs, in part by maximizing the impacts projects can provide across the delivery lifespan. By leveraging the resilience framework, projects are built that also create positive ‘co-benefits' and align with other SDGs to maximise impacts from investments. Projects addressing SDG 11 are increasingly connecting to and capturing value Profit when properly planned and executed to SDG 3 (Good Health and WellBeing), SDG 6 (Clean Water), SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure). This turnkey project delivery framework that embeds integrated climate, resilience and sustainability services into projects can reduce risk, improve value, reduce longterm costs and enhance business continuity by linking engineering, community benefits and technology outputs that can be applied to any city. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 107 Profit Sensing the future Sensors of all types tell the story of our environment; they are bringing a level of situational awareness that was unknown just a few years ago. Wood uses an enormous array of smart sensors in many of its field programs to support individual health and safety, project work and asset management. We can interrogate this data to generate more accurate forecasting models, predicting risks across a range of scenarios with greater accuracy. Our weather forecasting and met-ocean What is it we do? What are the benefits? service reduces financial and safety risk Smart sensors are placed on roadways The Wood system helps determine the for customers whose operations are and vehicles to measure parameters like number of required road-treatment sensitive to high-impact weather events surface temperature, stopping friction, trucks and equips authorities with the or severe ocean conditions. The effects of and road freezing conditions. The data knowledge of which road-treatment weather on road conditions, is one area provided, arms departments with the systems are required and when. This our team helps to support local resilience. right information to schedule and adapt helps managers minimize extraneous use Snow, freezing or heavy rain, and their activities. of heavy vehicles which keeps tailpipe strong winds create major challenges emissions as low as possible. Optimising for many departments, including road Wood's Met-Ocean Services team is the use of vehicles has the added benefit maintenance, traffic management, the largest private sector provider of of extending the fleet's life span, reducing emergency services, law enforcement, road weather services in Canada. The the frequency of new purchases and and commercial vehicle operators, not to Wood managed RWIS network collects avoiding any associated embedded everyone's daily commute to work daily over 750,000 sensor readings carbon costs. throughout provincial highways, municipal highways, city and country roads; the systems transmit high-frequency, highRead more on our work with sensors in resolution information to our Cloud-based edition 4 of our inspired magazine at: infrastructure, which is then used by www.woodplc.com/who-we-are/ourWood meteorologists to provide weather advantage/inspired4 forecasts to an array of clients. 108 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 Case Studies Resilient design reaching new heights Rising 1,100 feet To lift the tower from the ground into the Los Angeles skyline, the structure hotel also added to the complexity. The structural system consists of Introduction from the ground, the needed a seismically resilient foundation concrete core walls, composite columns, with the strength to withstand Southern composite floors and steel outrigger Wilshire Grand Center California's fiercest earthquakes. diagonals. As this structural system is is the tallest building not ordinarily permitted by the building What did we do? code, an alternative design procedure in Los Angeles and Wood recommended creating a concrete was used based on performance-based the highest west of mat design for the building foundation. earthquake engineering (PBEE) analysis and design. the Mississippi River. To prevent differential curing, the entire foundation was created using one To support the placement of the massive The iconic skyscraper continuous pour of concrete. Hundreds of concrete foundation, we performed trucks provided more than 21,000 cubic geotechnical inspection and testing to is a mixed-use yards of concrete in 18 hours, the largest approve the bedrock. Our team also development, standing continuous concrete pour in world history, worked with the shoring engineer to People according to Guinness' World Records. provide an earth retention system up to 73 stories tall in the 100 feet deep around the project, which footprint of one of the What were the challenges? is surrounded by other tall buildings and adjacent subway tunnels. We developed world's most active Delivering this quantity of concrete in the tight confines of downtown Los and operated a monitoring system to ensure safe operation of the subway earthquake zones. Angeles was a logistical challenge. The during construction. unique curving arc of the south façade and functionality requirements as a Planet Profit John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 109 Looking forward In our first year as Wood, we set about creating the foundations needed to grow and mature our sustainability programme. Through a year of integration and challenge, raising awareness around our approach to sustainability was vital, to enable our employees and business partners to not only understand our direction, but realise the role they play in reaching our sustainability goals. Building a sustainable culture takes time. Embedding the knowledge needed for our business to truly drive and take ownership for sustainability is a longterm and shared commitment. At Wood sustainability is woven throughout our operations, as simply ‘how we do business'. Future focused clear to understand. The publication of foundations have been laid within the our first sustainability report was a key organisation; our leadership has ensured In coming together as Wood, we recognise building block in the foundation of our that sustainability is at the heart of our the opportunity to strengthen our programme, outlining our triple bottom future development. We ended 2018 with approach to sustainability, taking a best line approach, whilst beginning to link the essential elements in place and in of both approach to forging our new path Wood’s actions and contribution towards 2019 we will further evolve, tied into the forward. We appreciate that building advancing global sustainability issues and fundamental global challenges we face. a successful sustainability programme the UN SDGs. takes time and must evolve at a pace that Through listening and consulting a wide allows our business to follow and embrace Whilst 2018 was very much about building range of stakeholder groups, we now have ownership for the various elements of awareness and understanding, 2019 a clearer direction of travel for the People, sustainability. Beginning with our initial looks at increasing business ownership Planet and Profit aspects of our business. materiality assessment, we quickly for sustainability, identifying goals that The challenge in 2019, will be to translate prioritised elements of our programme align Wood’s efforts against global this into a coherent strategy that ensures to ensure we created strong foundations sustainability goals and setting a strategy sustainable thinking is not the exception, for growth in the areas of human that will detail Wood’s Sustainability but the norm in planning processes for a rights, community investment, carbon journey. Getting sustainability onto the successful future. In 2019, our programme and our global sustainability networks. corporate agenda at an early stage of will challenge the business to drive further For our business to take ownership of Wood’s formation was an essential part improvement, seeking to measure our sustainability, we recognised the need of the company evolution. During the impact and continually mature our to make our approach both simple and early months of our development, strong sustainability programme. Phase 1 Building awareness and understanding Phase 2 Identifying goals and strategy Phase 3 Sustaining Inaugural Report Initial programme SDGs informing set up Outlining our triple Wood Setting Wood’s bottom line approach, Agenda Materiality complying with the Reviewing Wood's assessment to identify UNGC COP and programmes against Targets underpinned key sustainability using GRI reporting the 17 SDGs and GRI by strategy for elements methodology KPIs delivery Prioritised Focus Ownership Target Setting Review and renew Community Investment Assigning ownership Alignment of UN and Undertake annual Committee, Carbon across functions/ Wood’s agenda and review on materiality management business units for identifying targets and periodic review alignment, Human elements of the of Wood’s agenda, Rights Committee, programme reflected in our annual Sustainability network sustainability report 110 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 2019 action plan Develop and advance our human rights approach People Further embed the 'Building Responsibly Worker Welfare Principles' Develop our Diversity and Inclusion programme, including advancement of our global D&I networks Advance support for our global cause Education Advance carbon management group wide. Advance awareness and action towards reducing plastic waste in our business. Promote group wide focus on our environmental standards and self Planet assessment tool. Enhance group wide environmental reporting to strengthen management of our environmental license to operate. Advance Wood's contribution towards global energy transition and further support development of the key mega trends identified as material to our business and future sustainable growth. Promote awareness and compliance with our ethics code of conduct and supply chain code of conduct. Profit Advance our sustainability on projects framework to further support business implementation Raising awareness and targets with the UN SDGs, will help us in be successful, we recognise the need to collectively developing meaningful targets effectively communicate with all levels tracking progress that contribute to global sustainability of our organisation, and the importance Continually engaging our business on issues. of connecting all our people on sustainability and creating ownership sustainability issues. Seeking to promote Providing a mechanism for our business locally for the actions that will drive our business ownership and input towards to report and track actions that support approach is vital. Our ‘Think Global, Act our programme, in 2018 we appointed our sustainability programme is vital Local’ programme, introduced in 2018 four global business unit sustainability to measuring our progress. In 2019, we aims to drive local action in support champions, forming a central will develop and introduce our global of sustainability, centred around our sustainability leadership team. A primary sustainability action tracker to do just sustainability commitments and our nine focus for this team, is to develop a global that and help measure our collective global objectives to drive action around network of sustainability champions, impact across the people, planet and our people, planet and profit agenda. enabling communication across our profit agenda. Reviewed annually, our sustainability business. As we move through 2019, we commitments are the focus of our annual will continue to mature this network and sustainability week and an opportunity for Connecting our business increase its visibility across Wood. Through global engagement on the actions that global engagement events, such as our At Wood, we believe our people are help drive and mature our programme. In annual sustainability week celebrations, the key to our success. Sustainability 2019, we will seek to strengthen the link we will drive awareness and action must live in our collective actions and be and understanding between our actions across our employee base to mature our driven by the people that make Wood. and the UN SDGs. Demonstrating the link sustainability programme and advance For our sustainability programme to between our actions and the goals and Wood’s sustainability agenda. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 111 Mapping our report to the UN SDGs Our sustainability programme aims to clearly demonstrate and communicate to our stakeholders Woods support for the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have taken the approach to weave the 17 SDGs throughout our sustainability report, highlighting in each section the relevant goals and targets applicable to the content we report each year. This concluding section, provides a final mapping index for the reader, against each of the 17 SDGs and where they are contained within our report. As we mature our programme, we aim to better align our actions with the SDGs, in set business wide targets that will better translate our support into measurable action. 112 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 SDG SDG targets relevant to Wood's Sectional reference business and activities within the report 1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, Investing in our communities (Pg54-55) women and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimenCommunity investment case studies sions according to national definitions (Pg56-59) Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms every1.5 By 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerReducing our environmental impact where. able situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to (Pg64-75) climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disasters 2.1 By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in parInvesting in our communities (Pg54-55) ticular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including Community investment case studies infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round (Pg56-59) Goal 2: End hunger, achieve 2.4 By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems Reducing our environmental impact food security and implement resilient agricultural practices that increase (Pg 64-75) and improved productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, nutrition that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, exand promote treme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and that sustainable progressively improve land and soil quality agriculture. 3.3 By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria Health & wellbeing at Wood (Pg 50and neglected tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, wa53) ter-borne diseases and other communicable diseases Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from Diversity and inclusion (Pg24-25) and promote non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatDiversity and inclusion case studies well-being for all ment and promote mental health and well-being (Pg34-37) at all ages. Community investment case studies (Pg56-59) 3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries Health, safety and security of our peofrom road traffic accidents ple (Pg38-47) Award winning safety (Pg48-49) 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and Health & wellbeing at Wood (Pg50-53) illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil Health, safety and security of our peopollution and contamination ple (Pg38-47) Managing environmental risk (Pg6263) John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 113 SDG Roadmap SDG SDG targets relevant to Wood's Sectional reference business and activities within the report 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth Investing in our people and culture and adults who have relevant skills, including technical (Pg20-23) and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and Investing in skills: developing potential entrepreneurship case studies (Pg26-29) Developing the workforce of tomorrow Goal 4: Ensure case studies (Pg30-33) inclusive and equitable quality Community investment case studies education and (Pg56-59) promote lifelong Creating sustainable profit (Pg84-89) learning opportunities for all. 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and Investing in our communities (Pg54-55) ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational Community investment case studies training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, (Pg56-59) indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls Diversity and inclusion (Pg24-25) everywhere Diversity and inclusion case studies (Pg34-37) Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and 5.4 Recognize and value unpaid care and domestic work Diversity and inclusion (Pg24-25) girls. through the provision of public services, infrastructure and Diversity and inclusion case studies social protection policies and the promotion of shared re(Pg34-37) sponsibility within the household and the family as nationally appropriate 5.5 Ensure women's full and effective participation and equal Diversity and inclusion (Pg24-25) opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in Diversity and inclusion case studies political, economic and public life (Pg34-37) 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, Managing environmental risk (Pg62eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous 63) chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated Reducing our environmental impact wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe (Pg64-75) reuse globally Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sani6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across Reducing our environmental impact tation for all. all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of (Pg64-75) freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity 114 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 SDG SDG targets relevant to Wood's Sectional reference business and activities within the report 7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and Creating sustainable profit (Pg84-89) modern energy services Sustainability on projects (Pg98-109) 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable Driving Innovation (Pg94-97) energy in the global energy mix Sustainability on projects (Pg98-109) Goal 7: Ensure access to af7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy Reducing our environmental impact fordable, reliaefficiency (Pg64-75) ble, sustainable and modern Sustainability on projects (Pg98-109) energy for all. 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through Creating sustainable profit (Pg84-89) diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, Driving Innovation (Pg94-97) including through a focus on high-value added and labourintensive sectors 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and deInvesting in our people and culture Goal 8: Procent work for all women and men, including for young people (Pg20-23) mote sustained, and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal Investing in skills: developing potential inclusive and value case studies (Pg26-29) sustainable economic Developing the workforce of tomorrow growth, full and case studies (Pg30-33) productive emDiversity and Inclusion case studies ployment and (Pg34-37) decent work for all. 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not Investing in our people and culture in employment, education or training (Pg20-23) Investing in skills: developing potential case studies (Pg26-29) Developing the workforce of tomorrow case studies (Pg30-33) 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate Respecting Human Rights (Pg16-19) forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working Respecting Human Rights (Pg16-19) environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in parHealth, safety and security of our peoticular women migrants, and those in precarious employment ple (Pg38-47) Award winning safety (Pg48-49) Responsible business practice (Pg9093) 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to Reducing our environmental impact make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficien(Pg64-75) cy and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound Driving Innovation (Pg94-97) technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities Goal 9: Build 9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological Investing in our people and culture resilient infracapabilities of industrial sectors in all countries, in particular (Pg20-23) structure, prodeveloping countries, including, by 2030, encouraging innoInvesting in skills: developing potential mote inclusive vation and substantially increasing the number of research case studies (Pg26-29) and sustainable and development workers per 1 million people and public and industrializaDriving Innovation (Pg94-97) private research and development spending tion and foster innovation. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 115 SDG Roadmap SDG SDG targets relevant to Wood's Sectional reference business and activities within the report 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and Diversity and inclusion (Pg24-25) political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, Diversity and inclusion case studies ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status (Pg34-37) Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outDiversity and inclusion (Pg24-25) countries. come, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and Diversity and inclusion case studies practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and (Pg34-37) action in this regard 11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and Driving Innovation (Pg94-97) sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, Sustainability on projects (Pg98-109) notably by expanding public transport, with special attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental Managing environmental risk (Pg62safe, resilient impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air 63) and sustainable. quality and municipal and other waste management Raising environmental awareness and competence (Pg76-81) 11.b By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and Reducing our environmental impact human settlements adopting and implementing integrat(Pg64-75) ed policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, Sustainability on projects (Pg98-109) mitigation and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030, holistic disaster risk management at all levels 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and effiReducing our environmental impact cient use of natural resources (Pg64-75) Goal 12: Ensure 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound manageManaging environmental risk (Pg62sustainable ment of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, 63) consumption in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and Raising environmental awareness and and production significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order competence (Pg76-81) patterns. to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment 12.7 Promote public procurement practices that are sustainaResponsible business practice (Pg90ble, in accordance with national policies and priorities 93) 12.8 By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant Raising environmental awareness and information and awareness for sustainable development and competence (Pg76-81) lifestyles in harmony with nature 116 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 SDG SDG targets relevant to Wood's Sectional reference business and activities within the report 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-reReducing our environmental impact lated hazards and natural disasters in all countries (Pg64-75) Sustainability on projects (Pg98-109) Goal 13: Take urgent action to 13.2 Integrate climate change measures into national policies, Reducing our environmental impact combat climate strategies and planning (Pg64-75) change and its Sustainability on projects (Pg98-109) impacts. 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and inRaising environmental awareness and stitutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, competence (Pg76-81) impact reduction and early warning Creating sustainable profit (Pg84-89) 14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution Raising environmental awareness and of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including competence (Pg76-81) marine debris and nutrient pollution Goal 14: Conserve and 14.2 By 2020, sustainably manage and protect marine and Reducing our environmental impact sustainably use coastal ecosystems to avoid significant adverse impacts, (Pg64-75) the oceans, seas including by strengthening their resilience, and take action for and marine their restoration in order to achieve healthy and productive resources for oceans sustainable development. 14.a Increase scientific knowledge, develop research capacDriving Innovation (Pg94-97) ity and transfer marine technology, taking into account the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission Criteria and Guidelines on the Transfer of Marine Technology, in order to improve ocean health and to enhance the contribution of marine biodiversity to the development of developing countries, in particular small island developing States and least developed countries 15.8 By 2020, introduce measures to prevent the introduction Reducing our environmental impact and significantly reduce the impact of invasive alien species (Pg64-75) on land and water ecosystems and control or eradicate the priority species Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 117 SDG Roadmap SDG SDG targets relevant to Wood's Sectional reference business and activities within the report 16.2 End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of vioRespecting Human Rights (Pg16-19) lence against and torture of children Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their Responsible business practice (Pg90sustainable forms 93) development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representaInvesting in our people and culture institutions at tive decision-making at all levels (Pg20-23) all levels. 16.10 Ensure public access to information and protect fundaRespecting Human Rights (Pg16-19) mental freedoms, in accordance with national legislation and international agreements 16.b Promote and enforce non-discriminatory laws and policies Respecting Human Rights (Pg16-19) for sustainable development 17.8 Fully operationalize the technology bank and science, techDriving Innovation (Pg94-97) nology and innovation capacity-building mechanism for least developed countries by 2017 and enhance the use of enabling technology, in particular information and communications technology Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global 17.16 Enhance the Global Partnership for Sustainable DevelReducing our environmental impact partnership opment, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships (Pg64-75) for sustainable that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology development. and financial resources, to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in all countries, in particular developing countries 118 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 John Wood Group PLC Sustainability Report 2019 119 John Wood Group PLC 15 Justice Mill Lane Aberdeen AB11 6EQ UK Tel +44 1224 851000 Visit our website at: www.woodplc.com
