From its inception, Erga has been keen in supporting MESSAGE OF THE the society and the environment before hearing about “Sustainable Development”. This term is surely CH A IR M A N wider than the stated words; but society and enviG4-1 Table of Content ronment are effectively an integral part of Sustainable Development. Message of the Chairman ............................................................................................................................................ 3 Since our commitment to support the Ten Principles Erga Profile (GRI 102-1 -->13) ................................................................................................................................. 4 of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiStrategy (GRI 102-14,15) ............................................................................................................................................... 10 Corruption, we are eager to fullfill the requirements Ethics & Integrity (GRI 102-16,17) ........................................................................................................................ 12 of our stakeholders regarding the SDGs. Governance (GRI 102-18 --> 39) ........................................................................................................................... 14 In this annual Sustainability Report, we describe our Stakeholder Engagement (GRI 102-40 --> 44) .......................................................................................... 16 actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles aligned into our Reporting Practice (GRI 102-45 --> 56) .......................................................................................................... 17 business strategy, culture and daily operations. Material Topics (GRI 103) ............................................................................................................................................ 18 In fact, before being committed to support the Ten Erga Sustainable Development Goals ................................................................................................................ 19 Principles of the UNGC we have incorporated and aligned the Sustainable Development principles in Environmental Impact (GRI 30X) ............................................................................................................................ 20 our Balanced Scorecard from our Vision, Mission and Social Impact (GRI 40X) ................................................................................................................................................. 24 Values to our strategic themes, objectives and initiatives. GRI Content Index ............................................................................................................................................................... 28 For this reason, it was easy for us to make few modifications in our terminology and strategy plan to align our work with the SDGs of the UNGC and think wider to incorporate more initiatives in this direction. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders. For so, this report has been published on our Web portal for free consultation, to assure to our stakeholders our long term commitment to said principles. In addition, we are making few modifications on our website to be able to publish it publically. Elie Gebrayel Chairman and CEO Erga Group SAL ERGA GROUP SAL PROFILE 102-1 8 40 years 300 employees headquarter of experience in in Lebanon Lebanon architectural 200 worldwide 4 Branches & engineering Dubai R I YA D H DE SIGN Serving ~ 50 JE DDA H & supervision countries DOHA FULL TIME PART TIME 71.3% 28.7% 421 60 343 138 456 25 PERMANENT TEMPORARY Elie & Randa Gebrayel As a privately owned company, net sales are not publicly provided. ERGA GROUP SAL, a joint stock company (Société Anonyme Libanaise), was founded in 1980 by Elie & Randa Gebrayel Architects, carrying their names. Its headquarter is based in Beirut, Lebanon with over 300 highly skilled architects, structural, mechanical and electrical engineers, interior architects, urban planners, landscape engineers, quantity surveyors, project managers and professionals in other engineering fields. Erga has 4 regional branches operating from Dubai, UAE, Jeddah and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and Doha, Qatar. In total Erga has over 200 professionals. In its regional branches. Erga is, nowadays, negotiating new JVs in the United States, Brazil, France and Africa and is studying the opening of potential branches worldwide. Having acquired 40 years of professional experience, Erga is fully qualified to undertake the design, execution, feasibility and direct supervision of the projects entrusted to the group. This enables Erga to succeed as a multidisciplinary architectural and engineering firm and ensure full attention is given to every project, be it small or large, local or regional. 4 ERGA GROUP SAL ACTIVITIES & SERVICES Architecture and Engineering Interior Design We, at Erga, offer a multidisciplinary design service Erga’s interior design team delivers creative interior aimed at raising the quality of the built environment. We solutions that combine design and functionality, provide a full range of architectural services related using the latest technology. to the planning, programming, design, drawings, Our team works closely with the client throughout document production, cost estimation, bidding and the creative process, exploring every possibility and maintenance and refurbishing projects. assessing the best option. Our experienced architects, structural, mechanical We follow a collaborative and interactive process to and electrical engineers, landscape designers and create exceptional environments that meet clients’ master planners complement our wide range of construction consultancy services by providing holistic needs. We use traditional, custom and modern elements to create harmonious designs. design solutions that reflect an understanding of the full project lifecycle. Our interiors have a distinctive, modern elegance inspired by the client’s needs and spirit. We take a comprehensive approach to design, working from inception to completion to turn an architectural vision into reality. Master Planning & Urban Design Landscape Design We, thoroughly research, meticulously study and Our team in landscape engineering, planning and urban methodically develop our urban designs based on planning are committed to design joining three factors environmental concerns, social equity, economic similarly: creativity, sustainability and social wellviability, relationships between people and places, being. Landscape architecture dealing with colorful urban movement and form, nature and the built fabric spaces gives a charming spirit and touch to even with a view to creating places that work out perfectly the most beautiful architectural design. That is why and that are sustainable in the long term. we give this field a big importance in Erga. We strive for balance between the various stages of Our concern is to create aesthetic spaces for large planning, transportation, architectural design, development economics, landscape and engineering, to multi-functional site or small projects. We have a deep respect for nature, natural systems and insist on conceive and ultimately achieve a good vision. sustainability aligning our daily work with the philosophy of Erga and its vision designing for present and By establishing such connections, our clients can reach their investment goals and satisfy their aspirations, future generations. while we add up to the natural environment. It is this approach and our passion for the business that allow us to consider each project as a whole with This experience forges and strengthens a permanent bond between a project and its surroundings. high end details. Construction Supervision Project Management Construction work supervision is a profession of experience, expertise and know-how. Our team members With a solid experience of around 40 years, Erga Management acts as client representative assuming with who meet these requirements bring their knowledge, use their capacity in taking action and define an determination major project management and construction management tasks. appropriate behavior in order to adapt the implementation plan and organization to the site characteristics. Skilled professionals supported by a qualified multidisciplinary workforce are the winning formula that They manage interfaces with operational functions at each phase and identify security risks, health, distinguishes the company. Teams working in coordination, determine the needs, collaborate in developing environment and project-related control. plans in order to conceive appropriate solutions depending on the complexity of each term. 6 ERGA GROUP SAL ERGA GROUP SAL Economic SUPPLY CHAIN EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Project Management Professional (PMP): 2 certified professionals and 95 trained architects and engineers between Lebanon and Qatar. 102-9 102-12 ISO 9001:2015 QMS: 1 certified company and 1 seeking certification in Lebanon) Since Erga Group provides a service, as ERGA GROUP HQ and branches comply with a Social architectural and engineering consultants, the final deliverables, submitted to the client 978 suppliers from variety of principles, standards and initiatives as follows. For some standards, some companies OHSAS 18001:2007: seeking certification in Lebanon Environment 42 coun tries and depending on the scope of the project, are are certified; for others, the requirement is to ISO 14001:2004 EMS: seeking certification in Lebanon mainly the set of required drawings with the Bill have professionals certified; and for some we LEED: 1 certified professional and 75 trained of Quantity (BOQ) and specifications required to didn’t apply for the certification yet but we are architects and engineers in Lebanon start building the project. seeking it. BREEAM: 1 certified professional in Lebanon Knowing that Erga is not a manufacturing company Please note that none of these initiatives is or distributor, its supply chain is simple. The Istidama: 5 certified professionals in UAE obligatory,all of them are voluntary. main suppliers dealing with Erga are as follow: QSAS: 5 certified professionals in Qatar Computer software, hardware Specialties’ Subconsultants & peripherals’ providers (with Maintenance) (Depending on the type and scope of project) Paper providers Bureau de Contrôle ERGA GROUP SAL Suppliers of Materials providing samples MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS Mock-up providers when needed for mood boards and technical sheets for specifications. 102-13 Professional Associations The American Institute of Architects (AIA) The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) ERGA GROUP SAL ERGA GROUP SAL The American Concrete Institute (ACI) CSR Associations SIGNIFICANT CHANGES PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH UN GLobal Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL) Lebanon Climate Act (LCA) 102-10 102-11 Lebanon Green Building Council (LGBC) Civic Influence Hub (CIH): Elie Gebrayel is the president of CIH for 2018-2019 Entrepreneurs et Dirigeants Chrétiens Liban (EDCL): Elie Gebrayel was the president during 2017 Global risks are monitored by the Board of Lebanese American University (LAU): Elie Gebrayel is the Vice Chair of the LAU School of Erga Group liquidated the inactive company, Directors through the corporate strategy, Architecture and Design Advisory Board Erga Bahrain W.L.L. located in Manama, Bahrain. respecting set risk and environmental management policies and procedures. Ghalboun Municipality: Elie Gebrayel of the Mayor of Ghalboun Municipality The International Christian Union of Business Executives (UNIAPAC) 8 ERGA GROUP SAL S T R A T E G Y 102-14-15 The Top Management Team setting the strategy To be able to align its vision, mission, values, strategic KEY RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES IMPACT T H E M E S themes and objectives to defining its initiatives and following them up from top to bottom, Erga has put Insecure and politically unstable Middle East with Difficulty finding new developers ready to invest. in place a Balanced Scorecard system. global financial crisis Recession in construction and real estate market. Starting from strategic planning, the top management The adoption of the Serie of Ranks and Salaries in Increase in house loans until the Housing Corporation wanted to deploy a culture of social responsibility, the public sector in Lebanon budget has been totally consumed. sustainability and ethics among other important topics adding initiatives in this direction. Decrease in house loan demand in Lebanon Market submerged and demand is shrinking. This system provided a disciplined framework for House loans stopped by the Housing Corporation Recession in construction and real estate market S T R A T E G I C planning and measuring the strategy from different and high interest rates imposed on house loans affecting architectural and engineering companies perspectives of organizational performance supported by the Central bank. and related fields. allowing to monitor progress, provide guidance in Follow the trend and diversify from competition budgeting and strategic decision making. New architectural and engineering trend more Provide suitable training as per needed standards The balance scorecard made all staff use the same specifically green designs, renewable energy... to be followed and project requirements. language and connected the dots between big picture strategy elements and operational elements, Diversify potential clients database systematically aligning vision, strategy, themes, Expand to other international markets where Open horizon to new markets, new investments, objectives, initiatives, budget and resources. financial crisis is reduced new projects... 10 ERGA GROUP SAL ETHICS & INTEGRITY 102-16-17 102-25 It is essential that each person working with Erga In addition to the audits, every Chief Officer, Head Erga Code of Conduct & Ethics Main Titles Erga Code of Conduct & Ethics Key Principles is aware that he or she is an important contributor of Department, Head of Section and Team Design to Erga’s success. For this reason, Erga designed a Leader in Erga is responsible for: Erga Business Practices Erga code of conduct is ruled by : code of conduct and ethics assisting people in their * Ensuring that all employees under his/her General Staff Conduct Principles of transparency, honesty and fairness; daily work to properly manage each situation in supervision perform their duties in accordance Labor Rights – Respect of staff members Respect of the laws and regulations of every country conformity with the company’s ethics. Our internal with the highest standards of business ethics and Conflict of Interest we operate in; and external stakeholders should also comply with in conformance with applicable laws. Confidentiality Respect of the culture of each country and our code acting in conformity with the laws and * Taking every necessary action to ensure that no Erga Properties contribution in the society through new activities; regulations. Erga entity or member engages directly or indirectly Gossips & Rumors Ensuring a good quality of services offered to the This code is published on Erga’s portal and is in any corrupted business practice. Safe & Secure Place – Health & Safety society; accessible to all. And whenever any clarification is * Ensuring that any expenditure or transfer of External Communication with Media and Investors Valuing teamwork and creativity within the teams; needed the HR department is available to assist; in Erga corporate funds is made in accordance with Internal Control of Financial & Accounting Information Preservation of our business partners to achieve addition to the periodic campaigns that are done to a stated, legitimate purpose and to the recipient Fair Competition stable, long-term relationship and mutual benefits, remind on specific matters and the annual training indicated in Erga records. Business Partners while keeping ourselves open to new partnerships; session done to new joiners in Erga team as well as * Treating team members equally without any Bribery through gifts or other benefits Preservation of the Community, Human Rights, for those who wish to re-attend it. special favors to members, discomforting other Fighting Corruption Fraudulent or Illegal Act Employees Rights and the Environment. It is imperative that each staff member carefully ones. Integrity and Quality of Services learn and implement the code of conduct and ethics Any deviation or attempted deviation from the Integrity of Documents and Information Supplied and that no violation of the code’s values occurs, above is brought directly to the attention of the Exchange of Information especially when this could negatively affect the appropriate officer or directly to the Chairman Money Laundering company’s reputation. This is applied to all staff (depending on the impact). Integrity of Financial and Accounting Documents members from upper to lower level of the The company and its members comply with internal Politics organization. and external rules and regulations related to Erga’s Human Rights Audits are regularly done to make sure it is well work, and appropriate action are taken for any Environment implemented and to report any breach or deviation. violation of these rules. Philantropy and Community Relation Activities 12 ERGA GROUP SAL GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Erga board of directors defined 4 main committees 102-18-24 in Erga to follow up primary issues in the 102-26-33 organization THE STRATEGY COMMITTEE THE SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE THE COMMUNICATION COMMITTEE Presided by the Chairman, Elie Gebrayel, himself, Headed by Randa Gebrayel, the Vice-Chairman, Presided by Randa Gebrayel, the Vice Chairman, this Erga Intranet: a communication tool within the this committee reviews the overall performance of its membership is open to anyone interested in helping committee takes care of the internal and external company enhancing the internal communication in the company, makes decisions over modifications in in social or environmental projects. This committee communication and it divided its points of interest Erga. it helps in sharing documentation, knowledge, the strategic plan and follows up if the implementation works on “Ergamania” concept symbolizing Erga’s to 3 main parts: lessons learned, calendars, meetings and events, is done as planned. This committee reviews and family spirit. It focuses on the human side, apart Erga Newsletter: issued on a quarterly basis, it filling surveys and feedbacks, participating in open approves as well the sustainability report. from daily operations, and it is directly linked to Erga’s reflects the professional work of Erga as a total dis cussions and sharing information and news about commitment towards the society and the environment. solutions provider; highlights its know-how and our staff (marriage, engagement, newborns…), Erga Its responsibilities rely on setting a social and expertise in designing projects and supervising their offers, Erga news, social eveHnts… THE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE environmental plan and organizing activities boosting execution; in addition to the family spirit driving its Presided by the Chairman, Elie Gebrayel, himself, the relation between Erga staff and the society. Its team and focusing on the events organized internally to Each of the comittees has a responsilibity of reporting this committee has the responsibility for overseeing projects usually serve humanitarian or environmental better serve the environment and the society. any critical concerns that arise to its president and risk management within Erga as a whole. causes. This committee continually looks for associations, This newsletter reaches all Erga stakeholders. it will be directly communicated from committees’ NGOs or families in need that have no outside funding Erga Website: reflects Erga’s image in a suitable presidents to risk management committee for proper It sets the tone and influences the culture of Risk or support and organizes internal seasonal events design and content. After finalizing its design, the handling. In addition the Audit department can Management within Erga. This includes determining: to boost the family spirit involving all staff members committee’s role is to keep the information updated: communicate critical concerns that might be faced. * Whether Erga is “risk taking” or “risk adverse” as a and their families. The events include the below always adding the latest projects, Erga branches, whole or in any relevant issue activities but not limited to: contacts and professional articles from experts in * The “risk appetite” of Erga Re-forestation Day (November), Erga. * Which risks’ types are acceptable and which are not… Santa Barbara Fundraising and Kids Party (Christmas), This committee: Erga Annual Gathering (End of Year), * determines the appropriate level of risk exposure Iftar Dinner (Ramadan), for Erga, Easter Donations & Bake Sale (Easter), * takes major decisions affecting Erga’s risk exposure, Mother’s Day (21st of March), Fathers’ Day (21st of June), * monitors the management of the most significant Message de Paix Days (Christmas and Easter), corporate risks, Beirut Corporate Games (Around April and May), * assures itself that risks identified across Erga are Beirut Marathon, Blood Donation Day, Internal being actively managed, with appropriate controls sports competitions (Basketball, football…)... in place which are working affectively, Whenever a staff member or a relative is in need for * bi-yearly reviews Erga’s Risk Policy to ensure it any support, more specifically medical support, the remains fit for purpose, committee tries as much as possible to involve all * maintains the Risk Register. staff members in helping. The Audit Department has the responsibility for This committee is responsible for preparing the Board of Directors & Partners assessing the effectiveness of risk management. Sustainability report. 14 ERGA GROUP SAL ERGA GROUP SAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT REPORTING PRACTICE 102-40-44 102-45-55 INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS ENTITIES IN CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors Clients LEBANON UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Partners & Associates Consultants Erga Progress Engineering Erga Group SAL Employees Suppliers and Subconsultants Erga Management SAL Consultants Bureaux de Contrôle Erga Group Overseas SAL (Offshore) Order of Engineers QATAR KSA Public Authorities (NSSF, Permit Units,...) Erga Qatar LLC Erga Saudi Lebanese Co. for Project Management and Municipalities Erga Group SAL Branch in KSA Tenants Local Communities NGOs MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT IDENTIFYING & SELECTING STAKEHOLDERS Social CATEGORIES Erga usually defined its stakeholders as a firm and every Project Design Manager managing a new project Environmental defines its project stakeholders. For all stakeholders, Erga sets the ratio impact and power of each one of them, defines the communication channels and the strategy of how to deal with each one. Green Buildings Erga engages with its stakeholders by different means: 1Board of Directors, Partners & Associates: Periodic reports are always sent with all the needed information to keep updated on the financial, managerial, administrative and technical performance of Empoyee Health the firm. & Safety CONTACT POINT INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDERS 2Employees: Intranet platform, internal emails and memos, continual surveys and annual gathering to keep them updated of the latest news and performance of the firm. Myriam El Helou 3Clients: Client Satisfaction Questionnaire, Erga Events and costumer focus groups. Quality Manager Nature Preservation 4Consultants, Suppliers, Subconsultants, Bureau de Contrôle: External email, meetings... Telephone: +961 4 524 124 Community Training & Deve5Order of Engineers, Public Authorities & Municipalities: respect and alignment with their regulations Email: mye@erga.com Support lopment and application for permits and other regulatory transactions. Energy Consumption & 6Tenants, Local Communities and NGOs: continual support to specific NGOs and periodically select some Emissions cases and help in these matters. Waste Management & GRI CONTENT INDEX Recycling KEY TOPICS & CONCERNS Please find the GRI Content Key topics and concerns are usually raised and dispatched to concerned parties to resolve depending on Index attached at the end of the subject and related division. If the concern is related to the business and its strategy it is directly the report page 30. channeled to the CEO or COO. SIGNIFICANT IMPACTS 16 ERGA GROUP SAL ERGA GROUP SAL MATERIAL TOPICS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 102-47 102-47 The United Nations has set the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development action plan to meet 17 Sustainable Development Goals to improve conditions for people, planet and prosperity. At Erga, we have identified 7 SDGs at the core of our initiatives, though we are indirectly and positively impacting other gobal goals by our actions(*indirect impact). INDIRECT CORE TO OUR BUSINESS IMPACT When specifying technical systems in architectural projects, Erga tends to specify energy star and clean energy ones. Material Topics GRI Disclosure Topic Boundary Constant search for new projects worldwide and new markets to create ENVIRONMENT additional jobs. Green Buildings GRI 307 Environmental Client/ Erga Design Division/ Recruiting nationals in all countries we operate in. Compliance Suppliers Our work forces us to push our boundaries to seek innovative and out-ofNature Preservation GRI 304 Biodiversity Client/ Erga Design Division/ box solutions and infrastructure is in Erga’s core business. Suppliers/ Social & Environmental Committee Since we are architectural consultants, this SDG is our main focus and Energy Consumption & Emissions GRI 302 Energy Erga / Logistics Department/ we have a direct impact on it. GRI 305 Emissions Lebanon Climate Act / Ministry of along with the client and the contractor. Environment Waste Management & Recycling GRI 306 Waste Erga / Social & Environmental Paper is the main product consumed in Erga. We are minimizing its use Committee / Recycling NGOs or by creating systems automating the flow from clients’ requirements to Manufacturer sending final project deliverables digitally to the client. When defining the quantities in the BOQ Erga is responsible to identify & specify quantities and qualities with fairness. SOCIAL Erga is committed with Lebanon Climate Act (LCA) to annually reduce its Employees Health & Safety GRI 403 Occupational Erga Employees / HR Department carbon footprint setting a pre-defined acion plan and sending results to Health & Safety the ministry of environment. Community Support GRI 413 Local Communities Erga Employees / Social & EnviSince Erga is designing architectural projects construction works will be ronmental Committee/ NGOs/... eventually done that might oblige to cut trees impacting the ecosystem Employee Training & Development GRI 404 Training & Education Erga Employees / Erga Academy on site. 18 ERGA GROUP SAL ERGA GROUP SAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENERGY CONSUMPTION & EMISSIONS 103 302 305 since 2017, Erga is committed with Lebanon Climate Act to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions with a network of other private companies with whom we have been sharing our experience in the field. Workshops and training sessions are given by experts from time to time to push our work forward and make the private sector aware of its effective contribution in climate change. An action plan was submitted by Erga to Lebanon Climate Act and the Ministry of Environment involving all staff members to enhance the green culture and the sustainable architectural vision. Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Private Companies and Institutions Decision 99/1 of 11/4/2013 Paul abi Dergham, Erga CDO, receiving Erga trophy as being Representatives from the Social & Environmental ComAs architectural and engineering consultants, our major impact on the environment is by consuming a LCA Champion mittee attending the LCA Champions Ceremony energy and paper during our daily operations (SDG 12). So Erga generates waste and Greenhouse Gas Company : Erga Group SAL Year: 2017 emissions (SDG 13: Climate Action). Introduce values in shaded areas only, if applicable Indirect Emissions from Purchased Electricity CO2 Emissions CO2 Emissions Carbon In our field, we can advise our clients to choose affordable and clean energy (SDG 7) systems in the Current Working hours Voltage Emission Factor CO2 emissions target of having sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11). We can also impose the materials’ Consumption (KWh) Emission Factor CO2 emissions (t CO2) Shared generator (A) 0 (hours) 0 (V) 220 (t CO2/MWh) 1.3 (t CO2) 0.00 (t CO2/MWh) quality and quantities to be specified in any planned construction project(SDG 12: Single phase Shared generator EDL bill 455669 0.65 296.18 Triple phase 350 2370 380 1.3 567.13 Responsible Consumption and Production). Direct Emissions from Stationary Fuel Combustion CO2 Emissions CH4 Emissions N2O Emissions In addition, our work can indirectly affect the biodiversity (SDG 15: Life on land), because sometimes Consumption Consumption Conversion Factor Carbon Emission Factor CO2 emissions CH4 Emission Factor CH4 emissions CO2 equivalent N2O Emission Factor N2O emissions CO2 equivalent our client to additionally benefit from his land might cut trees but the law imposes to plant others. Gas/Diesel Oil for (l) 71650 (t) 59.4695 (TJ/1000t) 43.33 (t C/TJ) 20.2 (t CO2) 188.95 (t/TJ) 0.002 (t CH4) 0.01 (t CO2) 0.11 (t/TJ) 0.0006 (t CO2) 0.00 (t CO2) 0.48 Electricity Gas/Diesel Oil for In line with above mentioned UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are engaging ourselves Space Heating Gas/Diesel Oil for 0 0 43.33 43.33 20.2 20.2 0.00 0.00 0.002 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.0006 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 in the following initiatives: Water Heating Heavy Fuel Oil for Boilers 0 40.19 21.1 0.00 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.00 Gas for cooking 0 47.31 17.2 0.00 0.005 0.00 0.00 0.0001 0.00 0.00 Green Buildings /Designs Lubricants TOTAL 0 40.19 20 0.00 188.95 0.002 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.11 0.0006 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.48 Nature Preservation CO2 Emissions Buisness Related Transport CH4 Emissions N2O Emissions Energy Consumption & Emissions Consumption Consumption Conversion Factor Carbon Emission Factor CO2 emissions CH4 Emission Factor CH4 emissions CO2 equivalent N2O Emission Factor N2O emissions CO2 equivalent (l) (t) (TJ/1000t) (t C/TJ) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CH4) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CO2) (t CO2) Waste Management & Recycling Gasoline Gas/Diesel Oil 25255 66000 18.6887 54.78 44.8 43.33 18.9 20.2 57.44 174.05 0.02 0.005 0.02 0.01 0.35 0.25 0.0006 0.0006 0.00 0.00 0.16 0.44 20 Emission Calculation ERGA GROUP SAL ERGA GROUP SAL GREEN BUILDINGS & DESIGNS WASTE MANAGEMENT & RECYCLING 307 306 Erga helps as much as possible many municipalities in Lebanon advising them to work As an architectural company, waste generated is their projects taking into consideration energy saving and their cities and communities’ limited to the following: sustainable development. The major waste generated in the company: Paper, In addition, Erga is committed in its Strategic Plan to promote green culture among its clients convincing foam boards, cardboards them to install energy and water saving systems. Small water plastic bottles used in meeting rooms For this reason, Erga Academy plays a major role in technically engaging our architects Old computers, peripherals (scanner, printers,....) and engineers providing the suitable training courses related to worldwide green For paper, IT equipment, plastic bottles and caps to standards (LEED, BREEAM, QSAS, Istidama...). dispose we contact related NGOs more specifically Arc-En-Ciel (AEC) and L’Ecoute Organization. LEED GA training has been attended by 96 engineers to incorporate green design systems in their projects and explains their importance to the client. It is also planned to be given to 70 engineers in 2019. This year we disposed more than 100 computers with servers, printers and scanners that were in the Energy Modelling Techniques training given to 7 electro-mechanical engineers. store. They were divided between AEC and L’Ecoute. BREEAM Training: 2 engineers in Lebanon They refurbish them and re-sell them or recycle QSAS: 5 engineers in Qatar. their material and the benefit goes to the NGO employing people with special needs. Istidama: 10 engineers in Dubai. 10 tonnes of papers were also disposed from the Whenever a new supplier introduces any new innovation in our field, it is automatically transmitted through store to the benefit of L’Ecoute organization. Erga Academy and Erga’s Library to our architects and engineers in search for new solutions in designing NB..: we have an initiative to reduce the use of paper green buildings and from them it is transmitted to our clients providing the best suppliers’ contact for this transforming our forms to e-forms. purpose. ERGA GROUP SAL NATURE PRESERVATION 304 Erga has been committed from 10 years till now to backup Jouzour Loubnan in their journey organizing on a yearly basis plantation days with staff members and their families planting each year more than 800 Cedar and Juniper trees in many regions in Lebanon. Our way of giving back to Nature. 22 ERGA GROUP SAL ERGA GROUP SAL SOCIAL IMPACT EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY 103 403 ERGA DOCTOR Erga has appointed a doctor available at Erga premises 2 days a week. Erga doctor has for each staff member a confidential detailed medical record. Erga doctor is reached on his mobile phone for urgent matters. MEDICAL & LIFE INSURANCE Erga provides to all its employees non engineers a second class medical insurance covering 100% in and 85% out. While Erga Engineers are obliged to be covered by the insurance imposed by the Order of Engineers where they are registered. In addition, Erga provides a life insurance to all its employees called Jinane program named after an employee who died from a car accident on her way to the office in the morning. Work Insurance is also provided in case an accident occurs at work covering all cases. ERGA FIRST AID & EMERGENCY DEFIBRILLATOR TRAINING In case of emergency, a first aid kit is available in the Office Logistics office. In addition Erga periodically train interested staff members on first aid basics in way to find in each floor 1 to 2 trained personals. In addition Erga bought an automatic defibrillator for emergency cases and trained all support staff members on using it whenever needed. ERGA SUPPORTS SPORTS ACTIVITIES The Social & Environmental Committee continually organizes sports activities and supports sports teams in many ways: Each company seeks a decent work and economic growth (SDG 8) which is major to Erga as per its Code of Conduct and Ethics. There is a community of architects, engineers and management experts in the company who is the basis of Erga’s success for years. Erga doesn’t compromise on its Employees rights, their health & safety (SDG 3: Good Health & Well Being) nor on their evolution at work, giving a big importance to their training and development (SDG 4: Quality Education) and respecting all genders and social statuses (SDG 5: Gender Equality & SDG 10: Reduced Inequality). Erga Basketball Team Erga Football Team Sponsoring Al Galacticos Rugby Team Erga is committed to support its community (SDG 1: No Poverty, SDG3: Good Health & Well Being and SDG 2: Zero Hunger) organizing social events through its Social & Environmental Committee. In line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are engaging ourselves in the following initiatives: Employees Health & Safety Community Support Employee Training & Development Annually supporting a cause in Beirut Annually participating in Beirut Corporate Games competing for 2 days with Marathon other companies. For years Erga was taking the 3rd place by its team bond. 24 ERGA GROUP SAL ERGA GROUP SAL EMPLOYEE TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY SUPPORT 404 413 ERGAMANIA is a simple word symbolizing and resuming Erga’s family spirit that you can’t but feel it whenever dealing with our staff members. We want all our stakeholders to consider themselves part of what we like to call ERGAMANIA. Erga has other perspectives than the strict professionalism and solutions provision. It has this other human part that lies behind its big production and strictness. This human magical part that can’t be easily described. It is only felt by the people dealing with Erga and is directly linked to our commitment towards the society and the environment. We, as one of the biggest architectural consulting companies in the region, are responsible and aware on our day-to-day impact on these 2 dimensions: society and environment. Being conscious of the importance of these 2 dimensions Erga tries to spread a family spirit among its staff members to raise the awareness Erga Academy was created to boost the education of Erga staff members to evolve in terms of knowledge, regarding these 2 issues and organizes whenever possible collective activities to staff members and their competence and skills and to properly work as per Erga standards & regulations. It is a training system families to push this issue forward. based on live or recorded training given internally or externally. Erga Academy is not strictly limited to Annually, Erga organizes special event: training sessions; it manages seminars, workshops, product presentations and Erga’s knowledge base including the Visual Library and the lessons learned. End of Year Erga Gathering Christmas Day with Erga Children A suitable training system is put in place based on tracks and credits beneficial for each staff member in their field. Five training tracks are identified to be followed Humanitarian events on Easter & Christmas EPREP (Erga Preparatory) The basics of Erga systems to be known by all Erga staff Plantation Campaigns EPRO (Erga Professional) What Erga Engineer should know in Erga Systems Worldwide All Year Vide Grenier supporting Auxilia EADMIN How to be an Erga Administrative Professional Blood Drive with Donner Sang Compter (DSC) EPDM How to become a n Erga Project Design Manager (PDM) Professional Periodic visits or help on a case by case to people in need (orphans, homeless shelters, drug addicts, SM How to become an Erga Site Management Professional patients with a need of medication or surgery...) Below we will be giving a small recap of the training sessions given to staff members mentioning the Our corporate gifts are in their majority as a support to Sesobel or Message de Paix number of participants: Below you can find the logos of some of the NGOs we support (the enironmental ones were mentioned in environmental section): 96 153 51 18 26 7 REVIT REVIT QUALITY ENERGY LEED GA PMP FAMILIES ADVANCED REPs MODELING 23 51 17 16 320 258 DECISION BUSINESS TIME QUALITY BSC LEADERSHIP MAKING ETIQUETTE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT 26 GRI DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE ERGA GROUP SAL 4Governance (cont’) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 14 GRI CONTENT INDEX 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 14 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 14 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns N/A 102-35 Remuneration policies N/A GRI DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE 102-36 Process for determining remuneration N/A GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURE 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration N/A 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio N/A 1Organizational Profile 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio N/A 102-1 Name of the organization 1 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4-6 5Stakeholder Engagement 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 16 102-5 Ownership and legal form 5 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16 102-6 Markets served 4 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 16 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 4 6Reporting Practice 102-9 Supply chain 8 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 17 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 8 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 18 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 8 102-47 List of material topics 18 102-12 External initiatives 9 102-48 Restatements of information N/A 102-13 Membership of associations 9 102-49 Changes in reporting 17 2Strategy 102-50 Reporting period 17 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 102-51 Date of most recent report N/A 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10 102-52 Reporting cycle 17 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 17 3Ethics & Integrity 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 17 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 10-12 102-55 GRI content index 17-28 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 12 102-56 External assurance 17 4Governance GRI103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 102-18 Governance structure 14 103 Environmental 20 102-19 Delegating authority 14 103 Social 24 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 14 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics N/A GRI300: ENVIRONMENTAL 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 14 302 Energy 21 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 14 304 Biodiversity 22 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 14 305 Emissions 21 102-25 Conflicts of interest 12 306 Waste 23 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 14 307 Environmental Compliance 22 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 14 GRI400: SOCIAL 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 14 403 Occupational Health & Safety 25 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts 14 404 Training & Education 26 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 14 413 Local Communities 27 28
