CSR Report Communication on Progress / 2018 1 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 1 Content Statement from CEO 3 Egmont at a Glance 5 CSR Highlights 6 How Egmont Works with CSR 8 People Egmont’s Workforce 12 Gender Balance 13 Supervisory Boards 14 Anti-corruption and Whistleblowing 16 Social Compliance Programme 17 Product Safety and Quality 24 Egmont UK Case 26 Planet Nordisk Film Cinemas Case 30 Environment and Climate 31 Profit Charitable Activities 2018 40 2 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Statement from CEO In Egmont we believe that responsible behaviour and sustainable business practices are essential for being a strong and trusted media group. Our social engagement dates back to 1878 when Egmont was established. It is part of the company DNA and we continuously strive to explore and refine our commitment to be a responsible company that acts with integrity wherever we operate. During 2018, Egmont has continued working towards setting standards of excellence to ensure that our DNA is reflected in the behaviour of our employees, business partners and suppliers across all divisions. We recognise that there is a growing demand for corporate responsibility and transparency and a heightened attention to environmental and social issues amongst the modern consumers and we believe that a prerequisite for maintaining our social license to operate is anchored in sustainable development and mitigation of potential negative impacts from our company operations. Egmont has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2013 and we use it as a formal framework for our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives and operations. The present report is the sixth of its kind. Egmont is fully committed to respect human rights and labour rights as set forth in the UN Guiding Principles, and our efforts are directed at both employees in Egmont and at our business partners and suppliers. This report includes Egmont’s mandatory CSR reporting in accordance with article 99a, and Egmont’s report on targets and policy with respect to the underrepresented gender in accordance with article 99b, of the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven). Steffen Kragh President & CEO of Egmont CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 3 +30 countries 4 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Egmont at a Glance Egmont is a leading media group in the Nordics. It 1.6bn was founded in 1878 and is a commercial foundation. The strategy “Grow with the Modern Consumer” entails investments in digital growth and new tech-based businesses while applying technology to strong storytelling. The annual profit is invested in business development and in the charitable activities to support vulnerable children and young people as well as donations for film talents through Nordisk EUR revenue Film Fonden. Concurrently, Egmont is continuously evaluating the possibilities to improve and optimise sustainability within its commercial activities. Egmont Commercial activities Charitable activities Egmont Publishing Nordisk Film TV 2 Books Funding and Grant Administration CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 5 CSR Highlights The Sustainable Development Goals Egmont has identified goal 4, 8 and 12 as its focus areas. Each goal has been identified based on the potential negative impact and the best opportunities that the Egmont Group may have to positively impact the goal. 1158 product safety inspections 0 zero tolerance incidents Active Manufacturers by Country Risk Group Risk group 1 40% Risk group 3 40% Risk group 2 20% 6 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Egmont’s CO2 Emission by Category Energy consumption 40% Waste 2% Waste (return products) Paper consumption 0.3% 79% Goods transportation 3% At least 1 female board member by 2020* *Elected by the annual meeting 12.8m EUR for charitable activities 46% females in management CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 7 How Egmont Works with CSR Egmont has worked with CSR for more than 100 Goals for 2019 years. In the commercial activities, Egmont’s work with CSR was originally founded on compliance. • Launch of the Egmont Business The work is now guided by the key principles set Ethics Policy out in Egmont’s Code of Conduct (CoC) for all • Develop and launch training Egmont entities, suppliers and business partners. Egmont developed the responsible supply chain • All relevant employees trained by scheme “Egmont Social Compliance Programme” end of 2019 for suppliers and business partners in 2005 and committed to the UN Global Compact in 2013. The UN Global Compact principles and Egmont’s CoC are aligned and Egmont continues to sustain its commitment to each element of the UN Guiding Principles on an ongoing basis. The CoC in its full length can be found at Egmont.com. In 2018, Egmont further initiated a range of new CSR efforts as described in the following. The Egmont Business Ethics Policy In addition to Egmont’s CoC primarily targeted at suppliers and business partners, Egmont is soon launcing a new Business Ethics Policy (the “BE Policy”) for employees across the Egmont Group divisions. This BE Policy sets out the minimum standards and ethical principles that apply to all employees and it is tailormade to reflect the dilemmas and concerns that Egmont’s employees may face during their daily business. The BE Policy includes a wide range of topics such as anti-bribery, conflict of interests, fraud, human rights, work environment and environment as well as special topics applicable to a media group such as marketing law, anti-piracy, data protection and social media. All employees will be trained regularly in the BE Policy. This training will replace the current training on antibribery and corruption. 8 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Egmont has identified goal 4, 8 and 12 as its focus Egmont will continue to work with the relevant areas. Each goal has been identified based on the divisions in order to identify potential waste potential negative impact and the best opportunities reduction projects with special focus on plastic. that the Egmont Group may have to positively impact the goal. The new initiatives will along with Egmont’s other CSR priorities shape the work with CSR for the Goal 4, in particular target 4.6 “universal literacy and coming years. numeracy”, has strings into most of the divisions, but primarily relates to Publishing and Books, especially the educational books. Furthermore, Egmont Fonden has for its charitable CSR Priorities 2019-2021 activities defined a strategic goal that by 2030 all • UN Global Compact young Danish people are able to complete an upper secondary education. • Egmont Social Compliance Programme Goal 8 is tied to Egmont’s responsible supply chain programme, which is – for the time being – closely • Environment – implementation of linked to Publishing and Books. Specifically target 8.7 policy & setting of KPI’s and 8.8 “end modern slavery, trafficking and child labour” and “protect labour rights and promote • In-depth work to support SDG 12 safe working environment” are the cornerstones of • Implementation of the new Egmont’s CoC and the Social Compliance Programme. Egmont Business Ethics Policy for Recently, Egmont has started working with goal employees and development of 12, primarily focusing on target 12.2 and 12.5 new training “Sustainable management and use of natural resources” and “Substantially reduce waste generation”. These targets have been identified as the biggest risks for negative impacts by Egmont’s current business conduct. In 2019, Egmont will work with the relevant divisions to identify potential mitigating actions in order to balance its environmental footprints within these areas. In 2018, Egmont joined a two-year project with the Confederation of Danish Industry on how to successfully push the SDG agenda. In 2019, CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 9 10 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 People • Egmont’s Workforce • Gender Balance • Supervisory Boards • Anti-corruption and Whistleblowing • Social Compliance Programme • Product Safety and Quality • Egmont UK Case CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 11 Egmont’s Workforce Egmont cares about the well-being of its In addition to the leadership development, Egmont people – short and longterm. Egmont believes that expects its leaders to focus and take action on the a good life at work for its employees is realised engagement of people in their teams. Egmont through a combination of a meaningful job, a great therefore conducts engagement surveys twice a purpose, great co-operation with colleagues and year. Engagement is essential for short-term business opportunities to develop professionally. performance and customer satisfaction, and for the People are the most important asset in Egmont longer-term sustainability of the company. Egmont’s and it is one of Egmont’s strategic priorities to be engagement remains at a high level, both in terms people-driven. In an industry where the speed of of the participation rate in surveys (86%) and the change in technology and consumer behaviour is overall engagement level (7.6 on a 10-point scale), a precondition, Egmont needs to have the right according to the latest survey as of November 2018. competencies to stay relevant, and a culture where development and innovation is paramount. Thus, Egmont wants to strengthen the learning culture across divisions, to eliminate the risk of a Flexible Workforce workforce gradually losing its ability to stay relevant in respect to external demands. This is done through In 2018, Egmont has continued to adjust its a mix of professional skills development, acquisition workforce through a number of different of new competencies, and new ways of working. approaches: Recruitment of new skills, acquisition of new companies and restructuring of businesses that are under market pressure. As for new competencies, Egmont continues to increase the number of digitally Leadership Development native employees, either through talent acquisition and Employee Engagement or through investments in new companies. In addition, Egmont is upskilling its current workforce Egmont’s leaders are vital to the well-being in a selected few, critical skills areas (e.g. data and development of its people and it is crucial analytics). for Egmont’s continued success that its leaders understand how to guide their employees in the rapid changes in business models. Therefore, Egmont continues to invest in leadership training, which aims at unfolding Egmont’s strategy in a set of key leadership principles. By the end of 2018, approx. 160 leaders have completed the ‘Committed to Lead’ programme, with an average satisfaction score of 4.4 (5-point scale). This corresponds to approx. 30% of the total leadership population, and the rate of completion increases with the pipeline of other leaders lined up for the programmes in 2019. Further, the leadership programme will be extended to encompass informal leaders, i.e. functional specialists who are expected to impact a wider population of employees, although they do not have formal responsibility for direct reports. 12 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Gender Balance According to the Danish Business Authority, a Policy 40/60 split is considered equal balance between • Egmont does not discriminate based on genders. This makes Egmont aligned with the gender, age, handicap, ethnic or religious standards as Egmont’s total workforce consists of background 52% females and 48% males. The same goes for the total management pool with a gender split of 46% • Egmont wants to always employ the bestfemales and 54% males. qualified person, irrespective of gender The table below shows variations across divisions, • Egmont aims to have a diverse set of which are believed to be fairly reflective of the competencies. Diversity is not a matter available talent pool. of gender only but can also include educational background, functional Egmont aims at being an attractive workplace experience, age, cultural background, etc. for both female and male managers where their competencies can be used the best way possible • When recruiting or promoting people irrespective of gender and where both genders Egmont demands that both male and find that they have equal and fair opportunities for female candidates are identified promotions. Total workforce Managers Unit Gender Count % Gender Count % Egmont total1 Female 1693 52 Female 307 46 Male 1589 48 Male 360 54 Egmont International Female 66 47 Female 10 53 Holding Male 74 53 Male 9 47 Egmont Publishing Female 767 64 Female 161 59 Male 429 36 Male 114 41 Books Female 149 68 Female 21 52 Male 69 32 Male 19 48 Nordisk Film Female 289 46 Female 60 36 Male 333 54 Male 106 64 TV 2 Female 242 36 Female 35 36 Male 428 64 Male 62 64 Joint Ventures* Female 180 41 Female 20 29 Male 256 59 Male 50 72 1) Number of employees included in the Egmont People Survey as of November 2018, representing 80% of the group’s total work staff, paid by the month. * Joint Ventures includes: Dogan Egmont, Outnorth, Fjellsport, Vimond, Sempro, Bageren och Kocken and Egmont Kustannus. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 13 Supervisory Boards The Board of Trustees believes that its members should be chosen for their overall competencies but also recognises the benefits of a diverse Board in terms of experience, cultural and educational background and gender. The Board of Trustees has on that basis set the following target for the underrepresented gender on the Board. Target Egmont aims to have at least one female board member appointed by the annual meeting no later than 2020 According to the Charter of the Egmont Foundation, appointment to the Board of Trustees takes place when a member’s appointment period expires and board members are appointed for a period of four years. Egmont uses external help to identify candidates to the Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation. Both male and female candidates must be identified. During 2018, the Board of Trustees has not appointed any new members. It had an aim to appoint one female member to the board no later than 2018 but that goal has not been accomplished. The Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation is appointed for up to three ordinary periods of four years and may be appointed for up to two further periods of two years. The Board believes that it is possible to identify the right female candidates for the Board. On that basis the Board has decided to continue to have a target of at least one female candidate appointed to the Board no later than 2020. 14 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 The target for the underrepresented gender on the has a Board that consists of the same members as the board applies to all Egmont’s Danish companies Egmont Fonden, the target has not been met and no that are required under Danish law to set such new members were elected in 2018. In Nordisk Film target. The companies are: Egmont Fonden, Egmont Biografer A/S the target was not met in 2018 but a International Holding A/S, Egmont Publishing woman was elected to the board in January 2019 A/S, Egmont Printing Service A/S, Lindhardt and which means that the target is now met. Finally, in Ringhof Forlag A/S, Nordisk Film A/S, Nordisk Film Egmont Printing Service A/S, the target was not met Distribution A/S, Nordisk Film Biografer A/S and in 2018 but a woman has been elected to the board GoGift.com A/S. All these companies, except Egmont in January 2019 and the target is therefore met now. International Holding A/S and Egmont Printing Service A/S now have equal representation on the Supervisory Board, as one out of three board members elected by the general meeting is a woman. In Egmont International Holding A/S, which Target met Egmont Fonden / Egmont International Holding A/S 6 0 Egmont Publishing A/S 2 1 Lindhardt and Ringhof Forlag A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film Distribution A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film Biografer A/S 2 1* GoGift.com A/S 2 1 Egmont Printing Service A/S 3 1* * Changes to the board were made in January 2019 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 15 Anti-corruption and Whistleblowing Egmont continues to assess its risks in relation to Results corruption in the business areas and countries where it operates, and in relation to new partners. Egmont In 2018, Egmont aimed at training at least 90% regularly reconsiders its corruption evaluation of the relevant employees in the new BE Policy . and continues to conclude that the overall risk of However, the goal was not met as the launch of the corruption in Egmont is low. BE Policy was postponed to the first quarter of 2019. Egmont has a clear policy on anti-corruption. It In 2018, Egmont had its main focus on compliance does not tolerate any use of corruption, bribery or in regard to GDPR and to ensure that all employees facilitation payments and it conducts its business were trained in the new rules on personal data and without the use of any of these. Egmont also has a that new routines were implemented. Therefore, whistleblowing policy, which can be accessed online communication of and training in the BE Policy was at Egmont.com. postponed to 2019. In 2018, Egmont also had a goal of no corruption Actions and/or bribery in Egmont or in the supply chain. This goal was met since Egmont has not detected any Egmont works with all its relevant business partners corruption or bribery or received any reports on this. to ensure that they sign up to Egmont’s CoC of One report was made into Egmont’s whistleblowing Conduct (or has its own code with equivalent system during 2018. The whistleblower alleged standards) that clearly states that no use of that meeting hours were handled inconsistently corruption, bribery or facilitation payments takes in one business unit. The matter has been dealt place or is tolerated. Egmont carries out audits and with through the division’s HR department and has due diligence on the basis of the risk assessment subsequently been closed. made and it continues to work with manufacturers or other partners in countries with perceived high risk of corruption to ensure in particular that no manufacturers attempt to improperly influence the Goals for 2019 outcome of independent audits carried out. The new BE Policy, which includes anti-corruption as • Train all relevant employees in the well as other compliance areas will be rolled out. The Egmont Business Ethics Policy BE Policy incorporates a number of legal compliance policies and areas in Egmont such as anti-corruption, • No corruption and/or bribery in conflicts of interest, gifts and entainment, Egmont or in the supply chain competition law, and anti-fraud. Employees or stakeholders who encounter violations of Egmont’s BE Policy can voice their concerns anonymously through the online whistleblowing system. For more information on anti-corruption and whistleblowing in Egmont please go to Egmont.com. 16 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Social Compliance Programme It is important to Egmont that the company The programme includes respects human rights and provides decent working conditions and a safe working environment in • Risk-based assessment and all its operations and requires that all business mapping of manufacturers partners and suppliers do the same. This is reflected in Egmont’s CoC, which contains the most salient • Social audits at manufacturers human and labour rights issues in connection to against the Egmont Code of Egmont’s business operation and it is aligned with Conduct or review of third-party the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact. audit reports, covering human rights, labour rights, environment, The Egmont Social Compliance Programme and anti-corruption originated in a need for responsible supply chain management covering covermount suppliers. • Product safety and quality tests Covermounts are toys, stationery or handcrafts and assessments aimed at children and sold as presents wrapped with children’s magazines. Most of Egmont’s covermount • Ensuring compliance with licensor/ manufacturers are located in Asia (primarily China) retailer requirements leading to an increased risk of violations of human rights and labour rights. In order to mitigate this • Remediation plans and following up risk, the Egmont Social Compliance Programme was implemented in 2005 to ensure that manufacturers comply with human rights and provide decent and safe working conditions, as well as ensuring that As a minimum, the suppliers for products are produced in a responsible manner and are safe to use. The Programme is global and Egmont products should meet rolled out to also include magazines, books, Egmont Egmont’s Zero Tolerances (ZTs) licensed products, games and activity products and promotional items. • No violation of local minimum wage regulations (equivalent to pay per standard work hour) Actions • No forced, bonded or compulsory The aim of the programme is to ensure that relevant labour suppliers comply with Egmont’s CoC, licensor requirements and applicable laws. • No child labour • No risk of losing life and/or limb • No corruption and/or bribery CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 17 Egmont has a global manufacturer pool, which increases the complexity of the risk assessment. In order to manage the supply chain most efficiently Egmont operates with three country risk profiles. Each country risk profile has a different social audit cycle depending on its risk level: Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 high risk countries medium risk countries low risk countries maximum audit audit cycle ranging audits performed on cycle of 12 months from 12-24 months an ad hoc basis The country risk parameters are based on several Egmont provides inspiration letters to the acknowledged tools and analysis and also take manufacturers in its supplier pool to further Egmont’s licensors’ requirements into account. This communicate and advice on good practices within ensures an aligned process for all manufacturers human rights and labour rights. During 2018, the working with Egmont branded products. Egmont inspiration letter focused on excessive working continuously strives to keep updated on the hours as this is a reoccurring topic in the social audit changing political, economical and social landscapes findings. Egmont recognises that in general overtime in the regions where Egmont and its business hours occur frequently in the manufacturing partners operate, and adjusts the relevant country industry, which is often welcomed or sometimes risk profiles accordingly. requested by the employees. However, Egmont finds it important to inform and educate its business Based on the country risk assessment, the social partners about the downsides of unhealthy working compliance team ensures that all new manufacturers practices to ensure the health and safety of the are enrolled in a production audit cycle. workers and a stable supply chain. Manufacturers in Group 1 and 2 are all required to undergo a pre-production audit or submit a valid Almost 42% of the manufacturers in the social audit report before production can start. The manufacturer pool read the inspiration letter. This pre-production audit helps Egmont to assess the indicates that the inspiration letter is a valuable manufacturer’s social compliance level. Apart from tool to communicate general issues and concerns to the audits, Egmont expects that the manufacturers Egmont’s suppliers. Egmont will continue to send engage in continued remediation. Egmont out its inspiration letters during 2019. The different acknowledges that audits are only a snapshot of the activities help to ensure that Egmont’s products conditions at the manufacturers, and that audits are manufactured in a responsible, safe and ethical have their limitations. However, audits remain manner. For more information about how Egmont the preferred tool to ensure social compliance for works with its suppliers and the Egmont Social Egmont and its business partners. Egmont also Compliance Programme please go to Egmont.com requires manufacturers to ensure that subcontractors are aware of and comply with Egmont’s CoC. For covermount manufactures located in China, Egmont visits the facility to review their quality management system, to understand their capabilities and competencies and to verify whether the facility can meet the compliance level before they are approved as an Egmont supplier. 18 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Active Manufacturers by Country Risk Group Risk group 3 As of 31 December 2018, Egmont had a total of 487 active manufacturers in its 40% manufacturer pool. 196 in Group 1, 99 in Group 2, and 192 in Group 3. Risk group 1 Risk group 2 40% 20% Results In 2018, Egmont reviewed 228 social audit reports, in which, 34 social audits were carried out by Egmont based on Egmont CoC and national legislation. The remaining 194 audit reports were based on templates or standards such as SA8000, BSCI, ICTI, SMETA/SEDEX and licensor audits, which are equivalent to Egmont’s CoC and audit requirements. The number of audits differs from year to year and depends on the size of the manufacturer pool, the country risk profiles of the manufacturers, and findings from previous years’ audits. In 2018, Egmont did not experience or receive reports of any zero tolerance violations. Social Audit Reports by Country Latvia 2 Hungary 1 Lithuania 1 Czech Poland 17 Republic 3 Pakistan 5 China 163 Croatia 1 Ukraine 4 Italy 2 India 4 Turkey 13 Bangladesh 4 Thailand 3 Serbia 1 Malaysia 4 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 19 Findings from Social Audits in Country Risk Group 1 4.1% 1.1% Documentation Observation Only 8.5% Protection of the Environment 12.3% Compensation 55.8% Health and Safety 15.6% Hours of work 0.9% Housing provided 0.0% Anti-corruption 0.7% Freedom of Employment 0.0% Coercion and Harassment 0.7% Overtime Compensation 0.0% Freedom of Association 0.3% Sub-contracting 0.0% Non-Discrimination 0.2% Publication of code 0.0% Zero Tolerances In 2018, Egmont’s social compliance team evaluated to excessive work hours, which covers overtime 201 audit reports from manufacturers in Group 1. exceeding the national limit. This was also the case The figure above shows the distribution of findings in 2017. across these manufacturers. In general, it was found that the prevailing findings occur in three main The third category is, like 2017, Compensation. categories. The highest number of findings occurs in Compensation covers insufficient social insurance, the category Health and Safety. This category has 42 insufficient paid leave and other legally required subcategories, and the most common findings are benefits, which have not been provided to the related to: Inappropriate use of personal protective workers. The findings in this category are mostly equipment (PPE), Work Environment (hazardous related to insufficient social insurance, which means factor, noise etc.), and Health Check. Inappropriate workers often do not participate in the national use of PPE was also the most common finding in social insurance scheme. This violation is most 2017, whereas work environment and health checks commonly seen among the Chinese suppliers due are new on the top three list. to difficulties for the employees to transfer their social insurance saving from one province to another. The second largest category is still Work Hours, which However, Egmont expects this violation to decrease covers the total hours the workers work, if they have significantly in 2019 as a new centralised social a sufficient number of rest days and sufficient rest insurance scheme will apply in China from 2019. between shifts. The most common finding is related 20 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Findings from Social Audits in Country Risk Group 2 1.2% 1.2% Compensation Freedom of Employment 3.6% 3.6% 1.2% Hours of work Observation Only Protection of the Environment 4.8% Sub-contracting 9.6% Documentation 74.7% Health and Safety 0.0% Anti-corruption 0.0% Non-Discrimination 0.0% Coercion and Harassment 0.0% Overtime Compensation 0.0% Freedom of Association 0.0% Publication of code 0.0% Housing provided 0.0% Zero Tolerances In 2018, Egmont’s social compliance team evaluated 27 audit reports from manufacturers in Group 2. The figure above shows the distribution of findings across these manufacturers. In general, it was found that the prevailing findings occur in one main category, being Health and Safety. The most common findings are related to: Material safety data sheet (MSDS) & labels for chemical substances, and PPE. These categories have both changed from 2017. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 21 Describing the Audit Findings In 2018, the Egmont social compliance team once again saw a rise per audit in violations of Egmont’s Egmont’s social compliance team works actively CoC and national legislation in the manufacturer with the manufacturers to increase the compliance pool. level at the facilities over time. However, Egmont The number of findings for Group 1 and 2 recognises that the constant changes in the supply manufacturers has changed from 1320 in 2017 with chain makes it difficult to impact and set long-term an average of 4.8 findings per audit to 1241 findings goals to improve the working conditions for the in 2018 with an average of 5.4 findings per audit. short-term suppliers. In case of serious findings The average number of findings per audit conducted Egmont always cooperates with the manufacturer for Group 1 manufacturers increased to 5.8 in 2018 to try to mitigate these findings. However, despite from 5.2 in 2017. The average number of findings the remediation efforts if the serious findings per audit for Group 2 manufacturers increased to continue at the factory, Egmont will terminate the 3.1 in 2018 from 2.4 in 2017. For 34 of the audited relationship after careful consideration. During 2018 factories more than one audit report was registered Egmont had two of such cases. during the year. This was primarily due to the annual renewal of the audit reports for the newly Goals for 2019 introduced manufacturers, but a number of factories • Continue to work with the also had follow-up audits due to severe violations supplier pool to remediate CoC and one factory moved to a new location. violations and to work towards a declining incident curve Egmont’s supplier pool continuously changes as new market trends generate new product categories to • Continue to work with newly the total product portfolio. This continuous change acquired companies in terms of calls for an agile supply chain that can deliver social compliance different manufacturing capabilities upon request. In 2018, Egmont introduced 82 new manufacturers to • Draft implementation guideline the manufacturer pool. 52 of the new manufacturers for the Egmont Code of Conduct were registered in Group 1, three were registered in Group 2, and 27 in Group 3. Some of these manufacturers were only used for one-time orders. However, 66 of the newly introduced manufacturers were still active as of 31 December 2018. 55 of these are located in countries included in Group 1 or 2. The new manufacturers were accountable for 369 of this year’s findings with a total number of 64 audit reports and an average of 5.8 findings per audit. Egmont expects that this number will decline in 2019 when the suppliers have made the necessary remediations identified during their Egmont approval process. Egmont has not been able to identify the root cause for the overall increase in audit violations per audit but continues to improve its remediation process to better monitor deviations in the audit results. 22 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 23 Product Safety and Quality It is essential to Egmont that all products are fit for Results purpose and comply with all legal requirements, In 2018, national authorities approached Egmont in order to ensure the safety of the consumers, in four cases as part of their market surveillance the environment and prevent reputational risks activities. Where requested, Egmont has been able to for the company. Products must be safe both in provide sufficient documentation, which resolved the the immediate usage situation and on a long-term issues. Egmont has taken advice from authorities in basis; they cannot lead to negative health impact one case on a specific question on the understanding on the users. Product safety is especially crucial for of the Toy Safety Directive. products aimed at children – such as books, toys, and One product was notified with the European Safety covermounts. Gate system (formerly known as RAPEX) in 2018 due to a recall in the Netherlands. In 2015, Egmont originally placed the specific products on the market Actions in compliance with all applicable laws and rules. A Egmont is a member of toy associations at both limited number of remaining products, which had national and European level and is in close dialogue been ordered scrapped, entered the market in 2018 with major test institutes and experts involved in without Egmont’s knowledge or approval and were toy safety standardisation and regulation. These deemed non-compliant. The situation has been activities make it possible to remain updated reviewed and internal measures have been taken with the most recent developments within safety to ensure that scrapping-processes are performed requirements and legislation. according to Egmont’s standards. Product safety assessment and testing is done prior to production for all toys, including covermounts. During an internal review, we discovered a product Products are redesigned in cases where safety with variations in the components causing a concerns are identified. possibility that the dimensional requirements for To ensure quality and product safety, Egmont is such products were not met. Detailed investigations highly dependent on its manufacturers. In 2018, revealed that only a very limited number of products Egmont has conducted 1158 quality and safety could potentially have a minor deviation from the inspections on toys distributed together with its dimensional requirements. Thus, the case was closed magazines. A total of 1379 orders were inspected in in dialogue with the authorities. 2017 and the decrease in 2018 relates to a decrease As part of their routine market surveillance in the amount of orders. The focus on this area activities, the authorities in Norway and Sweden remains and the introduction in 2016 of a new have conducted an inspection at Egmont Publishing concept where suppliers are requested to conduct on procedures, documentation, qualifications, etc. self-inspection according to certain in relation to product safety and compliance. The well-defined procedures has proven to be effective. conclusion was that all documentation was in place Manufacturer capabilities are monitored via and processes were sufficient. technical assessments and continuous follow-up visits to the factories that manufacture A review of the chemicals used in Egmont’s products covermounts. has led to registration of two substances under the REACH Regulation. These substances are used in For more information about product safety and certain activity products. quality please go to Egmont.com. 24 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Market Design and Testing Mass feedback development and approval production re. safety 478 product 8349 individual 1158 inspections 18 contacts on safety assessments tests carried out on related to covermounts carried out on covermounts covermounts covermounts 0 queries re. 86% of all tests 180 tests books, games, were related to on finished activity products chemical aspects covermounts 4 contacts to market surveillance authorities 1 European Safety Gate notification 0 product recalls carried out by Egmont Stakeholder Contact Egmont sources more than 40 million covermounts per year and sells them as part of its products, typically magazines. In 2018, 18 consumers have contacted Egmont with product safety queries related to different covermounts. In most cases, Egmont was only contacted by one or a few consumers per product and the cases are accordingly considered as single incidents and not systematic defects. Within the Nordic, Polish and UK markets, Egmont has not received customer queries regarding safety aspects connected with books and activity products. However, both for books and covermounts customers have asked for information about ingredients in toys and some consumers have questioned the use of certain preservatives used in liquid products. All consumer queries have been analysed and follow-up actions have been taken as relevant, including dialogue with our suppliers. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 25 Egmont UK – Case The Print Matters and Reading for Pleasure projects Egmont UK’s purpose is to make all children proud In their current study Egmont UK are working with readers. According to the Organisation for Economic a school in an area of social deprivation. The simple Cooperation & Development, reading for pleasure is idea behind this project is the question, ‘If parents the single biggest indicator of a child’s future success, are not reading to their children, then what happens more than the school they attend, more than their when the school fills the gap and reads to children parents’ educational background or their parents’ every day, just for fun?’ income. Egmont UK conducts regular research projects to help understand what encourages In the UK, teaching is very much focused on reading to identify the barriers, and to understand measuring and testing children and it is known the changing needs of its readers – parents and that this can put children off reading and make children. In the UK, the proportion of children who them think of it as a lesson to learn, not a pleasure. read for pleasure is in long-term decline, as is the Egmont’s work with the school, from September proportion of parents who read to their children. until Christmas 2018 explores the effect on children’s Egmont UK has particular concerns with the 3-4-yearattitudes, enthusiasm and motivations about reading old and the 8-10-year-old age group. In 2018, 56% of when the teacher reads aloud to the class with no 3-4s were read to every day/nearly every day, down teaching agenda, simply story time for pleasure. from 69% in 2013, and just 19% of 8-10s. Moreover, those parents that do read to their children tend to For more information on the UK project please visit stop around the age of 8, mistakenly believing that the research and insight section on Egmont.co.uk. once their child can read, they will choose to read themselves. The UK projects have had an enormously positive impact on children’s lives through improved parenting, teaching, educational attainment and, of course, reading for pleasure. When children are read to, they feel love, security, a deep sense of well-being. Parents feel like great parents, family ties are reinforced, the shared experience becomes part of family life. The physical closeness through cuddling up, sharing a story, and the chats and ideas are all affirming for the child. Parents giving their time and attention and reading to their child is nothing less than a gift of love. And when children read for pleasure independently they feel strong self-esteem, pride, relaxation, achievement and pleasure. 26 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 27 28 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Planet • Nordisk Film Cinemas Case • Environment and Climate CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 29 Nordisk Film Cinemas Case Four years ago, Nordisk Film cinemas allocated a green line budget in its operations to continuously reduce the energy consumption in its cinemas. Each year new investments are made to optimise Nordisk Film’s total energy consumption, which would otherwise naturally increase over time. The first year light bulbs were changed to LED lights in all Nordisk Film’s cinemas. This year’s investment includes new routings for the heaters in Lyngby to decrease the energy consumption spent on waste heat cooling, a new Building Energy Management System (BEMS) in Randers to regulate and monitor the heating, ventilation and air conditioning in the cinema and thereby decreasing the total energy consumption with 10-15%, and other smaller and continuous improvements in all its cinemas. Nordisk Film cinemas has initiated a project to explore alternatives to the various single use plastic products and packaging offered to the cinemagoers. This is done in collaboration with the industry. The project is ongoing, and the end goal is to convert the current plastic materials to biodegradable materials without compromising the customer experience. 30 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Environment and Climate Policy Actions Egmont has an impact on the environment and During 2018, Egmont has continued the work of climate through its business activities. With the creating awareness of Egmont’s Environmental Policy introduction of the Egmont Environmental Policy in the business as well as gathering knowledge of in 2016, Egmont committed to promoting greater the various initiatives with regard to sustainability environmental and climate responsibility. The policy in the organisation. In order to successfully set covers five main categories, which have been chosen KPI’s that mitigate Egmont’s negative impacts on based on their importance to Egmont and the impact the environment and climate, it is necessary to first Egmont’s businesses have on these areas. perform a risk and impact analysis and Egmont has started the work of scoping the analysis and setting up assumptions. The five areas in Egmont’s Furthermore, Egmont has taken steps to identify environmental policy specific projects with positive effect or mitigating • Energy Consumption impact on the environment, specifically focusing on • Packaging SDG target 12.2 and 12.5 “Sustainable management and use of natural resources” and “Substantially • Waste Handling reduce waste generation”. These projects include • Chemicals exploring alternatives to substitute or manage • Paper Sourcing plastics better in the future in the relevant divisions. Egmont started its environmental data collection for reporting under Art 99a of the Danish Financial The policy outlines Egmont’s environmental goals to: Statements Act in 2017 and has followed the same • reduce the energy consumption data collection scope for 2018. The data collection • reduce packaging and use recyclable/recycled materials focuses on the headquarters and business activities in • minimise waste Denmark, Norway, and Sweden as Egmont generates • reduce the use of chemicals the vast majority of its turnover in these markets. • reduce the use of paper at its office facilities Data for TV 2 is new for the 2018 reporting. In addition to the policy, Egmont’s new BE Policy for employees gives directions to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, to promote sustainable solutions and to consider the impact on the environment when making business decisions. The full policy can be found at Egmont.com CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 31 Results Egmont’s CO2 Emission by Category Energy consumption 40% Waste 2% Waste (return products) Paper consumption 0.3% 79% Goods transportation 3% The figure above illustrates Egmont’s CO2 emissions by four of the five categories in Egmont’s environmental policy. Chemicals are not included in this section as the chemical data is part of the REACH reporting to European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). Egmont’s biggest CO2 emission is due to the paper consumption within Books and Publishing. Second biggest CO2 emission is caused by Egmont’s energy consumption, which includes electricity and district heating from Egmont’s offices and cinemas in Denmark, Norway and Sweden. The data received in 2018 does not give the full overview of the waste and transportation categories, see further below. Paper Paper consumption has two subcategories: One is the consumption of office paper for printing in the offices in Denmark, Sweden and Norway and the other subcategory is paper consumption for Publishing and Books, which is significantly bigger than the first one. During 2018, several Egmont companies in Paper for offices tCO2e Norway have been added to the corporate procurement agreement, which has enabled the corporate procurement function to track the exact 7 consumption in this subcategory. Additionally, Egmont companies will be included in the 6 procurement scheme over the coming years. Hence, with a centralised procurement effort, Egmont will not only be able to monitor the entire amount of office paper consumption in the Group, but also to track the effect of any plans to reduce the future consumption. 2017 2018 32 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Books and Publishing produce books and magazines, Paper for products tCO2e which are sold in a number of countries. This entails a significant paper consumption used for the various products. Egmont requires that its suppliers deliver 29,329 only paper from sustainably managed forests. Most of the paper is sourced from European paper mills. 24,175 During 2018, Egmont saw a decrease in the total paper consumption for products. This is mainly caused by an underlying decline in the sale of printed magazines. 2017 2018 Energy Consumption Energy consumption covers electricity and district Electricity tCO2e heating from owned and rented buildings in Denmark, Sweden, and Norway. 3,617 During 2018 Egmont has seen a 42% increase in the total electricity consumption reported for 2018 2,545 compared to 2017. This is primarily due to the addition of the two locations of TV 2, which have been included in the reporting scheme in 2018. Furthermore, an increased need for ventilation in the Danish Nordisk Film cinemas during the 2017 2018 extraordinarily hot summer of 2018 has added to the total increase in CO2 emission due to the related increase in electricity consumption. There is a 13.5% increase in use of district heating District heating tCO2e between 2017 and 2018. However, this is mainly caused by the addition of Norwegian cinemas (Nordisk Film), which have been added to the 1,360 reporting scheme as of 2018. Thus, the two numbers cannot be directly compared. Most of the Egmont offices have reported an increase in district heating 1,198 due to a cold winter of 2018. A minor increase in the total district heating consumption is due to a change in the calculation methods for heating from 2017 to 2018 for HQ in Denmark. 2017 2018 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 33 Goods Transportation Goods Transportation tCO2e Transportation of books, games and activity products 1,123 to Sweden and Norway. 861 Egmont has seen an increase in air transportation in 2018. Air transportation is never the preferred transportation for Egmont’s products. Air transportation is only used for express delivery to accommodate customer requirements, when e.g. productions have been delayed. Both Sweden and 47 43 Norway have had such incidents in 2018. Both truck 29 and sea transportation have decreased in 2018. This 3 change is due to a declining trend in purchasing orders due to the declining sale. 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Sea Air Truck Packaging Popcorn cups cinema DK kg Packaging in this report relates to the plastic foil wrapped around magazines, and popcorn and snack 69,732 cups for Nordisk Film’s cinemas in Denmark. 55,535 CO2 emissions are not calculated for this category as the reported metrics differ, and it has been difficult to retrieve a life-cycle analysis (LCA) of the foil, and snack cups. During 2018 Nordisk Film has seen an increase of 2017 2018 purchased popcorn in the Danish cinemas causing an increase in the amount of popcorn cups sold to the consumers. The cinemas support a sustainable approach and will explore alternatives to the current Foil kg plastic cups in order to mitigate their environmental footprint. 155,000 128,540 The decrease of 17% in the amount of foil, wrapping the magazines and covermounts, from 2017 to 2018, is due to the declining production of magazines. Egmont is looking into different alternatives to replace the use of plastic foil in the future. 2017 2018 34 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Waste Waste contains two subcategories: The first one Office waste, incinerated tCO2e being household waste from the offices in Denmark and Sweden, TV 2’s office in Bergen and waste from the cinemas in Denmark and Norway, and the second one being return products cf. below. TV 2 490 and Nordisk Film Norway both entered the waste 453 reporting in 2018. The total amount of reported household waste has decreased approximately 8% in 2018 compared to 2017. It is not possible to identify the reasons behind this decrease. 2017 2018 Waste (return products) The second subcategory is return products, which are defined as the return products, primarily magazines, foil and covermounts, collected from retailers and disposed of by appointed external distributors. Most of the paper from return magazines in Denmark are recycled into paper used for newspapers. The leftovers from the magazines, e.g. covermounts and foil, are used as heating for the paper processes at the papermills. The rest of the leftover magazines are used at fairs and for different marketing purposes. The decrease of more than 66% in the amount of return products in 2018 compared to 2017 is not entirely a reflection of an actual decrease in Egmont return products but is due to the different reporting method from Bladcentralen (an external distributor appointed by Egmont) in Norway. In 2017 Egmont received the total number of return products in Norway from Bladcentralen, including non-Egmont products. In 2018, Bladcentralen has managed to provide only the number of return products, which Egmont is accountable for. The different reporting scope is reflected in the huge difference of recycled paper, which accounts for 6.600.000kg. However, the declining trend in the sale of paper magazines is also impacting the production sizes, which is reflected in a decrease of return products. Goals for 2019 • To perform a risk and impact analysis of Egmont’s environmental and climate impacts as well as collecting and analysing data across the Group • To create a baseline and set environmental KPI’s across the Group • Identify specific projects with positive effect or mitigating impact on the environment and climate CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 35 Table of specific CO2 emissions by category Scope 2 Emissions Energy consumption in tCO2e 2017 2018 Electricity 2,545 3,617 District heating 1,198 1,360 Total 3,743 4,977 Scope 3 Emissions Goods transportation in tCO2e 2017 2018 Truck 47 43 Air 3.30 28.92 Sea 1,123 861 Total 1,173 933 Paper consumption in tCO2e 2017 2018 Paper for products 29,329 24,175 Paper for offices 6 7 Total 29,335 24,182 Waste in tCO2e 2017 2018 Waste (incinerated) 490 453 Paper (recycled) 5.60 4.65 Glass (recycled) NA NA Metal (recycled) 0.10 0.30 Organic (recycled) 1.90 2.12 Plastic (recycled) NA NA Hazardous waste (recycled) 0.40 0.23 Hazardous waste (incinerated) 0.40 0.58 Total 498 460 Waste (return products) in tCO2e 2017 2018 Paper (recycled) 314 103 Plastic (recycled) 0.70 0.14 Metal (recycled) 0.10 0.00 Organic (recycled) 2.30 0.00 Waste (mix) 1.00 0.00 Total 318 103 Packaging 2017 2018 Cardboard (kg) 24,845 NA Foil (kg) 155,000 128,540 Popcorn cups cinemas DK (kg) 55,535 69,732 Popcorn and snack cups cinemas NO (pieces) 764,978 NA NA = Data not available For accounting method please refer to end pages 36 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 37 38 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Profit • Charitable Activities 2018 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 39 Charitable Activities 2018 Egmont Fonden’s charitable activities (hereafter Dyslexic Children and Young People referred to as Egmont Fonden) are based on social indignation and empathy. It was founded in In 2018, Egmont Fonden’s annual theme has been 1920 with the aim to alleviate the consequences dyslexia. It is estimated that approx. 7% of all for children and families living in poverty. Today, children and young people in elementary school our aim is to safeguard young people against are dyslexic. The Egmont Report 2018 introduces “modern poverty” – the lack of learning and life new data showing dyslexia as a significant barrier skills. We focus on the app. 15% who are at risk to completing an upper secondary education. 31% of not completing an upper secondary education. of dyslexics do not complete an upper secondary Egmont Fonden is working to ensure that by 2030 education; they get lower grades in all subjects; and all young people are able to complete an upper young people with a vulnerable social background as secondary education, and the foundation thereby well as dyslexia are double challenged. also contributes to UN sustainable development goal Egmont Fonden has earmarked DKK 20m for number 4 on quality education. initiatives that focus on dyslexia and seek broad cooperation with other partners in order to achieve Child and youth participation is a vital part of three goals: Egmont Fonden’s DNA as children and young people can contribute with important knowledge. Egmont • All dyslexic children must be identified as early Fonden strives to involve the child’s perspective in as possible all grants. In 2018, Egmont Fonden established a children’s panel to advise on the theme of the year • The disparity in grades in elementary school dyslexia. Furthermore, the foundation held a between dyslexic children and other children children’s summit, where the participants formulated must be minimised recommendations to decision makers on how to strengthen support for dyslexic children and young people. • The significance of social background on dyslexic children’s likelihood to complete an upper Egmont Fonden works through different types of secondary education must be minimised. initiatives: A Helping Hand, donations, partnerships, incubator grants and big bets. In previous years, the One of the first grants in relation to dyslexia has foundation’s big bets have been targeted at young been given to the municipality of Esbjerg. The children, children and young people placed in care or grant of DKK 5.7m will accelerate the municipality’s affected by divorce and, most recently, children with activities to help dyslexic children and young people. dyslexia. In 2018, Egmont Fonden donated a total of DKK 95.1m to support efforts aimed at children and young people’s learning and life skills. A Helping Hand Egmont Fonden provides individual support through partnerships in Denmark and Norway with organisations that are directly in contact with children and young people at risk. In 2018, Egmont Fonden distributed a total amount of DKK 10.2m via A Helping Hand. 40 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 The Pledge to Support Young Children 15% of the 4.5-year-olds currently have a linguistic level equivalent to an average 3-year-old. As a result, Egmont Fonden and the think tank DEA launched “Småbørnsløftet” (the pledge to support young children) in 2018, which has two ambitious goals: • All children must have a good life, and they must get the opportunity to develop the necessary skills – personal, social, and academic – to get a good schooling • The first 1,000 days of all children’s lives must be characterised by a secure upbringing and stimulation, so that they get versatile opportunities from birth to learn and develop. In 2018, 120 organisations signed the pledge and private as well as public investment in the area of early childhood has increased very much. Egmont Fonden has earmarked a total sum of DKK 75m for “Småbørnsløftet”. As an example, a grant of DKK 6.4m has been donated to Save the Children’s initiative Early Childhood Clubs, which, in collaboration with volunteers and professionals, aims to provide parents with tools to support their children’s well-being and positive development. Norway Egmont Fonden also wishes to take on a social responsibility in Norway, where Egmont has many commercial activities. The development and challenges of Norwegian children and young people are similar to those of children and young people in Denmark, and, consequently, Egmont Fonden’s strategy is the same in Norway and Denmark. In 2018, the foundation distributed a total of DKK 8.2m to Norwegian Women’s Public Health Association, The Crown Prince Haakon and Crown Princess Mette-Marit’s Foundation, and the Norwegian Red Cross for activities targeted at children and young people. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 41 Accounting Method for Climate and Environment Reporting 2018 Egmont has calculated its 2018 CO2 emissions based on last year’s numbers, which were calculated based on the international standard “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards” developed by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Consequently, the reported tCO2 in Scope 2 and 3 are dependent on the chosen variable defined in 2017. Energy consumption covers the following locations: Denmark: Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), Publishing, Nordisk Film Valby, and Nordisk Film cinemas. Sweden: The offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø. Norway: The cinemas in Norway and TV 2 offices in Bergen and Oslo. District heating is not reported for the TV2 locations. The cinemas in Norway did not report on district heating in 2017. Waste (household waste) covers the following locations: Denmark: Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), Publishing, Nordisk Film Valby, and Nordisk Film cinemas. Sweden: The offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø. Norway: The cinemas in Norway. TV 2 Norway’s office in Bergen was added in 2018. The Waste, incinerated variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø, Nordisk Film cinemas in Denmark, Publishing Denmark, and Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway. The Paper, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø, Nordisk Film cinemas in Denmark, Publishing Denmark, Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway, and TV 2 Norway’s office in Bergen. TV 2 Norway was added in 2018. The Glass, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø, Nordisk Film cinemas in Denmark, Publishing Denmark, Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway, and TV2 Norway’s office in Bergen. Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway and TV 2 Norway were added in 2018. The Metal, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø, and Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway. Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway were added in 2018. The Organic, recycled variable contains numbers from Publishing Denmark, Nordisk Film in Valby, Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway, and TV 2 Norway’s office in Bergen. Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway and TV 2 Norway were added in 2018. The Plastic, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø, and Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway. Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway were added in 2018. The Hazardous waste, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), and the office in Stockholm. The Hazardous waste, incinerated variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), and TV 2 Norway’s office in Bergen. TV 2 Norway’s office in Bergen was added in 2018. 42 CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 Waste (return products) covers: The paper, recycled variable covers return numbers from UBD (Denmark), Bladcentralen (Norway), and Tidssam (Sweden). The plastic, recycled variable covers numbers from 2017 for Tidssam and Bladcentralen. The numbers from Tidssam covers plastic foil for 50% of the childrens’ magazines and for Bladcentralen it covers Publishing. Bladcentralen did not report on plastic in 2018. The metal, recycled variable covers numbers from Bladcentralen from the Publishing and Kids division. The organic (recycled) variable covers numbers from Bladcentralen from the Publishing and Kids division. The waste (recycled) variable covers numbers from Bladcentralen from the Publishing and Kids division. This is not included in the 2018 reporting. Goods transportation covers: The numbers are obtained through DSV in Sweden and Norway and cover the books, games, and activity products transportation to both countries. For Sweden, the 2017 numbers are estimated based on 83% because Egmont received numbers for January-October 2017, and the 2018 numbers are estimated based on 75% as numbers from January-September 2018 were given. Paper covers: For products cover numbers from Publishing (Egmont Printing Service) and Books. The numbers from EPS cover magazines and books for Denmark, Sweden, Norway, UK, Poland and Germany. It was not possible to get data solely for Denmark, Sweden and Norway as the rest of the categories. Furthermore, the total is an estimate based on 80% of the production. EPS estimates that the ratio between magazines and books is 65%/35% for 2018. For 2017 the ratio was 60%/40%. Lastly, the number is the amount of paper bought by EPS and not the amount of paper used for production. For Books the number includes books produced by L&R and Carlsen, but does not include co-productions with other publishers. The number therefore covers 93% of the total production. The number reported by the books division is kg (weight) present at the warehouse and not paper bought, as above. The number for paper for offices is collected through Lyreco and cover office facilities in Denmark, Sweden and Norway and is the amount bought in 2018. In 2017, less locations in Norway were part of the reporting. Packaging covers: Covers the amount of foil bought by EPS for products sold in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Poland, Germany and UK. For 2017, the cardboard packaging covers cardboard bought by Publishing Sweden for all products including BGA products. The cardboard was not reported in 2018. The number of popcorn cups is the total volume (kg) of cups bought for the Danish cinemas. The amount from the Norwegian cinemas covers the pieces (popcorn and snack cups) bought for the Norwegian cinemas in 2017. However, no data has been reported on from the Norwegian cinemas in 2018. The cups are made of cardboard. CSR Report / Communication on Progress / 2018 43 Questions or comments related to this report, please contact Egmont Social Compliance at CSR@egmont.com 44 C N SWA ECO Progress Phillip CSR Report / Communication onPhotos: / 2018 Ørneborg NOR LA DI BEL Printed matter 5041-0492
