2019 IK Investment Partners Communication on Progress C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 2 Contents 03. Letter from our CEO/Insights 09. Social commitment 04. How private equity works 11. Environmental commitment 05. Responsible investment: How we do it 12. IK's environmental impact 06. Definition of ESG 13. Governance 07. IK's ESG journey 14. Our extended commitment: IKARE 08. Making the most of ESG opportunities in 2019 I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 3 Letter from our CEO IK INVESTMENT PARTNERS (IK) has been a signatory to governance (ESG) issues has always been integral the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2014 so this to our operations. Perhaps even more importantly, is our fifth Communication on Progress (COP) we are determined to maintain that focus and report, reflecting actions taken between December ensure that ESG awareness is embedded within our 2018 and December 2019. firm and the portfolio companies we support. This is also our second year as a signatory to the Turning 30 is an important milestone for IK. UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). We I am proud of the work that we have done to date, have published two reports in that capacity and I am helping companies to grow and fostering proud to say that we were awarded an A+ for both ­e mployment in many parts of the world. But, with of them. age comes responsibility. In a world where climate Of course, we are not alone in our support for change is a growing danger, where equality of the UNGC and the PRI. Many firms from many opportunity is still absent in many walks of life and different Global Compact industries have become human rights abuses are all too common, we remain signatories – and for good reason. Both are critical committed to responsible, sustainable investing, initiatives, which can change the lives of people founded on our core values of professionalism, around the world for the better. accountability and integrity. For IK, however, responsible investing goes to the heart of our firm and it has done since we were founded three decades ago. As a business with Christopher Masek Nordic roots, a focus on environmental, social and Chief Executive Officer, IK Investment Partners Insights DURING 2019, we made progress on several fronts. world, we are acutely aware that all our employees In 2018, we reported that we had extended our need to understand and appreciate the legislation ESG steering committee to include partners and around anti-money laundering, bribery and non-partners from IK. This year, we expanded the corruption. To that end, we introduced a new Mads Ryum Larsen committee still further, to include more members eLearning tool this year to train staff in these and Partner & Head of IR and ESG, IK Investment Partners of our operations and investment teams. The related areas. expansion highlights the importance that we attach Gender equality has been a particular focus to ESG initiatives. Crucially too, a larger team will for us this year, as we strive to achieve a balance be able to engage more widely with portfolio that better reflects the world at large. Private companies, providing them with the support they equity has traditionally been a male-dominated Mikaela Murekian need on ESG issues. profession but we are determined to create a more Director of Communications and ESG, IK Investment Partners In 2018, we also developed ethical guidelines for diverse workforce and today around half our staff our portfolio companies and, this year, we began to are women, including a number of senior investment implement them, work that will continue through professionals as well as partners. 2020 and beyond. During recent months, we have begun to develop a climate change tool as well, with Jovana Stopic a view to rolling it out across our fund strategies ESG Coordinator, IK Investment Partners over the coming years. With our advice and guidance, many companies in the portfolio have already undertaken several environmental initiatives to improve energy efficiency, reduce waste and curb water use. But our responsibilities start at home, within IK. As a firm whose relationships stretch across the I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 4 How private equity works PRIVATE EQUITY BENEFITS from a unique ownership model that is designed As our industry expands and matures, so too do our responsibilities. ESG and to add value for all stakeholders – managers, investors, employees and society RI policies are now commonplace within the industry both for private equity at large. firms and their portfolio companies driven both by ‘risk management’ and When private equity funds invest in a company, their general partners, fund ‘corporate values’. PwC's Private Equity Responsible Investment Survey 2019 investors and individual management teams all commit capital to that business. found that 81% of respondents have a responsible investment policy and 72% As such, all their interests are aligned – a structure designed to foster growth already use, or are developing, Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure and create value for stakeholders across the value chain. performance.1) For businesses, private equity gives them access to capital, expertise and experience so they can expand and develop at a faster pace than they could independently, generating jobs and driving innovation along the way. Private equity in stages For society, private equity-owned businesses help to drive economic In general, a private equity investment has three stages: the initial transaction, growth and prosperity in the communities where they operate. the development of the portfolio company and the sale of the company. Once For investors, such as pension funds and insurance companies, private a private equity fund has acquired a portfolio company, the advisors to that equity funds are designed to deliver long-term, sustainable value, which fund use their expertise to hone the company’s corporate strategy and contributes to greater returns for pensioners and other savers. accelerate growth so that the business can achieve its full potential. The alignment of interests between owners, managers and investors is When the strategies and plans identified at the time of the investment have central to private equity, a unique approach to governance that puts responsible been carried out, the fund will look to sell the portfolio company. Sometimes investment (RI) at its very core. And, while robust governance has always been the company is sold to an industrial buyer. Sometimes the business is sold a defining characteristic of our industry, there has been an increasing focus on to another private equity fund. Sometimes it is floated on a stock exchange, environmental and social issues as well, in recent years. in which case the private equity fund often retains a stake in the business for According to data from Invest Europe, the total amount of equity invested in a period of time. For more information on how IK has integrated ESG into all of European companies by private equity funds reached more than €80bn in 2018. these stages, please see the next page. 1) https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/services/sustainability/assets/pwc-private-equity-responsible-investment-survey-2019.pdf I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 5 Responsible investment: How we do it AT IK, RESPONSIBLE investing lies at the heart of who we are and what we do. the moment we consider a potential investment to the point at which we divest. We acknowledge that ESG issues can affect the performance of our portfolio With the help of the ''IK Way toolkit'', ESG is screened across all strategies and companies. Therefore, IK follows a structured approach to investment from embedded into every stage of the investment process. Pre-investment 1. We screen all potential investments against a well-defined RI, in place since 2012. 2. We scope additional due diligence on ESG-related concerns with external consultants, when deemed appropriate. 3. We advise the Investment Committee on the potential investment and present a detailed assessment of financial and non-financial information. This includes an ESG risk screening and a summary of identified ESG factors. 4. Depending on the materiality of the ESG risks identified, IK develops corrective actions in the post-acquisition Full Potential Plan. Active ownership 5. We commission an independent ESG review, which identifies ESG risks and opportunities of material character, and the company's ability to manage ESG. It also makes high-level recommendations, from quick wins through to strategic actions, with the aim of protecting and creating shareholder value. 6. The ESG review report is presented to the Board of Directors of the portfolio company in question. The work of the Audit & ESG Committee, which is established during the first 100 days of ownership, is based upon the findings of the ESG review. 7. We actively engage and support our portfolio companies with the implementation of high-level ESG recommendations, managing ESG risks and opportunities, and creating or protecting sustainable value. 8. We monitor portfolio companies' sustainability performance through the reporting online platform. Exit 9. We assess the ESG-related contribution to value creation and highlight positive ESG progress throughout the active ownership phase. The ESG review serves as a baseline against which the ESG performance is analysed, and a summary of 'lessons learnt' provided. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 6 Definition of ESG Climate change Labour rights and labour conditions Regulation Pollution and contamination of land, air and water Health and safety Anti-bribery and corruption measures Eco-efficiency and resource efficiency Treatment of customers and communities Business ethics Waste management Human rights Transparency and accountability Natural resource scarcity Diversity Board composition and independence Biodiversity Supply chain management Shareholder rights Data privacy and cybersecurity I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 7 IK's ESG journey Engaging in RI has been an integral part of IK's culture since the firm was founded. For the past decade, we have been developing a more structured approach to help us create sustainable value. 2012 – First independent ESG review for an IK portfolio 2016 – IK Code of Ethics adopted company commissioned 2018 – IK RI policy formally adopted 2014 – Formal integration of ESG 2007 criteria into IK's investment process – ESG team expansion – IK becomes a signatory to – First UN PRI report – First structured review of IK the UN Global Compact – ESG Manual and ethical portfolio companies' ESG – Integration of ESG matters into guidelines for portfolio awareness and approach the IK Annual Investor Meeting companies established 2011 – Dedicated ESG manager 2015 – First Communication on 2017 Progress (COP) report published – Audit & ESG Committee governance structure – IK ESG Steering Committee 2013 established established – E&S Assessment tool implemented – ESG Manual for Investment – IK RI questionnaire adopted Professionals developed to – ESG risk screening tool strengthen ESG process developed – IK's carbon footprint measured for the first time I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 8 Making the most of ESG opportunities in 2019 1. Stakeholder Participated in PwC private equity survey engagement Participated in RI forums in London and Stockholm on sustainability Core member of the Invest Europe ESG Roundtable issues Participated in the work on TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) guidance for private equity GPs, conducted with the UN PRI ESG panellist speakers at SuperReturn International 2019 in Berlin and at SuperReturn CFO/COO Forum 2019 in Amsterdam 2. Continued Extended ESG steering committee to strengthen Added one new ESG Coordinator our internal processes 3. Transparency Reporting to UN PRI, achieved A+ for two previous years to our investors Reporting to Global Compact, submitted fifth UN Global Compact COP report I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 9 Social commitment Human rights SUPPORT FOR INDIVIDUAL and collective human rights is embedded within IK's companies which have demonstrated a systematic denial of basic human rights. culture. As such, we are firmly committed to the values enshrined in the Universal We have also begun to roll out our 2018 ethical guidelines across our portfolio Declaration of Human Rights. We support fundamental principles of human rights companies. The uptake of ethical guidelines is ongoing or has been already across all our lines of business and we are committed to respecting human rights completed in 77% of the current portfolio, and we will continue this work in in any region where we operate. Our RI policy stipulates that we will not invest in 2020 and beyond. Labour WE BELIEVE THAT a good working environment and equal opportunities for all are ensuring and improving the corporate environment, employees’ health and fundamental rights for every employee. wellbeing, workplace safety, and gender composition of the workforce, and As an employer, we are committed to supporting best practice in terms of include training programmes for professional development. labour and employment. This includes equal opportunities for all, support for IK has a zero-tolerance approach towards modern slavery. Our employees diversity, zero tolerance of discriminatory practices and a culture of safety and are asked to raise concerns regarding modern slavery in any part of our welfare at work. Our commitment is reflected in our human resources policies. business, or our supply chains, as early as possible. In compliance with the UK We also strive to lead and sustain excellence by bringing together talented Modern Slavery Act 2015, IK publishes a transparency statement on steps taken individuals from different regions and walks of life. to ensure that slavery and human trafficking do not take place in our business, From the start of our investment in portfolio companies, we encourage them our supply chain or our portfolio. to maintain, continuously improve and strive for the best social practices and During 2019 we continued to support our portfolio companies as they initiatives. Across our portfolio companies, we have a high number of initiatives strengthed their policies on the prohibition of forced and child labour. We plan that have a positive impact on their employees. These initiatives are focused on to keep up this effort in 2020 and beyond. Equality “WE TAKE DIVERSITY issues very seriously at IK and we are continuously examining how we should strengthen our engagement on the topic – both internally and in our engagement with portfolio companies and other stakeholders. We appreciate that gender equality is a priority topic that needs to be tackled in the wider context of private equity. While IK currently has more female investment professionals compared to the industry average at all levels, we believe we can do better. Therefore, we are actively working on this by, for instance, engaging with recruiters and head-hunters to provide us with a balanced set of candidates or facilitating direct access to existing female investment professionals during a recruitment process for female candidates. We also work with and encourage our professional advisors to focus on this topic and promote advisor teams with broad diversity to match our own teams and beliefs. Our company policies on workplace agility consider diversity and inclusion by, for example, offering Back to Work coaching to parents returning after family leave. This approach is in line with IK’s values and policies. We believe that such initiatives also make perfect business sense, which is confirmed by studies that show a positive correlation between gender diversity and abovemedian financial returns.” Alireza Etemad Partner, member of the ESG Committee I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 10 Spotlight: Third Bridge IK Small Cap I Fund Acquisition date: August 2017 Country: United Kingdom Sector: Business services Third Bridge is a fast-growing primary research provider with a global footprint. The company provides its clients with unique insights into companies and markets through access to industry experts and market research. By leveraging its internal expert base and utilising its research analysts, Third Bridge can identify the most appropriate experts based on the client needs. “Third Bridge is an equal opportunities employer. Our policy firmly prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion, marital status, civil partnership status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic origins, cultural beliefs, disability, age, sex, trans-gender status, pregnancy or maternity, sexual orientation, or any other protected grounds, whether prohibited by legislation or otherwise. I am proud to be part of our executive team, which is now 40% female, and our two businesses, Connections and Forum, are headed by female executives. Our focus for 2020 will be to continue to highlight and foster our female leaders through employee resource groups and regional leadership forums.” Jahn Marie Surette Global Head of Connections I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 11 Environmental commitment CLIMATE CHANGE AND environmental impact are key focus areas for IK. IK is ability to assess different aspects of climate change-related risks of committed to measuring our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and we potential investments. continue to try to reduce emissions from our own operations. We are working Portfolio companies have also put in place a number of environmental on improving management of our environmental impact and promotion of initiatives to reduce waste, energy and water consumption. These include the greater environmental responsibility by engaging in environmental issues on a development of sustainable products with a reduced carbon footprint; lower daily basis across all our offices. water consumption and lower levels of waste; energy efficiency measures such Climate change is part of our RI policy, fully integrated into the investment as upgrading lighting to LED lights and energy generation from renewable process and part of the ESG definition. IK’s ESG team increasingly devotes sources; minimising food waste; and the use of recycled materials in time and resources to gain a better understanding of exposure to carbon risk. packaging. As a responsible owner, we encourage our portfolio companies to During 2019, we started work on a climate change tool that will enhance our assess and improve their environmental impact. Spotlight: Mademoiselle Desserts Spotlight: Optimum Group IK VIII Fund IK VIII Fund Acquisition date: July 2018 Acquisition date: January 2018 Country: France Country: Netherlands Sector: Consumer goods/Food Sector: Consumer goods/Food Mademoiselle Desserts is the leading manufacturer of premium frozen Optimum Group is a printer of self-adhesive labels, banding and shrink industrial-finished and semi-finished pastry in Europe. In pursuit of its aims to sleeves, primarily serving the food and retail market. The company is responsibly purchase and process raw materials, packaging and services, the committed to acting as a socially responsible corporate citizen and Group is constantly advancing its efforts to reduce the negative impact of its continuously improving its processes to be of better service to people, operations on the environment and encourages responsible practices by its society and the environment. suppliers. “We make an effort to prevent all forms of pollution, to limit waste production, “I am proud of Optimum to encourage recycling and to reduce our consumption of water and energy. Group’s endeavours Waste management is a salient issue for our business; therefore, we aspire to to contribute to the solution for use only recyclable packaging while ensuring that our products are also some of the sustainability properly conserved and presented to consumers. We choose monomaterial issues with our Optimum Green packaging and recyclable plastics like PET (polyethylene terephthalate) and packaging and labelling take part in non-recyclable waste elimination initiatives such as 2ZERO20. To products. Special printing achieve these goals, all our product development teams will receive training company Max. Aarts, part of on eco design by 2022. Optimum Group, developed We use local suppliers whenever possible, for example, we buy only flour Bio-Banderol – the innovative made from local wheat grown less than 250km from the production sites. and sustainable packaging Also, we are committed to the gradual inclusion of environmental solution that can contribute to ­r equirements in our purchasing data. For example, to honour our commitment reduction of the consumption of to support good agricultural practices and animal packaging materials and welfare, our sites in Weert (Netherlands) and increase recyclability. BioMaidenhead (UK) use only free-range eggs, and we banderoles can be made of are working towards achieving our aim to source kraft paper (FSC certified), with 100% of our eggs from alternative (cage-free) a bio-coating, or of bio-based producers by 2022–2025.” plastic. These materials are completely bio-based, making Barbara Bosquette this banderole 100% recyclable, Communications and Sustainable Development Manager compostable and food safe (BRC certified AA).” Bart de Boer Chief Executive Officer I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 12 IK's environmental impact Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 DIRECT INDIRECT INDIRECT Company Facilities Business Travel Company-owned Vehicles Purchased Electricity Waste Disposal Emissions: Emissions: Emissions: Not identified 61.37 tCO 2 e 1,463.81 tCO 2 e IK’s direct GHG not identified. Purchased electricity: Emissions generated from Business travel: Emissions generated by air, electricity consumption in IK's London office. rail and taxi transport operations for business purposes across all IK offices. Waste disposal: Emissions generated from waste streams, such as paper and board and plastic for recycling across all IK offices. Methodology IK'S GHG EMISSIONS seek to determine the amount of GHG emitted by our own IK’s CO 2 e emissions are calculated and reported in accordance with the operations, excluding the portfolio investments. The footprint is measured in GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. The GHG protocol framework splits GHG carbon dioxide equivalents (CO 2 e), which includes six major greenhouse gases. emissions into three scopes. IK’s emissions fall into Scope 2 and Scope 3, IK's GHG emissions imply the total amount of CO 2 e, produced by in-house which are considered critical to day-to-day operational activities. business travel activities, waste disposal and electricity consumption across IK offices. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 13 Governance AT IK, WE have an established governance framework for managing ESG matters Robust anti-corruption policies and regulatory compliance play an essential within the firm and across our portfolio companies. A dedicated ESG team is role in our ability to conduct business ethically and with integrity. IK complies responsible for promoting RI awareness internally, as well as engaging with with the Bribery Act and does not participate in corruption, bribery or extortion. external stakeholders on ESG issues. The IK ESG steering committee provides We are also committed to complying with the laws and regulations of each further support and guidance on ESG initiatives, regularly reviewing the RI country in which we operate. policy and monitoring IK’s approach to sustainable value creation and Our Compliance Officer is responsible for anti-corruption within IK, protection. The ESG steering committee, which includes our CEO, IK partners our Anti-Corruption policy sets out what could be considered bribery in terms and support staff, has now been extended to include more members of our of business operations and we have Whistleblowing and Conflicts of Interest operations and investment teams. This will allow us to further enhance our policies. engagement with our portfolio companies on ESG initiatives. We also ask new portfolio companies, when appropriate, to form an Audit & ESG Committee, which reports to the Board of Directors. The committee is “During 2019, we focused on charged with ensuring that the company has a robust ESG plan and monitors strengthening our compliance the implementation of that plan on an ongoing basis. The committee reviews programme in line with our core the company’s key ESG activities and achievements and reports its findings values – professionalism, to the Board in conjunction with the annual review process. accountability and integrity. To that end, we set up a training course for all our employees around five key topics: antimoney laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, conduct rules compliance, IT security and data protection.” Anna Linder Lycett Compliance Officer Spotlight: OPEN OPEN is a leading Nordic payment solution provider with customers and IK Small Cap I Fund operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark. Headquartered in Gothenburg, the company offers a complete portfolio of services including Acquisition date: June 2016 Country: Sweden hardware, software, service, acquirement and support. OPEN produces all Sector: Business services its own software and this is the strategic focus of the business. “In 2019 we strengthened a key element of our policy framework by implementing the new OPEN IT & Information Policy. This document defines comprehensive policies and procedures for selection and use of IT within the business which must be followed by all our employees and consultants. Among other matters, it provides guidelines for the protection and use of information technology assets and resources within the business to ensure integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and assets. It also defines procedures for emergency management such as in cases of security incidents or data breaches. We are committed to keeping all policies current and relevant, and will continue to modify and extend them. We conduct yearly IT security audits and we also welcome any suggestions, recommendations or feedback on these policies and procedures.” Juha Sumelahti Group Controller/Financial Director I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 14 Our extended commitment: IKARE IK Aid and Relief Enterprise (IKARE Ltd) is the venture philanthropy vehicle founded and supported by IK Investment Partners. IKARE uses venture philanthropy principles to make a positive long-term impact. ENGAGING IN PHILANTHROPY has been an integral part of IK’s culture since the firm mix of funding (grants and soft loans) and non-financial support, IKARE can assist was founded in 1989. But, as IK developed, the partners wanted to adopt a more in such capacity building at the social enterprise as may be deemed necessary to structured approach to charitable donations and link them more closely to the reach further impact on the ground. As an early stage investor, IKARE’s funding is firm's core business. They wanted to make a difference, federate staff and leave also catalytic in the piloting, fine-tuning and de-risking of the solutions, thereby something sustainable behind. That is why IKARE was set up as an independent also helping to bring other funders on board. Over the years IKARE’s investment charity, imbued with the principles of venture philanthropy. IKARE sees its role strategy has evolved to strengthening health services delivery infrastructures in mainly as a catalyst for change. Being problem focused and solutions oriented, developing countries, addressing the current gaps as experienced by end-users IKARE typically engages for the longer term with a select number of strong social and other stakeholders including beneficiaries. Local engagement and gradual entrepreneurs, which it believes have developed sustainable and scalable ownership are core to this work. In so doing, IKARE also lays the foundations for solutions for the issues IKARE wants to address. Through an individually tailored scaling and systemic change. 2018 2006 2015 2013 Piloting of the SPT version of MyChild Solutions begins in IKARE launches, mainly IKARE engages with Shifo Foundation in order September in Mukono District, focusing on Stamp Out to see how its electronic version of MyChild Uganda, with funding from IKARE Sleeping Sickness in Uganda IKARE, with former portfolio company Solutions, launched in 2014, could be adapted to Ceva, sponsors the Cows against work in a low-resource setting, like Dokolo malaria study, conducted by a group District, Uganda. This leads to Shifo developing of researchers from Liverpool the Smart Paper Technology (SPT) version of University and the London School of MyChild Solutions, a Health Management Hygiene & Tropical Medicine Information System (HMIS) 2009 IKARE invests in MyC4 2017 IKARE, Shifo, Gavi and other partners 2014 microfinancing platform, embark on piloting the SPT version of providing loans to small MyChild Solutions in two districts of businesses in Africa The Gambia, with a view to scaling the IKARE embarks on the Kampala Slums WASH system nationally. This is provided the initiative together with the Students Support external evaluations of the pilot and Philanthropy Program (SSPP). This leads to the subsequent assessment by the Ministry launch, in 2016, of the Bwaise WASH pilot in of Health scheduled for 2019 show that cooperation with the target communities and the system meets all the set criteria for their local leadership such roll-out I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 15 MyChild Solutions Launch of Smart Paper Technology MORE THAN FOUR million children per year die or suffer from preventable diseases and management purposes. The forms are subsequently scanned and verified, like pneumonia and measles. This is not due to lack of vaccines, but rather to so the data is digitised and searchable by child, health centre and type of children not being registered when they are born. Even where there are HMISs in vaccine administered, etc. Access to high-quality, timely and consistent data is place for registering children under five and their health services are provided, the basis for encouraging a data use culture and data-basedinterventions. like immunisations, these systems are in many developing countries very IKARE believes that this system holds the potential to be a game changer, in time-consuming to manage, the data provided is of poor quality and verification more ways than reducing the number of children who die or suffer from is costly – thus rendering the data of limited use. The SPT version of MyChild preventable diseases. Solutions developed by Shifo, in the course of IKARE’s engagement, not only The SPT version of MyChild Solutions is addressing and closing, one after reduces the time spent by health workers on administrative tasks by 60-70%, the other, the respective gaps experienced with the current systems as but also ensures that the data is correct (data quality above 99%), verification is identified by end-users (health workers at all levels) and all other stakeholders automatic, as is performance measurement and last, but not least, the operating including beneficiaries – the caregivers and their children. Shifo’s SPT versions costs fit within the current budgets of the Ministries of Health. A reduced currently being implemented with IKARE funding are attracting interest from number of paper forms need to be filled in by health workers when registering other countries that have visited the ongoing pilots in Uganda or The Gambia. the services provided at individual level, and for vaccine inventory stock taking Impact in numbers BETWEEN 1 APRIL 2017 when the SPT version was launched in The Gambia as immunised and 80,661 SMS reminders sent. Every Child Counts and 31 December 2017, 14,351 children under In Mukono District, Uganda, where the pilot was launched in September five were registered, 3,060 children fully immunised and 7,200 SMS reminders 2018, as at 31 March 2019, 43,359 children under five had been registered, sent. As at 30 September 2019 and with the system now implemented in 81 13,023 children were fully immunised and 52, 535 SMS reminders had been public, as well as privately owned, health service delivery points in Western sent. As at 30 September 2019 the corresponding numbers were 51,632 Districts 1 and 2, which together cover half of the population, the corresponding registered, 17,288 fully immunised and 61,752 SMS reminders sent. numbers were 102,432 children under five registered, 24,190 children fully I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 019 16 Kampala Slums Wash initiative Focusing on awareness and empowerment IN 2014, THE UGANDAN YOUTH-BASED ORGANSATION, the SSPP, undertook a community-based water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) intervention in the Kikoni slum areas of Kampala. Supported and mentored by IKARE and local partner High Heights Services, the SSPP built trust within the community and achieved considerable success – so much that the programme attracted the attention of Kampala City Council Authority and the Ministry of Lands. The SSPP was then asked to undertake a slightly larger pilot in the Bwaise slum, home to an estimated 90,000 people. In parallel with supporting this pilot in its two phases, IKARE also provided non-financial support to the SSPP, in order to strengthen its accounting and reporting capacity as well as its capacity to assess the sustainability and scalability of different business plans. This was with an aim of securing more financial sustainability for the SSPP, retaining staff and thus also improve its ability to deliver impact in the field. This resulted in the founding by the SSPP of a small start-up company providing data collection services as well as different training workshops for university graduates. Based on the outcomes from the pilots, much of the SSPP's continued work in the slums during 2018 and 2019 was centred around building increased awareness of the importance of having proper WASH practices in a household. The aim was to sustainably reduce the occurrence of water-borne diseases, through engaging also with community leaders, local health centres and schools. Special programmes targeting youth-led households, which are many in these slums, are also being undertaken. Expansion of the 3 V Vets initiative The power of partnerships for sustainability IN OCTOBER 2017, as the Uganda Trypanosomiasis Control Council (UTCC) and its executive arm, COCTU, celebrated their Silver Jubilee, it was noted that the World Health Organization (WHO) had declared HAT (Human African Trypanosomiasis or sleeping sickness) to be on a steady course towards elimination. With the burden of the disease now lifted from the human populations (only three cases were reported in the area in 2018), thanks to the joint efforts of IKARE and partners in the Stamp Out Sleeping Sickness (SOS) public-private partnership launched in 2006, the focus can shift to ensuring improved livelihoods in these previously disease-ridden areas. After several years of only providing mentoring support to the financially sustainable 3 V Vets Franchise network of community-based veterinarians and self-employed spray persons, IKARE has decided to invest both in the expansion of the network as well as in empowering those households that lost cattle to Nagana or had to sell off poultry and other animals to pay for hospitalisation, etc. In a country like Uganda, with a young and growing population, where 70% of people still make a livelihood out of subsistence farming, improving farming and animal husbandry practices will be critical for food security as well as for providing jobs in the value chains that need to develop. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S IK Investment Partners The Adelphi 1-11 John Adam Street London WC2N 6HT United Kingdom T: +44 20 7304 4300 W: www.ikinvest.com Communications and ESG Contact: Mikaela Murekian Director of Communications and ESG E: mikaela.murekian@ikinvest.com T: +44 20 7304 7134 Contact: Jovana Stopic ESG Coordinator E: jovana.stopic@ikinvest.com T: +44 20 7304 7136 Disclaimer The purpose of the Communication on Progress report (CoP) is limited to IK Investment Partners Limited’s (the “Company”) express or implied, are made as to the accuracy or completeness of any information included herein. The material in commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative as a signator y. The repor t contains information in regard to the this report is provided for information purposes only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal rights on implementation of the UN Global Compact principles, and is based on information currently available to the Company you. This report is intended to provide data and analysis, however, should not be relied upon as investment advice. It at the time that this document was produced. While IK exercises reasonable care to ensure that all information is for reference only and is not intended as a commercial offer, solicitation, public advertisement or recommendation included in this report is accurate and is obtained from sources believed to be reliable, no representations or warranties to buy or sell any investment.
