COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Bridge International Academies Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: September 2018 To: September 2019 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer 10th July 2019 To Our Stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Bridge International Academies (Bridge) supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we re-confirm our intent to continue to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We launched Bridge because we believe every child has the right to a highquality education. In the last eight years since launching, we have become a leading implementing organization of SDG 4, ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all. At present, Bridge is educating more than 270,000 pupils in more than 1,200 nursery and primary schools across Kenya, Uganda, Nigeria, Liberia and India. We do this by effectively partnering with Bridge International Academies governments, communities, teachers and parents to deliver evidence based quality education for primary and preprimary school children. Our schools deliver increased learning gains for our pupils by being data driven and evidenced based. Our recent results showed that children receive the equivalent of 64 more days of learning in a Bridge school, when it comes to reading and 26 days of learning in Maths. In Liberia, where we are operating public schools within the Liberian Education Advancement Programme (LEAP), four times as many children achieved fluency benchmarks at Bridge public schools compared with other public schools. We are proud to complement and support local public school systems while providing governments and parents the education they are looking for. Jay Kimmleman CEO, Bridge International Academies Bridge International Academies 2. Description of Actions Human Rights Please use the box below to describe ​actions y​ our company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: 1. Bridge is an equal opportunity employer. Bridge makes all employment decisions without regard to age, race, colour, religion, sex, gender identity, national origin, tribe, marital status, or any other basis prohibited by applicable laws. This policy applies to all of the terms and conditions of employment. We protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. We do not tolerate any kind of harassment at workplace. 2. We ensure that all our employees & contract workers workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We have in place an occupational health & safety policy that we execute across all our schools and support offices. 3. We have a policy on whistleblowing that allows our employees to escalate serious matters that impact the group or public interest. 4. Bridge does not condone any form of child abuse in form of violence, and inhuman treatment and punishment administered to any of its pupils. This may take the form of physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse or neglect. Our child protection policy sets out the critical guidelines that all our employees and visitors should adhere to, to protect children and other young people who are the subject of Bridge’s services and care. It also sets out best practices that we should follow to achieve our objective to safeguard the welfare of all children and young people. 5. We don’t manufacture any of the goods that we provide in relation to education. Uniforms, books, teacher computers etc. are procured for school use. Our primary supply chain is for printed materials such as textbooks, teacher tablets, smartphones, school uniforms and limited construction materials used for repair. We do not believe that there is high risk of child labour for any of these items. Bridge International Academies Labour Please use the box below to describe ​actions y​ our company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: 1. We do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. In each country, we comply with the minimum age for employment for our staff whether its school staff such as teachers or support office staff. 2. We comply with minimum wage standards across all countries where we operate for all our employees. We also comply with applicable laws governing contract labourers. 3. Conflict management: we have run our own Customer Care centre, that serves to track issues raised by school staff, support staff, or the general public, and ensure that every issue is resolved. By running such an intensive and comprehensive Customer Care function, Bridge prevents miscommunication, small issues or needs for regular maintenance from becoming more serious issues. With extensive organizational attention on solving issues through the Bridge International Academies Customer Care centre, Bridge achieves both parent satisfaction and employee satisfaction. In 2018, Bridge was named one of the Top Ten Employers in Africa, and consistently earned above 90% parent satisfaction scored. In addition to our Customer Care Centre, we run proactive audits to shine specific focus on areas of potential risk, investing in a field-based Quality Assurance team, in place since 2011, that visits 10% of schools daily. The results of these audits are tracked by the Operations and Schools teams, and any failure against standard is logged with the Customer Care team for routing and action. In this way, potential issues not yet reported by school staff or other support office staff are caught early by the Quality Assurance audit team. 4. We have instituted a grievance mechanism for those conflicts or concerns which do not get resolved using our internal processes. This complements our Sexual Harassment & Whistleblowing policies. 5. We respect and enforce the right of workers to exercise their freedom of association to join any organisation, in accordance with applicable laws. Bridge International Academies Environment Please use the box below to describe ​actions y​ our company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: 1. We have an environmental & social policy which has been continually updated and we recently updated it to include a Bridge Water Remediation Plan and a Bridge Environmental & Social Management System. 2. Bridge follows environmental guidelines by National Environmental Management Authorities. We have created an Internal Environmental Impact Assessment procedure which has been added to our policy. 3. Our Environmental & Social Management System includes the following procedures: a. procedures for compliance in regulatory requirements b. procedures for contractors collecting sewage c. procedures for ongoing monitoring of food and water quality. d. procedures that ensure an approach to ensure compliance to the World Health Organization document “Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Standards for Schools in Low-cost Settings” (2009) in programmes where Bridge is responsible for WASH. 4. Our Occupational Health & Safety Policy also includes a Life, Fire and Safety Master Plan to deal with contingencies by detailing emergency response plans and procedures. 5. Bridge does not condone any form of child abuse in form of violence, and inhuman treatment and punishment administered to any of its pupils. This may take the form of physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse or neglect. Our child protection policy sets out the critical guidelines that all our employees and visitors should adhere to, to protect children and other young people who are the subject of Bridge’s services and care. It also sets out best practices that we should follow to achieve our objective to safeguard the welfare of all children and young people. Bridge International Academies Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe ​actions y​ our company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: 1. We prohibit our employees from engaging in any form of bribery or corruption. 2. We have also set out a detailed policy on conflict of interest that all staff employees & contractors are required to adhere. 3. We welcome anonymous feedback on any potential wrongdoing within the organisation through our whistleblowing policy. We offer our employees multiple channels of communication to share confidential data relating to any such wrongdoing. 4. If an employee, upon investigation, is established to have committed any fraudulent activity including engaging in acts of bribery or corruption, they will be subject to summary dismissal. Our disciplinary procedure lays out the process that we would follow prior to reaching such an outcome. 5. Bridge adheres to the law as established by the UK Bribery Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and all other relevant laws governing bribery and corruption. 6. When any gifts are being purchased for officials and external stakeholders (in accordance with applicable laws and our internal Business Entertainment policy), the Bridge International Academies expenditure must be legal and not violate the UK Bribery Act or Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other act of law or any employee policy. 3. Measurement of Outcomes In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to ​measure outcomes​. 1. The breakdown of female versus male employees as of June 2019 are as follows: Level Male Employees Female Employees Board of 5 3 Directors CEO 1 0 Bridge International Academies Senior 11 17 Leadership (In-country Directors/ Global Directors/ Vice Presidents etc.) Middle 399 255 Management Skilled workers 1997 3019 Unskilled 616 553 workers 2. Learning outcomes following training of teachers & school leaders at Bridge run or supported schools. Bridge is delivering proven learning gains consistently and at scale, in government​ ​schools. Our gains in reading are equivalent to 64 more days of learning in a single school year and in mathematics the equivalent of over 26 more days. In Liberia, a randomised-control trial of Bridge run government schools revealed pupils learnt almost twice as fast in English, and over twice as quickly in maths; which together is the equivalent of an additional year of learning, compared to a regular Liberian primary school. A DFID commissioned research paper found that children from the most economically disadvantaged families in Lagos, Nigeria were reaching higher attainment levels in Bridge run schools that their more prosperous peers in neighbouring schools. Plus, Bridge pupils excelled in the federal common entrance exam and in Edo, a study showed improved learning in EdoBEST public schools. Over four consecutive years pupils in Kenya have significantly outperformed the nationwide average in the national primary school exit exam. In 2018, those at Bridge schools exceeded their peers nationwide by over 12 points, gaining places at elite national secondary schools. Bridge International Academies In Uganda, pupils have outperformed the nationwide average in the national primary school leavers’ exam (PLE) two years in a row. In 2018, 95% of pupils passed, giving them the opportunity to go onto secondary school. In addition, Bridge girls overturned the national trend and outperformed boys both at Bridge and nationally.
