Sasini PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 1 Sasini PLC 2 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC CONTENTS 1 Directors and Statutory Information 2 Vision, Mission, Core Values & Certification 3-4 Board of Directors 5 Senior Management Team 7 Notice of the Annual General Meeting 8 Ilani ya Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka 9-10 Chairman’s Statement 11-12 Taarifa ya Mwenyekiti 13 Graphical Highlights 14-15 Report of the Directors 16-17 Ripoti ya Wakurugenzi 18-19 Directors Remuneration Report 20-26 Corporate Governance 27 Corporate Social Investment 28 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Financial Statements 29-32 Report of the Independent Auditors 33 Consolidated Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 34 Company Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 35 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 36 Company Statement of Financial Position 37-38 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 39-40 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 41 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 42 Company Statement of Cash Flows 43-84 Notes to the Financial Statements 85-86 Five Years Comparative Statements 87-89 Notes Page 90 Form of Proxy / Fomu ya Uwakilishi 92 Directions to Kamundu Estate Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 3 Sasini PLC DIRECTORS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS INFORMATION KPMG Kenya 8th Floor, ABC Towers Waiyaki Way DIRECTORS PO Box 40612 00100 Dr. J.B. McFie, PhD, MBS Chairman NAIROBI Dr. N. N. Merali, PhD, CBS A.H. Butt, CPA (Kenya), FCCA BANKERS S.N. Merali, MSc Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Dr. S.O. Mainda, PhD, MA, ACII, EBS Barclays Plaza Betty Koech, MBA, BCom (Appointed 15 January 2018) PO Box 46661 00100 Rosemary Munyiri, MSc, BCom, CPA NAIROBI (Kenya), CISA (Appointed 15 January 2018) L.W. Waithaka, MSc (Retired 9 March 2018) Commercial Bank of Africa Limited S. M. Githiga, MBA, Bsc, CPA Mara & Ragati Roads, Upper Hill (Kenya) (Retiring 31 December 2018) PO Box 30437 00100 NAIROBI SECRETARY Lawrence Chelimo Kibet, CPS (Kenya) Spire Bank Limited 5th Floor, Barclays Plaza, Loita Street Equatorial Fidelity Centre PO Box 9287 00100 Waiyaki Way NAIROBI PO Box 52467 00200 NAIROBI REGISTRARS Image Registrars Limited KCB Bank Kenya Limited 5th Floor, Barclays Plaza, Loita Street Kiambu Branch PO Box 928700100 PO Box 81 00900 NAIROBI KIAMBU ADVOCATES Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Shapley Barret & Company Limited PO Box 40286 00100 Kiambu Branch NAIROBI PO Box 117 00900 KIAMBU Hamilton Harrison & Mathews PO Box 30333 00100 UBA Kenya Bank Limited NAIROBI Ring Road, Vale Close Westlands PO Box 34154 00100 Timamy and Company Advocates NAIROBI PO Box 87288 80100 MOMBASA HFC Bank Limited Rehani House Koinange Street REGISTERED OFFICE AND PRINCIPAL PO Box 30088 00100 PLACE OF BUSINESS NAIROBI 3rd Floor, Rivaan Centre Westlands Co operative Bank of Kenya Limited PO Box 30151 00100 Nairobi Business Centre, China Centre NAIROBI PO Box 48231 00100 NAIROBI Telephone (+254-020) 3342166/71/72 Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited Stanbic Bank Centre, Westlands Road Mobile P.O Box 72833 00200 (+254 ) 0722 200706, 0734 200706 NAIROBI E-mail Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited info@sasini.co.ke DTB Centre, Mombasa Road PO Box 61711 00200 Website NAIROBI www.sasini.co.ke 1 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC VISION “ To be the leading agribusiness in Africa.” MISSION “ To focus on innovative and efficient business practices, quality products and commitment to all our stake holders.” OUR CORE VALUES • Integrity • Efficiency • Positive Attitude • Respect • Teamwork CERTIFICATIONS • Utz certification for coffee operations; • Rain Forest Alliance certification for Tea and Coffee operations • Kenya Bureau of Standards Diamond mark of quality for branded Tea’s • ISO 22000:2005 certification • Fair Trade Flo Certification • C.A.F.E. Practices (Starbucks Coffee) SO RICH SO KENYAN Better farming Better future Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 2 Sasini PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dr. McFie is the Chairman of the Board of Directors. He holds a PhD in Accounting from the University of Strathclyde and Masters of Mathematics from Oxford University. He is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and a Fellow of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK). Dr. McFie is a lecturer in Financial Reporting and Forensic Accounting at Strathmore University. Between 1993 and 2002 he was a Director of the Kenya Capital Markets Authority, a member of the Kenya Added Tax Tribunal and a Trustee of the Kenya Corporate Governance Trust and of Jitegemee Trust. He is also a director of The Standard Group Limited. He was the Training Manager in Ernst and Young and a member of Education and Training Committee of ICPAK. Dr. McFie joined the Board on 30 August 2007. Dr. James Boyd McFie, Phd Chairman Non Executive Director Dr. Naushad N. Merali was awarded a doctorate degree (Honoris Causa) in Business Leadership by Kabarak University in 2015. He is an astute businessman and the Chairman and founder of the Sameer Group of Companies. The Sameer Group of Companies is a leading conglomerate in Kenya (and has a regional presence in East Africa) with interests in Agriculture and Agribusiness (Sasini PLC and Sameer Agriculture & Livestock (Kenya) Ltd), Trading and Commerce (Sameer Africa PLC and Eveready East Africa PLC ), Construction and Engineering (Warren Enterprises Limited), Financial Services (Spire Bank Ltd and Spire Insurance Brokers Ltd), Commercial and Leasing (Ryce East Africa Ltd and Yansam East Africa Ltd), EPZs (Sasini EPZ Ltd, Sameer EPZ Ltd and Sameer Industrial Park Ltd), Energy and Real Estate (Sameer Business Park is an ultramodern building comprising five units totalling more than 500,000sq. ft. of built up area in show Dr. Naushad Noorali Merali rooms and offices as well as Rivaan Centre, Westlands with lettable area of 72,000 sq. ft. in Non Executive Director offices, showrooms and restaurants). Dr. Merali has also served on various Presidential Committees relating to trade and social services and was a member of the National Economic and Social Council. He is a Board Trustee Member of the National Cancer Institute of Kenya. Owing to his contribution to the development and economic growth of Kenya, Dr. Merali has been honoured twice with Presidential national awards. He has been awarded the honour of the highly coveted national award of the Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (CBS) and Elder of the Burning Spear (EBS). Dr. Merali has been a Director of Sasini PLC since 6 June 1989. Mr. A. H. Butt is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and a Certified Public Accountant of Kenya (CPA) and has a wealth of experience, acquired over time, in financial management, corporate planning and strategic management. He previously worked with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) in Kenya and the East Africa Region, Liberia and England. He joined the Sameer Group in 1989 and is currently the Group’s Finance Director. He represents the interest of the Sameer Group on the boards of various companies. Mr. Butt is also a Director of Sameer Africa Ltd and Eveready East Africa PLC, which are quoted on the Nairobi Securities Exchange. He was appointed to the Board of Sasini PLC on 1 May 1990. Mr. Akif Hamid Butt Non Executive Director Mr. S. N. Merali holds a Master of Science degree in Banking and International Finance from City University Business School, London and Bachelor of Science in Management Sciences from Kings College, London. Mr. Merali initially worked with Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited in the United Kingdom as an Investment Analyst between October 2000 and February 2003. He joined Sameer Investments Limited in March 2003 and now serves as the Chief Executive Officer of that company. He is the Chairman of Ryce East Africa Limited, Nandi Tea Estates Ltd and Warren Enterprises Ltd. He is a Director of Sameer Africa PLC, a company listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange Ltd. He is also a Director of Sameer ICT Ltd, Sameer Telkom Ltd and Fidelity Shield Insurance Company Ltd among others. Mr. Merali has extensive experience in strategic leadership, business initiation and development, corporate management, audit and Mr. Sameer N. Merali risk management as well as prudent financial management and planning. He joined the Board of Non Executive Director Sasini PLC on 26 May 2006. 3 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dr. S. O. Mainda was awarded a Doctorate Degree (Honoris Causa) in Strategic Management by Makerere University in 2013. Dr. Mainda is a Fellow of the Institute of Directors of London and holds M.A and B.A Degrees from the Universities of Princeton and Cambridge. He is a member of the Chartered Institute of Insurance. Dr Mainda has a wealth of experience in Finance, Insurance, Strategic Management and Education. He is currently the Chairman of HF Group PLC which is also listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange. He holds Directorship in Ryce East Africa Ltd (a member of the Sameer Group of Companies), KK Security Group, Leisure Lodge Resort, ABC Capital among others. He joined the Board on the 21 September 2012. Dr. Steve Omenge Mainda, PhD Independent Non Executive Mr. Stephen Maina Githiga was appointed as Group Managing Director of Sasini PLC in January 2017. He holds a Master in Business Administration and a Bachelor of Science (Statistics), both from the University of Nairobi. He is also a Certified Public Accountant (CPA K) and member of the Institute of Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK). Mr. Githiga has over 25 years of experience in a variety of roles including: serving as a senior external auditor in Deloitte and Touche, Finance Manager in Lonrho (PLC) group, General Manager in Lonrho Motors East Africa, and Managing Director of First Assurance Company Limited, where he succeeded to turn around the company and complete a joint venture transaction with Barclays of Africa, who acquired 63.3% of First Assurance Co. Ltd. Mr. Stephen Maina Githiga Mr. Githiga has served the board of Kiru Tea Factory; was a former director of Sameer Africa PLC Executive, Outgoing Group and Ryce East Africa Limited, a Board member of First Assurance (TZ) Ltd, and Kiria-ini Mission Managing Director Hospital among others. Mr. Githiga is retiring from his position in the Group effective 31 December 2018. Mrs. Betty Koech holds a Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree from Moi University, a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of Nairobi and a Postgraduate Diploma in Marketing from the Chartered Institute of Marketing (UK). Mrs Koech worked at G4S Kenya as the Sales and Marketing Director and previously held the post of Marketing Manager at Unilever Kenya. She is a Member of the Board of Directors of Sunshine Secondary Education Limited where she serves in the Finance & Procurement Committee and the Human Resource Board Committee in the same Institution. She has extensive experience in Marketing, Strategic Management, Leadership and Coaching. She is a Director and Associate of the Lead Catalyst Group Limited. She is also the Managing Director and Consultant at SALMAS Limited. Mrs. Betty Koech Independent Non-Executive Director Mrs. Rosemary Munyiri holds a Master of Accountancy degree from Bowling Green State UniversityOhio, United States of America, and a Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting) degree from the University of Nairobi. She is a Certified Public Accountant of Kenya and a member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK). She is also a Certified Information Systems Auditor and a Member of the Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA). Mrs. Munyiri has previously worked for East African Breweries Limited in various capacities which include: The Group Financial Planning and Reporting Manager, the Group Controls Compliance and Ethics Manager, the Manager – Group Audit and Risk and as a Consultant – Group Audit and Mrs. Rosemary Munyiri Risk. She has also worked as a Global Audit and Risk Manager at Diageo PLC, the Head of Internal Independent Non-Executive Audit at Farmers’ Choice Limited, a Staff Accountant at Plante & Moran PLLC, USA, and an Audit Director Manager at Wanyeki & Co. Associates, CPA – Nairobi. She is a Financial Planning and Reporting Manager with Central Glass Industries. She has a wealth of experience in Audit and Risk Management as well as in Financial Planning and Analysis. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 4 Sasini PLC SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Industry. He holds a Doctorate degree in business administration (Finance) from United States International University (USIU), a Global Executive Masters of Business Administration (MBA) in partnership with Columbia Business School in New York, Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (Accounting) (Hons) from USIU, Certified Public Accountant (CPA Dr. Samuel Kanga Odalo, DBA, Mr. Shashidhar Menon K), Member of Institute of Certified Managing Director, Kipkebe Limited Ag. Group Managing Director and Group Financial Controller Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK). (Tea Operations) Joined the group in 1998 and appointed to the position of Group Dr. Samuel has over 29 years Financial Controller in July 2009. Mr. Shashidhar has vast experience of experience in Finance, Accounting Dr. Samuel assumes the role of acting over 36 years in managing tea estates and Audit. Prior to joining Sasini PLC, Group Managing Director effective 1 & factories in India and Kenya. Prior he held various senior Finance and October 2018. to joining Sasini PLC, he held senior Accounting positions in Agribusiness positions with Goodricke Group Ltd, India (a member of Camellia plc, UK) on their tea plantations, where he worked for 18 years. Holds a Bachelor Policy and Management degree at of Arts degree from the Madras the Strathmore Business School, Christian College, India. Appointed Strathmore University. He has Managing Director, Kipkebe Ltd (a also attended various professional wholly owned subsidiary of Sasini management and corporate PLC) in December 2014. Prior to this, governance capacity building he was the General Manager, Kipkebe courses. Ltd from January 2000 and Deputy General Manager for 1 year. He is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA (K)) and a Certified Public Secretary (CPS (K)). Mr Kibet is an Mr. Lawrence Kibet active member of the Institute of Company Secretary Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK), the Institute of Certified Mr. Kibet holds a Master of Public Secretaries (ICPSK) and Business Administration degree in Investor relations society (UK). Mr operations management, (MBA.) Kibet has over 15 years’ experience from the University of Nairobi. He in Company secretarial practice, also holds a Bachelor of Commerce corporate governance, policy (BCom. Hons.) Finance major, and management and investor relations. Mr. James Muriithi Kieu Bachelor of Laws degrees from He has been involved in several General Manager, Sasini PLC. (Coffee the University of Nairobi. He is Capital Markets transactions over the Operations) currently pursuing a Master of Public last ten years. Mr. James has vast experience of over 24 years in Managing Coffee and Tea Estates & Factories. Prior Ms. Priscah has over 15 years to joining Sasini PLC, he held senior experience in Human Resource positions within the Neumann Kaffee Management. Prior to joining Sasini Gruppe managing coffee and tea PLC., she held various Senior Human estates & factories both at local Resources Management positions and International levels. Holds a in Agribusiness and Manufacturing Diploma in Agricultural Engineering Industries. Holds Masters of Business from Jomo Kenyatta University of Administration (MBA) in Human Agriculture and Technology among Resources Management, Bachelor of other management and leadership Science (BSc.) (Mathematics) (Hons), courses. Appointed General Manager, Ms. Priscah Muthoni Keah Post Graduate Diploma in Human Coffee Operations in February 2004. Head of Human Resources & Resources Management and is a Administration Member of the Institute of Human Resources Management (IHRM). Appointed to the position in July 2010. 5 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC GROWING AFRICA Sasini PLC Background Sasini PLC is a public quoted company listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange with around 7,500 shareholders, majority of whom are Kenyans. The principal activities of this Company, which straddle the breadth of Kenya, are the growing and processing of Tea, Coffee, Avocado and Macadamia nuts, dairy operations and value addition, that is, branding and packaging of the related products for export. We also have tea warehousing and tea packaging facilities in the port city of Mombasa. For more information, kindly visit our website: www.sasini.co.ke or www.sameer-group.com. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 6 Sasini PLC NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE SIXTY-SEVENTH (67th) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company will be held at Kamundu Estate, Kiambu, on Friday, 8th March 2019 at 11.00 a.m. to conduct the following business: Ordinary business 1. To table the proxies and note the presence of a quorum. 2. To read the Notice convening the meeting. 3. To consider and if approved, adopt the Company’s audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2018, together with the Chairman’s, Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon. 4. To confirm the first interim dividend of 50% paid on 16 July 2018 to shareholders on the register of members as at close of business on 2 June 2018 and the second interim dividend of 50% payable on or about 31 January 2019 to shareholders on the register of members as at close of business on 7 January 2019. 5. To approve payment of Directors’ fees for the year ended 30 September 2018. 6. Auditors: To note that Messrs KPMG Kenya continue in office as Auditors by virtue of Section 721 (2) of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the Directors to fix the Auditors’ remuneration for the ensuing financial year. 7. To elect Directors: (a) Dr James McFie, who retires at this meeting in accordance with the provisions of Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association and Clause 2.5 of the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015. Special notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 287 of the Companies Act, 2015, that notice has been received of the intention to propose the following Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution at the 2018 Annual General meeting: ‘That Dr James McFie who has attained the age of 70 years, be and is hereby re-elected a Director of the Company until he comes up for retirement by rotation.’ (b) Mr. Sameer Merali, a Director retiring by rotation in accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Articles of Association of the Company and being eligible, offers himself for re-election. 8. In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015, the following directors, being members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee of the Board be elected to continue to serve as members of the said Committee: (i) Mrs. Betty Koech (ii) Mrs. Rosemary Munyiri (iii) Mr. Sameer Merali (iv) Dr. James McFie 9. To consider any other business for which due notice has been given. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD LAWRENCE KIBET, CPS (K) COMPANY SECRETARY Date: 19 December 2018 Notes 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and who is unable to attend is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his or her behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. To be valid, the Proxy Form, must be duly completed by a member and must either be lodged at the registered offices of the Company’s shares registrar firm, Image Registrars Limited, Barclays Plaza 5th Floor, Loita Street, P.O. Box 9287, 00100 GPO, Nairobi or be posted, or scanned and emailed to info@image.co.ke in PDF format; so as to reach Image Registrars not later than Wednesday, 6 March 2019 at 11.00 a.m. 3. In the case of a member being a limited Company, the Proxy Form must be completed under its Common Seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing. 4. The proxy form can be downloaded from the company’s website: www.sasini.co.ke 7 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC ILANI YA MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA ILANI INATOLEWA HAPA KUWA MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA WA SITINI NA SABA (67) wa kampuni utafanyika katika shamba la Kamundu, Kiambu, siku ya Ijumaa tarehe 8 Machi mwaka 2019 saa tano asubuhi kuendesha shughuli zifuatazo: Shughuli za Kawaida: 1. Kuwasilisha majina ya wakala na kutambua uwepo wa idadi ya kutosha kuendesha mkutano. 2. Kusoma Ilani ya Kuitisha mkutano. 3. Kufikiria na ikiidhinishwa, kuzikubali taarifa zilizokaguliwa za kifedha za Kampuni za mwaka ulioishia tarehe 30 Septemba 2018, pamoja na ripoti za mwenyekiti, wakurugenzi na wahasibu. 4. Kuthibitisha mgao wa kwanza wa asilimia 50 uliolipwa tarehe 16 Julai 2018 kwa wanahisa kwenye rejista la wanachama kufikia mwisho wa biashara tarehe 2 Juni 2018 na mgao wa pili wa muda wa asilimia 50 utakaolipwa kufikia tarehe 31 Januari 2019 au karibu na tarehe hiyo kwa wanahisa kwenye rejista la wanachama kufikia mwisho wa biashara tarehe 7 Januari 2019. 5. Kuidhinisha kulipa malipo ya wakurugenzi ya mwaka unaoishia na tarehe 30 Septemba 2018. 6. Wahasibu: Kutambua kuwa KPMG Kenya wataendelea afisini kama wahasibu kulingana na sehemu 721 (2) ya Sheria ya Makampuni mwaka 2015 na kuidhinisha wakurugenzi kuamua malipo ya wahasibu ya mwaka wa kifedha unaofuata. 7. Kuchagua Wakurugenzi: (a) Dkt. James McFie, ambaye anastaafu katika mkutano huu kulingana na maelekezo ya vifungu 94 na 95 vya Kanuni za Ushiriki wa Kampuni na sharti la 2.5 la Mwongozo wa utendaji wa uongozi wa Kampuni kwa watoaji wa hisa kwa umma mwaka 2015. Ilani maalum inatolewa hapa kufuatana na sehemu 287 ya Sheria za Makampuni mwaka 2015, kuwa Ilani imepokelewa ya nia ya kupendekeza azimio linalofuata kama azimio la kawaida katika mkutano mkuu wa kila mwaka wa mwaka wa 2018. ‘Kuwa Dkt. James McFie ambaye amefikisha umri wa miaka 70, awe na hapa anachaguliwa tena Mkurugenzi wa Kampuni mpaka atakapokuja tena kustaafu kwa zamu.’ (b) Bwana Sameer Merali, Mkurugenzi anayestaafu kwa zamu kulingana na vifungu 94 na 95 vya Kanuni za Ushiriki wa Kampuni na kwa kuwa anastahili, anajitolea kuchaguliwa tena. 8. Kulingana na maelekezo ya sehemu 769 ya Sheria ya Makampuni mwaka 2015, wakurugenzi wafuatao, wakiwa ni wanachama wa Kamati ya Uhasibu, Hatari na Ukubalifu ya Halmashauri wachaguliwe kuendelea kufanya kazi kama wanachama wa kamati Iliyotajwa: (a) Bibi Betty Koech. (b) Bibi Rosemary Munyiri (c) Bwana Sameer Merali. (d) Dkt. James McFie. 9. Kushughulikia mambo mengine yoyote ambayo ilani ya kutosha umetolewa. Kwa Amri ya Halmashauri Lawrence Kibet, CPS (K) Tarehe 19 Desemba 2018 Maelezo: 1. Mwanachama aliye na haki ya kuhudhuria na kupiga kura ana haki ya kuteua mwakilishi mmoja au zaidi kuhudhuria na kupiga kura kwa niaba yake na sio lazima mwakilishi awe mwanachama wa Kampuni. 2. Ili iwe halali, fomu ya Uwakilishi ni lazima ijazwe na mwanachama na inapasa kutumwa kwa posta kwa wasajili wa hisa wa Kampuni, Image Registrars Limited kwa SLP 9287, 00100 Nairobi au kwa mkono katika afiza zao zilizoko jumba la Barclays Plaza, orofa ya 5, Loita Street, Nairobi, au kutolewa nakala na kutumwa kwa barua pepe kwa info@image.co.ke kwa umbo la PDF, ili kufika kabla ya Jumatano, 6 Machi 2019 saa 5 asubuhi. 3. Iwapo mwanachama ni kampuni ya dhima yenye kikomo, hii fomu ni lazima ijazwe chini ya nembo yake au mbele ya afisa au wakili ambaye ataidhinishwa kwa maandishi. 4. Fomu ya Uwakilishi inapatikana kwenye tovuti ya kampuni www.sasini.co.ke Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 8 Sasini PLC CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT similar to the previous year. The boost in income is attributed to the disposal of non-performing assets in the export division in Mombasa. Interest income from fixed deposits dropped in line with the drop in interest rates. The overall net profit for the year is KShs 293.5 million against the previous year’s net profit of KShs. 339.4 million (a drop of 13.5%). The macadamia plant is virtually complete and commercial processing is slated for January 2019. The outlook remains very optimistic for the business when the season opens and when shipments to buyers overseas begin. Most of the production of the kernel will be destined for the United States of America and Asia. As always, we maintain that the Board’s collective resolve is to remain committed to enhancing shareholder value by continuously reviewing operating procedures, mitigating risks, innovation and sound technological interventions to ensure the business remains BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT sustainable. GROUP FINANCIAL RESULTS Overview Cost of Doing Business The Group’s performance for the financial year ended 30 The company endured a difficult time in the year under review September 2018 was encouraging compared to the prior year, arising out of extraneous factors which have significantly impacted despite the drop in turnover. The Group recorded a turnover of business adversely and I would like to comment on the few that KShs 3.5 billion compared to KShs 4.2 billion in the previous year (a have or will particularly exacerbate the business environment. drop of 16%). The cost of production dropped by a similar margin. Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBAs) with Kenya Plantations The year started on a low key in the wake of labour strike within and Agricultural Workers Union (KPAWU) and its impact on the the tea industry in the month of October 2017, which incidentally Cost of Production is the first month in our financial year and resulted in a drop in the The tea and coffee industries’ wage negotiations take place every quality of tea and prices. two years. As mentioned in my statement for the previous year, the CBA for the coffee Industry covering 2015 and 2016, 2017 and The coffee division endured a difficult season; extreme cold 2018 were successfully concluded and registered in September weather persisted for several months in Kiambu and Nyeri. The 2017. The CBA for the tea industry for 2014-2015 has not yet been unfavourable weather affected the quality and prices of the coffee concluded as it is yet to be signed and registered. The tea plantation compared to earlier years. workers’ union, Kenya Plantations and Agricultural Workers’ Union (KPAWU) demanded an increase of workers’ salary by 30%, which Avocado sea shipments were affected by the delay occasioned by is way above national rates of inflation. The Kenya Tea Growers changes and congestion at the port of Mombasa in the months of Association (KTGA) members challenged an industrial court ruling May and June 2018, resulting in increased costs and a decline in the awarding the increase and proposed at its negotiations with the quality of these perishable goods. union a 15% raise broken down to 7% for 2014, and 8% for 2015. The matter went to the court of appeal, which upheld the proposal of Tea production during the year declined to 10,804 tonnes of KTGA and increased the required productivity rates. The Union made tea against 11,209 tonnes achieved in the previous year (a appealed the determination and or inclusion of the productivity drop of 3.6%): the labour strike was followed by poor rainfall in clause; however, the Court of Appeal has upheld the ruling. the months of January and February, which further affected tea This will now set the way for negotiations on the CBAs for 2016 production. Our coffee estates produced 891 tonnes of coffee, a 2017 and 2018 – 2019. This continued demand for higher wages marginal improvement from 851 tonnes produced in the previous has had the effect of escalating our cost of production which is year. Although both the tea and coffee markets remained buoyant gradually spiraling beyond sustainable levels. The demand by the in the first half of the year, price realizations declined steadily Union is taking away our control of the cost of production. This thereafter affecting our profitability. Mombasa tea auction prices has compelled the company to consider alternative options of dropped to very low levels, while global coffee prices reflected managing cost using technology. at the New York exchange dipped to as low as US cents 97.3 per pound, which is the lowest level since 2004 when it was at US Rising cost of fuel cents 90 per pound. The introduction of Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuel products saw oil prices rise in the month of September 2018 and along with this, The cost of labour has also continued to rise as the labour unions a rise in inflation to 5.7% from 4.04% for the previous month of continue to demand higher wages. The average price realized for August 2018. Although the very latest forecasts indicate a drop in tea marginally increased to USD 2.03/kg compared to USD 2.00/kg world oil prices, we have to wait to see what actually transpires. in the previous financial year. The average price realized for coffee The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has stated that the Kenya was USD 4.29/kg compared to USD 5.17/kg in the previous year. shilling is overvalued, but the local currency has maintained its ground and shown resilience despite this contrary view. As a In spite of these changes in the business environment, the Group result, exporters are not earning as much as they could if there recorded a total operating income of KShs 1.2 billion for the year, was a fall in the value of the shilling; the same position prevails in the tourist industry. 9 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (CONTINUED) Impact of the Finance Act 2018 Health After the President assented to the Finance Act 2018 on 21 The Group maintains a well-equipped Medical Centre with in-patient September 2018, some sections thereof have been received with and outpatient treatment options within the tea plantations. mixed reactions. The changes are likely to lead to increases in It also maintains three satellite dispensaries with well-trained prices of various basic commodities, namely the cost of transport, medical personnel and a diagnostic laboratory. The facilities also electricity, food, communication and telephone services. Some have ambulances on standby in the event that critical cases need effective dates of application are backdated which makes to be transported to larger health facilities. These facilities cater implementation difficult. The rulings on the legality of the effective for both the company employees and local community residents. dates may render collection of backdated taxes unconstitutional. Smallholder Farmers and Community Outlined below are some of the changes that directly and indirectly The annual farmers’ day was held in December 2018 at our affect our industry: Kamundu Estate, in Kiambu. In the usual custom, our out-grower farmers were sensitized on financial literacy, sustainable farming — Compensating taxes at 30% on dividends paid out of untaxed techniques and technological interventions in the growing (exempt) profits will increase effective tax rates of the Group of coffee, macadamia nut and avocado trees as well as new through double taxation; investment options. — Withholding tax on demurrages at 20% will increase the cost of transport; Farmers who had implemented the acquired skills successfully — The 8% VAT on petroleum products will increase the cost of resulting in higher yields and a better crop from their farms were transport; awarded attractive prizes and trophies. We also avail tea, coffee, — Employer contributions of 1.5% of staff salary to the National macadamia, avocado and tree seedlings to the surrounding Housing Development Fund will be an additional cost of community, as well as fertilizers to our out-growers. employing personnel; — Additional tax deduction of 30% of electricity cost incurred by We provide employment to the local community, and internships manufacturers may reduce the cost of production; and attachments to university and college students from the — Increase in excise duty on services (telephone, internet, and surrounding community. money transfer) will increase operating expenses; and — Scrapping the minimum rate of interest earned on customer Ecosystem Conservation deposits by banks will reduce earnings. Through the Rainforest Alliance certification, both our tea and coffee operations have comprehensively addressed the SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES environmental, social and economic challenges faced by our own Education/Social Welfare tea and coffee estates, out grower farms and the surrounding We recognize and appreciate that education is an important communities. The Group has a well-established ecosystem investment that we can make in the lives of our staff and the conservation programme with supporting policies that protect surrounding communities. The Group has constructed four primary the ravines, production areas, and all habitat areas. schools and one secondary school within the tea plantations and also supported schools around our coffee operations. LOOKING AHEAD Effective 2018, we started automated tea harvesting with the The tea division maintains nursery and primary schools providing initial introduction of ten tea plucking machines. The number is to free education to the children of employees, dependents and the be enhanced and the programme will be implemented gradually surrounding communities. By ensuring all children of school going in phases to run concurrently with the manual tea plucking, age are in school, we support our strict code of not using child complementing one another. The relevant workforce has been labour in both our tea and coffee operations. trained in the handling and operating of the machines. We also support education through bursaries, and stipends and We are focused on aligning all our current and new initiatives with by providing funds to establish and improve schools near our goals envisaged in the Kenya Vision 2030. plantations. Provision of resources such as computers, laboratory equipment, sports kits and basic learning materials to primary We are exploring ways of enhancing both quality and quantity. For schools and the giving of shoes, mathematics sets and story books our performance and results to show marked improvement, our to primary school going children is occasionally done to motivate produce must fetch premium prices. Additionally, we need tidy these learners. and fair market prices, reasonable management and control of our costs of production. We also ensure that we provide preschool opportunities for the younger children and in this regard we have established six dayAcknowledgement care centers in our tea estates where toddlers are kept busy and I extend my deep gratitude to the board members, management fed on a daily basis as their parents work. and staff of Sasini. On behalf of the Board, I wish to sincerely acknowledge and thank our esteemed shareholders and partners The Magura Mixed Secondary School in our tea division was for their unwavering support during the year. I want to assure you officially opened by the First Lady, Her Excellency Mrs. Margaret all of our commitment in growing the shareholders’ wealth in the Kenyatta on 10 May 2018. company and ensuring your investment remains secure. Besides these educational facilities, the Group provides social and welfare amenities to all our current population of permanent and seasonal employees of about 4,500 along with over 15,000 of their dependents living within the estates. Dr. J.B. McFie, PhD Chairman 10 19 December 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC TAARIFA YA MWENYEKITI mwaka huo, sawa na mwaka uliotangulia. Ongezeko katika pato linatokana na uuzaji wa mali isiyolipa katika kitengo cha bidhaa nje mjini Mombasa. Mapato ya riba kutoka amana za kudumu yalianguka kufuatana na kushuka kwa viwango vya riba. Jumla ya faida halisi ya mwaka ni Ksh. milioni 293.523 dhidi ya faida halisi ya mwaka uliopita ya Ksh. milioni 339.407 (punguo la asilimia 13.5). Mtambo wa Makadamia kwa kweli ni kama umekamilika tayari na utengenezaji wa kibiashara umepangiwa kuanza Januari 2019, matarajio yanabakia mazuri sana ya biashara msimu unapoanza na upakiaji wa shehena utakapoanza kwa wanunuzi ughaibuni. Utengenezaji karibu wote wa kiini cha makadamia utakuwa wa kupelekwa Marekani na Asia. Kama kawaida tunashikilia kuwa azimio la pamoja la Halmashauri ni kubakia kuahidi kuendeleza thamani ya mwanahisa.Kwa kuendelea kupitia taratibu za kuendeshea utendaji, kupunguza hatari, uvumbuzi mpya na njia madhubuti za kiteknolojia MAZINGIRA YA UCHUMI NA BIASHARA kuhakikisha kuwa biashara inabakia endelevu. Mtazamo wa Kijumla Utendaji wa Kundi wa mwaka wa kifedha ulioishia na tarehe Gharama ya Kuendesha Biashara 30 Septemba 2018 unatia moyo ukilinganishwa na mwaka Kampuni yenu ilivumilia wakati mgumu katika mwaka unaorejelewa uliotangulia, licha ya kupungua kwa mapato na matumizi. Mwaka kutokana na vipengele vya nje ambavyo vimeathiri biashara vibaya ulirekodi mapato na matumizi ya Ksh. Bilioni 3.5 ikilinganishwa na kwa kiasi kikuu na ningependa kutoa maoni kuhusu vichache Ksh. Bilioni 4.2 katika mwaka uliopita (upungufu wa asilimia 16). ambavyo vitakuwa au hasa vitazidisha mazingira ya biashara. Gharama ya uzalishaji ilipungua kwa kiwango hichohicho. Mikataba ya Mapatano ya Pamoja na Chama cha Wafanyikazi wa Mwaka ulianza polepole kukiwa na mgomo wa wafanyakazi Mashamba na Kilimo wa Kenya na Athari zake katika Gharama za katika biashara ya majani chai mwezi wa Oktoba, ambao kwa Uzalishaji kawaida ndio mwezi wa kwanza katika mwaka wetu wa kifedha na Mapatano ya mishahara ya viwanda vya majani chai na kahawa ulisababisha anguko katika ubora wa majani chai na bei. hufanyika kila baada ya miaka miwili. Kama ilivyotajwa katika taarifa yangu ya mwaka uliotangulia, mkataba wa mapatano ya Kitengo chetu cha kahawa kilipitia msimu mgumu; hali mbaya sana pamoja wa biashara ya kahawa wa mwaka 2015 na 2016, 2017 za anga ziliendelea kwa miezi kadhaa Kiambu na Nyeri. Hali mbaya na 2018 ilikamilishwa kwa ufaulu,na kusajiliwa mwezi Septemba za anga ziliathiri ubora na bei za kahawa ikilinganishwa na miaka mwaka 2017.Mkataba wa mapatano ya pamoja wa biashara ya ya awali. majani chai wa mwaka 2014-2015 haujakamilishwa kwa vile bado haujatiwa sahihi na kusajiliwa. Usafirishaji wetu wa parachichi kwa bahari uliathiriwa na uchelewaji uliotokana na mabadiliko na msongamano katika Bandari ya Muungano wa wafanyikazi wa mashamba ya chai,Muungano wa Mombasa katika miezi ya Mei na Juni mwaka 2018, ikisababisha wafanyikazi wa Mashamba na Kilimo Kenya walidai ongezeko kuongezeka kwa gharama na kushuka katika ubora wa bidhaa hizi la mshahara wa wafanyikazi la asilimia 30, ambalo ni juu sana zinazoharibika. ya viwango vya kitaifa vya mfumko wa bei. Wanachama wa Chama cha Wapanzi wa Majani chai wa Kenya walipinga uamuzi Kwa hivyo, uzalishaji wa majani chai katika mwaka ulipungua kwa wa mahakama ya kibiashara wa kuwapa ongezeko hilo na tani 10,804 za majani chai yaliyotengenezwa ikilinganishwa na tani kupendekeza katika mapatano yake na muungano nyongeza ya 11,208 zilizopatikana katika mwaka uliopita (anguko la asilimia 3.6): asilimia 15 itakayolipwa asilimia 7 katika 2014, na asilimia nane mgomo wa wafanyikazi ulifuatwa na mvua iliopungua katika miezi katika 2015. Jambo hili lilipelekwa mahakama ya rufaa, ambayo ya Januari na Februari, ambayo zaidi iliathiri uzalishaji wa majani ilikubaliana na pendekezo la Chama cha Wapanzi wa Majani chai chai. Mashamba yetu ya kahawa yalizalisha tani 891 za kahawa, wa Kenya na kuongeza viwango vya uzalishaji vilivyohitajika. ongezeko dogo katika tani 851 zilizozalishwa mwaka uliotangulia. Muungano ulikata rufaa ya uamuzi na au kuongezwa kwa sharti Ijapokuwa masoko yote mawili ya majani chai na kahawa yalibakia la uzalishaji; hata hivyo, Mahakama ya Rufaa ilishikilia uamuzi huo. mazuri katika nusu ya kwanza ya mwaka, bei zilizopatikana Hili sasa litaongoza namna mapatano ya mkataba wa maafikiano ya zilipungua kwa muda na hivyo ikiathiri faida yetu. Bei za Majani pamoja ya mwaka 2016-2017 na 2018-2019. Dai hili linaloendelea la chai katika mnada wa Mombasa zilianguka kuwa viwango vya mishahara ya juu limekuwa na athari ya kuongezeka kwa gharama chini sana, hali bei za kilimwengu za kahawa zilizokuwepo katika zetu za uzalishaji ambazo polepole zinaongezeka kupita viwango soko la ubadilishaji la New York zilianguka kuwa za chini sana hadi vinavyoweza kuhimiliwa. Dai la Muungano linachukua udhibiti senti za USD 97.3 kwa kila paundi, ambayo ni ya kiwango cha chini wetu wa gharama za uzalishaji. Hili limelazimisha kampuni kufikiria kabisa kutokea mwakka 2004 wakati ilipokuwa senti za USD 90 njia mbadala za kudhibitia gharama kwa kutumia teknolojia. kwa paundi. Gharama Zinazoongezeka za Fueli Gharama za nguvukazi pia zimeendelea kuongezeka wakati vyama Uanzishwaji wa kodi ya ongezeko la thamani kwenye bidhaa vya wafanyikazi vikidai mishahara ya juu zaidi. Bei ya wastani za fueli zilifanya bei za mafuta kuongezeka katika mwezi wa iliyopatikana ya majani chai iliongezeka kidogo kuwa USD 2.03 kwa Septemba mwaka 2018 na pamoja na hili, ongezeko la mfumko kilo ikilinganishwa na USD 2.00 kwa kilo katika mwaka uliotangulia. wa bei wa asilimia 5.7 kutoka asilimia 4.04 wa mwezi uliotangulia Bei ya wastani iliyopatikana ya kahawa ilikuwa USD 4.29 kwa kilo wa Agosti 2018. Ijapokuwa tabiri za karibuni zaidi zinaashiria ikilinganishwa na USD 5.17 kwa kilo katika mwaka uliopita. kushuka kwa bei za mafuta za kilimwengu, inabidi tungojee kuona kitachotokea hasa. Mfuko wa Fedha wa Kimataifa umesema Licha ya mabadiliko haya katika mazingira ya biashara, Kundi kuwa shilingi ya Kenya imeongezwa thamani zaidi lakini fedha za lilipata jumla ya pato la kuendeshea kazi la Ksh. Bilioni 1.1 kwa nchini zimejisimamia na kuonyesha uthabiti dhidi ya mtazamo huu 11 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC TAARIFA YA MWENYEKITI (KUENDELEZA) tofauti. Na matokeo yake,wauzaji bidhaa nje hawapati mapato wa muda ya karibu 4500 pamoja na wategemezi wao zaidi 15,000 mengi kama ambavyo wangepata kama kungekuwa na kupungua wanaoishi katika mashamba hayo. kwa thamani ya shilingi; hali sawa inaonekana katika biashara ya utalii. Afya Kundi linadumisha Kituo cha Afya chenye vifaa vingi chenye uwezo Athari ya Sheria ya Fedha ya Mwaka 2018 wa matibabu ya kulazwa na ya nje katika mashamba ya majani chai. Baada ya rais kuidhinisha Sheria ya Fedha ya mwaka 2018 tarehe Pia linadumisha zahanati tatu za pambizoni zenye wafanyikazi 21 Septemba mwaka 2018, baadhi ya sehemu zake zimepata hisia wa matibabu waliofunzwa vyema na maabara ya kuchunguza na mchanganyiko. Mabadiliko hayo yanaweza kusababisha ongezeko kubainisha ugonjwa.Vituo hivi pia vina ambulensi za kutegemeka katika bei za bidhaa kadhaa za kimsingi, yaani gharama za usafiri, kutakapokuwa na walio mahututi wanaohitaji kusafirishwa kwenye umeme, chakula, huduma za mawasiliano na simu. Baadhi vituo vikubwa vya afya. Vituo hivi vinahudumia wote wafanyikazi ya tarehe za kuanza kwake zimerudishwa nyuma inayofanya wa kampuni na pia wanajamii wakazi wa eneo. utekelezi kuwa mgumu. Uamuzi wa uhalali wa tarehe za utekelezi wa tarehe za kutumika waweza kufanya ukusanyaji wa kodi za Wakulima Wadogo na Jamii muda nyuma kuwa kukiuka Katiba. Hapa chini pameelezwa baadhi Siku ya wakulima ya kila mwaka ilisheherekewa mwezi Desemba ya mabadiliko ambayo yanaathiri kampuni yetu kwa njia ya moja 2018 katika shamba letu la Kamundu, Kiambu. Katika desturi ya kwa moja na isiyo ya moja kwa moja: kawaida wakulima wetu wapanzi wa nje walifahamishwa kuhusu maswala ya kifedha,mbinu za ukulima endelevu na za kiteknolojia — Kufidia kodi kwa asilimia 30 kwenye mgawo wa faida unaolipwa katika ukuzaji wa kahawa, makadamia na miti ya parachichi na pia faida isiyotozwa kodi (ilioruhusiwa) itaongeza viwango vya njia badalia za utegaji uchumi. kufaa vya kodi vya Kundi kupitia kutozwa kodi mara mbili. — Kodi ya zuio ya fidia ya kuchelewa ya asilimia 20 itaongeza Wakulima ambao walitekeleza mbinu walizopata kwa ufaulu gharama za usafiri; uliosababisha mazao mengi zaidi na bora kutoka kwa mashamba — Asilimia 8 ya kodi ya ongezeko la thamani kwenye bidhaa za yao walipatiwa zawadi za kuvutia na kumbukumbu za ushindi. Pia mafuta pia itaongeza gharama za usafiri; tunatoa miche ya majani chai, kahawa, makadamia ,parachichi — Malipo ya lazima ya mwajiri ya asilimia 1.5 ya mshahara wa na miti kwa jamii jirani na pia mbolea kwa wapanzi wetu wa nje. wafanyikazi kwa Mfuko wa Kitaifa wa Maendeleo ya Makazi Tunatoa kazi kwa jamii na ukufunzi na nafasi za ushikilizi kwa yatakuwa gharama ya ziada ya kuandika wafanyikazi; wanafunzi wa vyuo vikuu na vyuo vyengine kutoka maeneo jirani. — Kutozwa kwa kodi ya ziada ya asilimia 30 ya gharama za umeme inayogharamiwa na watengenezaji inaweza kupunguza Uhifadhi wa Mfumo wa Ekolojia gharama za uzalishaji; Kupitia Uthibitisho wa Muungano wa Misitu ya Mvua shughuli — Ongezeko katika kodi ya ushuru kwenye huduma (simu, zetu zote za majani chai na kahawa zimeshughulikia kwa ukamilifu mtandao na uhawilishaji pesa) litaongeza gharama za utendaji changamoto za kimazingira, kijamii na kiuchumi zinazokabiliwa na kazi; na mashamba yetu ya majani chai na kahawa, mashamba ya wapanzi — Kuondoa kiwango cha chini cha riba inayopatikana katika chai nje na jamii jirani. Kundi lina mpango wa uhifadhi wa mazingira amana ya mteja na mabenki kutapunguza mapato. ya ekolojia ulioimarika wenye kuungwa mkono na sera zinazolinda mabonde, maeneo ya uzalishaji na maeneo yote ya mazingira. MAJUKUMU YA KIJAMII Elimu/Ustawi wa Kijamii TUKILENGA MBELE Tunafahamu na kutambua kuwa elimu ni kitega uchumi muhimu Kutokea mwaka 2018, tulianzisha uvunaji wa majani chai kwa ambacho tunaweza kuekeza katika maisha ya wafanyi kazi wetu mashine ukianzwa mwanzo na mashine 10 za kuvunia majani na jamii zilizojirani. Kundi limejenga shule nne za msingi na moja chai.Idadi itaongezwa na mpango utatekelezwa taratibu kwa ya sekondari katika mashamba ya majani chai na pia kusaidia hatua ukienda sambamba na uvunaji wa majani chai kwa mkono, shule karibu na mashamba yetu ya kahawa. Kitengo cha majani zikichangiana. Wafanyikazi husika wamefunzwa kutumia na chai kinagharamia shule za chekechea na za msingi zikitoa elimu kuziendesha mashine. ya bure kwa watoto wa wafanyikazi,wanaowategemea na jamii za jirani.Kwa kuhakikisha watoto wote wa umri wa kwenda shule Tunalenga kufungamanisha jitihada zetu za sasa na mpya na wapo shuleni, tunaunga mkono kanuni yetu kali ya kutotumia malengo yanayowaziwa katika ruwaza ya mwaka 2030 ya Kenya. watoto wafanyikazi katika shughuli zetu zote za majani chai na kahawa. Tunaangalia njia za kuongeza zote ubora na viwango. Kwa utendaji na matokeo yetu kuonyesha uimarikaji mzuri, mazao yetu lazima Pia tunaunga mkono elimu kupitia misaada ya masomo na yapate bei ya thamani ya juu. Zaidi ya hivyo, tunahitaji bei za soko mishahara na kwa kutoa fedha kuanzisha na kuimarisha shule zilizopangwa vizuri na za haki, usimamizi na udhibiti wa maana wa karibu na mashamba yetu. Utoaji wa msaada kama tarakilishi,vifaa gharama zetu za uzalishaji. vya maabara, vifaa vya michezo na vifaa vya kimsingi vya kujifunzia kwa shule za msingi na utoaji wa viatu, seti za hisabati na vitabu SHUKRANI vya hadithi kwa watoto wanaokwenda shule za msingi unafanywa Natoa shukrani za dhati kwa wanachama wa halmashauri, wakati fulani kuwamotisha wanafunzi hawa. usimamizi na wafanyikazi wa Sasini.Kwa niaba ya Halmashauri, napenda kutambua kwa ukweli na kushukuru wenye hisa wetu Tunahakikisha pia kuwa tunatoa nafasi za kabla kwenda shule kwa watukufu na wenzi kwa msaada wao usioyumba katika mwaka. watoto wadogo na kwa hili tumeanzisha vituo sita vya utunzaji Ninataka kuwahakikishia nyote kuhusu kujitolea kwetu kukuza wa watoto katika mashamba yetu ya majani chai ambapo watoto mali ya wanahisa katika kampuni na kuhakikisha uekezaji wenu wadogo wanashughulishwa na kulishwa kila siku wakati wazazi unabakia salama. wao wakifanya kazi. Shule ya Sekondari ya Mchanganyiko ya Magura katika kitengo chetu cha majani chai ilifunguliwa rasmi na Bibi wa kwanza wa Taifa Mheshimiwa Bibi Margaret Kenyatta tarehe 10 Mei mwaka 2018. Dkt. J. B. McFie, PHD Chairman Mbali na msaada huu wa kielimu, kundi linatoa vistawishi vya 19 Desemba 2018 kijamii na ustawi kwa idadi yetu yote ya wafanyikazi wa kudumu na Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 12 Sasini PLC GRAPHICAL HIGHLIGHTS 13 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report The average price realized for tea marginally increased to USD together with the audited consolidated and separate financial 2.03/kg compared to USD 2.00/kg in the previous financial year. statements for the year ended 30 September 2018, which disclose The average price realized for coffee was USD 4.29/kg compared the state of affairs of the Group and the Company. to USD 5.17/kg in the previous year. 1. Activities The Group recorded a decline in turnover of 16% to KShs 3.5 Billion The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are compared to KShs 4.2 billion last year, and the gross profit was the growing, processing and sale of tea, coffee and macadamia KShs 852.1 million compared to KShs 998.0 million for the previous nuts, the commercial milling and marketing of coffee, value year. The net profit for the year of KShs 293.5 million was lower addition operations on related products, forestry, dairy than the previous year’s net profit of KShs 339.41 million. operations, avocado processing and livestock. Principal risks and uncertainties 2. Results The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of risks and The results of the Group and Company for the year are set out uncertainties. These can be categorised as agricultural risks, on pages 33 and 34, respectively. financial risks and operational risks. 3. Dividends Agricultural risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from A first interim dividend of 50% (KShs 0.50 per share: 2017 – 25%: adverse agricultural conditions such as disease outbreaks, floods, KShs 0.25 per share) was declared and paid on 16 July 2018. droughts and other adverse weather events caused by climatic The directors recommended the payment of a second interim changes. The increased frequency and severity of droughts and dividend of 50% (KShs 0.50 per share: 2017 – 75%: KShs 0.75 per floods is a concern. The Group has adopted strategies to mitigate share) payable on or about 31 January 2019 to the members on agricultural risk which include: agricultural diversification of record at the close of business on 7 January 2019. This amounts products and processes and the adoption of sound agricultural to a total dividend of 100% (KShs 1.00 per share for the year: 2017 practices. – 100% KShs 1.00 per share). The Group’s risk management process with respect to agricultural 4. Equity and reserves risk focuses on anticipating, avoiding and/or reacting to shocks The authorized issued share capital and reserves of the Group attributable to adverse agricultural conditions. The Group’s and Company at 30 September 2018 and matters relating thereto objective is to achieve an efficient risk management system are set out in notes 28 and 29 to the financial statements. No for agriculture that preserves the value of agricultural outputs, shares or debentures were issued during the year ended 30 strengthens the viability of farm businesses, and ensures an September 2018. environment which supports and sustains continued investment in the farming sector. Full details of the Group and Company reserves and movements therein during the year are shown on pages 37, 38, 39 and 40. The Group’s principal financial instruments arising from the operations comprising of cash and cash equivalents, investments, 5. Property, plant and equipment receivables, bank loans and payables expose it a variety of Details of the movements in property, plant and equipment are financial risks. These risks include market risks (including foreign shown at Note 18 to the financial statements. exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and operational risk. The directors review and agree policies 6. Directors for managing these risks. The directors who served during the year and up to the date of this report are set out on page 1. The board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management In accordance with regulation 94 and 95 of the Articles of framework. The Group’s overall risk management programme Association, Dr. J. B. McFie and Mr. S. N. Merali retire by rotation, focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. minimise any potential adverse effects on its financial performance (Note 5). 7. Business review Performance and position of the Group Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from a wide The Group’s performance for the year was encouraging variety of causes associated with the Group processes, personnel, compared to prior year despite the drop in turnover which technology and infrastructure, and from external factors such as was caused by two adverse factors, namely, uncertainty after those arising from legal and regulatory requirements and generally prolonged electioneering period and labour strike which accepted standards of corporate behaviour, poor infrastructure, characterized the first half. Despite the uneasy environment especially rural and trunk roads, land tenure issues and increasing in the first half of the year, the latter half was characterized labour costs arising from union demands. The Group objective by good weather conditions. Tea production during the year is to manage operational risk so as to balance the avoidance of declined by 3.6% to 10,804 tonnes of made tea down from 11,208 financial losses and damage to the Group reputation with overall tonnes achieved in the previous year. cost effectiveness but to avoid control procedures that restrict initiative and creativity. The Coffee estates produce went through a challenging period following prolonged extreme cold weather which affected The primary responsibility for the development and implementation quality size of the coffee beans and prices. Generally global of controls to address operational risk is assigned to management. coffee prices dipped to their lowest ever since 2004. Production This responsibility is supported by the development of overall however, was higher at 891 tonnes exceeding 851 tonnes Group standards for the management of operational risk in the produced in the previous year. following areas: Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 14 Sasini PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS (CONTINUED) 7. Business review (Continued) — Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to Principal risks and uncertainties (Continued) have taken as a director so as to be aware of any relevant — Requirements for the appropriate recruitment of competent audit information and to establish that the Company’s personnel and the segregation of duties, including the auditors are aware of that information. independent authorisation of transactions; — Requirements for the reconciliation and monitoring of 10. Substantial shareholdings transactions; The directors are aware of the following interests which amount — Compliance with regulatory and other legal requirements; to 5% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: — Documentation of controls and procedures; — Requirements for the periodic assessment of operational Shareholding % risks faced, and the adequacy of controls and procedures to 2018 2017 address the risks identified; — Requirements for the reporting of operational losses and Legend Investments Limited 41.84 41.84 proposed remedial action; Yana Towers Limited 12.60 12.51 — Development of contingency plans; East Africa Batteries Limited 11.02 11.02 — Training and professional development; Gulamali Ismail 8.80 8.25 — Ethical and business standards; and — Risk mitigation, including insurance where this is effective. 74.26 73.62 On environmental and social sustainability risks, the Group is 11. Directors’ interests committed to sustainability and acting in a responsible manner Directors’ direct interests in the shares of the Company were to promote employee well-being, minimise our impact on as follows: the environment and give back to the wider community. The 2018 2017 Group’s has built partnerships with our employees, clients, Name of Director No. of shares No. of shares investors, suppliers and communities based on mutual respect, Mr. A. H. Butt 30,300 30,300 trust and fairness. Mr. S. N. Merali 45,900 45,900 The Group continues to take good care of the immediate Some of the other directors have indirect interests through environment by planting trees on all available land. Equally, entities. tillage is kept to a bare minimum in order to conserve top soil. We are certified by the Rainforest Alliance. The employees are 12. Auditors well looked after with clean and hygienic housing provided by The auditors, KPMG Kenya, are eligible and hereby offer the company, piped water in all the villages and day care centres themselves for re-appointment in accordance with the for the toddlers and schools for older children. The Group has requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. established 4 primary schools and 1 secondary school within its premises. We ensure complete adherence to the collective 13. Approval of financial statements bargaining agreements and local legislation. The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue at a meeting of the directors held on 19 December 2018. Future Outlook The Group’s diversification program remained on course and BY ORDER OF THE BOARD geared towards improving performance in the future. The macadamia processing factory is now complete and operational and is now scheduled to commence trading in March 2019. Lawrence Chelimo Kibet CPS-K The other new line which is avocado trading, has shown promise Company Secretary of bolstering revenue in the coming years. Date: 19 December 2018 The management is constantly exploring new lines and ideas in a bid to fit in with the changing business environment and also expand and enhance shareholder value. Emphasis on quality coupled with quantity and underscored with sustainability remain top on the agenda for delivery. 8. Donations The Group did not make donations to any political entity during the year. Donations of KShs 1,100,000 (2017: KShs 2,767,160) were made to charitable organisations during the year. 9. Relevant audit information The Directors in office at the date of this report confirm that: — There is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and 15 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC RIPOTI YA WAKURUGENZI Wakurugenzi wana furaha ya kuwasilisha ripoti yao ya kila mwaka Bei ya wastani iliyopatikana ya majani chai iliongezeka kidogo pamoja na taarifa jumlishi na za kandokando za kifedha za mwaka kuwa $US 2.03 kwa kilo ikilinganishwa na $US 2.00 kwa kilo unaoishia tarehe Septemba 2018, zinazoonyesha hali ya Kundi na katika mwaka wa kifedha uliopita. Bei ya wastani iliyopatikana Kampuni. ya kahawa ilikuwa $US 4.29 kwa kilo ikilinganishwa na $US 5.17 kwa kilo mwaka uliopita. 1. Shughuli Shughuli kuu za Kampuni na kampuni zake tanzu ni ukuzaji, Mwaka ulipata upungufu wa mapato na matumizi wa asilimia 16 utengenezaji na mauzo ya majani chai, kahawa na makadamia na kuwa KShs bilioni 3.5 ikilinganishwa na KShs bilioni 4.201 mwaka biashara ya usagaji na uuzaji wa kahawa, shughuli za kuongeza jana, na faida ya jumla ilikuwa KShs milioni 852.1 ikilinganishwa thamani kwenye bidhaa zinazohusika nazo, kilimo cha misitu, na KSh. milioni 998.0 za mwaka uliopita. Faida halisi ya mwaka shughuli za maziwa, utengenezaji wa bidhaa za parachichi na ya KShs milioni 293.5 ilikuwa chini kuliko faida halisi ya mwaka mifugo. uliotangulia ya KShs milioni 339.41. 2. Matokeo Hatari Kuu na Kutokuwa na Uhakika Matokeo ya mwaka ya Kundi na Kampuni yameonyeshwa Shughuli za kundi zinaliwacha wazi kwa hatari tofauti na kwenye kurasa za 33 na 34, mtawalia. kutokuwa na uhakika. Hizi zinaweza kuainishwa kama hatari za kilimo, hatari za kifedha na hatari za uendeshaji. 3. Mgawo wa Faida Mgawo wa kwanza wa muda wa asilimia 50 (KShs 0.50 kwa hisa: Hatari ya kilimo ni hatari ya moja kwa moja au isiyo ya moja kwa 2017 – asilimia 25: KShs 0.25 kwa hisa) ulitangazwa na kulipwa moja inayotokana na hali mbaya za kilimo kama kutokea kwa tarehe 16 Julai 2018. Wakurugenzi walipendekeza malipo ya magonjwa, mafuriko, ukame na matokeo mengine mabaya ya mgawo wa pili wa muda wa asilimia 50 (KShs 0.50 kwa hisa: hali za anga yanayosababishwa na mabadiliko ya anga. Matokeo 2017 – asilimia 75: KShs 0.75 kwa hisa) yatakayolipwa tarehe 31 zaidi ya ukame wa ukali na mafuriko ni ya kutia wasiwasi. Kundi Januari 2019 au karibu na hapo kwa wanachama kwenye rekodi limeanzisha mikakati ya kuzuia hatari ya kilimo ambayo ni wakati wa kufunga biashara tarehe 7 Januari 2019. Hii ni jumla ya pamoja na: upanuzi wa taratibu na bidhaa za kilimo na utumizi mgawo wa faida ya asilimia 100 (KShs 1.00 kwa hisa kwa mwaka: wa desturi za kilimo za busara. 2017 – asilimia 100 KShs 1.00 kwa hisa). Usimamizi wa hatari wa kundi kuhusiana na hatari ya kilimo 4. Rasilimali ya Hisa na Akiba hulenga kwenye kutazamia, kuepuka na/au kupinga mapigo Rasilimali ya hisa na akiba za Kampuni na Kundi zilizoidhinishwa yanayotokana na hali mbaya za kilimo. Lengo la Kundi ni kupata na kutolewa kufikia tarehe 30 Septemba 2018 na mambo mfumo ufaao wa usimamizi wa hatari za kilimo, unaohifadhi yanayohusiana nazo yanaonyeshwa kwenye tanbihi 28 na 29 thamani ya mazao ya kilimo, unaoimarisha uwezekano wa za taarifa za kifedha. Hakuna hisa wala stakabadhi za mkopo biashara za kilimo, na kuhakikisha kuwepo kwa mazingira zilizotolewa katika mwaka ulioishia tarehe 30 Septemba 2018. yanayosaidia na kuendeleza utegaji uchumi unaoendelea katika sekta ya ukulima. Maelezo kamili ya akiba ya Kundi na Kampuni na mienendo yake katika mwaka yameonyeshwa kwenye kurasa 37, 38, 39 na 40. Shughuli kuu za kifedha za Kundi zinazotokana na uendeshaji kazi zikiwa fedha tasilimu na ulinganifu wa fedha tasilimu, vitega 5. Mali, Mtambo na Vifaa uchumi, mapato, mikopo ya benki na ya kulipwa zinaiacha wazi Maelezo ya mienendo ya mali, mtambo na vifaa yanaonyeshwa kwa hatari tofauti za kifedha. Hatari hizi hujumuisha hatari za katika tanbihi 18 ya taarifa za kifedha. soko (pamoja na hatari ya ubadilishaji fedha za kigeni, hatari ya kiwango cha riba na hatari ya bei), hatari ya mkopo, hatari 6. Wakurugenzi ya uwezo wa kulipia huduma na hatari ya uendeshaji shughuli. Wakurugenzi waliohudumu mwaka huu na mpaka tarehe ya Wakurugenzi hupitia na kukubaliana sera za usimamizi wa hatari ripoti hii wameonyeshwa katika ukurasa wa 1. Kulingana na hizi. ibara za 94 na 95 za Kanuni za Kampuni, Dkt. J. B. McFie na Bw. S. N. Merali wanastaafu kwa zamu na kwa kuwa wanastahili, Halmashauri ya Wakurugenzi ina jukumu la jumla la uanzishi na wanajitolea kuchaguliwa tena. usimamizi wa mfumo wa usimamizi wa hatari za Kundi. Mpango wa jumla wa usimamizi wa hatari za Kundi unalenga kwenye 7. Mapitio ya Biashara kutotabirika kwa masoko ya fedha na kujaribu kupunguza athari Utendaji na Nafasi ya Kundi zozote mbaya zinazoweza kuwepo katika utendaji wake wa Utendaji wa Kundi wa mwaka ulififishwa na vipengele viwili kifedha (tanbihi 5). vibaya, yaani kutokuwa na hakika baada ya kipindi kirefu cha ufanyaji kampeni na mgomo wa wafanyi kazi vilivyokuwepo Hatari ya uendeshaji ni hatari ya moja kwa moja au isiyo ya moja sehemu ya kwanza ya mwaka. Licha ya mazingira magumu katika kwa moja inayotokana na sababu nyingi tofauti zinazohusishwa nusu ya kwanza ya mwaka, nusu ya pili ilikuwa na hali nzuri za na taratibu za Kundi, wafanyikazi, teknolojia na muundomsingi, hewa. Uzalishaji wa majani chai katika mwaka ulipungua kwa na kutokana na vipengele vya nje kama vile vinavyotokana na asilimia 4 kuwa tani 10,804 za majani chai yaliyotengenezwa, mahitaji ya kisheria na kikanuni na viwango vinavyokubalika vya yaliyopungua kutoka tani 11,208 zilizopatikana katika mwaka kawaida vya mwenendo wa shirika, muundomsingi mbaya , hasa uliotangulia. barabara za vijijini na barabara kuu, maswala ya umiliki wa ardhi na gharama za wafanyikazi zinazoongezeka kutokana na madai Mashamba yetu ya kahawa yalipitia kipindi kigumu kutokana ya muungano wa wafanyikazi. Lengo la Kundi ni kusimamia na hali ya baridi kali iliyoendelea kwa muda mrefu ilioathiri hatari za uendeshaji shughuli ili kusawazisha na kuepuka hasara ubora wa ukubwa wa buni na bei. Kwa jumla bei za kahawa za za kifedha na madhara kwa sifa za Kundi kwa gharama muafaka ulimwengu zilianguka kufikia kiwango cha chini kabisa kutokea ya jumla lakini kuepuka taratibu za mamlaka zinazozuia ari na mwaka 2004. Ijapokuwa uzalishaji, ulikuwa wa juu zaidi wa tani ubunifu. 891 ukizidi tani 851 zilizozalishwa mwaka uliotangulia. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 16 Sasini PLC RIPOTI YA WAKURUGENZI (KUENDELEZA) 7. Mapitio ya Biashara (Continued) 9. Habari Husika za Ukaguzi wa Hesabu Hatari Kuu na Kutokuwa na Uhakika (Kuendeleza) Wakurugenzi walioko mamlakani tarehe ya hii ripoti Jukumu muhimu la maendeleo na utekelezaji wa vidhibiti wanahakikisha kwamba: kushughulikia hatari za uendeshaji shughuli linapatiwa Usimamizi. Jukumu hili linasaidiwa na uendelezi wa viwango vya — Hakuna habari husika za ukaguzi wa hesabu ambazo wakaguzi jumla vya Kundi kwa usimamizi wa hatari za uendeshaji katika wa hesabu wa Kampuni hawajui; na maeneo yafuatayo: — Kila mkurugenzi amechukua hatua zote ambazo wanahitaji kuwa wamechukua kama mkurugenzi ili ajue habari zozote — Mahitaji ya uajiri sawa wa wafanyikazi stadi na ugawaji wa husika za ukaguzi wa hesabu na kuhakikisha kuwa wakaguzi kazi, pamoja na kuruhusu uhuru wa kuendesha biashara; wa hesabu wa Kampuni wana ufahamu wa habari hizo. — Mahitaji ya upatanisho na usimamizi wa kuendesha biashara; — Utimizaji wa mahitaji ya kikanuni na mengineyo ya kisheria; 10. Umilikaji wa Hisa Nyingi — Uwekaji rekodi wa vidhibiti na taratibu za kazi; Wakurugenzi wanafahamu kuhusu makampuni yanayofuata — Mahitaji ya upimaji wa kila baada ya muda wa hatari za yanayomiliki asilimia 5 au zaidi ya rasilimali ya hisa zilizotolewa uendeshaji shughuli zinazokabiliwa, na utoshelevu wa za Kampuni: vidhibiti na taratibu za kushughulikia hatari zilizotambuliwa; — Mahitaji ya kuripoti hasara za uendeshaji shughuli na hatua Umilikaji wa hisa % inayopendekezwa ya kurekebisha; 2018 2017 — Uendelezaji wa mipango ya mambo yasiyotarajiwa; Legend Investments Limited 41.84 41.84 — Mafunzo na maendeleo ya weledi wa kazi; Yana Towers Limited 12.60 12.51 — Matarajio ya kimaadili na kibiashara; na East Africa Batteries Limited 11.02 11.02 — Uzuiaji wa hatari, pamoja na bima pale hili linapofaa. Gulamali Ismail 8.80 8.25 Kuhusu hatari za uendelezaji wa kimazingira na kijamii, Kundi 74.26 73.62 limejitolea katika uendelezaji na kutenda kiwajibu kuendeleza ustawi wa mfanyikazi, kupunguza athari yetu kwenye mazingira na kuitumikia jamii pana. Kundi limejenga ubia na wafanyikazi 11. Ushirika wa Wakurugenzi wetu, wateja, watega uchumi, wagavi na jamii kwa misingi ya Ushirika wa wazi wa wakurugenzi katika hisa za Kampuni ni kuheshimiana, kuaminiana na usawa. kama ufuatao: Kampuni inaendelea kuangalia vyema mazingira yao ya 2018 2017 karibu kwa kupanda miti kwenye ardhi yote iliopo. Pia ulimaji Jina la Mkurugenzi Idadi ya hisa Idadi ya hisa unafanywa kwa kiwango kidogo sana ili kuhifadhi udongo Bw. A. H. Butt 30,300 30,300 wa juu. Tumethibitishwa na Muungano wa Misitu ya Mvua. Bw. S. N. Merali 45,900 45,900 Wafanyikazi wanatizamwa vyema kwa kupatiwa na kampuni makao safi na ya kiafya, maji ya mifereji katika vijiji vyote na vituo Baadhi ya wakurugenzi wengine wana ushirika usiokuwa wa vya utunzi wa watoto wachanga na shule za watoto wakubwa. wazi kupitia vyombo vyengine. Kampuni imeanzisha shule 4 za msingi na 1 ya sekondari katika maeneo yake. Tunahakikisha ufuataji kamili wa mapatano ya 12. Wakaguzi pamoja ya mishahara na sheria za nchini. Wakaguzi, KPMG Kenya, wanastahili na hapa wanajitolea kuteuliwa tena kufuatana na mahitaji ya Sheria za Kampuni za Mtazamo wa Mbele Kenya, mwaka 2015. Mpango wetu wa kupanua biashara uliendelea na kulenga katika kuimarisha utendaji katika siku za usoni. Mtambo wa 13. Kuidhinishwa kwa taarifa za kifedha kutengeneza makadamia sasa umekamilika na sasa umepangwa Taarifa za kifedha ziliidhinishwa kutolewa katika mkutano wa kuanza biashara mwezi Machi mwaka 2019. wakurugenzi uliofanyika tarehe 19 Desemba mwaka 2018. Shughuli nyingine mpya ambayo ni biashara ya parachichi, imeonyesha matarajio ya kuinua mapato katika miaka inayokuja. KWA AMRI YA HALMASHAURI Kila mara Usimamizi unatafuta biashara mpya na mipango katika jitihada kuweza kuendesha shughuli katika mazingira ya biashara yanayobadilika na pia kupanua na kuendeleza thamani ya mwanahisa. Msisitizo kwenye ubora pamoja na wingi na LAWRENCE KIBET, CPS (K) ukikazaniwa na uendelezaji, unabakia muhimu kwenye ajenda KATIBU WA KAMPUNI ya utendaji. Date: 19 Desemba 2018 8. Michango Kampuni haikutoa michango yoyote kwa chama chochote cha kisiasa katika mwaka. Michango ya Kshs. 1,100,000 (2017: Kshs 2,767,160) ilitolewa kwa mashirika ya kutoa misaada katika mwaka. 17 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This Directors’ remuneration report sets out the remuneration arrangements for Sasini PLC directors for the year ended 30 September 2018. Details of directors The remuneration report details the remuneration arrangements for directors who served during the year. The executive and nonexecutive directors listed below are collectively referred to as directors. Name Position Dr. J.B. McFie, PhD, MBS Chairman – Non-executive Director Dr. N. N. Merali, PhD, CBS Non-executive Director A.H. Butt, CPA (Kenya), FCCA Non-executive Director S.N. Merali, MSc Non-executive Director Dr. S.O. Mainda, PhD, MA, ACII, EBS Non-executive Director Betty Koech, MBA, BCom Non-executive Director Rosemary Munyiri, MSc, BCom, CPA (Kenya), CISA Non-executive Director Mrs. L.W. Waithaka, MSc Non-executive Director (retired 9 March 2018) S. M. Githiga, MBA, Bsc, CPA (Kenya) Group Managing Director (retiring 31 December 2018) Remuneration Policy for the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-executive Directors is determined by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee. These Board members receive annual fees and allowances for attending meetings. Non-Executive roles are not entitled to any performance related pay or pension. The Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts. The Company’s policy is to appoint the NonExecutive Directors for an initial three-year period, which may be extended for a further term by mutual consent. The initial appointments and any subsequent reappointments are subject to annual election or re-election by shareholders. Non-Executive Directors’ appointments may be terminated at any time by serving three months’ written notice by either party, but six months’ in the case of the Non-Executive Chairman. Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level which is considered appropriate to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to oversee the business. Fees are paid in cash. The amount of fees reflects the attached responsibility and time commitment. Additional fees are paid for further responsibilities such as chairing committees and sitting on appointed board committtes. The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in the market context and take account of the individual circumstances and benefits provided in comparable roles for companies within the Industry Remuneration Policy for the Executive Director The remuneration of the Executive Director including but not limited to contract terms, monthly pay and participation in the Company’s short and long term incentive plans are set by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee. The Company’s policy is to appoint the Executive Director for an initial two-year period, which may be extended for a further term by mutual consent. The initial appointments and any subsequent reappointments are subject to annual review by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee. The salary for the Executive Director is set at a level which is considered appropriate to attract an individual with the necessary experience and ability to oversee the business. The salary is paid in cash. This is subject to annual review in October of each year. Judgement is used but consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including responsibilities, market positioning, inflation and company performance. Other benefits provided include: medical cover, pension and club membership and other non-cash benefits. Travel and other reasonable expenses (including any associated taxes) incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed. These ensure the package is competitive. Changes to directors’ remuneration There were no substantial changes relating to the directors’ remuneration made during the year (2017: None). Contract of service – Executive directors Name Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period Amount payable for early termination S. M. Githiga 31 December 2016 3months 3 months Salary in lieu of notice period Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 18 Sasini PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED) Directors’ remuneration paid during the year Non-executive directors 2018 2017 Fees Sitting Total Fees Sitting Total Allowance Allowance KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Dr. J.B. McFie* 1,200 200 1,400 600 93 693 Dr. N. N. Merali 1,000 80 1,080 500 40 540 A.H. Butt 1,000 190 1,190 500 110 610 S.N. Merali 1,000 140 1,140 500 63 563 Mrs. L.W. Waithaka 35 35 500 70 570 Dr. S.O. Mainda 1,000 140 1,140 500 70 570 Mrs. Betty Koech 833 125 958 Mrs. RosemaryMunyiri 833 120 953 Total 6,866 1,030 7,896 3,100 446 3,546 *These fees were paid to educational charities. Executive directors Basic pay Gratuity/pension Bonus Non-cash benefits Total 2018: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 S. M. Githiga 19,267 2,411 2,449 24,127 Total 19,267 2,411 2,449 24,127 Basic pay Gratuity/pension Bonus Non-cash benefits Total 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 S. M. Githiga 13,600 1,702 1,511 1,859 18,672 M.K. Changwony 3,577 7,144 1,099 11,820 Total 17,177 8,846 1,511 2,958 30,492 There were no other sums paid to third parties in respect of directors’ services. Approval of the directors’ remuneration report The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, Capital Markets Authority (CMA) Code and listing rules and reflects the disclosure requirements under the IFRSs. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Director Date: 19 December 2018 19 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is responsible for the overall corporate governance of Sasini PLC including adopting appropriate policies and procedures designed to ensure that the Company is properly managed to protect and enhance Shareholder interests. The Board monitors the operational and financial position and performance of the Company and oversees its business strategy, including approving the strategic goals, considering and approving business plans and annual budgets. The Board is committed to maximising performance, generating appropriate levels of Shareholder value and financial return and sustaining the growth and success of Company. In conducting business with these objectives, the Board seeks to protect and enhance Shareholder interests and to create an appropriate environment of corporate governance that is respected by the Company, its Directors, officers and personnel. Accordingly, the Board has created a framework for managing Company, including adopting relevant internal controls, risk management processes and corporate governance policies and practices, which it believes are appropriate for the business and that are designed to promote the responsible management and conduct of Sasini PLC. 1. The Board lays solid foundations for management and oversight Roles and responsibilities of the Board and Management The Board is responsible for the overall direction of the Company with oversight and review of the management, administration and overall governance. The Board Charter provides a framework for the effective operation of the Board, which sets out the: — Board’s roles and responsibilities; — Relationship and interaction between the Board and Management; and — Authority delegated by the Board to Management and Board Committees. The Board’s role is to, among other things: — Represent and serve the interests of Shareholders by overseeing and appraising Company’s strategies, policies and performance; — Oversee the Company, including providing leadership and setting its objectives; — Approve and monitor systems of risk management, internal compliance, accountability and control, codes of conduct and legal compliance to ensure appropriate compliance frameworks and controls are in place; — Set the risk appetite within which the Board expects Management to operate; — Monitor Senior Management’s performance and approve remuneration policies and practices; Monitor implementation of strategy and ensure appropriate resources are available; — Approve and monitor the progress of major capital expenditure, capital management and acquisitions and divestitures; — Approve budgets; — Approve and monitor the corporate, financial and other reporting systems of Sasini Group, including external audit and oversee their integrity; — Adopt appropriate procedures to ensure compliance with all laws, governmental regulations and accounting standards, including establishing procedures to ensure information that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on the price or value of the Company’s Shares, is appropriately and accurately disclosed on a timely basis in accordance with all legal and regulatory requirements; and — Monitor the effectiveness of Sasini’s governance practices. Matters that are specifically reserved for the Board (or its Committees) include: — Appointment of the Chair; — Appointment and removal of the Managing Director; — Appointment of Directors to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director; — Establishment of Board Committees, their membership and delegated authorities; — Approval of dividends; — Approval of major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestitures in excess of authority levels delegated to Management; and — Any other specific matters nominated by the Board from time to time. The Board has established the following Committees to assist it in discharging its functions: Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, which is responsible for establishing the policies and practices of the Company regarding the human resources strategy, the remuneration of Directors and employees and reviewing the overall human resources and remuneration framework; It also is responsible for advising the Board on the composition of the Company’s Board and its Committees, maintaining proper succession plans and evaluating performance; Risk and Audit Committee, which is responsible for monitoring and advising the Board on Group’s audit, risk management and regulatory compliance policies and procedures; and ICT, Strategy and finance Committee, which is responsible for advising the Board on matters of technology and innovation in supporting the Group’s overall business strategy, reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s IT systems and data security measures. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 20 Sasini PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED) 1. The Board lays solid foundations for management and oversight (Continued) The Group Managing Director is responsible for the day-to-day management of Sasini PLC with the authority to exercise all necessary powers, discretions and delegations authorised from time to time by the Board. The Group Managing Director’s responsibilities are set out in the Board Charter. The Group Managing Director is supported by his Executive Team which meets weekly to plan the execution of the Group strategy. 2. Access to information and independent professional advice Management must supply the Board with information in a form, timeframe and quality that will enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively. Directors are entitled to request additional information at any time they consider it appropriate. The Board collectively, and each Director individually, has the right to seek independent professional advice, at Sasini Group’s expense, subject to the approval of the Chair, or the Board as a whole. Board meetings The Board meets on such number of occasions each year as the Board deems appropriate or as frequently as may otherwise be required to deal with urgent matters, which might arise between the scheduled meetings. For details of the current Directors, their qualifications, skills and experience, refer to the Directors’ section on pages 3 to 5. For details of Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee Meetings for the year ended 30 September 2018, refer to Directors’ Meetings on pages 25 and 26. 3. Appointment and re-election of Directors The composition, structure and proceedings of the Board are primarily governed by the Constitution and the laws governing corporations in jurisdictions where Sasini PLC operates. It is intended that the Board will comprise a majority of independent NonExecutive Directors. It is intended that the Board comprise Directors with a broad range of skills, expertise and experience from a diverse range of backgrounds that is appropriate to Sasini Group and its strategy. When appointing new Directors, the Board, together with the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of the evaluation, determines the role and capabilities required for the appointment, subject to limits imposed by the Constitution and the terms served by existing Non-Executive Directors. At commencement of the Director selection process, the Board, together with the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee undertakes appropriate checks on potential candidates to consider his or her suitability to fill a casual vacancy on the Board or for election as a Director. Prior to appointment, candidates are required to provide the Chairman with details of other commitments and an indication of time involved, and to acknowledge that he or she will have adequate time to fulfil his or her responsibilities as a Non-Executive Director of Sasini Group. Directors available for re-election at a general meeting are reviewed by the Nomination Committee and recommended to the Board. Directors are re-elected in accordance with the Constitution and the CMA regulations. Shareholders will be provided with details about each Director for reelection in the notice of meeting for the AGM to enable Shareholders to make a decision on re-election. Sasini Group enters into a written agreement with each Director and Senior Executive setting out the key terms, conditions and responsibilities of their position. Non-Executive Directors must inform the Chairperson before accepting any new appointment as a Director of another listed entity, another material directorship or other position with a significant time commitment attached. 4. Company Secretary The Company Secretary, a member of the Institute of Certified Secretaries of Kenya (ICPSK) is the Secretary to all the Committees of the Board and offers the critical role of supporting the Board on procedural and regulatory matters while ensuring the Company adheres to Board policies and procedures. All Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board on all matters relating to the conduct and functions of the Board and each of its Committees. The Company Secretary’s responsibilities are set out in the Board Charter. 5. Diversity Sasini PLC values a strong and diverse workforce and is committed to promoting a corporate culture that embraces diversity. The Board recognises workplace diversity as an integral part of how we operate and is imperative to our success. Workplace diversity recognises our individual differences, including differences in gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, physical abilities, family status, religious belief, perspective and experience. Sasini Group’s business policies, practices and behaviours promote workplace diversity and equal opportunity and create an inclusive and collaborative environment where individual differences are valued and all personnel have the opportunity to realise their potential and contribute to Sasini Group’s success. The Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing the Diversity program. 6. Performance review of the Board and senior executives The Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for establishing the processes for reviewing the performance of the Board, the Board’s Committees and individual Directors. The Board, Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Risk and Audit Committee and ICT, Strategy and Finance Committee, periodically self-assess their performance against a range of set criteria developed annually by the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee has considered and reviewed the performance of the Board, individual Directors, the Board Committees and senior executives during the year ended 30 September 2018. A peer review has been undertaken for each Director seeking re-election at the AGM to enable the Board to recommend that Shareholders elect that Director at the AGM. 7. Performance review of Executive Management The Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending remuneration arrangements for the Group Managing Director and Executive Team who report directly to the Group Managing Director, including contract terms, annual remuneration and participation in Sasini Group’s short and long term incentive plans. 21 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED) 8. The Board is structured to add value Board Committees (a) Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee The role and responsibilities of the Committee are to: — Advise the Board on the size and composition of the Board and its Committees and the selection and appointment of Directors to the Board and its Committees; — Review and make recommendations to the Board on succession plans for the Board and ensure there are plans in place to manage the succession of the Managing Director and other Senior Executives; — Advise the Board on the ongoing evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and Directors and make recommendations to the Board accordingly; — Develop a board skills matrix setting out the mix of skills and diversity that the Board currently has or is looking to achieve in its membership; — Conduct performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors and developing and implementing plans for identifying, assessing and enhancing Director competencies; and — Establish and facilitate a Director induction process and provide appropriate professional development opportunities for Directors. (b) Risk and Audit Committee The role and responsibilities of the Committee are to: — Oversee, review and supervise Sasini Group’s risk management framework and promote a risk management culture; — Assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities relative to the financial reporting process, the system of internal controls relating to all matters affecting Sasini Group’s financial performance and the audit process; — Assist the Board in monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and Sasini Group’s Code of Conduct and Ethics; — Assist the Board to adopt and apply appropriate ethical standards in relation to the management of Sasini Group and the conduct of its business; and — Review the adequacy of Sasini Group’s insurance policies. The responsibilities of the Committee in relation to external audit are as follows: — Establish procedures for the selection, appointment and removal of the external auditor and for the rotation of external audit engagement partners; — Review the external auditor’s proposed audit scope and approach; — Meet with the external auditor to review reports, and meet separately from Management, at least once a year, to discuss in that regard any matters that the Committee or auditors believe should be discussed privately; — Establish policies as appropriate in regards to the independence, integrity and performance of the external auditor; — Review of the independence of the external auditors and the appropriateness of any services provided by them to Sasini Group (if any), outside their statutory role; — For the purpose of removing or appointing external auditors review their performance, including their proposed fees, and if appropriate conduct a tender of the audit. It is the policy of Sasini Group that its external auditing firm must be independent of it. The Risk and Audit Committee will review and assess the independence of the external auditor on an annual basis. The Risk and Audit Committee may obtain information from, and consult with, Management, the external auditor and external advisers, as it considers appropriate. The Risk and Audit Committee also has access to the external auditor to discuss matters without Management being present. The Risk and Audit Committee met four times during the year ended 30 September 2018. (c) ICT, Strategy and Finance Committee The Committee is responsible for reviewing and, where appropriate, approving Sasini Group’s Technology Strategy and overseeing its implementation. The Committee will assist the Board by: — Reviewing key technology changes, innovations and trends in the marketplace and their potential for application within Sasini Group, including advising Sasini Group through industry meetings with experts and education visits to key technology partners, industries and regions; — Reviewing and recommending to the Board management strategies relating to Sasini Group’s Technology Strategy and their alignment with Sasini Group’s overall strategy and objectives; — Reviewing and monitoring Management’s strategies and innovation framework for developing or implementing new technologies and systems; advising the Board in relation to Sasini Group’s IT operations for the purpose of enhancing the Board’s understanding of the use of technology as an enabler and a risk for Sasini Group; — Reviewing and recommending to the Board major new technology projects and investments; — Monitoring and reviewing the post implementation results of all key technology projects, including the achievement of expected benefits and return on investment; — Reviewing and recommending to the Board, Management’s strategies for sourcing of major technology suppliers and monitoring the technology governance framework for third party suppliers; Reviewing, monitoring and advising on the effectiveness of the ISMS Information Security Risk Management Policy and Procedure; — Advising the Risk and Audit Committee on matters of technology, systems, data and intellectual property risk and security; — Improving the efficiency of the Board by taking responsibility for “technology” tasks delegated to the Committee where such tasks should be discussed in depth; Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 22 Sasini PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED) 8. The Board is structured to add value (Continued) (c) ICT, Strategy and Finance Committee (Continued) — Reviewing and reporting to the Board on the effectiveness of incident response plans as they relate to technology risks and cyber security risks, including disaster recovery plans and ensuring the regular testing and reporting to the Board on the results of testing; — The delivery of technology services to Sasini Group, including performance outcomes for quality, stability and reliability and, where reliable information and metrics are available, — The integration of IT operations and technology within the broader organisation, including strategies to minimise residual integration risk and maximise transparency across the organisation; and — Such other matters relating to Sasini Group’s Technology Strategy as the Committee may require from time to time. Board Skills Matrix The Board has adopted a policy that it shall be composed of a majority of independent, Non-Executive Directors who, with the Group Managing Director, comprise an appropriate mix of skills, expertise, experience and diversity to meet the Board’s responsibilities and objectives. The Board is comprised of highly experienced business leaders who each meet the fundamental requirements necessary to govern a listed company in the Securities Exchange. The Company has a diverse Board which collectively has: — Strategic capabilities and commercial acumen; — IT strategies and infrastructure, networks and innovations in data security and storage; — Financial management capability, the ability to analyse statements and assess financial viability; — Risk management understanding and experience; — Knowledge of corporate governance and compliance in listed entities; — Experience in human resource management, including workplace culture, management development and succession, health and safety, diversity and remuneration; — Experience on the boards of other significant listed entities; — Experience in identifying and managing the process for mergers and acquisitions, including integration; — International experience; and — Experience in executive leadership. The Board, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, determines the size and composition of the Board, subject to the Company’s Constitution. The Board will continue to monitor and update the Board skills matrix at least annually to ensure that as Sasini develops, the Board comprises the appropriate mix of skills and experience. The Board recognises the importance of succession and renewal. It continues to monitor the Board composition accordingly. Induction and education The Nomination Committee is responsible for implementing an effective training and education program for all new and existing Directors, ensuring that Sasini provides appropriate professional development opportunities for Directors. The Nomination Committee is required to regularly review the effectiveness of the program to ensure Directors maintain the skills and knowledge required to perform their role effectively. Any new Directors undergo an induction program in which they are given a full briefing on Sasini, its operations and the industries in which it operates. Management, with the Board, provides an orientation program for new Directors which includes discussions with executives and management, the provision of materials to the new Director such as all of the Company’s governance documents, access to the recent Board and Committee papers, along with minutes of these meetings. The objectives of the induction are to familiarise the new Director with Sasini Group’s strategies, the nature of the various businesses, financial position, operational and risk management. 9. The Board promotes ethical and responsible decision-making (a) Code of Conduct and Ethics The Board recognises the need to observe a high standard of corporate practice and business conduct. Accordingly, the Board adopted the Code of Conduct and Ethics, which outlines how Sasini expects its representatives to behave and conduct business in the workplace and includes legal compliance and guidelines on appropriate ethical standards. All Sasini Group Directors, officers, employees and contractors (Personnel) must comply with the Code of Conduct and Ethics. This Code applies to all Personnel and all other people who represent Sasini Group or undertake work for the benefit of Sasini Group. Each member of Sasini Group and all Personnel are expected at all times to comply with all applicable laws. All Personnel are expected to conduct Sasini Group’s operations with high legal, moral and ethical standards in all their dealings and to uphold Sasini Group’s reputation as a trusted third party financial administrator. Specifically, all Personnel agree to act: — Ethically, honestly, responsibly, diligently and with integrity; — In full compliance with all laws and regulations that apply to Sasini Group and its operations and this Code; and — In the best interests of Sasini Group. All Sasini Group Senior Management must lead by example and demonstrate a high regard for Sasini Group, and treat all Personnel with respect. (b) Securities Trading Policy Sasini Group has adopted the Securities Trading Policy that is intended to: 23 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED) 9. The Board promotes ethical and responsible decision-making (Continued) (b) Securities Trading Policy (Contiued) Explain the types of conduct in relation to dealings in securities that are prohibited under the CMA Act and establish a best practice procedure for the buying and selling of securities that protects Sasini Group, Directors and employees against the misuse of unpublished information that could materially affect the value of securities. The Securities Trading Policy applies to: — All Directors and officers of Sasini Group including the Group Managing Director; — All direct reports to the Group Managing Director; — All employees and contractors of Sasini Group; — Their associates (as defined in the CMA Act) including, close family members and trusts and entities controlled by them; and — Other persons identified by Sasini Group from time to time, (Restricted Persons). The Securities Trading Policy sets out restrictions that apply to dealing with securities, including “trading windows”, during which Restricted Persons, may deal in Sasini Group’s Securities in the following periods. 10. The Board makes timely and balanced disclosure The Board’s aim is to ensure that Shareholders are kept informed of all major developments affecting the state of affairs of Sasini Group. Sasini Group has adopted a Continuous Disclosure Policy to ensure compliance with the explicit requirements and the spirit and intent of its disclosure obligations under the CMA Act and NSE Listing regulations. The Board bears the primary responsibility for Sasini Group’s compliance with its continuous disclosure obligations and is therefore responsible for overseeing and implementing this Policy. The Board makes the ultimate decision on whether there is any materially price sensitive information that needs to be disclosed to the CMA and NSE. It is a standing agenda item at all Board meetings to consider any information that must be disclosed to the CMA in accordance with Sasini Group’s continuous disclosure obligations. The Board has appointed the Company Secretary as the Reporting Officer in order to streamline the day-to-day compliance with its continuous disclosure obligations. All Directors are required to notify the Reporting Officer if they believe there is materially price sensitive information which requires disclosure to the CMA. 11. The Board respects the rights of shareholders Sasini Group respects the rights of its Shareholders and to facilitate the effective exercise of those rights, has adopted a Stakeholder’s Management Policy. The following information is available on Sasini Group’s website: — A profile of Sasini Group and its businesses; — Director and Executive Team profiles; — Corporate governance overview; and — All CMA announcements made to the market, including annual and half year financial results, are posted on Sasini Group’s website. To encourage Shareholder engagement and participation at the AGM, Shareholders have the opportunity to attend the AGM, ask questions from the floor, participate in voting and meet the Board and the Executive Team in person. Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to vote on the proposed motions by appointing a proxy via the proxy form accompanying the notice of meeting. The Board recognises and manages risk Risk and Audit Committee in its function as a risk committee, the Risk and Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance responsibilities in regard to oversight of Sasini Group’s risk management framework and internal control systems. The Risk Management Policy sets out the requirements, roles and responsibilities for managing risks across Sasini Group. The Risk and Audit Committee’s primary role with respect to risk management is to: — Consider the overall risk management framework and risk profile and annually review its effectiveness in meeting sound corporate governance principles and keep the Board informed of all significant business risks; — Review with Management the adequacy of Sasini Group’s systems for identifying, managing, and monitoring the key risks to Sasini Group in accordance with the Risk Management Policy; — Obtain reports from Management on the status of any key risk exposures or incidents; — Review the adequacy of the Sasini Group’s process for managing risk and provide a recommendation to the Board regarding the s same in accordance with the Risk Management Policy; — Review any incident involving fraud or other material or significant break down of the Sasini Group’s internal controls in accordance with the Risk Management Policy; — Review any material or significant incident involving any break down of Sasini Group’s risk management framework in accordance with the Risk Management Policy; — Review the Sasini Group’s insurance program having regard to Sasini Group’s business and the insurable risks associated with its business and inform the Board regarding the same; and — Review whether Sasini Group has any material exposure to any economic, environmental and social sustainability risks and if so, develop strategies to manage such risks to present to the Board. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 24 Sasini PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED) 11. The Board respects the rights of shareholders (Continued) Internal audit The internal audit function provides objective assurance on the effectiveness of risk management, operational and transactional controls and governance. Internal Audit operates under an annual plan reviewed and considered by the Risk and Audit Committee and the findings are presented to the Risk and Audit Committee. The internal audit function is undertaken by external providers. Sasini Group has appointed an external provider to provide internal audit services. 12. Economic, environmental and social sustainability risks Sasini Group is committed to sustainability and acting in a responsible manner to promote employee well-being, minimise our impact on the environment and give back to the wider community. Sasini Group’s ethos is to build partnerships with our employees, clients, investors, suppliers and communities based on mutual respect, trust and fairness. The CMA Code of Corporate Governance Principles define ‘material exposure’ as a ‘real possibility that the risk in question could substantively impact the listed entity’s ability to create or preserve value for security holders over the short, medium or long term’. Board and Board Committees Attendance The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role. Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the Company to perform their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to prepare for Board meetings. During the reporting year, the Board met four (4) times. Members of the Executive Leadership Team and other members of senior management attended meetings of the Board by invitation. Attendance at Board and standing Board committee meetings during financial year 2018 is set out in the table below: Full Board MEMBER/IN DECEMBER MARCH MAY SEPTEMBER ATTENDANCE 2017 2018 2018 2018 Dr. James McFie √ √ √ √ Dr. Naushad Merali √ √ √ √ Dr. Steve Mainda √ √ √ √ Mrs. Betty Koech √ √ √ √ Mr. Akif Butt √ √ √ √ Mrs. Rosemary Munyiri √ √ √ √ Mr. Sameer Merali √ √ x √ Mr. Stephen Githiga √ √ √ √ Mr. Lawrence Kibet √ √ √ √ Risk and Audit Committee MEMBER/IN DECEMBER MARCH MAY SEPTEMBER ATTENDANCE 2017 2018 2018 2018 Mrs. Betty Koech √ √ √ √ Dr. James McFie √ √ √ √ Mrs. Rosemary Munyiri √ √ √ √ Mr. Sameer Merali √ √ x √ Mr. Lawrence Kibet √ √ √ √ Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee MEMBER/IN DECEMBER MARCH MAY SEPTEMBER ATTENDANCE 2017 2018 2018 2018 Dr. Steve Mainda √ √ √ √ Dr. James McFie √ √ √ √ Mr. Akif Butt √ √ √ √ Mr. Lawrence Kibet √ √ √ √ 25 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED) ICT, Strategy and Finance Committee MEMBER/IN 11TH DECEMBER 29TH FEBRUARY 8TH MAY 2018 18TH SEPTEMBER ATTENDANCE 2017 2018 2018 N.N. Merali √ √ √ √ A. H. Butt √ √ √ √ S.N. Merali √ √ √ √ S. Githiga √ √ √ √ S. K. Odalo √ √ √ √ S. Menon √ √ √ √ J. Muriithi √ √ √ √ W. Murage √ √ √ √ T. Sadiq X X √ √ T. Masaki √ √ √ √ L. Kibet √ √ √ √ √ In attendance X – Absent (or absent with apology) Top ten shareholders at 30 September 2018 The ten largest shareholders of the Company as at 30 September 2018 were as follows: No. Name of shareholder No. of shares % Shareholding 1 Legend Investments Limited 95,417,345 41.84 2 Yana Towers Limited 28,725,240 12.60 3 East African Batteries Limited 25,135,700 11.02 4 Gulamali Ismail 20,061,700 8.80 5 Gidjoy Investments Limited 9,900,800 4.34 6 Tropical Veterinary Services Limited 5,390,900 2.36 7 Karim Jamal 4,587,841 2.01 8 Shardaben Vithaldas Morjaria 2,111,780 0.93 9 Joseph Schwartzman 1,972,100 0.86 10 Steluc Limited 1,500,000 0.66 Distribution of shareholders Shareholding (No. of Shares) No. of Shares held No. of Shareholders % Shareholding Less than 500 785,286 3,083 0.34 500 5,000 4,077,115 2,898 1.79 5,001 10,000 2,015,703 276 0.88 10,001 – 100,000 10,735,434 370 4.71 100,001-1,000,000 12,814,156 55 5.62 Above 1,000,000 197,627,806 12 86.66 Total 228,055,500 6,694 100.00 Dr. J.B. McFie, PhD Mrs Betty Koech Chairman Director Date: 19 December 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 26 Sasini PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT As a corporate citizen of this Country, we delight in fully exercising our corporate social responsibilities. In this regard, the Group has continued to effectively undertake corporate social investments activities by investing/contributing towards education development, health, social economic empowerment of the local communities within its operating environment. Education/ Social Welfare The Group has constructed four (4) primary schools and one secondary school within the tea operations and also renders support to schools around our coffee operations. The tea division maintains nursery and primary schools providing free education to the children of employees, dependents and surrounding communities. The Group supports education through bursaries and stipends and by providing funds to establish and improve schools near our plantations. We also provide resources such as computers, laboratory equipment, sports kits and basic learning materials to schools. Provision of footwear to primary going children is occasionally done to motivate the learners. The Group provides pre-school opportunities for the younger children and in this regard we have established six-day care centers in our tea estates where toddlers are kept busy and fed on a daily basis as their parents work. The Magura Mixed Secondary School in our tea division was officially opened by The First Lady, Her Excellency Mrs. Margaret Kenyatta on 10 May 2018. Besides the educational facilities, the Group provides social and welfare amenities to all our current population of permanent and seasonal employees of about 4,500 along with over 15,000 of their dependents living within the estates. Health The Group maintains a well-equipped Medical Centre with in-patient and outpatient treatment options within the tea operations. It also maintains three satellite dispensaries with well-trained medical personnel and a diagnostic laboratory. The facilities also have ambulances on standby in case critical cases need to be transported to larger health facilities. These facilities cater for both the company employees and local community residents. Smallholder Farmers and Community The annual farmers’ open day was held on 7 December 2018 at our Kamundu Estate, in Kiambu and in the usual custom, our outgrower farmers were sensitized on financial literacy, sustainable farming techniques and technological interventions in the growing of coffee, Macadamia nut and Avocado trees as well as new investment options. Farmers who had implemented the acquired skills successfully resulting in higher yields and or better crop from their farms were awarded attractive prizes and trophies. The Group also avails tea, coffee, macadamia, avocado and indigenous tree seedlings to the surrounding community, as well as fertilizers to our outgrowers. The Group provides employment to the local community, and internships and attachments to university and college students from the surrounding community. Ecosystem Conservation Through the Rainforest Alliance certification, both our tea and coffee operations have comprehensively addressed the environmental, social and economic challenges faced by our own tea and coffee estates, out grower farms and the surrounding communities. The Group has a well-established ecosystem conservation programme with supporting policies that protect the ravines, production areas, and all habitat areas. 27 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the consolidated and separate financial statements of Sasini PLC (the group and company) set out on pages 33 to 84 which comprise the consolidated and company statements of financial position as at 30 September 2018, and the consolidated and company statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and consolidated and company statements of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The Directors’ responsibilities include: determining that the basis of accounting described in Note 2 is an acceptable basis for preparing and presenting the financial statements in the circumstances, preparation and presentation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Under the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the financial position of the group and of the company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the group and company for that year. It also requires the Directors to ensure the company and its subsidiaries keep proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the group and the company. The Directors accept responsibility for the annual consolidated and separate financial statements, which have been prepared using appropriate accounting policies supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The Directors are of the opinion that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the group and the company and of the group and company profit or loss and cash flows. The Directors further accept responsibility for the maintenance of accounting records which may be relied upon in the preparation of financial statements, as well as adequate systems of internal financial control. The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and have no reason to believe the Group and Company will not be a going concern for at least the next twelve months from the date of this statement. Approval of the financial statements The financial statements, as indicated above, were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 December 2018. Dr. J.B. McFie, PhD Mrs Betty Koech Chairman Director Date: 19 December 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 28 KPMG Kenya Telephone +254 20 2806000 Certified Public Accountants Email info@kpmg.co.ke 8th Floor, ABC Towers Internet www.kpmg.com/eastafrica Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 40612 00100 GPO Nairobi, Kenya REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF SASINI PLC Report on the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements Opinion We have audited the consolidated and separate financial statements of Sasini PLC (the Group and Company) set out on pages 33 to 84, which comprise the consolidated and company statements of financial position at 30 September 2018, and the consolidated and company statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity and the consolidated and company statements of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated and separate financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated and separate financial position of Sasini PLC as at 30 September 2018, and of its consolidated and separate financial performance and consolidated and separate cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the consolidated and separate Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group and Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code), together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Kenya, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Valuation of biological assets IAS 41 Agriculture (applicable to the consolidated and separate financial statements) See note 3 (j) and note 20 The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group’s biological assets include unharvested produce Our audit procedures in this area included, among others: growing on tea and coffee bushes, standing timber and livestock which are measured at fair value less costs to sell — Evaluating the Group’s and Company’s inputs and under IAS 41 Agriculture. assumptions used in calculating the estimated cash flows by comparing them with historical performance and the Estimating the fair value is a complex process involving a Group’s and Company’s plans, as well as our understanding number of judgments and estimates regarding various inputs of the industry and the economic environment the Group including estimating the useful lives of the bioloigical assets, and Company operates in. expected harvest and selling prices after harvest. Due to — Evaluating the historical accuracy of the Group’s and the nature of the assets, the valuation technique includes a Company’s assessment of the fair value of biological assets discounted cash flow model that uses a number of inputs from by comparing previous forecasts for yields per hectare, internal sources due to lack of relevant and reliable observable timber prices and harvesting/transportation costs with inputs. actual outcomes and industry forecasts. — Evaluating the accuracy of the computations as well as Valuation of biological assets is a key audit matter because the appropriateness of the discount rates used to discount the determination of the fair value of biological assets is a cashflows. key area of estimation uncertainty and is subject to significant — Evaluating the adequacy of the financial statement management judgment. disclosures, including disclosures of key assumptions, judgments and sensitivities. KPMG Kenya is a registered partnership and a member firm of the Partners EE Aholi AM Mbai KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG (British*) BC D’Souza JL Mwaura International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity JM Gathecha JM Ndunyu JI Kariuki AW Pringle* PI Kinuthia 29 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 KPMG Kenya Telephone +254 20 2806000 Certified Public Accountants Email info@kpmg.co.ke 8th Floor, ABC Towers Internet www.kpmg.com/eastafrica Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 40612 00100 GPO Nairobi, Kenya REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF SASINI PLC (CONTINUED) Report on the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements (continued) Key audit matters (continued) Deferred tax arising from tax losses See note 3 (d) and note 30 (applicable to consolidated financial statements) The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities includes Our audit procedures in this area included, among others: recognised deferred tax assets amounting to KShs 56.8 million arising from carry-forward tax losses amounting to KShs 189 — Using our own tax specialists to evaluate the tax strategies million from some subsidiaries that the Directors believe are the Group expects will enable successful recovery of the recoverable. recognised deferred tax assets. — Reconciling tax losses and expiry dates to the tax statements/ The recoverability of the recognised deferred tax assets is computation and returns. in part dependent on the respective subsidiary’s ability to — Assessing the reasonableness of forecast future taxable generate future taxable profits sufficient to utilize the tax profits by evaluating historical forecasting reasonableness losses before they expire. and comparing the assumptions with our own expectations of those assumptions derived from our knowledge of the The Group also has unrecognised deferred tax asset of KShs industry and our understanding obtained during our audit. 54 million relating to tax losses of KShs 181 million at one of — Evaluating the basis for not recognising deferred tax its subsidiaries. assets and assumptions/judgements made by directors not to recognise deferred tax assets. Deferred tax arising from tax losses See note 3 (d) and note 30 (applicable to consolidated financial statements) The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit We have determined this to be a key audit matter, due to the — Evaluating the adequacy of financial statements disclosures. inherent uncertainty in forecasting the amount and timing of future taxable profits, the reversal of temporary differences, utilisation of tax losses before they expire and consequently recognition or unrecognition of deferred taxes. Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, but does not include the consolidated and separate financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. Our opinion on the consolidated and separate financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated and separate financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. KPMG Kenya is a registered partnership and a member firm of the Partners EE Aholi AM Mbai KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG (British*) BC D’Souza JL Mwaura International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity JM Gathecha JM Ndunyu JI Kariuki AW Pringle* PI Kinuthia Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 30 KPMG Kenya Telephone +254 20 2806000 Certified Public Accountants Email info@kpmg.co.ke 8th Floor, ABC Towers Internet www.kpmg.com/eastafrica Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 40612 00100 GPO Nairobi, Kenya REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF SASINI PLC (CONTINUED) Report on the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements (continued) Directors’ responsibilities for the consolidated and separate financial statements As stated on page 28, the directors are responsible for the preparation of consolidated and separate financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated and separate financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated and separate financial statements, directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group and/or the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and separate financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated and separate financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: — Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated and separate financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. — Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and Company’s internal control. — Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors. — Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and/or Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated and separate financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and/or Company to cease to continue as a going concern. — Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated and separate financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated and separate financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. We communicate with Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. KPMG Kenya is a registered partnership and a member firm of the Partners EE Aholi AM Mbai KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG (British*) BC D’Souza JL Mwaura International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity JM Gathecha JM Ndunyu JI Kariuki AW Pringle* PI Kinuthia 31 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 KPMG Kenya Telephone +254 20 2806000 Certified Public Accountants Email info@kpmg.co.ke 8th Floor, ABC Towers Internet www.kpmg.com/eastafrica Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 40612 00100 GPO Nairobi, Kenya REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF SASINI PLC (CONTINUED) Report on the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements (continued) Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements (continued) We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements As required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 we report to you, based on our audit that: i. In our opinion, the information given in the report of the directors on pages 14 and 15 is consistent with the consolidated and separate financial statements; ii. The auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 18 and 19 has been prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015; and iii. We have issued an unqualified audit report on the consolidated and separate financial statements. The Engagement Partner responsible for the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is CPA Jacob Gathecha – P/1610. KPMG Kenya Certified Public Accountants 8th Floor, ABC Towers ABC Place, Waiyaki Way PO Box 40612 00100 Nairobi Date: 19 December 2018 KPMG Kenya is a registered partnership and a member firm of the Partners EE Aholi AM Mbai KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG (British*) BC D’Souza JL Mwaura International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity JM Gathecha JM Ndunyu JI Kariuki AW Pringle* PI Kinuthia Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 32 Sasini PLC CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Revenue 8 3,515,220 4,201,195 Cost of sales 9 (2,663,117) (3,203,192) Gross profit 852,103 998,003 Fair value changes on biological assets 20(a) 55,559 81,746 Other income 10 261,500 98,531 Total operating income 1,169,162 1,178,280 Administration and establishment expenses 11 (769,903) (759,072) Selling and distribution costs 12 (44,644) (46,027) Results from continuing operations 354,615 373,181 Finance income 13(a) 112,663 141,864 Finance costs 13(b) (18,472) (11,024) Net finance income 13 94,191 130,840 Profit before tax from continuing operations 448,806 504,021 Loss of control Gain on disposal of subsidiary 40 16,900 Profit before tax 14 448,806 520,921 Tax expense 15(a) (155,283) (181,514) Profit for the year 293,523 339,407 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurement of post-employment benefits, 31 8,453 (26,319) net of tax Total comprehensive income 301,976 313,088 Profit attributable to: Owners of the company 295,497 346,183 Non-controlling interest (1,974) (6,776) 293,523 339,407 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the company 303,940 319,662 Non-controlling interest (1,964) (6,574) 301,976 313,088 Profit attributable to the owners of company comprise: Profit arising from operating activities 256,606 288,961 Fair value changes on biological assetsnet of tax 38,891 57,222 295,497 346,183 Earnings per share: Basic and diluted (KShs) 16 1.30 1.52 Dividend per share (KShs) 17 1.00 1.00 The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. 33 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Revenue 8 1,076,088 1,705,553 Cost of sales 9 (896,807) (1,478,160) Gross profit 179,281 227,393 Fair value changes on biological assets 20(b) 34,747 52,388 Other income 10 605,731 361,767 Total operating income 819,759 641,548 Administration and establishment expenses 11 (397,706) (385,007) Selling and distribution costs 12 (7,695) Results from continuing operations 422,053 248,846 Finance income 13(a) 32,067 72,180 Finance costs 13(b) (5,143) (10,988) Net finance income 13 26,924 61,192 Profit before tax from continuing operations 448,977 310,038 Loss of control Loss on disposal of subsidiary 40 (27,899) Profit before tax 14 448,977 282,139 Tax expense 15(a) (31,352) (47,082) Profit for the year 417,625 235,057 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurement of post-employment benefits, net of tax 31 909 1,693 Total comprehensive income 418,534 236,750 Profit is made up as follows: Profit arising from operating activities 393,302 198,385 Fair value changes on biological assetsnet of tax 24,323 36,672 417,625 235,057 Earnings per share: Basic and diluted (KShs) 16 1.83 1.03 Dividend per share (KShs) 17 1.00 1.00 The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 34 Sasini PLC CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 2018 2017 ASSETS Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 18(a) 8,679,878 8,827,710 Capital work-in-progress 18(c) 555,032 188,688 Intangible assets 19 16,030 4,871 Biological assets 20(a) 1,046,978 1,171,379 Prepaid leases on leasehold land 21 10,509 17,585 Available-for-sale financial asset 22 525 525 Deferred tax asset 30 6,997 97 10,315,949 10,210,855 Current assets Inventories 24 411,712 284,214 Biological Assets 20(a) 283,033 251,034 Trade and other receivables 25 730,321 997,224 Amounts due from related companies 26(a) 1,000 18,005 Tax recoverable 15(b) 83,756 27,817 Cash and cash equivalents 27 1,135,609 1,406,876 2,645,431 2,985,170 TOTAL ASSETS 12,961,380 13,196,025 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves (Pages 37 & 38) Share capital 28 228,055 228,055 Non-distributable reserves 29(a) 7,959,268 7,911,934 Distributable reserves 29(b) 2,841,337 2,869,801 11,028,660 11,009,790 Non-controlling interest 29(c) 295,123 306,087 Total equity 11,323,783 11,315,877 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 30 882,430 894,847 Post-employment benefits 31 296,088 281,360 1,178,518 1,176,207 Current liabilities Post-employment benefits 31 36,042 41,602 Amounts due to related parties 26(b) 90 Trade and other payables 32 411,595 547,496 Borrowings 39 100,852 Tax payable 15(b) 11,442 13,901 459,079 703,941 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 12,961,380 13,196,025 The financial statements set out on pages 33 to 84 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 December 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Dr. J.B. McFie, PhD Mrs Betty Koech Chairman Director The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. 35 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 2018 2017 ASSETS Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 18(b) 5,854,109 5,955,317 Capital work-in-progress 18(c) 118,426 71,808 Intangible assets 19 15,033 3,660 Biological assets 20(b) 59,478 56,748 Prepaid leases on leasehold land 21 6,974 Investment in subsidiary companies 23 145,797 145,797 6,192,843 6,240,304 Current assets Inventories 24 79,558 73,426 Biological Assets 20(b) 223,123 190,069 Trade and other receivables 25 253,451 541,917 Amounts due from related companies 26(a) 802,082 141,547 Tax recoverable 15(b) 21,200 30,393 Cash and cash equivalents 27 147,162 524,718 1,526,576 1,502,070 TOTAL ASSETS 7,719,419 7,742,374 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves (Pages 39 & 40) Share capital 28 228,055 228,055 Non-distributable reserves 29(a) 5,681,682 5,656,450 Distributable reserves 29(b) 1,288,060 1,179,828 Total equity 7,197,797 7,064,333 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 30 380,425 366,227 Post-employment benefits 31 24,593 22,327 405,018 388,554 Current liabilities Post-employment benefits 31 5,674 4,929 Trade and other payables 32 110,930 183,706 Borrowings 39 100,852 116,604 289,487 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,719,419 7,742,374 The financial statements set out on pages 33 to 84 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 December 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Dr. J.B. McFie, PhD Mrs Betty Koech Chairman Director The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 36 FOR THE YEAR ENDED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 37 Biological assets Defined Total Non Sasini PLC Share Capital Revaluation fair value benefit Retained Proposed attributable controlling capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings dividends to owners interest Total equity 2018: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Balance as at 1 October 2017 228,055 98,530 7,627,565 159,711 26,128 2,698,759 171,042 11,009,790 306,087 11,315,877 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 295,497 295,497 (1,974) 293,523 Other comprehensive income Fair value gain on biological assets after tax 38,891 (38,891) Remeasurement of post employment benefits net of tax 8,443 8,443 10 8,453 Total comprehensive income for the year 38,891 8,443 256,606 303,940 (1,964) 301,976 Transactions with owners of the company recorded directly in equity Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Dividend paid to minority interest (9,000) (9,000) Final 2017 dividend paid (171,042) (171,042) (171,042) First interim 2018 dividend paid (114,028) (114,028) (114,028) Second interim 2018 dividend payable (114,028) 114,028 Total distribution to owners of the company (228,056) 57,014 (285,070) (9,000) (294,070) At 30 September 2018 228,055 98,530 7,627,565 198,602 34,571 2,727,309 114,028 11,028,660 295,123 11,323,783 The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. FOR THE YEAR ENDED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONTINUED) 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Sasini PLC Biological assets Defined Total Non Share Capital Revaluation fair value benefit Retained Proposed attributable controlling capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings dividends to owners interest Total equity 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Balance as at 1 October 2016 228,055 98,530 7,627,565 102,489 52,649 2,646,448 285,069 11,040,805 320,800 11,361,605 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 346,183 346,183 (6,776) 339,407 Other comprehensive income Fair value gain on biological assets after tax 57,222 (57,222) Remeasurement of post employment benefits net of tax (26,521) (26,521) 202 (26,319) Total comprehensive income for the year 57,222 (26,521) 288,961 319,662 (6,574) 313,088 Transactions with owners of the company recorded directly in equity Elimination on disposal of subsidiary (Note 40) (8,594) (8,594) (8,139) (16,733) Final 2016 dividend paid (285,069) (285,069) (285,069) First interim 2017 dividend paid (57,014) (57,014) (57,014) Second interim 2017 dividend payable (171,042) 171,042 Total distribution to owners of the company (236,650) (114,027) (350,677) (8,139) (358,816) At 30 September 2017 228,055 98,530 7,627,565 159,711 26,128 2,698,759 171,042 11,009,790 306,087 11,315,877 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. 38 Sasini PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Biological assets Defined Share Capital Revaluation fair value benefit Retained Proposed Total capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings dividends equity 2018: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Balance as at 1 October 2017 228,055 40,594 5,517,443 94,073 4,340 1,008,786 171,042 7,064,333 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 417,625 417,625 Other comprehensive income Fair value changes on biological assets after tax 24,323 (24,323) Remeasurement of post employment benefits, net of tax (Note 31) 909 909 Total comprehensive income for the year 24,323 909 393,302 418,534 Transactions with owners of the company recorded directly in equity Final 2017 dividend paid (171,042) (171,042) First interim 2018 dividend paid (114,028) (114,028) Second interim 2018 dividend payable (114,028) 114,028 Total distribution to owners of equity (228,056) (57,014) (285,070) At 30 September 2018 228,055 40,594 5,517,443 118,396 5,249 1,174,032 114,028 7,197,797 The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. 39 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Biological assets Defined Share Capital Revaluation fair value benefit Retained Proposed Total capital reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings dividends equity 2017: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 At 1 October 2016 228,055 40,594 5,517,443 57,401 2,647 1,038,457 285,069 7,169,666 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 235,057 235,057 Other comprehensive income Fair value changes on biological assets after tax 36,672 (36,672) Remeasurement of post employment benefits, net of tax (Note 31) 1,693 1,693 Total comprehensive income for the year 36,672 1,693 198,385 236,750 Transactions with owners of the company recorded directly in equity Final 2016 dividend paid (285,069) (285,069) First interim 2017 dividend paid (57,014) (57,014) Second interim 2017 dividend payable (171,042) 171,042 Total distribution to owners of equity (228,056) (114,027) (342,083) At 30 September 2017 228,055 40,594 5,517,443 94,073 4,340 1,008,786 171,042 7,064,333 The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 40 Sasini PLC CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash flows generated from operations 33 593,395 73,899 Gratuity paid 31 (32,430) (22,082) Income taxes paid 15(b) (236,621) (280,389) Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 324,344 (228,572) Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 13 94,691 111,947 Purchase of property and equipment 18(a) (53,323) (105,782) Purchase of capital work-in-progress 18(c) (368,910) (131,509) Purchase of intangible assets 19 (16,218) (866) Purchase of biological assets 20 (1,206) (703) Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 143,841 18,434 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiary 40 41,171 Net cash used in investing activities (201,125) (67,308) Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid 13 ( 5,166) ( 10,547) Borrowings received 39 175,969 455,329 Borrowings repaid 39 (276,821) (356,674) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (285,070) (342,083) Net cash used in financing activities (391,088) (253,975) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (267,869) (549,855) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,406,876 1,954,551 Net unrealised foreign exchange (loss)/gain (3,398) 2,180 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 1,135,609 1,406,876 The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. 41 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 2018 2017 Note KShs’000 KShs’000 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash flows used in operations 33 (360,853) (118,187) Gratuity paid 31 (1,190) (1,109) Income taxes paid 15(b) (8,353) (93,310) Net cash used in operating activities (370,396) (212,606) Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received 10 301,000 200,000 Interest received 13 14,097 44,667 Purchase of property and equipment 18(b) (10,273) (66,309) Purchase of capital work-in-progress 18(c) (46,618) (14,629) Purchase of intangible assets 19 (15,716) (553) Purchases of biological assets 20 (1,037) (412) Proceeds from sale of property and equipment 140,623 16,645 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiary 40 42,000 Investment in subsidiaries 23 (30,000) Net cash generated from investing activities 382,076 191,409 Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid 13 (4,764) (10,536) Borrowings received 39 175,969 455,329 Borrowings repaid 39 (276,821) (356,674) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (285,070) (342,083) Net cash used in financing activities (390,686) (253,964) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (379,006) (275,161) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 524,718 797,943 Unrealised foreign exchange gain 1,450 1,936 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 27 147,162 524,718 The notes set out on pages 43 to 84 form an integral part of the financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 42 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 1. REPORTING ENTITY (e) Use of estimates and judgments Sasini PLC (the “Company”) is a company incorporated in The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Kenya under the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 and is domiciled IFRSs requires management to make judgments, estimates in Kenya. The consolidated financial statements comprise and assumptions that affect the application of accounting the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities and “Group” or “Consolidated” and individually referred to as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date “Group entities”). of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The The Group is primarily involved in growing and processing of tea estimates and assumptions are based on the Directors’ best and coffee, commercial milling and marketing of coffee, value knowledge of current events, actions, historical experience addition of related products, forestry, sourcing and processing and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable avocados, processing macadamia nuts, dairy operations and under the circumstances, the results of which form the livestock. basis of making the judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other The address of its registered office and principal place of sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. business is as follows: The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 3rd Floor, Rivaan Centre an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are Westlands recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised PO Box 30151 00100 if the revision affects only that period or in the period of Nairobi the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. The shares of the Company are listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE). In particular, information about significant areas of estimation and critical judgments in applying accounting 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts (a) Statement of compliance recognized in the financial statements are described in Note The financial statements are prepared in accordance with 4. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and in the manner required by the Kenya Companies Act, 2015. Details 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES of significant accounting policies are included in Note 3. (a) Basis of consolidation (i) Subsidiaries For Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 reporting purposes, the The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial balance sheet is represented by the statement of financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at 30 position and the profit and loss account is represented by September 2018. The subsidiaries are shown in Note 23. the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income in these financial statements. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial (b) Basis of measurement and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits The financial statements are prepared under the historical from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting cost basis of accounting except for biological assets and rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account. financial instruments that have been measured at fair The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the value and certain items property, plant and equipment that consolidated financial statements from the date that control have been carried at revaluation amounts. The accounting commences until the date that control ceases. The financial policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous statements have been prepared using uniform accounting years. policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances. (c) Functional and presentation currency The financial statements are presented in Kenya shillings Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non(KShs), which is the Group’s and Company’s functional controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. currency. Except as otherwise indicated, financial A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without information presented in Kenya shillings has been rounded a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If to the nearest thousand (KShs‘000). the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: (d) Going concern — Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities The Group’s and Company’s management has made an of the subsidiary; assessment of the Group and Company’s ability to continue — Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling as a going concern and is satisfied that the Group and interest; Company has the resources to continue in business for the — Derecognises the cumulative translation differences, foreseeable future. Furthermore, the management is not recorded in equity; aware of any material uncertainties that may cast significant — Recognises the fair value of the consideration received; doubt upon the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue — Recognises the fair value of any investment retained. as a going concern. Therefore, the financial statements have Subsequently, it is accounted as an equity accounted been prepared on the going concern basis. investee or as an available-for-sale financial asset depending on the level of influence retained; and — Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss. 43 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) Management periodically evaluates positions taken (a) Basis of consolidation (continued) in the tax returns with respect to situations in which (ii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation Intra-group balances and transactions and any and establishes provisions where appropriate. unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated (ii) Deferred tax financial statements. Unrealized losses are eliminated in Deferred tax is provided in respect of temporary the same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent differences at the reporting date between the tax bases that there is no evidence of impairment. of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. (b) Foreign currency transactions Monetary assets and liabilities carried in foreign currencies Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable are translated into Kenya Shillings at the rate of exchange temporary differences, except: ruling at the reporting date. Transactions during the year in foreign currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the — Where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial dates of the transactions. Gains and losses on exchange are recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a recognised in profit or loss. transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non— In respect of taxable temporary differences associated monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency with investments in subsidiaries where the timing are translated using the exchange rates at the date when of the reversal of the temporary differences can the fair value is determined. be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. (c) Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible received or receivable for sales of goods and services, and is temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax stated net of value-added tax (VAT), rebates and discounts credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is probable that taxable profit will be available against recognised as follows: which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses (i) Sales of goods are recognised when significant risk and can be utilised. rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed associated costs and possible return of goods can be at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that estimated reliably and when there is no continuing it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit management involvement and the amount of revenue will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax can be measured reliably. asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised (ii) Sales of services are recognised in the period in which to the extent that it has become probable that future the services are rendered by reference to the completion taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to of specific transactions assessed on the basis of actual be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are service provided as a proportion of total services to be measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply provided. Sales revenue can only be recognised when in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is the associated costs can be estimated reliably and the settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been amount of revenue can be estimated reliably. enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. (d) Taxation Deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in other Tax expense comprises current tax and movement in comprehensive income or equity is recognised in other deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax is recognised comprehensive income or equity and not in profit or loss. in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, or in other comprehensive income. if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the (i) Current taxation deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current same taxation authority. and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. (e) Investments in subsidiary companies The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount The investments in subsidiary companies are accounted for are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at at cost in the Company’s statement of financial position less the reporting date. Current income tax relating to items any provisions for impairment losses. Where in the opinion recognised directly in other comprehensive income or of the directors, there has been an impairment of value of equity is recognised in other comprehensive income or an investment; the loss is recognised as an expense in the equity and not in profit or loss. period in which the impairment is identified. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 44 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) (g) Impairment (f) Financial instruments (i) Financial assets (i) Measurement and recognition A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to Financial instruments are recognised in the Group and determine whether there is any objective evidence that it Company financial statements when, and only when, the is impaired. A financial asset is considered to be impaired if Group and Company become party to the contractual objective evidence indicate that one or more events have provisions of the instrument. had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. (ii) Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into loans and In assessing impairment, the Group and Company receivables and available for sale assets, while financial considers impairment at both individual and collective liabilities are classified into other financial liabilities. level. All individually significant assets are individually Management determines the appropriate classification of assessed for impairment. Assets that are not individually its financial instruments at the time of purchase and reimpaired are assessed collectively. Collective assessment evaluates its portfolio on a regular basis to ensure that all is carried out by grouping together assets with similar financial assets are appropriately classified. credit characteristics. Impairment loss is calculated as the difference between the assets carrying amount and Loans and receivables present value of estimated future cash flows discounted Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets at original effective interest rate. with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other than those that the Group and/ An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related or Company intends to sell in the short-term or that it objectively to an event occurring after the impairment has designated as at fair value through profit or loss or loss was recognised. available for sale. Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and bank balances and (ii) Impairment of non-financial assets balances due from group companies. The carrying amounts of the Group’s and Company’s non-financial assets, other than defined benefits asset, These are measured at amortised cost using the effective deferred tax, biological assets and inventories, are interest method, less any impairment losses. reviewed at each financial reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such Available-for-sale assets indication exists then the assets’ recoverable amount is Available-for-sale assets are the non-derivative financial estimated. assets that are designated as available for sale or are not classified as held for trading purposes, loans and An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of receivables or held to maturity. an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable Other financial liabilities asset group that generates cash inflows that largely are Other financial liabilities are initially recognized at the independent from other assets and groups. Impairment fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs. losses are recognised in the profit or loss. Impairment Subsequent to initial recognition, other financial liabilities losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are measured at amortised cost using the effective are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any interest method. These include borrowings, trade and goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the other payables and balances due to related parties. carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. (iii) De-recognition A financial asset is derecognised when the Group and/ or The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating Company loses control over the contractual rights that unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value comprise that asset. This occurs when the rights are less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated realised, expire or are surrendered. A financial liability future cash flows are discounted to their present value is derecognised when it is extinguished, cancelled or using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market expires. assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. (iv) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net (h) Property, plant and equipment amount reported on the statement of financial position Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost or when there is a legally enforceable right to set-off the revalued amounts less accumulated depreciation and any recognised amount and there is an intention to settle on impairment losses. Cost includes expenditures that are a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. simultaneously. A bearer plant is defined as a plant that: (v) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (a) is used in the production or supply of agricultural Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities is the produce; price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to (b) is expected to bear produce for more than one period; transfer a liability respectively in an orderly transaction and between market participants at the measurement date. (c) has a remote likelihood of being sold as agricultural produce, except for scrap sales. 45 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) carrying amount of the item) is included in profit or loss in (h) Property, plant and equipment (continued) the year the item is de-recognised. The Group’s tea and coffee bushes meet the above definition and are classified as bearer plants. The carrying values of the property, plant and equipment are assessed when there are indicators and adjusted for Revaluation increases arising on the revaluations impairment where it is considered necessary. are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the revaluation reserve in equity, except to (i) Intangible assets the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for the An intangible asset arises from the purchases of accounting same asset previously recognised as an expense, in which software. Acquired intangible assets are measured on initial case the increase is credited to profit or loss to the extent recognition at cost. of the decrease previously charged. A decrease in carrying amount arising out of revaluation is charged as an expense The Group and Company recognises an intangible asset at to the extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, held in the cost if, and only if, it is probable that the future economic revaluation reserve relating to a previous revaluation of that benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the asset. Group and/ or Company and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Following initial recognition, intangible An annual transfer from the asset revaluation reserve assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation to retained earnings is made for the difference between and any accumulated impairment losses. The useful lives of depreciation based on the revalued amount of the asset and intangible assets are assessed to be finite. the original cost. Additionally, accumulated depreciation at the revaluation date is eliminated against the gross carrying The intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis amount of the asset and the net amount is restated to the over their useful lives (5 years). revalued amount of the asset. Upon disposal, any surplus remaining in the revaluation reserve relating to the particular Amortisation method, useful lives and residual values are asset being sold is transferred to retained earnings. reviewed at each reporting date. Revaluations are done with sufficient regularity to ensure (j) Biological assets that the carrying amount does not differ materially from Biological assets are measured on initial recognition and at that which would be determined using fair value at the end each reporting date at fair value less cost to sell. Costs to sell of the reporting period. include all costs that would be necessary to sell the assets including transportation costs. Any changes to the fair value Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it is are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they probable that the future economic benefits associated with arise. The fair value net of deferred tax is reserved in equity the expenditure will flow to the Group. Ongoing repairs and as a non-distributable reserve. maintenance is expensed as incurred. The fair value of livestock is determined based on the When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment market prices of livestock of similar age, breed and sex. have different useful lives, they are accounted for as Where meaningful market determined prices do not exist separate items (major components) of property, plant and to assess the fair value of the Group’s and Company’s other equipment. biological assets, the fair value is determined based on the net present value of expected future cash flows, discounted No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Other items at appropriate pre-tax rate. of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on the straight line basis to write down the cost or revalued amount All costs incurred relating to mature biological assets are of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are for current and comparative periods as follows: incurred. Costs incurred relating to immature biological assets are factored in the fair value adjustment. Buildings and improvements 12 – 45 years Plant, machinery and tools 12.5% p.a Biological assests that are expected to be realised within 12 Rolling stock 25.0% p.a months (coffee and tea produce) at the reporting date are Farm implements and trailers 12.5% p.a classified as current assets. Furniture, fittings and equipment 12.5% p.a Computers 33.3% p.a (k) Share capital Bearer plants 2.0% p.a Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Equity instruments issued by a group entity are recognised at the proceeds Useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are received, net of direct issue costs. reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. (l) Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are inception date: whether fulfilment of the arrangement is expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the gain or loss on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 46 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) Contributions from the Group and Company, at a rate of (l) Leases (continued) 12.5% of the basic salary of each employee, are expensed Finance leases, which transfer to the Group and Company in the year the services are rendered and paid over to a substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership separate trustee administered fund. of the leased item, are recognised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, The Group and Company also contributes to a statutory at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease defined contribution pension scheme, the National Social payments are apportioned between finance charges and Security Fund (NSSF). Contributions are determined by reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate local statute. The Group’s and Company’s contributions of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance to the above schemes are charged to profit or loss in the charges are recognised in profit or loss. year to which they relate. Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the Prepaid contribution is recognised as an asset, to asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future Group and Company will obtain ownership by the end of the payments is available. lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term. (ii) Gratuity Employee entitlement to gratuity under the collective Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in bargaining agreements with the trade unions and long profit or loss on a straight line basis over the lease term. service awards are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is made for the liability for such Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part entitlements as a result of services rendered by employees of the total lease expense, over the lease term. up to the reporting date. (m) Work-in-progress The liability recognised in the statement of financial Work-in-progress represents costs incurred in acquisition/ position is the present value of the estimated future cash installation of an item of property, plant and equipment outflows, calculated by an independent actuary using the which is not in use. Work-in-progress is not depreciated until projected unit credit method. The increase or decrease in the assets are completed and brought into use but is tested the provision is taken to profit or loss. for impairment when there is an indicator for impairment. (iii) Accrued annual leave (n) Inventories The monetary liability for employees’ accrued annual Tea and coffee inventories are stated at the lower of cost leave entitlement at the reporting date is recognised as and net realisable value. Cost is determined on the weighted an expense accrual. average cost. Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course of business, including direct material costs, (iv) Other short term employee benefits labour and production overheads, where appropriate, that Short term employee benefits are expensed as the related have been incurred in bringing the stocks to their present service is provided. A liability is recognised for the amount location and condition. Net realisable value is the price at expected to be paid if the Group has present legal or which the inventory can be realised in the normal course of constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of business after allowing for costs of realisation. past service provided by the employee and the obligation Consumable stores are stated at the weighted average cost can be estimated reliably. less provisions for obsolescence, slow moving and defective stocks. (p) Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial Agricultural produce is measured at fair value less cost to position when the Group has a legal or constructive sell at the point of harvest. Any changes arising on initial obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable recognition of agricultural produce at fair value less cost that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to to sell are recognised in profit or loss. The cost of finished settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are goods and work in progress comprise the fair value less cost determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to sell of agricultural produce at the point of harvest, raw at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments materials, direct costs and related production overheads of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the (based on normal operating capacity) but excludes risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of discount is borrowing costs. recognised as finance cost. (o) Employee benefit (q) Borrowing costs The Group operates a defined contribution retirement Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, benefits scheme for its non-unionised employees. For the construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes unionised employees, the Group operates a gratuity scheme. a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective (i) Defined contribution plan assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit they occur. plan which an entity pays fixed contribution into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. The expense is recognised in profit or loss. 47 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) (x) New standards, amendments and interpretations (r) Earnings per share (i) New standards, amendments and interpretations effective Basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for ordinary and adopted during the year shares are presented in the financial statements. Basic The Group and Company has adopted the following new EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable standards and amendments during the year ended 30 to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted September 2018, including consequential amendments to average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the other standards with the date of initial application by the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or Group and Company being 1 October 2017. The nature and loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted effects of the changes are explained below: average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, if any. New standard or Effective for annual amendments periods beginning on (s) Finance income and finance costs or after Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested (including available-for-sale financial assets), — Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 dividend income, gains on the disposal of available-for-sale (Amendments to IAS 7) financial assets and changes in the fair value of financial -— Recognition of 1 January 2017 assets at fair value through profit or loss. Interest income is Deferred Tax Assets recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective for Unrealised Losses interest method. Dividend income is recognised in profit or (Amendments to IAS 12) loss on the date that the Group’s right to receive payment — IFRS 12 – Disclosure of 1 January 2017 is established, which in the case of quoted securities is the Interests in Other entities ex-dividend date. The adoption of these standards did not have a material Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, impact on the financial statements of the Group and unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the Company. fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, impairment losses recognised on financial assets. (ii) New and amended standards and interpretations in issue Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the but not yet effective for the year ended 30 September 2018 acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset A number of new standards, amendments to standards are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest and interpretations are not yet effective for the year method. ended 30 September 2018, and have not been early adopted by the Group and Company. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis. The directors are in the process of assessing the impact of these standards on the Group and Company financial (t) Dividends statements. Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared. Proposed dividends are disclosed as a separate New standard or Effective for annual component of equity. amendments periods beginning on or after (u) Related party transactions — IFRS 15 Revenue from 1 January 2018 The Group discloses the nature, volume and amounts Contracts with Customers outstanding at the end of each financial year from -— IFRS 9 Financial 1 January 2018 transactions with related parties, which include transactions Instruments (2014) with the directors, executive officers and Group or related companies. The related party transactions are at arm’s — Classification and 1 January 2018 length. Measurement of Share-based Payment (v) Operating segments Transactions (Amendments An operating segment is a component of the Group that to IFRS 2) engages in business activities from which it may earn — Applying IFRS 9 Financial 1 January 2018 revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and Instruments with IFRS expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s 4 Insurance Contracts other components, whose operating results are reviewed (Amendments to IFRS 4) regularly by the Group’s Management Committee (being the chief operating decision maker) to make decisions — IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency 1 January 2018 about resources allocated to each segment and assess its Transactions and Advance performance, and for which discrete financial information is Consideration available. — IAS 40 Transfers of 1 January 2018 Investment Property (w) Comparatives — IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 Where necessary, comparative figures have been restated to conform to the changes in presentation in the current — IFRIC 23 Income tax 1 January 2019 year. exposures Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 48 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) IFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning (x) New standards, amendments and interpretations on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption permitted. (continued) (ii) New and amended standards and interpretations in issue The Group and Company are assessing the potential but not yet effective for the year ended 30 September 2018 impact on its financial statements resulting from the (continued) application of IFRS 15. New standard or Effective for annual IFRS 9: Financial Instruments (2014) amendments periods beginning on On 24 July 2014 the IASB issued the final IFRS 9 Financial or after Instruments Standard, which replaces earlier versions of IFRS 9 and completes the IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 — IFRS 9 Prepayment Features 1 January 2019 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. with Negative Compensation This standard introduces changes in the measurement — IAS 28 Long-term Interests 1 January 2019 bases of the financial assets to amortised cost, fair value in Associates and Joint through other comprehensive income or fair value through Ventures profit or loss. Even though these measurement categories — IFRS 17 Insurance contracts 1 January 2021 are similar to IAS 39, the criteria for classification into these categories are significantly different. In addition, — Sale or Contribution of To be determined the IFRS 9 impairment model has been changed from an Assets between an Investor “incurred loss” model from IAS 39 to an “expected credit and its Associate or loss” model. Company (Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28). The standard is effective for annual period beginning on — Annual improvements 1 January 2018 or after 1 January 2018 with retrospective application, cycle (2014 – 2016) – various early adoption permitted. standards The Group and Company are assessing the potential — Annual improvements 1 January 2019 impact on its financial statements resulting from the cycle (2015 – 2017) – various application of IFRS 9. standards — Definition of a Business 1 January 2020 IFRS 16: Leases (Amendments to IFRS 3– On 13 January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases which Business Combinations) sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to All standards and interpretations will be adopted at a contract, i.e. the customer (‘lessee’) and the supplier their effective date (except for those standards and (‘lessor’). interpretations that are not applicable to the entity). The nature and effects of the changes that have/will The standard defines a lease as a contract that conveys have an impact on the Group’s and Company’s financial to the customer (‘lessee’) the right to use an asset for a statements is analysed below: period of time in exchange for consideration. A Company assesses whether a contract contains a lease on the basis IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers of whether the customer has the right to control the use This standard replaces IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS of an identified asset for a period of time. 18 Revenue, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, IFRIC The standard eliminates the classification of leases as 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers and SIC-31 Revenue either operating leases or finance leases for a lessee and – Barter of Transactions Involving Advertising Services. introduces a single lessee accounting model. The standard contains a single model that applies All leases are treated in a similar way to finance leases. to contracts with customers and two approaches to Applying that model significantly affects the accounting recognising revenue: at a point in time or over time. and presentation of leases and consequently, the lessee is required to recognise: The standard specifies how and when an IFRS reporter will recognise revenue as well as requiring such entities (i) assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more to provide users of financial statements with more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low informative, relevant disclosures. value. A Company recognises the present value of the unavoidable lease payments and shows them either The standard provides a single, principles based five-step as lease assets (right-of-use assets) or together with model to be applied to all contracts with customers in property, plant and equipment. If lease payments are recognising revenue being: Identify the contract(s) with made over time, a Company also recognises a financial a customer; Identify the performance obligations in the liability representing its obligation to make future lease contract; Determine the transaction price; Allocate the payments; transaction price to the performance obligations in the (ii) depreciation of lease assets and interest on lease contract; and Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity liabilities in profit or loss over the lease term; and satisfies a performance obligation. 49 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) IFRIC 23 Clarification on accounting for Income tax (x) New standards, amendments and interpretations exposures (continued) IFRIC 23 clarifies the accounting for income tax treatments (ii) New and amended standards and interpretations in issue that have yet to be accepted by tax authorities, whilst also but not yet effective for the year ended 30 September aiming to enhance transparency. 2018 continued IFRS 16: Leases continued IFRIC 23 explains how to recognise and measure deferred (iii) separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal and current income tax assets and liabilities where there is portion (presented within financing activities) and uncertainty over a tax treatment. interest (typically presented within either operating or financing activities) in the statement of cash flows. An uncertain tax treatment is any tax treatment applied by an entity where there is uncertainty over whether that The standard eliminates the classification of leases as treatment will be accepted by the tax authority. either operating leases or finance leases for a lessee and introduces a single lessee accounting model. If an entity concludes that it is probable that the tax authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment that has All leases are treated in a similar way to finance leases. been taken or is expected to be taken on a tax return, Applying that model significantly affects the accounting it should determine its accounting for income taxes and presentation of leases and consequently, the consistently with that tax treatment. lessee is required to recognise: If an entity concludes that it is not probable that the (i) assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more treatment will be accepted, it should reflect the effect than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low of the uncertainty in its income tax accounting in the value. A Company recognises the present value of the period in which that determination is made. Uncertainty is unavoidable lease payments and shows them either reflected in the overall measurement of tax and separate as lease assets (right-of-use assets) or together with provision is not allowed. property, plant and equipment. If lease payments are made over time, a Company also recognises a The entity is required to measure the impact of the financial liability representing its obligation to make uncertainty using the method that best predicts the future lease payments; resolution of the uncertainty (that is, the entity should (ii) depreciation of lease assets and interest on lease use either the most likely amount method or the expected liabilities in profit or loss over the lease term; and value method when measuring an uncertainty). (iii) separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion (presented within financing The entity will also need to provide disclosures, under activities) and interest (typically presented within existing disclosure requirements, about either operating or financing activities) in the statement of cash flows. a) judgments made; b) assumptions and other estimates used; and IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting c) potential impact of uncertainties not reflected. requirements in IAS 17. Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, The new Standard is effective for annual periods beginning and to account for those two types of leases differently. on or after 1 January 2019. However, compared to IAS 17, IFRS 16 requires a lessor to disclose additional information about how it manages The Group and Company are assessing the potential the risks related to its residual interest in assets subject impact on its financial statements resulting from the to leases. application of IFRIC 23. The standard does not require a Company to recognise Annual improvements cycle (2015 2017) – various assets and liabilities for: standards Standard Amendments (i) short-term leases (i.e. leases of 12 months or less), and; (ii) leases of low-value assets IAS 12 Income Clarifies that all income tax taxes consequences of dividends (including The new Standard is effective for annual periods beginning payments on financial instruments on or after 1 January 2019. Early application is permitted classified as equity) are recognised insofar as the recently issued revenue Standard, IFRS 15 consistently with the transactions that Revenue from Contracts with Customers is also applied). generated the distributable profits – i.e. in profit or loss, OCI or equity. The Group and Company are assessing the potential impact on its financial statements resulting from the The Group and Company are assessing application of this standard. the impact of the adoption of this amendment on its financial statements. The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with earlier application permitted. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 50 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 4. USE OF ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (iv) Post employment benefit obligation (a) Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The cost of the unfunded service gratuity is determined In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves directors make certain estimates and assumptions about making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates future events. In practice, the estimated and assumed of return on scheme assets and future salary increases. results would differ from the actual results. Such estimates Due to the long term nature of these plans, such and assumptions, that have a significant risk of causing a estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. Details of material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and post employment benefits and the assumptions applied liabilities within the next financial year, are described below: are disclosed in Note 3(o) and Note 31. (i) Biological assets (v) Allowance for impairment for accounts receivable In determining the fair value of biological assets, the The Group and Company reviews accounts receivables Group uses the present value of expected future cash portfolio regularly to assess the likelihood of impairment. flows from the assets discounted at the current market This requires an estimation of the amounts that are determined pre tax rate. The objective of calculating the irrecoverable. In estimating the receivable amounts the present value of expected cash flows is to determine the Group make judgement as to whether there is observable fair value of biological assets in their present location and data indicating a measurable decrease in the estimated condition. The Group considers this in determining an future cash flows from a financial asset. Details of the appropriate discount rate to be used and in estimating allowance for impairment are disclosed in Note 5(b) and net cash flows. Management uses historical data relating Note 25. to production and market prices of tea, coffee, livestock and trees. The methodology and assumptions used for (b) Critical accounting judgements estimating both the amount and timing of future cash In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, flows are reviewed to reduce any differences between directors make certain judgements that are continuously estimates and actual experience. The significant assessed based on prior experience and other determinants assumptions are set out in Note 20 to the financial including expectations of future events that, under the statements. circumstances are deemed to be reasonable as described below: (ii) Property, plant and equipment Directors make estimates in determining the depreciation (i) Allowance for obsolete inventories rates for property, plant and equipment. The rates used Directors review the inventories on an annual basis to are set out in the accounting policy for property, plant assess the likelihood of obsolescence. In determining and equipment. whether an inventory item is obsolete, directors make judgement as to whether the inventory item can be used These estimates are continually evaluated and are based as an input in production or is in saleable condition. on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be (ii) Going concern reasonable under the prevailing circumstances. The Group’s management has made an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and The Group measures its property, plant and equipment is satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue at revalued amounts with changes in revaluation values in business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the being recognised in other comprehensive income. The management is not aware of any material uncertainties Group engages independent valuers to determine fair that may cast significant doubt upon the Group’s ability values of property, plant and equipment. The valuation is to continue as a going concern. Therefore the financial based on the prevailing market prices which are sensitive statements continue to be prepared on the going concern to economic conditions. The details of property, plant and basis. equipment and the assumptions applied are disclosed in Note 3(h) and Note 18. 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise cash and (iii) Income taxes and deferred tax cash equivalents, investments, receivables, bank loans and Significant judgement is required in determining the payables. These instruments arise directly from its operations. Group’s provision for deferred and income taxes. There The Group does not speculate or trade in derivative financial are many transactions and calculations for which the instruments. ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on market risk (including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and operational risk. The the final tax outcome of these matters is different from directors review and agree policies for managing these risks. the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax and deferred income The board of directors has overall responsibility for the tax provisions in the year in which such determination is establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management made. framework. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on its financial performance. 51 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED) Risk management is carried out by management under policies approved by the board of directors. Management identifies, evaluates and manages financial risks in close co-operation with various departmental heads. The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of non derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity. (a) Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposure within acceptable levels, while optimising on the return on the risk. (i) Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the future profitability and/or cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in the market interest rates. The group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the group’s long and short term obligations with floating interest rates. The Group is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its financial position and cash flows. The table below summarises the exposure to interest rate risks. Included in the table are the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at carrying amounts, categorised by the earlier of contractual repricing or maturity dates. The Group exposure to interest rate risk is with regards to fluctuation in interest rates in the market which affects the returns on the investments held by the Group. The interest rate profile of the group’s interest bearing financial instruments as at 30 September 2018 and 2017 together with the interest rates on that date was as follows: The net interest income/ (expense) for the year was as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Interest income 94,691 111,947 14,097 44,667 Interest expense ( 5,166) ( 10,999) ( 4,764) (10,988) Net interest income 89,525 100,948 9,333 33,679 The interest rate profile of the Group’s and Company’s fixed interest-bearing financial instruments as reported to management of the Group is as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Fixed rate instruments Financial assets (Note 27) 661,949 1,006,095 1,394 344,082 Financial liabilities (Note 39) ( 100,852) ( 100,852) Exposure 661,949 905,243 1,394 243,230 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 52 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) (a) Market risk (continued) (i) Interest rate risk (continued) The following table demonstrates the effect on the group and company’s statement of comprehensive income of applying a sensitivity of 10% to the interest rate prevalent during the year, with all other variables held constant. Group Company Change in Effect Effect on Effect Effect on currency on profit equity on profit equity rate before tax before tax KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 2018 10.00% (8,953) (6,267) (933) (653) -10.00% 8,953 6,267 933 653 2017 10.00% (10,095) (7,067) (3,368) (2,358) -10.00% 10,095 7,067 3,368 2,358 (ii) Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of Group entities. The currencies in which these transactions primarily are denominated are US Dollar (USD) and Sterling Pound (GBP). The Group’s policy is to record transactions in foreign currencies at the rate in effect at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange in effect at the reporting date. All gains or losses on changes in currency exchange rates are accounted for in profit or loss. The Group transacts internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the USD and GBP. The following are the exchange rates that existed at the financial year end for the following significant currencies: Average rates Closing rates 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs KShs KShs KShs US Dollar (USD) 101.65 103.01 100.96 103.25 Sterling Pound (GBP) 136.79 130.55 132.49 138.61 The Group operates in Kenya and its assets and liabilities are carried in the local currency. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows: 53 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED) (a) Market risk (continued) (ii) Currency risk (continued) All figures are in thousands of Kenya shillings (KShs‘000) Group: 2018: USD GBP EURO Total Assets Trade and other receivables 333,079 333,079 Cash and cash equivalents 129,323 14,238 16,720 160,281 At 30 September 462,402 14,238 16,720 493,360 Liabilities Trade and other payables 11,412 11,412 At 30 September 11,412 11,412 Net balance sheet position 450,990 14,238 16,720 481,948 All figures are in thousands of Kenya shillings (KShs‘000) 2017: USD GBP EURO Total Assets Trade and other receivables 522,259 522,259 Cash and cash equivalents 370,752 12,177 11,426 394,355 At 30 September 893,011 12,177 11,426 916,614 Liabilities Trade and other payables 10,864 10,864 At 30 September 10,864 10,864 Net balance sheet position 882,147 12,177 11,426 905,750 Company: All figures are in thousands of Kenya shillings (KShs‘000) Assets 2018 2017 USD USD Trade and other receivables 159,665 323,122 Cash and cash equivalents 51,142 194,841 At 30 September 210,807 517,963 Liabilities Trade and other payables 11,412 9,448 At 30 September 11,412 9,448 Net balance sheet position 199,395 508,515 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 54 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED) (a) Market risk (continued) (ii) Currency risk (continued) The following table demonstrates the effect on the group and company’s statement of comprehensive income of applying a sensitivity for a reasonable possible change in the exchange rate of the main transaction currencies, with all other variables held constant. Group Company Change in Effect Effect on Effect Effect on currency on profit equity on profit equity rate before tax before tax KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 USD 2018 10.00% 45,099 31,569 19,940 13,958 -10.00% (45,099) (31,569) (19,940) (13,958) 2017 10.00% 88,215 61,751 50,852 35,596 -10.00% (88,215) (61,751) (50,852) (35,596) GBP 2018 10.00% 1,424 997 -10.00% (1,424) (997) 2017 10.00% 1,218 853 -10.00% (1,218) (853) EUR 2018 10.00% 1,672 1,170 -10.00% (1,672) (1,170) 2017 10.00% 1,143 800 -10.00% (1,143) (800) (iii) Price risk Price risk arises from the fluctuation in the prices of the commodities that the Group deals in. Sale and purchase prices are determined by the market forces and other factors that are not within the control of the Group. The Group does not anticipate that tea and coffee prices will decline significantly in the foreseeable future and therefore has not entered into derivative or other contracts to manage the risk of a decline in the prices. The Group reviews its outlook for tea and coffee prices regularly in considering the need for active financial risk management. The following are the annual average prices (per kg) for coffee and tea that existed at the financial year end: 2018 2017 KShs KShs Coffee 436 532 Tea 207 206 The following table demonstrates the effect on the group and company’s statement of comprehensive income on applying the sensitivity for a reasonable possible change in the coffee and tea prices, with all other variables held constant. 55 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED) (a) Market risk (continued) (iii) Price risk (continued) Group Company Change in price Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit before equity profit before equity tax tax KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 KShs’ 000 Coffee 2018 10.00% 90,411 63,287 83,833 58,683 -10.00% (90,411) (63,287) (83,833) (58,683) 2017 10.00% 160,901 112,631 150,204 105,143 -10.00% (160,901) (112,631) (150,204) (105,143) Tea 2018 10.00% 218,558 152,991 -10.00% (218,558) (152,991) 2017 10.00% 230,809 161,566 -10.00% (230,809) (161,566) (b) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. The largest concentrations of credit exposure within the group arises from deposits held with various service providers, term deposits and cash and cash equivalents held with banks. The group only places significant amounts of funds with recognised financial institutions with strong credit ratings and does not consider the credit risk exposure to be significant. A significant proportion of the group’s trading is through established auctions for coffee and tea and a small proportion via direct export contracts with known parties. The receivables are collected within a period of less than one month. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is summarised in the table below: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs‘000 KShs‘000 KShs‘000 KShs‘000 Trade receivables-Net 361,508 561,184 187,522 355,822 Other receivables 279,910 229,688 47,905 127,446 Amounts due from related companies 1,000 18,005 802,082 141,547 Bank balances and short term deposits 1,132,783 1,404,368 146,439 524,098 1,775,201 2,213,245 1,183,948 1,148,913 Details of the ageing analysis and impairment of trade receivables is disclosed in Note 25. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 56 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED) (c) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting its obligations from its financial liabilities. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, the Group’s management maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. The maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities is as follows: Group: 0-1 month 2-3 months 4-12 months Total 2018: KShs‘000 KShs‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs‘000 Trade and other payables 57,748 32,064 321,783 411,595 57,748 32,064 321,783 411,595 2017: Trade and other payables 118,193 44,169 385,134 547,496 Due to related parties 80 10 90 Borrowings 100,852 100,852 118,273 44,169 485,996 648,438 Company: 0-1 month 2-3 months 4-12 months Total 2018: KShs‘000 KShs‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs‘000 Trade and other payables 9,873 11,241 89,816 110,930 9,873 11,241 89,816 110,930 2017: Trade and other payables 31,408 34,378 117,920 183,706 Borrowings 100,852 100,852 31,408 34,378 218,772 284,558 (d) Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from a wide variety of causes associated with the Group processes, personnel, technology and infrastructure and from external factors other than credit, market and liquidity risks such as those arising from legal and regulatory requirements and generally accepted standards of corporate behaviour. Operational risks arise from all of the Group operations. The Group objective is to manage operational risk so as to balance the avoidance of financial losses and damage to the Group reputation with overall cost effectiveness and to avoid control procedures that restrict initiative and creativity. The primary responsibility for the development and implementation of controls to address operational risk is assigned to management. This responsibility is supported by the development of overall Group standards for the management of operational risk in the following areas: Requirements for appropriate segregation of duties, including the independent authorisation of transactions. Requirements for the reconciliation and monitoring of transactions. Compliance with regulatory and other legal requirements. Documentation of controls and procedures. Requirements for the periodic assessment of operational risks faced, and the adequacy of controls and procedures to address the risks identified. Requirement for the reporting of operational losses and proposed remedial action. Development of contingency plans. Training and professional development. Ethical and business standards. 57 Risk mitigation, including insurance where this is effective. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 5. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (CONTINUED) (e) Agricultural risk Agricultural risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from adverse agricultural conditions such as disease outbreaks, floods, droughts and other adverse weather events caused by climatic changes. The Group’s risk management process with respect to agricultural risk focuses on anticipating, avoiding and/or reacting to shocks attributable to adverse agricultural conditions. The Group’s objective is to achieve an efficient risk management system for agriculture that preserves the value of agricultural outputs, strengthens the viability of farm businesses, and ensures an environment which supports and sustains continued investment in the farming sector. The Group has adopted the following strategies to mitigate agricultural risk: Agricultural diversification of products and processes Adoption of sound agricultural practises such as cross-breeding to attain disease and weather resistant breed (f) Capital management The primary objectives of the Group’s capital management are to ensure that the Group complies with capital requirements and maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and to maximise shareholders’ value. The Capital Management policy as approved by the Board of Directors (the Board) is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The Board monitors the return on capital, which the Group defines as net operating income divided by total shareholders’ equity. The Board also monitors the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return on capital to shareholders or issue new shares as circumstances would dictate. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management as regards the objectives, policies or processes during the year. 6. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair values, for both financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities. Below follows required disclosure of fair value measurements, using a three-level fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in determining the measurements. It should be noted that these disclosures only cover instruments measured at fair value. Level 1 Included in level 1 category are financial assets and liabilities that are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market. A financial instrument is regarded as quoted in an active market if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. Level 2 Included in level 2 category are financial assets and liabilities measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). For example, instruments measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions are categorised as level 2. Financial assets and liabilities measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions are assets and liabilities for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market, financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes, investments in private equity funds with fair values obtained via fund managers and assets that are valued using the Group’s own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market observable. Level 3 Financial assets and liabilities measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data are categorised as level 3. Non market observable inputs means that fair values are determined in whole or in part using a valuation technique (model) based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data. The main asset classes in this category are unlisted equity investments and limited partnerships. Valuation techniques are used to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations for which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. However, the fair value measurement objective remains the same, that is, an exit price from the perspective of the Group. Therefore, unobservable inputs reflect the Group’s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (including assumptions about risk). These inputs are developed based on the best information available, which might include the Group’s own data. However, significant portion of the unquoted shares have been valued at cost and variation in inputs would not have significant fair value change. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 58 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 6. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES (CONTINUED) The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value by level of the fair value hierarchy: Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 value 2018: KShs’000 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss Investment in unquoted shares 525 525 2017: Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss Investment in unquoted shares 525 525 There were no financial instruments carried at fair value at the company level. The following table shows an analysis of non-financial assets held at fair value as at 30 September 2018 and 2017: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Non-financial assets Property, plant and equipment 8,679,878 8,827,710 5,854,109 5,955,317 Biological assets 1,330,011 1,422,413 282,601 246,817 Total assets 10,009,889 10,250,123 6,136,710 6,202,134 On 30 September 2015, Knight Frank Valuers Limited, professionally valued the Group’s machinery, equipment and furniture while building and freehold land were valued on 30 September 2014. The valuation was on an open market value basis. The Valuers used the Direct Capital Comparison method of valuation for valuation of land. The assumption which is that the value of the appraised property is equal to the value of a known comparable property, with due allowance being given for differences factors between the appraised property and the compared property such as the condition, location, level and amount of services provided, accessibility, plot size, planning and zoning regulations, transacting parties, motive of sale and tenure and the unexpired term. Fully developed properties; for example depots have been valued on the basis of sales of similar developed properties in the particular locations with due regard to their rental income potential. Buildings or any other fixture or improvement on land whose revenue contribution cannot be assessed easily or where the structures are dilapidated, have been valued on depreciated replacement cost basis. Following the revaluation, the movement in property plant and equipment has been disclosed in note 18. The fair value of the biological asset is determined based on the present value of expected net cash flows derived from sale of agricultural produce, discounted at the pre-tax discount rate. The details of the valuation inputs of the biological assets have been disclosed in note 20. The fair value measurement of revalued items of property plant and equipment and the biological assets have been categorized as a level 2 and 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation techniques. 7. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Group is currently organised in three divisions; Tea, Coffee, and Others. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segment information. The principal activities of these divisions are as follows: Tea Growing and processing of tea Coffee Growing and processing of coffee Others Dairy operations, commercial milling and marketing of coffee, value additions of related products, renting of growing land and the leasing of plant and machinery 59 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 7. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED) Segment information is as presented below: Tea Coffee Others Consolidated 30 September 2018: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Revenue Total sales 2,185,577 904,111 437,532 3,527,220 Intergroup sales (12,000) (12,000) Net sales to external customers 2,185,577 904,111 425,532 3,515,220 Other income 23,916 170,204 67,380 261,500 2,209,493 1,074,315 492,912 3,776,720 Results Operating results on operating activities 209,692 (25,145) 114,509 299,056 Operating results on biological assets 23,259 32,300 55,559 Operating results before tax 232,951 7,155 114,509 354,615 Assets and liabilities Segment assets 3,614,227 9,038,987 308,166 12,961,380 Segment liabilities 998,936 537,345 101,316 1,637,597 Other segment information Capital expenditure tangible fixed assets 70,232 66,716 285,285 422,233 Depreciation and amortisation of 72,687 34,441 32,586 139,714 Leasehold land and intangible assets Average number of employees 2,851 1,138 135 4,124 Tea Coffee Others Consolidated 30 September 2017: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Revenue Total sales 2,308,093 1,609,011 296,091 4,213,195 Intergoup sales (12,000) (12,000) Net sales to external customers 2,308,093 1,609,011 284,091 4,201,195 Other income 9,042 89,391 98 98,531 2,317,135 1,698,402 284,189 4,299,726 Results Operating results on operating activities 271,227 41,577 (21,369) 291,435 Operating results on biological assets 34,967 46,779 81,746 Operating results before tax 306,194 88,356 (21,369) 373,181 Assets and liabilities Segment assets 3,472,022 9,272,204 451,799 13,196,025 Segment liabilities 1,083,915 563,871 232,362 1,880,148 Other segment information Capital expenditure tangible fixed assets 34,872 85,539 116,880 237,291 Depreciation and amortisation of 72,082 34,437 32,713 139,232 Leasehold land and intangible assets Average number of employees 3,185 1,185 82 4,452 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 60 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 7. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED) Geographical information The Group’s operations are located in Nyamira, Nyeri, Mombasa, Kiambu and Nairobi counties in Kenya. The Group’s tea, rental and leasing operations are located in Nyamira and Mombasa counties. Coffee and dairy operations are located in Nyeri and Kiambu counties. The head office is located in Nairobi County. Segment information Segment results include revenue and expenses directly attributable to a segment. Segment revenue is the revenue that is directly attributable to a segment plus the relevant portion of the Group’s revenue that can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis. Segment revenue excludes finance income. Segment expenses are expenses resulting from the operating activities of a segment plus the relevant portion of an expense that can be allocated to the segment on a reasonable basis. Segment expenses exclude finance costs and income taxes. Segment assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, biological assets, inventories, accounts receivable as well as prepaid expenses and accrued income. Segment liabilities comprise account payables, prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions as well as those relating to interest and taxes. Capital expenditure represents the total cost incurred during the year to acquire segment assets (property, plant and equipment and biological assets) that are expected to be used during more than one year. 8. REVENUE Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Tea 2,185,577 2,308,093 Coffee 904,111 1,609,011 838,330 1,502,044 Livestock & Dairy produce 53,667 43,313 2,844 2,340 Retail and coffee lounge 115,235 124,703 115,235 115,999 Coffee mill 68,191 47,953 68,191 49,300 Rent receivable 973 956 Marketing commission 51,488 39,006 51,488 34,914 Avocado 131,103 25,477 Miscellaneous income 5,848 2,666 3,515,220 4,201,195 1,076,088 1,705,553 61 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 9. COST OF SALES Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 General charges 372,897 286,311 104,783 103,583 Estates maintenance 462,660 625,696 101,068 104,130 Production expenses 443,922 418,501 55,770 56,862 Green leaf purchases 545,776 569,048 Coffee house expenses 8,716 Coffee purchases and other charges 511,874 1,073,112 511,874 1,073,112 Livestock expenses 54,035 50,108 3,990 2,891 Retail trading expenses 86,738 81,644 86,738 81,641 Coffee mill expenses 44,297 41,175 44,297 37,238 Transport and insurance 42,935 8,325 Inventory adjustments 97,983 40,556 (11,713) 18,703 2,663,117 3,203,192 896,807 1,478,160 10. OTHER INCOME Net gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 67,762 (763) 68,597 (562) Management fees 69,165 73,846 Rent income 938 938 Dividend income 301,000 200,000 Other income 192,800 99,294 166,031 88,483 261,500 98,531 605,731 361,767 11. ADMINISTRATION AND ESTABLISHMENT EXPENSES Group Company (a) Administration and Establishment 2018 2017 2018 2017 expenses KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Staff costs (Note 11(b)) 196,566 232,890 105,918 111,082 Insurance and medical costs 42,594 33,357 7,863 1,630 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 134,514 135,710 46,327 48,323 Amortisation of intangible assets 4,996 3,270 4,343 2,434 Amortisation of leasehold land 204 253 102 103 Auditors’ remuneration 12,878 12,047 7,078 5,979 Directors’ emoluments 32,023 34,038 32,023 34,038 Legal and professional fees 11,869 19,472 5,470 6,515 Secretarial costs 5,150 3,571 1,950 931 Travelling and accommodation 3,628 6,328 3,102 3,811 Coffee house overheads 13,935 Office expenses 220,458 153,447 83,731 64,268 Administration costs 94,736 107,346 94,736 102,470 Bank charges 4,968 3,215 3,260 2,265 Other expenses 5,319 193 1,803 1,158 769,903 759,072 397,706 385,007 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 62 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 11. ADMINISTRATION AND ESTABLISHMENT EXPENSES (CONTINUED) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 (b) Staff costs Salaries and wages 176,681 210,526 94,765 97,660 Staff leave accruals (289) 479 (513) 1,193 Pension costs 20,174 21,885 11,666 12,229 196,566 232,890 105,918 111,082 12. SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION EXPENSES Warehousing and storage charges 44,644 46,027 7,695 13. NET FINANCE INCOME Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 (a) Finance income Interest income 94,691 111,947 14,097 44,667 Realised foreign exchange gain 17,972 29,457 17,970 27,321 Unrealised foreign exchange gain 460 192 112,663 141,864 32,067 72,180 (b) Finance cost Interest expense (5,166) (10,999) (4,764) (10,988) Realised foreign exchange loss (13,306) (379) Unrealised foreign exchange loss (25) (18,472) (11,024) (5,143) (10,988) Net finance income 94,191 130,840 26,924 61,192 14. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 The profit before taxation is arrived at after charging/ (crediting): Depreciation 134,514 135,710 46,327 48,323 Amortisation of intangible assets 4,996 3,270 4,343 2,434 Amortisation of leasehold land 204 253 102 103 Directors’ emoluments: Fees 7,896 3,546 7,896 3,546 Other remuneration 24,127 30,492 24,127 30,492 Pension costs 12,447 21,885 11,666 12,229 Auditors’ remuneration 13,210 12,047 7,078 5,979 Interest expense 5,166 10,999 4,764 10,988 Unrealised exchange losses 25 Realised foreign exchange losses 13,306 379 Interest income (94,691) (111,947) (14,097) (44,667) Unrealised foreign exchange gain (460) (192) Realised foreign exchange gain 17,972 (29,457) 17,970 (27,321) Net gain/(loss) on disposal of assets 67,762 (763) 68,597 (562) 63 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 15. TAX EXPENSE Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 (a) Statement of comprehensive income KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Current tax expense Income tax on the taxable Profit for the year at 30% 163,513 211,229 16,632 42,853 Capital gains tax 914 914 Prior year (over)/ underprovision 13,796 5,978 Total current tax 178,223 217,207 17,546 42,853 Deferred tax credit Deferred tax credit arising from operating activities (5,765) (62,478) (3,418) (11,450) Deferred tax (credit)/charge on biological assets fair value (27,750) 24,524 10,458 15,716 Prior year under/(over) provision 10,575 2,261 6,766 (37) Total deferred tax charge/ (credit) (22,940) (35,693) 13,806 4,229 Taxation expense for the year 155,283 181,514 31,352 47,082 Reconciliation of tax expense: Accounting profit before taxation 448,806 520,921 448,977 282,139 Tax applicable rate at 30% 134,642 156,276 134,693 84,642 Tax effects of items not allowed for tax or tax exempt 13,636 16,999 (92,741) (37,523) Effect of income taxed at 5% (25% variance) (17,366) (17,366) Prior year under provision: Deferred tax 10,575 2,261 6,766 (37) Current tax 13,796 5,978 155,283 181,514 31,352 47,082 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 (b) Statement of financial position KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Balance brought forward (13,916) 48,463 (30,393) 20,064 Charge for the year 178,223 217,207 17,546 42,853 On loss of control (Note 41) 803 Paid during the year (236,621) (280,389) (8,353) (93,310) Balance carried forward (72,314) (13,916) (21,200) (30,393) Presented as: Tax recoverable (83,756) (27,817) (21,200) (30,393) Tax payable 11,442 13,901 (72,314) (13,916) (21,200) (30,393) (c) Dividend tax account The Group and the Company have credit balances on the dividend tax accounts of KShs 835,660,285 (2017 KShs 1,078,514,207) and KShs 222,519,928 (2017 KShs 478,537,673), respectively, which include tax payments to 30 September 2018. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 64 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 16. EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share is calculated by dividing profit or loss for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the 228,055,500 (2017 228,055,500) ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Basic and diluted earnings per share are the same. Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs KShs KShs KShs Earnings per share on normal operations 1.13 1.27 1.72 0.87 Earnings per share on biological assets 0.17 0.25 0.11 0.16 Net earnings per share (KShs) 1.30 1.52 1.83 1.03 17. DIVIDEND PER SHARE Proposed dividends are accounted for as a separate component of equity until they have been ratified at an Annual General Meeting. An Interim dividend of KShs.0.50 (50%). (2017 – 0.25 (25%) was declared and paid on 16 July 2018. The directors recommended the payment of second interim dividend of KShs 0.50 per share (50%) (2017 – KShs 0.75 (75%)). This amounts to total dividend of KShs 1.00 per share (100%) for the year (2017 KShs 1.00 (100%)). Payment of dividends is subject to withholding tax at the rate of 5% for residents, 10% for non-resident shareholders or 0% depending with the percentage shareholding. Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs KShs KShs KShs Dividends per share (KShs) 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 65 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 18. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (a) Group 2018: Furniture, Rolling computers Land and Bearer Building and Plant and stock and and development plants improvements machinery implements equipment Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Cost or valuation At 1 October 2017 6,766,345 744,300 1,068,905 772,229 259,723 62,272 9,673,774 Transfer from WIP – Note 18(c) 2,201 365 2,566 Additions 12,426 2,150 8,402 19,336 11,009 53,323 Disposal (22,000) (48,547) (10,006) (3) (80,556) At 30 September 2018 6,766,345 756,726 1,049,055 734,285 269,418 73,278 9,649,107 Depreciation At 1 October 2017 561,116 145,313 74,160 44,164 21,311 846,064 Charge for the Period 8,829 50,270 36,789 30,874 7,752 134,514 Disposal (3,667) (6,074) (1,606) (2) (11,349) At 30 September 2018 569,945 191,916 104,875 73,432 29,061 969,229 Carrying amount as at 30 September 2018 6,766,345 186,781 857,139 629,410 195,986 44,217 8,679,878 2017: Cost or valuation At 1 October 2016 6,766,345 744,300 1,023,813 763,613 243,264 151,565 9,692,900 Transfer from WIP – Note 18(c) 1,545 1,545 Additions 43,547 12,652 33,267 16,316 105,782 Disposal arising from loss of control (2,577) (102,670) (105,247) Disposal (4,036) (14,231) (2,939) (21,206) At 30 September 2017 6,766,345 744,300 1,068,905 772,229 259,723 62,272 9,673,774 Depreciation At 1 October 2016 as restated 551,862 94,111 38,228 20,756 99,670 804,627 Charge for the Period 9,254 51,202 36,257 27,263 11,734 135,710 Disposal arising from loss of control (2,481) (89,783) (92,264) Disposal (325) (1,374) (310) (2,009) At 30 September 2017 561,116 145,313 74,160 44,164 21,311 846,064 Carrying amount as at 30 September 2017 6,766,345 183,184 923,592 698,069 215,559 40,961 8,827,710 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 66 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 18. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) (a) Group (continued) The Group’s building and freehold land was revalued on 30 September 2014 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, a firm of registered independent valuers, on the market value existing use basis. The Group’s plant, equipment, machinery, furniture and fittings were revalued on 30 September 2015 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, registered valuers, on the market value existing use basis. The carrying values of the property, plant and equipment were adjusted to the revaluations and the resultant surplus and deferred tax effect, was recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as at that date. There were no idle assets at 30 September 2018 and 2017. There was no property given as security as at 30 September 2018 and 2017. Carrying amount under historical cost The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment would have been as stated below if property, plant and equipment had been carried under the cost model. 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 Cost 2,176,361 2,121,166 Accumulated depreciation (649,037) (603,125) Net book value 1,527,324 1,518,041 (b) Company 2018 Furniture, Rolling computers Land and Bearer Building and Plant and stock and and development plants improvements machinery implements equipment Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Cost or valuation At 1 October 2017 5,237,345 138,196 378,177 258,156 122,647 41,915 6,176,436 Additions 2,150 241 7,882 10,273 Disposal (22,000) (48,547) (5,082) (3) (75,632) At 30 September 2018 5,237,345 138,196 358,327 209,850 117,565 49,794 6,111,077 Depreciation At 1 October 2017 123,887 39,909 23,302 22,792 11,229 221,119 Depreciation 582 12,882 11,858 14,929 6,076 46,327 Disposal (3,667) (6,074) (735) (2) (10,478) As at 30 September 2018 124,469 49,124 29,086 36,986 17,303 256,968 Carrying amount As at 30 September 2018 5,237,345 13,727 309,203 180,764 80,579 32,491 5,854,109 67 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 18. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) (b) Company (continued) 2017 Furniture, Rolling computers Land and Bearer Building and Plant and stock and and development plants improvements machinery implements equipment Total KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Cost or valuation At 1 October 2016 5,237,345 138,196 347,142 253,515 123,310 29,794 6,129,302 Additions 31,035 8,191 12,023 15,060 66,309 Disposal (3,550) (12,686) (2,939) (19,175) At 30 September 2017 5,237,345 138,196 378,177 258,156 122,647 41,915 6,176,436 Depreciation At 1 October 2016 123,305 25,809 11,773 8,324 5,553 174,764 Depreciation 582 14,100 11,815 15,507 6,319 48,323 Disposal (286) (1,039) (643) (1,968) As at 30 September 2017 123,887 39,909 23,302 22,792 11,229 221,119 Carrying amount as at 30 September 2017 5,237,345 14,309 338,268 234,854 99,855 30,686 5,955,317 The Company’s building and freehold land was revalued on 30 September 2014 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, a firm of registered independent valuers, on the market value existing use basis. The Company’s plant, equipment, machinery, furniture and fittings were revalued on 30 September 2015 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, registered valuers, on the market value existing use basis. The carrying values of the property, plant and equipment were adjusted to the revaluations and the resultant surplus and deferred tax effect, was recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as at that date. There were no idle and fully depreciated assets at 30 September 2018 and 2017. In addition, there was no property given as security as at 30 September 2018 and 2017. Carrying amount under historical cost The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment would have been as stated below if property, plant and equipment had been carried under the cost model. 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 Cost 684,222 674,642 Accumulated depreciation (167,395) (148,430) Carrying amount 516,827 526,212 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 68 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 18. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED) (c) Capital work-in-progress Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Balance brought forward 188,688 58,724 71,808 57,179 Additions 368,910 131,509 46,618 14,629 Transfer to property, plant and equipment – Note 18 (2,566) (1,545) 555,032 188,688 118,426 71,808 Capital work-in-progress relates to buildings and leasehold improvements under construction and bearer plants that have not gone through full biological transformation. 19. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Cost At 1 October 71,754 73,613 28,946 28,393 Opening balance adjustment 69 Additions 16,218 866 15,716 553 Disposals (2,794) At 30 September 87,972 71,754 44,662 28,946 Amortisation At 1 October 66,883 66,338 25,286 22,852 Opening balance adjustment 63 69 Charge for the year 4,996 3,270 4,343 2,434 Disposal ( 2,794) At 30 September 71,942 66,883 29,629 25,286 Carrying value at 30 September 16,030 4,871 15,033 3,660 Intangible assets relate to software costs. 69 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 20. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (a) Group Current Non-current Coffee Tea Sub Other produce produce total trees Livestock Sub total Total 2018: KShs’000 KShs‘000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 KShs‘000 KShs’000 KShs‘000 Carrying value at 1 October 2017 236,554 14,480 251,034 1,160,212 11,167 1,171,379 1,422,413 Gains due to biological transformation at fair value 29,646 2,353 31,999 21,579 1,981 23,560 55,559 Decreases due to harvest at fair value (148,774) (148,774) (148,774) 29,646 2,353 31,999 (127,195) 1,981 (125,214) (93,215) Immature bushes/trees at cost 1,141 65 1,206 1,206 Other adjustment (328) (65) (393) (393) Carrying value as at 30 September 2018 266,200 16,833 283,033 1,033,830 13,148 1,046,978 1,330,011 The reconciliation of fair value changes is analysed below: Carrying value at 1 October 2017 236,554 14,480 251,034 1,160,212 11,167 1,171,379 1,422,413 Changes due to price estimate Changes due to yield estimate 29,646 2,353 31,999 (127,523) 1,916 (125,607) (93,608) Changes due to immature bushes/ animals 1,141 65 1,206 1,206 Carrying value as at 30 September 2018 266,200 16,833 283,033 1,033,830 13,148 1,046,978 1,330,011 2017: Carrying value at 1 October 2016 215,384 10,035 225,419 1,083,877 13,159 1,097,036 1,322,455 Gains due to biological transformation 21,170 4,445 25,615 125,839 (19,501) 106,338 131,953 at fair value Decreases due to harvest at fair value (50,207) (50,207) (50,207) 21,170 4,445 25,615 75,632 (19,501) 56,131 81,746 Immature bushes/trees at cost 703 703 703 Other adjustment 17,509 17,509 17,509 Carrying value as at 30 September 2017 236,554 14,480 251,034 1,160,212 11,167 1,171,379 1,422,413 The reconciliation of fair value changes is analysed below: Carrying value at 1 October 2016 215,384 10,035 225,419 1,083,877 13,159 1,097,036 1,322,455 Changes due to price estimate 27,743 2,269 30,012 30,012 Changes due to yield estimate 21,170 4,445 25,615 47,889 (4,261) 43,628 69,243 Changes due to immature bushes/ animals 703 703 703 Carrying value as at 30 September 2017 236,554 14,480 251,034 1,160,212 11,167 1,171,379 1,422,413 The Group is involved in the growing, processing and selling of coffee and tea and breeding of dairy cattle. At 30 September 2018, the Group had 95 (2017 82) cows able to produce milk, 52 (2017 115) calves that are raised to produce milk in the future, 41 (2017 11) bull calves and 837 (2017 973) sheep. The Group produced 664,739 (2017 524,405) litres of milk with a fair value less cost to sell of KShs 40,518,017 (2017 KShs 24,016,980) in the year. The Group has 778 hectares of mature coffee bushes. The Group harvested 891,060 (2017 850,530) Kgs of coffee. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 70 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 20. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONTINUED) (a) Group (continued) The Group has 1,434. (2017 1,434) hectares of mature tea bushes and 29 (2017 29) hectares of immature tea bushes. The Group harvested 26,124,495 (2017 23,018,565) Kgs of green tea leaves. (b) Company Current Non-current Coffee Sub Other produce total trees Livestock Sub total Total 2018: KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs ‘000 KShs‘000 KShs’000 KShs‘000 Carrying value as at 1 October 2017 190,069 190,069 53,066 3,682 56,748 246,817 Gains due to biological transformation at fair value 33,054 33,054 2,008 (315) 1,693 34,747 Decreases due to harvest at fair value Immature bushes/trees at cost 1,037 1,037 1,037 Carrying value as at 30 September 2018 223,123 223,123 56,111 3,367 59,478 282,601 The reconciliation of fair value changes is analysed below: Carrying value as at 1 October 2017 190,069 190,069 53,066 3,682 56,748 246,817 Changes due to price estimate Changes due to yield estimate 33,054 33,054 2,008 (315) 1,693 34,747 Changes in immature trees/bushes 1,037 1,037 1,037 Carrying value as at 30 September 2018 223,123 223,123 56,111 3,367 59,478 282,601 2017: Carrying value as at 1 October 2016 172,163 172,163 19,337 2,517 21,854 194,017 Gains/(losses) due to biological transformation at fair value 17,906 17,906 35,597 1,165 36,762 54,668 Decreases due to harvest at fair value (2,280) (2,280) (2,280) 17,906 17,906 33,317 1,165 34,482 52,388 Immature bushes/trees at cost 412 412 412 Carrying value as at 30 September 2017 190,069 190,069 53,066 3,682 56,748 246,817 30 September 2017: The reconciliation of fair value changes is analysed below: Carrying value as at 1 October 2016 172,163 172,163 19,337 2,517 21,854 194,017 Changes due to price estimate 931 931 931 Changes due to yield estimate 17,906 17,906 33,317 234 33,551 51,457 Changes due to immature trees/bushes 412 412 412 Carrying value as at 30 September 2017 190,069 190,069 53,066 3,682 56,748 246,817 Where meaningful market-determined prices do not exist to assess the fair value of biological assets, the fair value is determined based on the net present value of the expected future cash flows from those assets, discounted at appropriate pre-tax rates. 71 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 20. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS (CONTINUED) (b) Company (continued) In determining the fair value of biological assets where the discounting of expected cash flows has been used, the directors have made certain assumptions and techniques below: Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Inter-relationship between key unobservable inputs and fair value measurement Tea • The valuation model considers the • Estimated green leaf price per The estimated fair value would produce fair value of the un-harvested green kilogram of KShs 31.80 (2017: increase (decrease) if: (Level III) leaf as at 30 September 2018. Green KShs 26.80); • The out-grower green leaf leaf volumes were determined by • Estimated unharvested green prices per kilogram were higher/ assuming a 7 -day plucking cycle for leaf volume as at year-end. (lower); harvested leaf using October 2018 • The estimated unharvested data. This was then valued using the volumes were higher/(lower) 2018 similar competitors’ out-grower • The estimated harvest cycle was average price. longer/(shorter) Coffee The valuation model considers the fair • Estimated coffee realisation • The estimated fair value would produce value of the un-harvested coffee berries price per kilogram of KShs increase (decrease) if: (Level III) as at 30 September 2018. Coffee berry 337.01 (2017: KShs 344.33); • The realisation price per kilogram volumes were determined by assuming • Estimated unharvested coffee were higher/(lower); an October 2018 – January 2019 harvest berry volume as at year-end. • The estimated unharvested cycle for coffeee using budget data. volumes were higher/(lower) This was then valued using the average • The estimated exchange rates auction price per kilogram, adjusted for (USD/KShs) were higher (lower) costs to sell. Livestock Market comparison technique: Not applicable Not applicable (Level II) The fair values are based on the market Livestock price of livestock of similar age, weight comprises and market values. cattle and sheep Other Discounted cash flows: The valuation • Estimated future trees • The estimated fair value would trees model considers the present value realisation price per tree of increase (decrease) if: (Level III) of the net cash flows expected to KShs 1,000 to KShs 6,000 • The estimated tree prices were be generated by the plantation. The (2017: KShs 1,000 to KShs higher (lower); and cash flow projections include specific 6,000); and • The risk-adjusted discount rates estimates for periods between 10 and • Risk-adjusted annual discount were lower (higher). 50 years. The expected net cash flows rate of 8.3% to 13.75% (2017 are discounted using a risk-adjusted 8.3% to 13.75%). discount rate. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 72 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 21. PREPAID LEASES ON LEASEHOLD LAND Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Cost At 1 October 20,285 20,285 8,000 8,000 Disposal (8,000) (8,000) At 30 September 12,285 20,285 8,000 Amortisation At 1 October 2,700 2,447 1,026 923 Amortisation during the year 204 253 102 103 Disposal (1,128) (1,128) At 30 September 1,776 2,700 1,026 Carrying value at 30 September 10,509 17,585 6,974 The Group’s leasehold land was revalued on 30 September 2015 by Knight Frank Valuers Limited, a firm of independent valuers, on the market value existing basis. The fair value of the land is estimated at KShs 3.45 billion (2017: KShs 3.48 billion). The revaluation has not been adopted in the financial statements. 22. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Trade investments: Unquoted 525 525 These relate to unquoted investments classified as available-for-sale and measured at cost. 23. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES Company 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 As at 1 October 145,797 172,697 Investment in new subsidiaries in the year 30,000 Loss of control of subsidiary (note 40 (a)) (56,900) Carrying value at 30 September 145,797 145,797 73 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 23. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES (CONTINUED) The details of subsidiary companies which are all incorporated in Kenya are as follows: 2018 2017 Name of subsidiary Percentage Percentage of equity of equity held Cost held Cost % KShs’000 % KShs’000 Kipkebe Limited 100 13,177 100 13,177 Keritor Limited (100% held by Kipkebe Limited) 100 100 Kipkebe Estates Limited (100% held by Kipkebe Limited) 100 100 Mweiga Estate Limited 85 101,620 85 101,620 Wahenya Limited (100% held by Mweiga Estate Limited) 85 85 Aristocrats Tea & Coffee Exporters Limited 100 1,000 100 1,000 Sasini Avocado Limited 100 10,000 100 10,000 Sasini Nuts EPZ Kenya Limited 100 10,000 100 10,000 Sasini EPZ Park Limited 100 10,000 100 10,000 145,797 145,797 Consolidated financial statements have been prepared incorporating the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2018 and 2017. 24. INVENTORIES Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Raw materials, components 10,771 Made tea 177,961 148,639 380 Tea and tree nurseries 5,328 5,428 Coffee 50,840 31,316 44,292 27,518 Estate stores 174,118 101,924 35,266 41,390 Work in progress 4,138 4,138 Food and beverages 75 419,018 291,520 79,558 73,426 Inventories write-offs (7,306) (7,306) 411,712 284,214 79,558 73,426 The amount of inventories recognised as an expense is KShs 635,098,970 – Group and KShs 148,762,002 – Company (2017 – KShs 465,279,929 – Group and KShs 127,652,232 – Company) which was recognised in cost of sales. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 74 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 25. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Trade receivables 384,949 581,088 187,628 369,259 Allowances for impairment (23,441) (19,904) (106) (13,437) Net trade receivables 361,508 561,184 187,522 355,822 Prepaid expenses 88,903 206,352 18,024 58,649 Other receivables 279,910 229,688 47,905 127,446 730,321 997,224 253,451 541,917 Allowances for impairment: At beginning of the year 19,904 19,904 13,437 13,437 Written off (19,798) (13,331) Charge for the year 23,335 At the end of the year 23,441 19,904 106 13,437 Age analysis of trade receivables: Less than 30 days 185,345 428,950 275,584 31 to 90 days 97,129 101,420 49,055 Over 90 days (past due but not impaired) 79,034 30,814 187,522 31,183 Over 90 days (past due and impaired) 23,441 19,904 106 13,437 384,949 581,088 187,628 369,259 26. RELATED COMPANIES BALANCES (a) Amount due from related companies: Mweiga Estates Limited 32,078 106,708 Aristocrats Tea & Coffee Exporters Limited 32,098 5,669 Sameer Agriculture and Livestock Limited 1,000 1,000 Kipkebe Limited 305,769 22,919 Sasni Nut Epz Kenya Limited 188,763 Sasini Epz Park Limited 194,428 Sasini Avocado Limited 48,946 Sameer Investments Limited 17,005 6,251 1,000 18,005 802,082 141,547 (b) Amount due to related companies: Sameer Investments Limited 10 Sameer Agriculture and livestock limited 80 90 27. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash on hand 2,826 2,508 723 620 Bank balances 470,834 398,273 145,045 180,016 Short term deposit 661,949 1,006,095 1,394 344,082 1,135,609 1,406,876 147,162 524,718 Short term deposits relate to deposits with banks with original maturities of three (3) months or less. 75 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 28. SHARE CAPITAL Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Authorised: At 1 October and 30 September: 300,000,000 ordinary shares of KShs 1each 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 Issued and fully paid: At 1 October and 30 September: 228,055,500 ordinary shares of KShs 1 each 228,055 228,055 228,055 228,055 All shares rank equally with regard to the company’s residual assets. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the company. 29. RESERVES Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 a) Non-distributable reserves: Revaluation reserve 7,627,565 7,627,565 5,517,443 5,517,443 Capital reserve 98,530 98,530 40,594 40,594 Defined benefit reserve 34,571 26,128 5,249 4,340 Biological assets fair value reserve 198,602 159,711 118,396 94,073 7,959,268 7,911,934 5,681,682 5,656,450 b) Distributable reserves: Retained earnings 2,727,309 2,698,759 1,174,032 1,008,786 Proposed dividends 114,028 171,042 114,028 171,042 2,841,337 2,869,801 1,288,060 1,179,828 c) Non-controlling interest 295,123 306,087 N/A N/A The following table summarises the information relating to each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has a material NonControlling interest before intergroup eliminations; Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 76 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 29. RESERVES (CONTINUED) (c) Non-controlling interest (continued) 30 September 2018 Mweiga Estate Wahenya In KShs’000 Limited Limited Total NCI percentage 15% 15% NC Non-current assets 1,500,974 Current assets 403,875 335,835 Non-current liabilities (76,105) Current liabilities (120,234) (76,856) Net current assets underly NCI 1,708,510 258,979 Underlying NCI 256,276 38,847 295,123 Revenue 116,604 Profit (23,253) 10,096 OCI 67 Total comprehensive income (23,186) 10,096 Profit allocated to NCI (3,488) 1,514 (1,974) OCI allocated to NCI 10 10 Cash flows from operating activities 10,596 (12,703) Cash flows from investing activities 47,419 Cash flows from financing activities (60,000) (40,000) Net indecrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,985) ( 52,703) 30 September 2017 Mweiga Estate Wahenya In KShs’000 Limited Limited Total NCI percentage 15% 15% NC Non-current assets 1,555,271 Current assets 674,903 366,003 Non-current liabilities (80,854) Current liabilities (397,620) ( 77,120) Net current assets underly NCI 1,751,700 288,883 Underlying NCI 262,755 43,332 306,087 Revenue 147,940 Profit (49,213) 4,037 OCI 1,349 Total comprehensive income 2,914 4,037 Profit allocated to NCI (7,382) 606 (6,776) OCI allocated to NCI 202 202 Cash flows from operating activities 17,348 35,074 Cash flows from investing activities (19,846) Cash flows from financing activities (55,000) Net indecrease in cash and cash equivalents (57,498) 35,074 Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve relates to increases in the fair value of property, plant and equipment and decreases to the extent that such decrease relates to an increase on the same asset previously recognised in equity. Defined benefit reserve Defined benefit reserve relates to remeasurement of post-employment benefits at the reporting date. The remeasurements comprise of actuarial gains and losses on valuation of the gratuity scheme. Biological assets fair value The biological assets fair value relates to increases in the fair value of biological assets and decreases to the extent that such decrease relate to an increase on the same asset previously recognised in equity. The fair value movements are recognised in profit and loss but for purposes of monitoring the distribution of these reserves, the directors have transferred the amounts from retained earnings to equity. Capital reserve The capital reserves relates to historical reserves that are non-distributable. 77 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 30. DEFERRED TAX ASSET/LIABILITY Recognised deferred tax assets/liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year arose from the following: Prior year Current year movement Balance at under/ (over) through P&L Loss of through OCI Balance at 30 Group 1 October through P&L control September 2018: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Property, plant and equipment 737,084 (23,365) 713,719 Other temporary differences (208,277) 9 24,460 3,623 (180,185) Biological assets 421,223 5,254 (27,750) 398,727 Tax losses (55,280) 5,312 (6,860) (56,828) 894,750 10,575 (33,515) 3,623 875,433 Prior year Current year movement Balance at under/ (over) through P&L Loss of through OCI Balance at 30 Group 1 October through P&L control September 2017: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Property, plant and equipment 747,889 (18,826) 8,021 737,084 Other temporary differences (160,179) 2,595 (39,996) 583 (11,280) (208,277) Biological assets 396,422 277 24,524 421,223 Tax losses (68,601) (611) (3,656) 17,588 (55,280) 915,531 2,261 (37,954) 26,192 (11,280) 894,750 Prior year Current year movement Balance at under/ (over) through P&L Loss of through OCI Balance at 30 Company 1 October through P&L control September 2018: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Property, plant and equipment 320,217 5,005 (11,703) 313,519 Other temporary differences (27,873) 2 1,599 8,285 390 (17,597) Biological assets 73,883 162 10,458 84,503 366,227 2 6,766 7,040 390 380,425 Prior year Current year movement Balance at under/ (over) through P&L Loss of through OCI Balance at 30 Company 1 October through P&L control September 2017: KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Property, plant and equipment 327,270 (7,053) 320,217 Other temporary differences (24,201) (4,397) 725 (27,873) Biological assets 58,204 (37) 15,716 73,883 361,273 (37) 4,266 725 366,227 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 78 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 30. DEFERRED TAX ASSET/LIABILITY (CONTINUED) Presented in the statement of financial position as below: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Entities with net deferred tax asset (6,997) (97) Entities with net deferred tax Liability 882,430 894,847 380,425 366,227 875,433 894,750 380,425 366,227 Unrecognised deferred tax asset: Deferred tax assets of KShs 54,254,023 have not been recognised in respect of tax losses relating to a subsidiary, Wahenya Limited because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group or subsidiary can use the benefits therefrom. The amount was derecognised in 2017. Tax losses: The tax losses expire within 9 years following the year they arose under the current tax laws. The ageing of tax losses for the Group is as below: (a) Unrecognised Year of origin Amounts Year of expiry KShs 2011 96,461,636 2020 2012 41,091,807 2021 2013 17,604,187 2022 2014 13,076,943 2023 2015 12,612,170 2024 Total 180,846,743 (b) Recognised Year of origin Amounts Year of expiry KShs 2012 44,490,597 2021 2013 76,100,233 2022 2014 21,297,246 2023 2015 5,215,012 2024 2016 18,743,979 2025 2018 23,580,830 2027 Total 189,427,897 79 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 31. POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Balance brought forward 322,962 259,467 27,256 25,568 Paid during the year (32,430) (22,082) (1,190) (1,109) Charge for the year 53,673 47,978 5,500 5,215 Remeasurements (12,075) 37,599 (1,299) (2,418) Balance carried forward 332,130 322,962 30,267 27,256 Non-current portion 296,088 281,360 24,593 22,327 Current portion 36,042 41,602 5,674 4,929 332,130 322,962 30,267 27,256 Charged to profit or loss Current service costs 14,703 13,547 2,028 1,712 Interest costs 38,970 34,431 3,472 3,503 53,673 47,978 5,500 5,215 Charged to other comprehensive income (OCI) Actuarial (gain)/ loss on obligation (12,075) 37,599 (1,299) (2,418) Related tax 3,622 (11,280) 390 725 Net amount to OCI (8,453) 26,319 (909) (1,693) The post employment benefit relates to provision for staff gratuity. The Company has entered into collective bargaining agreements with trade unions representing its employees that provide for gratuity payments on age and ill-health, retirement, withdrawal, resignation and death in-service of an employee. The gratuity arrangements are unfunded. An actuarial valuation was carried out by The Actuarial Services Company Limited, registered actuaries, as at 30 September 2017 and 2018. The principle assumptions used were as follows: 2018 2017 Discount rate 11.81% 12.39% Future salary increases 10.00% 10.00% Sensitivity analysis The results of the actuarial valuation are more sensitive to changes in financial assumptions than to changes in demographic assumptions. A 1% change in the discount rate or salary at the reporting date holding other factors constant would have changed the liability to amounts shown below. Group Company A 1% increase in discount rate: Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Liability at 30 September 2018 (KShs ‘000) 311,814 354,646 28,093 32,772 Liability at 30 September 2017 (KShs ‘000) 303,402 344,690 25,314 29,488 Group Company A 1% increase in salaries: Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Liability at 30 September 2018 (KShs ‘000) 354,630 311,496 32,795 28,042 Liability at 30 September 2017 (KShs ‘000) 344,753 303,034 29,520 25,260 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 80 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 32. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Trade payables 60,266 33,901 34,364 65,875 Other payables 351,329 513,595 76,566 117,831 411,595 547,496 110,930 183,706 33. CASH FLOWS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Profit before tax 448,806 520,921 448,977 282,139 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 139,714 139,233 50,772 50,860 Unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/ Loss on borrowings and cash (5,538) (435) (1,448) (192) Interest income (94,691) (111,947) (14,097) (44,667) Interest cost 5,166 10,999 4,764 10,988 Gratuity provision 53,673 47,978 5,500 5,215 (Gain)/loss on disposal of land, property and equipment (67,762) 763 (68,597) 562 (Gain)/loss on disposal of subsidiary (Note 40(a)) (16,900) 27,899 Dividend income (301,000) (200,000) Biological assets adjustments 393 (17,509) Biological asset transformation (55,559) (131,953) (34,747) ( 54,668) Biological assets harvest 148,774 50,207 2,280 Operating profit before working capital changes 572,976 491,357 90,124 80,416 Working capital changes: Inventories (127,498) 80,310 (6,132) 21,297 Trade and other receivables 266,903 (543,645) 288,466 (401,054) Related party balances 16,915 (16,049) (660,535) 177,824 Trade and other payables (135,901) 61,926 (72,776) 3,330 Cash flows generated from/(used in) operating activities 593,395 73,899 (360,853) (118,187) 81 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 34. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group shares common directors with some of its subsidiary companies and suppliers, to and from whom goods and services were supplied during the year under review. The following transactions were entered into with these related parties: (a) Purchase of goods and services Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Ryce East Africa Limited 1,659 17,767 1,340 1,943 Ryce Engineering Limited 31 31 Yansam East Africa Limited 393 Sameer Investments Limited 1,482 123 Sameer Management Limited 3,150 3,496 49 Sameer Agriculture Limited 293 912 262 43 Sameer Business Park Limited 1,267 Yana Tyre Centre 1,642 1,123 1,367 1,106 6,775 26,440 3,000 3,264 (b) Key management compensation (excluding director’s emoluments) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Short term employee benefits 51,730 53,205 32,132 32,467 Post-employment benefits 5,196 5,126 3,337 3,337 56,926 58,331 35,469 35,804 (c) Director’s emoluments Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Fees 7,896 3,546 7,896 3,546 Other remuneration 24,127 30,492 24,127 30,492 32,023 34,038 32,023 34,038 Other details in relation to related party balances are disclosed in Note 26. 35. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Authorised and contracted for 24,972 107,166 17,476 44,350 36. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There are certain pending legal claims brought against the Group and Company at 30 September 2018 and 2017. In particular, litigations relating to Collective Bargaining Agreement for one of the subsidiaries for the years 2014 and 2015 is pending determination at the Court of Appeal. In the opinion of the directors and after taking appropriate legal advice the outcome of the legal claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond the amounts provided for in these financial statements. Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 82 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 37. OPERATING LEASE RENTALS The group has leased out office space from third parties. Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Less than one year 16,296 15,159 16,296 15,159 One year to five years 56,468 71,087 56,468 71,087 Over five years 72,764 86,246 72,764 86,246 During the year KShs 14,379,876 (2017: KShs 10,053,240) lease rentals was expensed in the group profit or loss. 38. EVENTS AFTER REPORTING DATE There were no significant events after the reporting date with a financial statement impact at 30 September 2018. 39. BORROWINGS There were no significant events after the reporting date with a financial statement impact at 30 September 2017. Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Balance as at 1 October 2017 100,852 100,852 Amounts borrowed during the year 175,969 455,329 175,969 455,329 Repayment of loan in the year (276,821) (356,674) (276,821) (356,674) Exchange loss 1,745 1,745 Accrued interest 452 452 Balance at 30 September 100,852 100,852 During the year, Sasini PLC obtained an unsecured short term loan from Barclays Bank Kenya Limited of USD 1.7 million. The interest rate charged on the loan is 6% per annum above 3 months LIBOR on maturity of the facility. 83 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 (CONTINUED) 40. LOSS OF CONTROL On 5 April 2017, the Group sold its subsidiary, Savannah Coffee House Limited (formerly Sasini Coffee House Limited). The effect of the disposal on the consolidated and separate financial statements of the Company was as follows: (a) (Assets)/Liabilities sold Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Property and equipment (12,983) Deferred tax asset (26,192) Trade and other receivables (2,499) Investment in subsidiary (56,900) Amounts due from subsidiary (12,999) Tax recoverable (803) Cash and bank balances (829) Trade and other payables 1,473 Total net assets (41,833) (69,899) Non-controlling interest at 40% 16,733 Share of net assets disposed (25,100) (69,899) Consideration received 42,000 42,000 Gain/(loss) on disposal 16,900 (27,899) (b) Reconciliation to statement of cashflows Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 KShs’000 Consideration received 42,000 42,000 Cash and bank balances disposed (829) Net cash inflows 41,171 42,000 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 84 Sasini PLC FIVE YEAR COMPARATIVE STATEMENTS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 PRODUCTION AND SALES STATISTICS TEA Area – Hectares 1,463 1,463 1,463 1,463 1,465 Production – Tonnes 10,804 11,209 11,108 8,578 11,564 Sales – Tonnes 10,603 11,280 10,721 8,967 11,495 Sales proceeds KShs/Kg 207 206 193 179 158 COFFEE Area – Hectares 775 775 775 775 912 Production – Tonnes 891 851 944 993 1,153 Sales – Tonnes 873 882 993 993 1,209 Sales proceeds KShs’000/tonne 436 532 465 435 417 RESULTS KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Turnover 3,515,220 4,201,195 3,570,629 2,786,126 2,762,547 Gains/(losses) arising from changes in fair value less costs to sell 55,559 81,746 (117,997) 866,796 (99,100) Profit before taxation and non-controlling interest 448,806 520,921 759,818 1,878,274 3,280 Taxation (charge)/credit (155,283) (181,514) (182,833) (189,725) 1,182 Profit after taxation before non-controlling interests 293,523 339,407 576,985 1,688,548 45,421 Made up as shown below: Profit arising from operating activities 256,606 288,961 670,253 955,342 93,027 Profit/(loss) arising from changes in fair value less costs to sell after tax 38,891 57,222 (82,598) 606,757 (69,370) Non-controlling interest (1,974) (6,776) (10,670) 126,449 21,764 293,523 339,407 576,985 1,688,548 45,421 Dividends ( 228,056) ( 228,056) ( 342,083) ( 285,069) ( 57,014) 85 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC FIVE YEAR COMPARATIVE STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 CAPITAL EMPLOYED KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 Property, plant and equipment 8,679,878 8,827,710 8,888,273 8,972,529 8,573,631 Intangible assets 16,030 4,871 7,275 8,393 8,210 Biological assets 1,046,978 1,171,379 1,097,036 1,180,592 396,865 Prepaid leases leasehold land 10,509 17,585 17,838 18,473 20,074 Capital work-in-progress 555,032 188,688 58,724 33,358 29,678 Other investments 525 525 525 525 525 Deferred tax asset 6,997 97 26,192 77,070 23,070 Net current assets 2,186,352 2,281,229 2,439,953 1,836,511 875,212 12,502,301 12,492,084 12,535,816 12,127,451 9,927,265 FINANCED BY Share capital 228,055 228,055 228,055 228,055 228,055 Reserves 10,686,577 10,610,693 10,527,681 10,512,102 8,466,914 Non-controlling interests 295,123 306,087 320,800 346,780 241,755 Proposed dividend 114,028 171,042 285,069 57,014 57,014 Equity 11,323,783 11,315,877 11,361,605 11,143,951 8,993,738 Non-current liabilities 1,178,518 1,176,207 1,174,211 983,500 933,527 12,502,301 12,492,084 12,535,816 12,127,451 9,927,265 RATIOS Earnings per share on operating activities (KShs) 1.13 1.27 2.94 4.19 0.41 Earnings/(loss) per share on biological assets (KShs) 0.17 0.25 (0.36) 2.66 (0.30) Dividend per share (KShs) 1.00 1.00 1.50 1.25 0.25 Dividend cover (times covered) 1.13 1.27 1.96 3.35 1.63 Capital employed per share 54.82 54.78 54.97 53.18 43.53 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 86 Sasini PLC NOTES 87 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 Sasini PLC NOTES Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 88 Sasini PLC NOTES 89 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 FORM OF PROXY/ FOMU YA UWAKILISHI FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 I/ We............................................................................................................................ Mimi/Sisi .................................................................................................................................... Sasini PLC Of.................................................................................................... being a member/ Wa.............................................................................................................kama mwanachama members of Sasini Plc, do hereby appoint................................................................. mwanachama wa Sasini Plc, namteua ...............................................................................wa ...............................................................................................................................................au of ................................................................................................................................ akikosa yeye.............................................................................wa............................................ or failing him/her ......................................................................of........................................................ na iwapo hataweza kuhudhuria, mwenyekiti wa Mkutano, kama mwakilishi wangu/wetu, failing whom, the Chairman of the Meeting, as my/our proxy, to vote for me/us and on kupiga kura kwa niaba yangu/ yetu katika Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka wa Kampuni my/ our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Friday, 8 utakaoandaliwa mnamo tarehe 8 Machi 2019 au wakati wowote ule endapo utaahirishwa. March 2019 and at any adjournment thereof. Kama mashahidi sahihi yangu/yetu siku hii tarehe.....................mwezi wa ........................2019 As witness my/our hand(s) this..................................................... day of 2019 Sahihi ......................................................................................................................... Signature .......................................................................................................... Maelezo: 1. Mwanachama aliye na haki ya kuhudhuria na kupiga kura ana haki ya kuteua mwakilishi mmoja au zaidi kuhudhuria na kupiga kura kwa niaba yake na sio lazima mwakilishi awe Notes: mwanachama wa Kampuni. 1. A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote in his/her stead and a proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. Iwapo mwanachama ni kampuni ya dhima yenye kikomo, hii fomu ni lazima ijazwe chini ya nembo yake au mbele ya afisa au wakili ambaye ataidhinishwa kwa maandishi. 2. In the case of a member being a Limited Company this form must be completed under its Common Seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised in writing. 3. Fomu ya Uwakilishi ni lazima iwasilishwe kwa Image Registrars kabla ya Jumatano, 6 3. The Proxy Form must be delivered to Image Registrars Limited not later than Machi 2019 saa 5 asubuhi. Wednesday, 6 March 2019 at 11.00 a.m. Fomu za Uwakilishi zinapasa kutumwa kwa posta kwa Image Registrars Limited wa SLP Completed Proxy Forms should be sent by post to Image Registrars Limited of P O Box 9287, 00100 Nairobi au kwa mkono katika afiza zao zilizoko jumba la Barclays Plaza, ororfa 9287, 00100 Nairobi or hand delivered to their offices at Barclays Plaza, 5th Floor, Loita Street. Alternatively, duly signed proxies can be scanned and emailed to ya 5, Loita Street. Badala yake, fomu za uwakilishi zilizojazwa na kutiwa sahihi zinaweza info@image.co.ke in PDF format. pia kutolewa nakala na kutumwa kwa barua pepe kwa info@image.co.ke kwa umbo la Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 PDF. 90 FOLD 2 Affix Stamp Here The Company Secretary Sasini PLC P.O. BOX 30151 FOLD 1 00100 GPO Nairobi Kenya FOLD 3 Sasini PLC DIRECTIONS TO KAMUNDU Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018 92 Sasini PLC 93 Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2018
