Title Bold Title Light 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1 03 Letter from Our CEO 04 About Omnicom Group 05 Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Goals 06 Year in Review: Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Highlights Contents 07 People 18 Community 31 Environment 36 Governance 40 About this Report 42 UN Communications on Progress 43 GRI Standards Content Index 52 Contact Information 02 A Letter from Our CEO Change continues to As we noted in our last report, in 2018 we be the predominant The reach of our networks implemented policies in human rights and factor impacting our is matched by the diversity environmental areas, and began tracking industry. Changing of perspectives we bring our progress against new goals – to reduce consumer behaviors, to the creative process. global energy use, increase electricity use from transformational In 2018, we continued renewable energy sources, formalize business digital technologies, to strengthen our diverse ethics training and strengthen engagement with increasing media teams, expanding our our supply chain. I’m pleased to report we channels and Omniwomen chapter achieved or made progress against each. hyper-connectivity network in Mexico and the are driving our business, Omnicom’s success is rooted in the work United States and celebrating and business models. we do for our clients and not in awards. Still, our OPEN Pride UK chapter, it is an honor to be recognized by industry which was shortlisted by the In response to the shifting peers as we were in 2018, receiving a holding British LGBT Awards as one of the marketplace, in 2018 we continued company of the year award from Cannes UK’s top 10 Employee Resource Groups. to streamline Omnicom’s model to Lions as well as The One Show and WARC. We also lent a hand to a number of industry allow us to deliver clients a single initiatives, including The Valuable 500, the These honors belong to 70,000+ specialists and point of access to our network of Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality and their distinctive talents, who all bring common thousands of industry specialists the promotion of the 2019 WorldPride events award-winning intangibles, such as creativity, in specific marketing disciplines. in New York City. And we marked another flexibility and empathy, which deliver success year of diversity accomplishments: in addition for our clients, our shareholders and the to our diverse board of directors, 56% of our communities we share. U.S. officials and managers were women and In today’s challenging 21% were multicultural. Sincerely, times, Omnicom’s Our people also make possible our contributions to the communities where we live and work. commitment to We continued our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (UN John D. Wren corporate responsibility SDG) 4, to ensure inclusive and equitable quality Chairman & Chief Executive Officer education. Our pro bono support of Theirworld’s is vital, now more #WriteTheWrong campaign helped launch a $10 billion plan to put 260 million children than ever. in school. This report also underpins our commitment to the UN Global Compact. A letter from our CEO | 2019CR 03 About Omnicom Group We are a strategic holding company Pharmaceuticals Consumer 52% USA and Health Care 13% providing advertising, marketing and 9% Products corporate communications services to clients through our branded networks Food and and agencies around the world. On a Beverage 8% Technology global, pan-regional and local basis, 13% our networks and agencies provide a comprehensive range of services in the following fundamental disciplines: 2018 2018 10% Auto • Advertising REVEN U E C L IE NT MI X Financial • Strategic Media Planning and Buying 8% Services Other 21% • Customer Relationship Management 7% Travel and • Public Relations Entertainment 5% 6% 48% Rest of • Health Care Communication Services the World Telecommunications Retail 70K+ Our portfolio includes: Three global advertising agency networks: BBDO, DDB and TBWA; and three of the world’s premier providers of media services: Hearts & Science, OMD and PHD, part of Omnicom Media Group. We also manage a global diversified group of agencies under the DAS E MP LOY E E S Group of Companies. 5K+ CL IE NTS Financial Summary (in Millions) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Revenue $15,290.20 $15,273.60 $15,416.90 $15,134.40 $15,317.80 70+ COUNTRIES Operating Income $2,133.50 $2,083.80 $2,030.50 $1,920.10 $1,944.10 Net Income $1,326.40 $1,088.40 $1,148.60 $1,093.90 $1,104.00 About Omnicom Group | 2019CR 04 Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Goals PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE Goal: Goal: Goal: Omnicom established Reduce energy use 20% Develop Supplier Code of sexual harassment training per person globally by 2023, Conduct by January 1, 2020. for its full-time, regular using a 2015 baseline. employees in the In progress. United States. In progress. Goal: Goal: By January 1, 2020, Increase use of electricity Omnicom will establish business from renewable sources ethics and/or anti-bribery training globally to 15% by 2023. for its full-time, regular employees worldwide. In progress. About Omnicom Group | 2019CR 05 Year in Review: Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Highlights Since our last report, we made progress across the four areas on which we focus: People, Community, Environment and Governance. We describe these initiatives in this report and on our website. PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT • Collaborated on the launch of the Partnership • Reduced global energy footprint in excess for Global LGBTI Equality and assisted on the of 10% year over year, and energy use per launch of The Valuable 500 at Davos person by approximately 14% compared to 2015 baseline • Received a perfect score on the Corporate Equality Index conducted by • Increased use of electricity from renewable the Human Rights Campaign for the third sources by approximately 12% compared consecutive year to 2015 baseline • Launched Omniwomen chapters in • Reduced company-wide greenhouse gas New York and Mexico in 2018, and Dallas emissions by approximately 8% in 2018 on International Women’s Day 2019 compared to 2017 baseline • Selected as Platinum sponsor for 2019 WorldPride in New York City GOVERNANCE • OPEN Pride UK shortlisted by the • Continued diverse representation on British LGBT Awards as one of the our Board; six of 11 board members are UK’s top 10 Employee Resource Groups women and four are African American • Achieved our goal to establish business COMMUNITY ethics and/or anti-bribery training for our full-time, regular employees • Provided pro bono creative for Theirworld’s by the end of 2019 #WriteTheWrong campaign in support of a $10 billion UN-backed plan to put 260 million • Amended our by-laws to reduce children in school the ownership threshold required for shareholders to call a special • Supported the UN SDGs through pro bono and meeting from 25% to 10% in response volunteer contributions by our agencies across to a shareholder proposal the globe • Helped build more resilient communities worldwide through our volunteer work where we live and work, and through pro bono creative contributions around the world About Omnicom Group | 2019CR 06 PEOPLE Omnicom’s people deliver big ideas, powerful branding and award-winning campaigns built on deep consumer insights and fueled by their boundless creativity. Together we are a richly diverse community that is reflected in the work we produce for clients worldwide. 07 Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Omnicom is committed to fostering diverse We underpin our commitment with: and inclusive workplaces where all employees, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, Leadership: Collaborating with Omnicom’s chief diversity officer, diversity champions across our age, disability or experience feel comfortable and agency networks help ensure we meet our diversity and inclusion objectives, while representing the confident in bringing their whole selves to work. unique needs and cultures within their organizations. Across our global network of communications Measurement: We disclose five-year progress on diversity metrics for our U.S. employees. and marketing consultancies, we promote awareness, acceptance and advocacy of our Accountability: Omnicom’s CEO pay is determined, in part, on qualitative factors that include diversity. diverse communities, creating opportunities for leadership, visibility, networking and business development for all. SPOTLIGHT ON OUR AGENCIES: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Omnicom agencies are building diverse and inclusive cultures through targeted training, mentorship and engagement. Leadership in Talent Diversity: FleishmanHillard’s diversity and inclusion (D&I) efforts, from hiring to recognition to leadership opportunities, are coordinated under the FH Perspectives umbrella. Its 2018 initiatives included Lose the Whisper, a lunch-and-learn series that engaged colleagues in open dialogue around such topics as gender parity, cultural appropriation and LGBTQ+ rights. Critical Mass’ D&I board was established in 2018 to lead the agency’s inclusion efforts. Among its initial activities, it launched new D&I-focused employee resource groups and introduced training for hiring managers to remove unintentional bias from the interview process. Advancing Women: A Milwaukee office initiative, GMR Marketing’s GLOW (Growth, Leadership, Opportunities for Women) rallied employees with signature speaker events, personal growth GLOW chats, valuable social and networking events, and inspiring film and Ted Talk screenings. DDB Worldwide’s The Phyllis Project – named after Phyllis Robinson, DDB Worldwide’s first copywriter and the first female copy chief in U.S. history – is designed to increase the number of female creative leaders. Selected participants receive mentorship, assignments on pitches for DDB Worldwide’s top global clients and enrollment in networks’ leadership training programs. See more examples of our agencies advancing women on page 13. Welcoming Everyone: Agencies such as C Space, London, Hall & Partners and Lew’Lara \TBWA Brazil have removed the requisite to be a university graduate to work with them. C Space reports that the more inclusive criteria means that about one in five new hires now come from a non-traditional background. PEOPLE | 2019CR 08 Measuring Our Progress Building our diverse, This is the third year we have disclosed our five-year progress against key diversity metrics world-class workforce for U.S. employees. Disclosure in this report and on our website underlines our commitment to strengthen the diverse perspectives that inform our client work. didn’t happen by accident. Companies must build it 6 Women into their DNA to achieve Women 57% long-term success. White men 33% 22K 11 4 African American John Wren U.S. “P R OF E S SIO N A L S” C U R R E NT M E M B E R S Chairman & Chief Executive Officer A N D “O F F ICI A L S O F O U R B OAR D Multicultural 24% A N D M A N AG E R S” O F D I R E CTOR S For the third consecutive year, Omnicom received a perfect score 56% O F U . S. on the Corporate Equality Index conducted by the Human Rights “O FF I C I A L S AN D Campaign, demonstrating our 21% 26% M A N AGE R S” commitment to LGBTQ+ equality ARE WOMEN and inclusion and designating us O F U. S. O F U . S. as a 2019 “Best Place to Work for “O F F ICI A L S A N D “ P R O F E SS I O N AL” LGBTQ+ Equality.” M A N AG E R S” A R E TAL E NT B ASE I S M ULTICULTUR A L M U LT I C U LT U R A L Omnicom was once again named to Forbes Magazine’s list of America’s Best Large Employers, coming in at #104. This recognition marks the third An increase of 24% An increase of 13% straight year Omnicom was included from five years ago. from five years ago. on the list. It also marks the first time Forbes included Omnicom on its World’s Best Employers list, ranking #89 out of 2,000 global companies. PEOPLE | 2019CR 09 Collaborating for an Inclusive Today and Tomorrow Creating diverse and inclusive workplaces, as with all complex business issues, demands a long-term view. We collaborate with leaders within our networks and across industries to accelerate efforts and more quickly achieve equitable workplaces everywhere. I am so grateful to Omnicom for dedicating itself Partnering For Change to the inclusion revolution and giving #valuable the We joined one such effort in early 2019, partnering with a consortium of leading multinational companies (Accenture, Deutsche Bank, EY, wings it deserved. This is a zeitgeist moment for Mastercard, Microsoft and Salesforce) in collaboration with the World Economic Forum, to launch the Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality. inclusion, and Omnicom spotted it, supported us Announced at Davos in early 2019, the ambitious initiative aims to and will now be ahead of the curve. Many of its help accelerate LGBTQ+ workplace inclusion globally by encouraging businesses around the world to implement the United Nation’s agencies were instrumental in the launch of the LGBTQ+ Standards of Conduct. The partnership is closely aligned with Omnicom’s commitment to foster diverse and inclusive Valuable 500, proving my point that our greatest workplaces. We believe we can pave the way toward LGBTQ+ allies for change are creative minds and brands. acceptance by changing hearts and minds through thoughtful and inclusive marketing and advertising. Caroline Casey Also at Davos, we were proud to assist with the launch Founder, The Valuable 500 of The Valuable 500, which encourages Fortune 500 companies to add disability inclusion to their leadership agendas. This is the first time that Davos has included disability on its main stage, featuring a distinguished panel of business leaders making the case for disability inclusion. With one in seven people living with some form of disability, the Valuable 500 aims to mobilize commitments from 500 corporate leaders to unlock the value of these 1.3 billion people around the world. In addition to being a signatory, Omnicom is a strategic partner of the Valuable 500, along with nine of our agencies (RAPP, AMVBBDO, Interbrand, Ketchum, Manning Gottlieb, Porter Novelli, One Hundred, Changing Our World, Inc., Fuse), who have provided creative and public relations support for the movement. PEOPLE | 2019CR 10 Raising Our Game Through Collaboration Omnicom has supported, Omnicom continues to collaborate with numerous industry and community organizations to elevate created and expanded diversity and inclusion conversations, and actions, in our workplaces and across the industry. These include: numerous Mosaic Center Ad Council: We serve on the board of GLAAD: As a platinum partner for the programs designed to Ad Council, the leading producer of public 2019 Annual GLAAD media awards, foster an industry culture service advertisements in the United States, we have supported GLAAD’s work tackling raising awareness and inspiring action tough issues to shape the narrative of LGBTQ+ that attracts and sustains on a variety of issues, including LGBTQ+ acceptance since 2011. acceptance, diversity and inclusion, sexual high potential multicultural harassment and empowering girls. Unstereotype Alliance: We are a founding member of the Unstereotype Alliance, students pursuing Makers: As a 2018-2019 Makers partner, a consortium of global advertisers, digital we are helping accelerate the women’s media partners, associations and industry an advertising career. movement by shining a light on gamechampions who have committed to a global It has also been an ardent changing women within organizations, and universal agenda to eradicate harmful sharing diversity and inclusion best practices, gender stereotypes in advertising. supporter of AAF’s thought and promoting the visionary work companies are doing to create internal change. AAF Mosaic Center for Multiculturalism: leadership initiatives to Omnicom is the AFF Most Promising Multicultural Students Program’s premiere advance the industry’s sponsor and is sponsor/producer of its understanding of the power Most Promising University, where we host 50 young people each year in a daylong of images and messages immersive advertising and media curriculum. and its responsibility ADCOLOR: Since 2007, we have celebrated diverse professionals through the ADCOLOR to use its influence awards program and conference and ADCOLOR to improve society. FUTURES, which nurtures the next generation of industry leaders through complementary Constance Cannon Fazier admission to the ADCOLOR conference, Chief Operating Officer career training through ADCOLOR American Advertising Federation University and mentorship. PEOPLE | 2019CR 11 Fostering a Culture of Diversity & Inclusion NEXT GEN LEADERSHIP A culture of equality fosters trust, innovation, creativity and, ultimately, business success. We nurture a sense of connection through investments in our Omnicom People Engagement Omniwomen France is nurturing a new generation Network (OPEN) and its vibrant employee resource groups, Omniwomen and OPEN Pride. of bold leaders. Declaring the mold is broken, the chapter’s younger members – and future Omniwomen + ALLIES leaders – published their vision of leadership for the 21st century. The hugely popular volume Since launching globally in 2014 and establishing In addition to an expanding reach, is being translated from French into English for its UK flagship chapter in 2015, Omniwomen the Omniwomen experience is becoming distribution to all Omniwomen chapters. has catalyzed the number and influence of increasingly rich. Around the world, members women leaders across our networks and are deepening their skills and networks at: agencies. We continue to increase the number of women in leadership positions across our • Summits, annual symposia focused OMNIWOMEN + ALLIES Omnicom network, and our business is stronger on inspiring and activating women in leadership, including Omniwomen Recognizing that support from our male colleagues due to their growing numbers and contributions. UK + Allies fifth annual leadership is an important asset to promote women’s leadership, Omniwomen chapters launched in New York gathering, which welcomed more Omniwomen chapters in Canada, Germany and the and Mexico in 2018, and we anticipate than 300 women and men to a day of UK, evolved their strategies in 2018 inviting men to workshops, discussions and reflection continued growth in 2019, with interest share leadership stories, participate in panels and along with talks from inspirational and in another half-dozen global centers in contribute as mentors and allies. diverse speakers countries such as Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil and Singapore. In the U.S., • Workshops, such as Chicago’s our first 2019 chapter opened in Dallas on International Women’s Day. These recent “Activate a Better You” and Canada’s “Being Brave” sessions, to help women DIVERSE TALENT additions brought the total to 15 Omniwomen develop capabilities and confidence Our agencies are partnering with nonprofit chapters across the globe. • Mentorship, through events like 2018’s organizations in their communities to prepare match-up in Germany, where mentors and hire diverse talent: and mentees from agencies across the country were partnered by way of speed GSD&M collaborates closely with Huston Tillotson mentoring events University, a historically black university, to sponsor networking opportunities at a national advertising • Giving back, by way of contributions competition and to help students prepare for the to global and local initiatives, such as workforce through mock interviews. donations from Omniwomen France to La Cravate Solidaire, a charity that OMD participates in “Creative Spirit,” an initiative distributes gently used professional that helps agencies hire and retain individuals with apparel to unemployed women to fight intellectual, developmental and learning disabilities. against appearance discrimination OMD made their first Creative Spirit hire in 2018. during job interviews PEOPLE | 2019CR 12 OPEN Pride Omnicom’s diversity and inclusion efforts Across the pond, OPEN Pride UK is having a are strengthened through our engagement celebration of its own after being shortlisted of and advocacy for our LBGTQ+ employees by the British LGBT Awards as one of the UK’s and allies. We embrace our colleagues through top 10 Employee Resource Groups. It’s a proud OPEN Pride, which provides opportunities for accomplishment for the chapter, receiving leadership, visibility, community involvement, the recognition only two years after its launch. networking and business growth. A look at the incredible activities it activated in 2018 shows why: With 2018 chapter launches in Australia (Sydney and Melbourne) and the United States (St. Louis • Keep the Noise Up, a documentary and Chicago), OPEN Pride continues to expand produced by the Proximity OPEN Pride its global representation – already in India, China, team and featuring Black Pride’s Phyll The Philippines, UK and Canada, along with NYC Opoku-Gyimah won Best in Show at a gala International Women’s Day in the U.S. and our newest chapter, in Germany screening. #keepthenoiseup was shared (Berlin), which opened early in 2019. well beyond the community, reaching more International Women’s Day’s 2018 than 1.7 million people through 100,000theme #PressforProgress rallied OPEN Pride achieved two significant plus views. Omnicom people around the world to milestones in 2018. First, Omnicom was fight for gender equality, with keynotes, selected as Platinum sponsor for 2019 • OPEN Pride UK named, branded and panel discussions, networking events and WorldPride, which is being celebrated in New launched Openly, the first global LGBTQ+ project launches. We highlight a few here: York City in June 2019. In-kind campaigns news platform, through a pro bono from Omnicom agencies, including Interbrand, partnership with the Thomson Reuters Global branding firm Siegel+Gale RAPP Worldwide, Ketchum, FleishmanHillard, Foundation. It then teamed up with Free leveraged their network of leading Porter Novelli and RXMosaic, will assist NYC & Equal United Nations for LGBTQ+ Equality female executives from across Pride in its branding and marketing efforts. for September launch events in New York industries in New York, Los Angeles and London. and San Francisco to discuss how women can #PressforProgress in the OPEN Pride UK has grown from 10 to more corporate workplace. Attracting more than 100 registered members, and employees than 180 marketing leaders representing from 44 Omnicom UK companies have international brands, their inspiring threeparticipated in an OPEN Pride UK event. day program earned them recognition among International Women’s Day 2018 Best Practice Winners. PEOPLE | 2019CR 13 On this day, BBDO Singapore launched Our idea – hatched We can’t afford to limit Heels of Steel, a diversity project that by several female ourselves to just 50% expanded across Southeast Asian leaders within of the available talent markets in 2018. First launched in 2017 in Malaysia, the series hosts influential Omnicom – was pool. By placing our female leaders from all walks of life simple: create women in positions to give talks to employees about their a forum to help of leadership, we send personal paths to success. Its aim is other women advance a clear message that we to accelerate the progress of women in the workplace and inspire both to leadership positions. value, support and promote female and male employees. Women account for 85% of the top talent, irrespective of gender. public relations industry, yet men This message inspires young talent TBWA launched Circle of Women, which aims to create a pipeline to make up 80% of the executive coming through. And it demonstrates grow female leadership in the agency. management. I’m proud of the to our clients, many of whom have The initiative offers group training and work I’ve been able to do to help women in positions of leadership speakers as well as executive coaching increase gender diversity and themselves, that we are working for women on the cusp of leadership. Recently TBWA invited clients to join more broadly attract diverse hard to ensure we have diverse the program to attract, coach and talent into the companies. and balanced thinking across our advance top talent on both sides agencies. of the industry. Karen van Bergen CEO, Omnicom Public Relations Group, Kimberly Wells Cincinnati-based Barefoot Proximity Founding Member and CEO, TBWA\Melbourne marked the day by encouraging Board Member, Omniwomen and TBWA\Adelaide female employees to shout out their talents and accomplishments in self-produced “Brag Booth” video clips. In addition to women delivering When we believe in something, we must fight for it. We all love to fight for their own promos, male colleagues a brilliant idea. We must also fight for our values. That’s why I proposed shared videos celebrating the ideas launching Omniwomen in France. For three years now, it’s been and contributions of their female peers. supported by more and more women, and by men. Valerie Accary President, BBDO Paris & CLM BBDO PEOPLE | 2019CR 14 Developing Our People OMNICOM UNIVERSITY Omnicom’s culture is distinguished by a long-standing belief in the power of learning and development. We offer the industry’s richest opportunities for individual growth through Omnicom TESTIMONIALS University and through our network programs, including Catalyst at DDB, BBDO University, Omnicom University has a profound impact Tiger Academy at TBWA, Ketchum University, OMD Foundations, and more — all contributing on participants. Here is how a few described to enhancing employees’ professional breadth and our success in retaining top talent. their experience: I loved the way the program is Leadership Development structured like a cumulative, growing For 25 years, Omnicom University has led Across our networks and agencies, unconscious tsunami of knowledge. the way, providing advanced education for bias training has been another area of recent Luis Miguel Messianu, current and future leaders using real world focus. Recognizing that we all carry some CEO, Creative Chairman, Alma, Miami case studies developed from the wealth level of unconscious bias, Omnicom Media and breadth of experiences at Omnicom Group India partnered with Facebook to help agencies. To date, more than 5,000 students employees in Mumbai and Delhi understand It is the single best thing about have completed programs at Omnicom common biases and how to manage them. Omnicom. I loved the recognition of the University, including: Among others, BBDO Atlanta also provides professional and personal challenges unconscious bias training for its employees, we face day-to-day. It was hard work, • Senior Management Undergraduate as does Proximity London’s Diversity and but I feel refreshed! and Graduate Programs, providing Inclusion Steering Committee, for its managers. senior executives with leading-edge Mike Cooper, management thinking on management OMG-Group CEO, APAC and EMEA, London and change leadership in a highly competitive and fast-changing Good to be reminded that what I do global marketplace matters. I love the balance between • Advanced Management Program, brilliant professors, cases and three-day immersive sessions for future colleagues. leaders tackling industry-challenging issues and trends through the Omnicom Sharon Love, University’s unique case-study approach CEO, TPN, New York • Agency Leadership Program, delivering a personalized experience to new leaders to up their decision-making effectiveness and leadership acumen through an agency simulation program PEOPLE | 2019CR 15 Health and Well-Being MEDIA ARTS LAB Omnicom continues to offer comprehensive and quality health care benefits to U.S. employees while ANTI-BIAS TRAINING maintaining a reasonable degree of individual choice to meet our employees’ diverse needs. Since 2016, Omnicom has covered transgender related services under the medical plans that cover almost Media Arts Lab (MAL) Train-the-Trainer all employees and their eligible family members. is a five-day immersive course available to Omnicom agencies that facilitates agencyled unconscious bias learning. The specially Mental Health Education and Wellbeing: Omnicom Health Group Stepping It Up: designed programming includes topics such Mental health is increasingly being recognized Launched in October 2018, Omnicom as active listening, common workplace biases, as a workplace issue. We know that supporting Health Group’s OHGfit challenged agencies and effective examples of diversity in industry employee mental health is as important as across its global network to compete to get ads. MAL piloted Train-the-Trainer with supporting their physical health. Creating a the most steps and win the opportunity GMR Marketing, which has since held 18, non-judgmental culture where employees are to choose a charity to receive a donation. four-hour intensive learning labs that comfortable talking about mental illness is a As the preeminent healthcare communications received 59% employee enrollment. first step. RAPP UK offers coaching sessions network in the industry, OHG partnered with a for staff to increase their confidence in talking client, Fitbit, to encourage its talent to literally about mental health with colleagues. adam&eve walk the talk and embrace the importance DDB deploys 25 volunteer mental health first of healthy activity and wellness through this aiders trained to recognize mental health program. In one month, 1,100 OHG employees concerns, offer initial support and inform about across 15 agency networks walked 212 million the options available for professional help. steps. Within three months, OHG exceeded its goal of 30% employee engagement. Three winning agencies – Snow Companies, Link9 and Harrison & Star – donated a total of $30,000 in prize money to deserving charities. PEOPLE | 2019CR 16 Emphasizing Supplier Diversity Across Omnicom networks and agencies, we are committed to bringing the most creative and technically savvy contractors to our client work. We continue to advance our efforts through conversations, connections and tools to ensure our creative and production directors can draw from Over a 10-year contract a diverse supplier base when assembling project teams. with the U.S. Air Force, We recognize we need to move beyond simply meeting targets to ensuring that we’re tapping into the wealth of underutilized diverse talent around the GSD&M achieved world. In 2018, we expanded our efforts in two areas to help that process. nearly triple the 23% 64% TBWA launched One Sandbox, a curated, web-based directory mandated. of 250-plus women-owned, multicultural and LGBTQ+ suppliers. D I VE R SE SU P P L I E R At year-end, One Sandbox was in beta test across 10 TBWA agencies. SP E N D The member-based search platform was rolled out across additional Omnicom agencies in Spring 2019, where we hope it will catalyze diverse supplier hiring. TBWA agencies spent more than $160 million with more than 300 diverse companies in the past five years. GSD&M completed the rollout of its vendor partner mini-training capsules. Sent using EYEMAIL, a new pop-up electronic mail technology, the 60-second, executive-led videos covered topics describing the importance of vendor diversity and the ins and outs GSD&M was awarded of small-business contracting.GSD&M exceeded its agency-wide diversity goals, achieving more than 12% spend on minority-owned a subsequent and women-owned vendors in 2018. 10-year contract. PEOPLE | 2019CR 17 COMMUNITY Omnicom’s commitment to serving our communities is long-standing. We contribute our passion, creativity and time to support causes that advance global education, equity and environmental protection—all of which are more important than ever. 18 Contributing to the Global Good Advertising is a persuasive force that can some of the world’s most marginalized change individual minds to create good for many. youth and address issues that are denying Omnicom and our agencies generously support them access to school, such as child labor, communities and clients by investing in: child marriage and discrimination against girls. The centerpiece of the campaign was • Industry-wide initiatives an animated film #WriteTheWrong, which to drive global change depicts a global education crisis that has left • Agency-driven pro bono hundreds of millions of children out of school. and volunteer programs It was created pro bono by Omnicom and our agencies, Ketchum PR, OMD and BBDO. • Client campaigns that address #WriteTheWrong launched ahead of the United poverty, human rights and other SPOTLIGHT ON OUR AGENCIES: Nations General Assembly in New York in social equity issues September 2018 and was featured at high-level THE UN SDGs As a founding member of Common Ground, UN meetings and on billboards throughout The efforts of our agencies in communities an unprecedented commitment by the Times Square. around the world support the Sustainable marketing and communications industry Development Goals. We also continued our pro bono strategic to put aside their usual rivalry to support communications and media support with Girl Marina Maher the United Nations Sustainable Development Effect, a nonprofit that creates youth brands Communications with Goals, we are the pro bono global marketing and mobile platforms to empower girls to RXMOSAIC sponsored the and communications partner for Theirworld primary school education change their lives. and Girl Effect. Through these initiatives, of 14 girls through She’s we work to ensure inclusive and quality the First, a nonprofit that education for children around the world, supports girls who will be the first in their contributing to SDG 4. families to graduate high school. The 40-strong volunteer team has raised $30,000 over seven In a significant achievement, Theirworld, years through a variety of events including a charity dedicated to putting education #CheeseTheFirst, celebrating the International Day of the Girl with cheese and wine from local at the top of the global agenda, succeeded women-run wineries and female cheesemakers, in getting the backing of the United Nations, and a Day of the Girl event featuring World Bank and G20 nations for its bold conversations between actress and advocate education funding plan to put 260 million Monique Coleman and She’s the First scholar children in school. The $10 billion plan, Ellie Kaaya. the single biggest investment in education in history, will establish the International Finance Facility for Education to target COMMUNITY | 2019CR 19 Entrée Health Princeton with partner Link9 provided pro bono work for the ZanaArica Foundation launch on International Woman’s Day 2019. Zana Africa supports adolescent girls in Kenya with sanitary pads and health education, both scarce in their communities. The creative team developed a campaign for use on billboards throughout the United States, including eight billboards in Times Square on launch day, with a companion Instagram and Facebook ad campaign that ran for the week surrounding it. Rabin Martin employees serve on the Young Professionals Board of Amref Health Africa, the largest Africa-based healthcare nonprofit, and raise funds for the ongoing work to stop the practice of female genital mutilation and child marriage. For 50 years, Amref Health Africa has helped improve the health of thousands of people across 35 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, partnering with local communities and the private sector to scale their programs and realize sustainable change. OMG MENA volunteer teams supported rural villages in India and The Philippines, building water filtration towers to provide access to clean running water. The teams also educated children on basic hygiene, volunteered at community projects and provided the communities with school and hygiene supplies. RAPP volunteers fundraise on an almost monthly basis to support Shelter, a nonprofit that aims to end homelessness and housing inequality in the UK through donation drives for clothing, hygiene items and food for local shelters, as well as initiatives to ensure neighborhood caterers and restaurants divert their food waste to good causes. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 20 Engaging with Communities and Volunteering Agencies across Omnicom have a long history of contributing to their communities through volunteer and pro bono client work, with many agencies providing employees with paid time off to contribute to volunteer activities. We highlight a few recent efforts. • Through Call in Time, 16 volunteers from OMG Age UK With 10 people on bikes, two filming and many, many more are matched with elderly people for weekly 20-minute supporting the effort, the team raised almost $90,000 for calls. The national telephone befriending service was cancer research. designed by Age UK to tackle loneliness in older people. • Recognizing that access to medical equipment provides life• About 90 BBDO Russia employees volunteer with Our Children, changing positive effects around the world, particularly in areas a charity foundation that aims to prevent social orphanhood with limited resources such as Northern Ghana, Chameleon by helping children who lack parental care successfully integrate committed to raising funds for the Afrikids Medical Centre via into society. Volunteers give lessons, organize educational a series of activities to provide a much-needed upgrade to the and sporting activities in orphanages, and participate in Centre’s hematology laboratory. fundraising actions. • Ramadan Sharing Fridges, an initiative of the Emirates Red • The Clemenger Group companies teamed up to participate Crescent and Islamic Affairs & Charitable Activities Department, in Tour de Cure, a three-day ride through Tasmania to raise gives back to the community by providing access to nourishment money for Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute in Australia. for people who may struggle otherwise. Starting on the first day of Ramadan, 100 refrigerators are distributed across Dubai. The BBDO group, including IMPACT BBDO, IMPACT Porter Novelli and IMPACT Proximity, participated in 2018, collecting nonperishable food items each week and stocking the refrigerators around the city. • For women who have been displaced from their homes and estranged from their families, the holidays can be a particularly challenging time. The Shoebox Project collects and distributes gift-filled shoeboxes to women impacted by homelessness. In 2018, CDM Montreal created specially designed wrapping paper for the more than 100 shoeboxes it assembled. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 21 Title Bold Title Improving LivesLight Through Client Work PRESCRIBED TO DEATH THE PARALYMPIC NETWORK Energy BBDO, BBDO; BBDO Toronto, BBDO Ketchum, Omnicom PRG The Canadian Paralympic Committee with The National Safety Council created BBDO Toronto created their own social Prescribed to Death, a memorial media broadcast network made entirely of 22,000 pills with carved faces of of fans. Live event feeds were opioid victims on them. Energy BBDO automatically posted to fans’ created Warn Me Labels to urge social streams resulting in an Americans to see the risk in their 11,000% increase in viewership own medicine cabinets, and and making the 2018 Paralympic Ketchum produced online video Games the most watched in stories. The campaign’s success Canadian history. earned an invitation to host the memorial at the White House. HEART HEALTHY THE COLOR OF CDM NY, DAS OUR CHARACTER Many lower-income Rodgers Townsend, DDB neighborhoods are “deserts” for Through music, poetry and heart-healthy food, which can put prose, performers at the Black residents at risk for heart-related Rep theatre, the largest Africanillnesses. Using Instagram, CDM NY American theatre company in the created an awareness campaign for the U.S., communicate the passion and American Heart Association, highlighting pain of being black. For the 42nd season, food access issues and educating residents Rodgers Townsend created a collection on ways to make healthier choices. of attention-grabbing posters that were as supercharged as the performances they promoted. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 22 PRETTY RE:SCAM The Integer Group, TBWA DDB NZ, DDB To stop the counting of selfie likes and start DDB NZ, working with Netsafe, devised building self-worth, the Integer Group the Re:Scam bot to combat scammers. partnered with Girls Inc. of Metro Denver Using AI, Re:Scam determines if email to publish Pretty. The picture book content is likely a scam and, if it redefines what pretty means, going is, engages the scammer in a beyond appearance to teach never-ending trail of questions. girls that being pretty strong, The campaign had 279 million pretty kind and pretty smart media impressions, are pretty important, too. sent 1 million emails to scammers, and wasted five years of scammers’ time. MCDOWELL’S SAVE THE DRIVEU APP CHILDREN DDB Mudra Group, DDB AND P&G Drinking and driving causes CORPORATE most fatal road accidents in BBDO Indonesia, BBDO India’s metro areas. McDowell’s No. 1 Soda commissioned DDB BBDO Indonesia, working with Mudra Group to create a campaign P&G and Save the Children, created urging friends to pledge against a campaign aimed at educating secondary drunk driving. McDowell partnered with school students against the danger of DriveU, a hire-a-driver app, to provide a domestic violence and underage marriage, solution that lets friends call for a driver. and encouraging them to embrace their full potential before embarking into domestic life. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 23 GRACIE AI MÉXXICO LIBRE DE CORRUPCION (MEXICO FREE OF CORRUPTION) BBDO Atlanta, BBDO Gracie is an artificially intelligent online TERAN, TBWA presence created by BBDO Atlanta for Working in support of Méxxico Libre Street Grace, a faith-based organization. de Corrupcion, TERAN’s campaign Gracie impersonates minors selling takes action through TV ads, radio sex with the aim of intercepting spots, in-theatre ads and digital predators. “She” warns and directs media to end the corruption predators to resources to find afflicting the country. The help, while also relaying their campaign reached more information to law enforcement. than 8 million people. THE MINING STAND UP SCREENSAVER TO CANCER Tracylocke Brasil OMD, OMG Tracylocke Brasil designed SU2C provides funding to top the Mining Screensaver, putting cancer researchers at more idle computers to work raising than 140 institutions. OMD funds for Change.org. Once continues to partner with SU2C, installed, computers are programmed leveraging relationships to feature to mine for cryptocurrencies during celebrity ambassadors and create downtime. Fees generated by processing awareness. Its work on SU2C’s telecasts transactions are automatically donated to resulted in more than 4 billion impressions Change.org to help fund social change programs. that will continue to drive cancer fundraising. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 24 BUILD THE BLOCK BUZZED DRIVING OMD, OMG OMD, OMG Build the Block is a New York City Ad Council partnered with OMD to address neighborhood police initiative aimed at the dangers of buzzed driving, focusing facilitating communication between on millennial males. OMD provided officers and residents. OMD produced creative insight and donated media a media campaign that continued on YouTube and Facebook to make into 2018 to publicize the program the campaign a viral success. through TV, radio and social One of the campaign videos media, bringing more than even made #7 on AdAge’s $2 million in added value. list of top viral videos. #MENTALDOWNLOAD DO SOMETHING PROXIMITY SPAIN, DAS DDB Health, DAS Women are disproportionately DDB Health created a poignant affected by mental load, commercial for Children’s Brain an invisible burden from Tumor Project to raise awareness being responsible for logistics of the fact that every day, seven and decision-making at home. children are lost due to brain tumors. P&G collaborated with Proximity Focused on a child in danger of Madrid to develop the #descargamental drowning and the inaction of bystanders, (#MentalDownload) project, creating it asks the question, “If a child was in awareness of the imbalance between men’s danger, you’d do something. Wouldn’t you?” and women’s responsibility for household tasks. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 25 COCHLEAR HEARING TEST OVARIAN CANCER AUSTRALIA CHE Proximity, BBDO GRACosway, BBDO Our hearing is as unique as our fingerprint. GRACosway works with Ovarian Cancer Cochlear’s Hearprint is an online Australia to raise awareness of ovarian application that calibrates online cancer, provide strategic counsel on video and music to the listener’s OCA’s engagement with government unique hearing ability, improving officials, and highlight the importance their audio experience. CHE of funding for ovarian cancer Proximity supported this research. In 2018, these efforts project through a visceral helped OCA secure $2.9 million and captivating launch film in federal government funding. and media campaign. DEADLY WHY GIVE? QUESTIONS The Integer Group, Porter Novelli TBWA Australia, BBDO The Integer Group, in support of Volunteers of America Colorado Porter Novelli worked with Branch, interviewed and photographed Clemenger BBDO and Hall & several men, women, families and Partners to create Deadly Questions, veterans receiving assistance from a campaign to help Victorians learn VOA Colorado. Through their emotive more about local Aboriginal cultures images and stories, the storytellers and Treaty. The campaign launch secured communicated a more personal look at widespread support, setting the agenda for the how generous donations benefit real people. historic first Treaty bill to pass State Parliament. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 26 GEL FOR SHAME DREAMS DDB Warsaw, DDB Harrison and Star, DAS Aiming to free women of their shame and The Dream Foundation serves terminally ill encourage them to get regular breast adults and their families by providing endexams, DDB Warsaw collaborated with of-life dreams. Harrison and Star built a Avon to get people talking about a custom iPad app enabling attendees at new “beauty” product. The new the Foundation’s charity event to swipe product was, in reality, just an through different “dreams” to find ordinary ultrasound gel. The a touching story and then donate magazine and social media to that dream in a secure and campaign reached more than seamless experience. 25 million. JOHNSONVILLE’S BLINK BIG TASTE GRILL TO SPEAK GMR Marketing, TBWA TBWA \ India, TBWA In 2018, the Johnsonville Big Taste For patients with brain and Grill raised nearly $100,000 for spine injuries, communication 28 charities and supplied 9,000 is a challenge. To help overcome meals to victims, first responders and their struggle to speak, TBWA\ India volunteers in communities hit by natural conceptualized a simple and accessible disasters. GMR staffed the traveling road solution: an eye language that everyone crew, recruited local volunteers, handled can learn free of charge. It was developed media and social media, and created for the Asha Ek Hope Foundation and the grill itself! Neurogen Brain & Spine Institute. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 27 LIGHT UP CHRISTMAS THE UNBALANCED SCALE OMD UK / OMG BBDO China, BBDO NSPCC, fighting to end child abuse, wanted BBDO China worked with the Shanghai Civil to show young people that they weren’t Affairs Bureau to create The Unbalanced alone when it came to racial bullying. Scale, a campaign to expand awareness OMD UK, with Sky Cinema, created of UN SDG 2: Zero Hunger. Attendees a campaign to engage potential of Shanghai’s Charity Carnival were donors by sponsoring Christmas invited to stand on a scale equating light displays across the UK. their body weight to a number of The campaign reached starving children. They were then 35 million people through asked to donate to UNICEF. multiple channels and raised more than £1,000,000. FROG DROPPER INEQUALITY DDB Puerto BALLS Rico, DDB Africa (Brazil), DDB After Hurricane Maria, Puerto Africa (Brazil) with its client, Ricans did not have safe water. espnW, highlighted women’s DDB Puerto Rico teamed up pay inequality in sports by putting with Clorox to devise a dropper – evidence of the salary gaps on inspired by the Coqui frog, Puerto game balls. It then sent the balls Rico’s national icon – that dispensed the to 50 influencers to help amplify. exact amount of bleach needed to make Developed with Netshoes and one liter of water safe. The dropper provided Change the Game, the campaign up to 4 million liters of safe water monthly. reached 15.3 million people and saw 7.5 million social media interactions. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 28 MY SPECIAL AFLAC DUCK BOWEL CANCER FOUNDATION Marina Maher Communications, DAS OVERVIEW TBWA\Auckland, TBWA MMC spearheaded a campaign to launch and For the first time in brand history, Aflac expanded the Torole build of itsawareness iconic Aflac of bowel cancer, deliver My Special Aflac Duck, a social robot Duck to help provide young cancer patients comfort and joy TBWA\Auckland when they need itworked with New most. We implemented a robust campaign to achieve four objectives: that uses interactive technology to help Zealand’s most popular soap opera, children cope with cancer. Aflac aims Shortland Street, to script a much1 Generate awareness and excitement surrounding the launch and to provide a My Special Aflac Duck loved character with a diagnosis delivery of My Special Aflac Duck and its role in supporting pediatric cancer patients and their families, while reaching broader consumers. to every child newly diagnosed of bowel cancer. New Zealanders 2 with cancer in the U.S., Position My Special Aflac Duck as a proof point of Aflac’s heritage were encouraged to talk about in pediatric cancer, underscoring Aflac’s CSR commitments. ages 3-13, free of charge and recognize symptoms early via participating hospitals. Connect Aflac’s CSR program with business success, measured on, increasing awareness to 3 by improvements in key business metrics, including sales and premium increases. help save lives. 4 Create partnerships with organizations like Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals® and Children’s Oncology Group, utilizing their relationships with celebrities to generate top-tier media, driving hospital participation. BIG BLIND WALK FROM 3 Porter Novelli, DAS “MISUNDERSTOOD” TO “MS, To drive vision and eye care higher up on the public health UNDERSTOOD” agenda, Porter Novelli followed FleishmanHillard, DAS Julian Jackson, who is blind, on his 1,000-mile fundraising walk. The FleishmanHillard created a pop-up café campaign made front-page news and that simulated multiple sclerosis (MS) received broadcast and gold-tier media symptoms, the most common neurological coverage promoting Julian’s cause, which disease among Irish young adults. More helped him raise £45,000 to support sight. than 2,000 unsuspecting patrons visited the café, the campaign reached more than 13 million and 12 parliamentary questions on improving access to MS treatment reached the floor in one month. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 29 MORE POWERFUL TOGETHER A MAN LIKE YOU FleishmanHillard, DAS GSD&M, TBWA FleishmanHillard partnered with the UN’s As a men’s grooming brand, Harry’s wanted to HeForShe movement to shut down half expand the traditional definition of masculinity. the lights in 20+ iconic buildings, The short film, “A Man Like You”, created by creating a visual metaphor of power GSD&M, challenged gender stereotypes lost without women. The campaign by shifting the conversation around resulted in 30,000 commitments what it means to be a man today. of support from male allies, a Harry’s earned two Cannes Lions 500% spike in web traffic, 560 for this work: Bronze in Film million media impressions and and Bronze in the Glass endorsements by governments Lion for Change. in several U.S. states. RONALD #THROUGHTHENIGHT MCDONALD TBWA\Singapore, HOUSE CHARITIES TBWA OMD, OMG In response to an increasing number of calls from youth to its OMD supports Ronald McDonald hotline, Samaritans of Singapore House Charities’ in Italy with annual (SOS) worked with TBWA\Singapore communication efforts to raise funds. on the #ThroughTheNight Instagram These include charity golf tournaments campaign during Suicide Prevention and go-kart races as well as the 50-year Awareness Week. The campaign invited Big Mac celebration and McHappy Days in Singaporeans to send messages of support, 2018, when some or all of the purchase price and musicians, artists and youth influencers of McDonald’s products were donated to RMHC. hosted live midnight-to-3 a.m.sessions on their social channels. COMMUNITY | 2019CR 30 ENVIRONMENT Omnicom recognizes our responsibility to reduce the impact of our activities across our networks and agencies. In 2018, we established an Omnicom Group Environmental Policy to guide our actions and energy goals to keep us accountable. Under this framework, we empower our global teams to take action to increase efficiency and reduce waste in ways that address environmental priorities in their local environments. 31 Our Approach We view sustainability as an opportunity to Efficiently Using Spaces promote innovation, increase efficiency and reduce waste. Omnicom’s environmental policy According to the U.S. Green Building outlines our commitment to minimize our impact Council, buildings account for nearly 40% by focusing on: of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. In 2018, we continued to implement • Efficient use of space our strategy to reduce our office space • Proactive energy management footprint and to transition our global agency portfolio to shared spaces. We opened new • Smart travel and commuting offices in New York and Chicago and had work underway in our new office in Dallas. 195 Broadway is a unique and progressive retrofitted • Waste minimization Our aim is to use the space we own and office space in a historic New York City building. It was Recognizing the importance of action lease more efficiently, to reduce costs and created to Omnicom standards, incorporating reused against climate change, we set goals environmental impacts, while also cultivating materials, maximizing an inherited social space, and a culture of collaboration and creativity using shared IT and service facilities. in 2018 to reduce the energy we use and increase our use of electricity from renewable across agencies. resources. In the table below, we report our We are also building and retrofitting to our SPOTLIGHT ON OUR AGENCIES: first year’s progress against these goals. global planning standard, which includes efficient lighting, heating and cooling, ENERGY Agencies around the world are helping us reach and reduced material use in ceilings and our 2023 energy goals by reducing energy use and flooring. Our new and retrofitted spaces 2023 Goal 2018 Progress increasing energy efficiency. We highlight just a few drive ongoing energy and waste savings of their efforts here: through shared conference centers and Reduce energy Approximately service areas, as well as state-of-the-art • BBDO Greece retrofitted its electrical equipment use by 20% per 14% reduction and switched to efficient lighting. video conferencing, printing centers and person globally per person virtual file storage. by 2023 using a globally per • CPM UK upgraded boilers and air conditioning 2015 baseline 2015 baseline to ensure compliance with the latest environmental legislation and to improve efficiencies at its Thames site. Increase use Approximately 12% of electricity increase in use • TBWA\Manchester installed motion-sensing from renewable of electricity from lighting at its new, more efficient premises. sources globally renewable sources • Eg+ Worldwide LLC set a goal for all finance to 15% by 2023 per 2015 baseline. and human resources operational data to be 100% electronic. Numbers provided are estimates based on available data. ENVIRONMENT | 2019CR 32 Reducing Our Energy Footprint In 2018, we continued to reduce our global energy footprint, using approximately 153,000 SPOTLIGHT ON OUR AGENCIES: megawatt hours (MWh) of energy, a reduction in excess of 10% compared to 2017. We also cut our electricity use by 8% in 2018. PLASTIC Single-use plastic is a significant environmental In addition, we reduced our company-wide greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 8% polluter. Agencies are cutting back and in 2018 compared to 2017; result of reductions achieved in business travel emissions and increasing recycling to reduce their impact: purchased electricity emissions. • DDB Health reduced bottled water consumption in the office by 50% in November 2018. They plan to Global Energy Footprint further decrease their bottled water (Units represented in thousands) consumption in 2019. 2018 2017 2016 • DDB Hamburg collects and recycles Total energy used (MWh) 153.0 175.9 188.3 high-density polyethylene (HDPE) and Total electricity used (MWh) 140.9 152.8 161.9 polypropylene (PP) plastic caps used in plastic bottles and milk containers. Total GHG emissions (Metric Tonnes of CO2e (MT CO2e)) 240.1 260.2 289.6 Employees contribute the caps collected to the “Deckel drauf e.V” organization, supporting its “End Polio Now” campaign. Global GHG Emissions (MTCO2e)* • OMG MENA staff saved approximately (Units represented in thousands) 21 tons of CO2 emissions by switching 2018 2017 2016 from bottled water to water-filtration dispensers in its Dubai headquarters. Scope 1 30.6 23.9 39.7 To help employees understand the link Scope 2 65.4 77.4 73.9 between plastic water bottles, carbon emissions and life-giving oxygen, the CSR Scope 3 144.1 158.8 176.0 team explained that more than 1,200 Ghaf tree seedlings would need to mature 10 Total GHG Emissions 240.1 260.2 289.6 years before the CO2 produced by a single year’s water bottle waste would be offset. As a start, OMG Mena planted more than Global Electricity from Renewable Sources (MWh) 650 seeds in 2018 and transplanted the (Units represented in thousands) seedlings in early 2019. 2018 2017 2016 Purchased (MWh) 14.9 15.6 16.4 % of Total 10.6 10.3 10.1 *2017 Scope 3 and total GHG emissions have been restated due to a slight increase in the final calculations related to air-travel that were accessed after the 2017 report was published. ENVIRONMENT | 2019CR 33 SPOTLIGHT ON As part of Omnicom’s strategy to reduce our carbon footprint, OUR AGENCIES: we derive a portion of our electricity needs from renewable sources. TRAVEL Our efforts in this area are spearheaded in the UK, where we control our electricity purchases and are buying green power through our One-on-one connections purchasing agreements. In the United States, approximately 90% of between our employees and clients are essential to our electricity spend is under the control of landlords in our leased spaces, our business success, and business leaving us with the opportunity to manage no more than 10% of our spend. travel is essential to this connectivity. In 2018, total electricity purchased from renewable resources increased We continue to upgrade video conferencing 12% from the 2015 baseline, increasing to 10.6% in 2018, and moving us capabilities and quality across our operations toward our new goal to increase our use of electricity from renewable sources and some of our agencies. This includes BBDO globally to 15% by 2023. Group Germany GmbH, which is revising its business travel policies to incorporate its CO2 impact. In addition, agencies around the world are introducing transit incentives to encourage PARTNERING WITH THE UK auto alternatives to their employees: GRID’S DEMAND SIDE RESPONSE • TBWA\Budapest encourages staff to use public transit in an effort to decrease taxi use and costs. With its site-wide uninterruptible power supplies and backup • Energy BBDO opened a bike room generating facilities, Omnicom’s London headquarters is the in 2018 to encourage employees to bike to work. This feature is highlighted perfect partner for the National Grid’s Demand Side Response in new employee onboarding. (DSR) program. DSR supports the country’s transmission • OMG Germany GmbH encourages employees to cycle to work by during times of high use, guaranteeing generation when offering a bike-leasing program. margins between supply and demand are tight. As a partner, • ICON International offers a shuttle to encourage employees to use public Omnicom is able to manipulate the amount of power it transportation. draws from the grid when UK demand is high. Offering • CPM France signed on to a new car-pooling start-up. The app offers flexibility to the country’s transmission system a commuting alternative by sharing a car with other employees from to support grid balancing also provides us with neighboring companies, as a driver or a passenger. an additional revenue stream. ENVIRONMENT | 2019CR 34 Client Title Bold WorkTitle for LightEnvironmental Impact GLOBAL CLIMATE DANCE OF THE STARS ACTION SUMMIT DDB Group Hong Kong FleishmanHillard, DAS Hong Kong is so light-polluted that some FleishmanHillard supported a coalition people have never seen the stars. Green of 12+ organizations to communicate Sense commissioned DDB Group Hong the negative impact of climate change Kong to bring the stars back. For one on oceans and seek out solutions night, dancers turned polluting during the Global Climate Action light displays in busy locations Summit. The impact was into starry night skies, grabbing immediate, generating more the attention of thousands of than 3,000 tweets related to the passers-by and generating ocean-climate conversation more than 3,500 social posts and local and global media in just 48 hours. placements. PARLEY FOR EARTH 2018 THE OCEANS CAMPAIGN TBWA\NEBOKO MAL \ FOR The latest adidas UltraBOOST GOOD, TBWA running shoe’s upper knit is To encourage Gen Z to vote made of Parley Ocean Plastic™, in the U.S. midterm election, a proprietary textile made Climate Reality engaged MAL \ from recycled plastic retrieved FOR GOOD to create an animated from coastal communities. TBWA\ penguin named Earth, a congressional NEBOKO partnered with Psyop and candidate running on an environmental Golden Wolf to create a stop-motion platform. The campaign saw nearly 2 million animation in which the upper knit is used as social media impressions, approximately 14,000 a canvas to tell the UltraBOOST Parley story. website visits and almost 1,000 voter registrations. ENVIRONMENT | 2019CR 35 GOVERNANCE Omnicom has demonstrated a commitment to further strengthening our governance structure and related company-wide policies. We have built a board of directors with exceptional experience and diverse points of view to ensure that we are upholding the highest ethical standards across our networks and agencies. 36 Diversity in Our Board Composition and Leadership Omnicom believes that workplace diversity creates value for the company, enhances the quality of work we create for clients and is a cornerstone of our positive corporate culture. We know that a workforce reflecting the demographics of our society is better poised to create effective campaigns for our clients that resonate with a diverse population. With our 6 Women global presence, we believe it is important that our workforce mirrors our global community. This commitment to diversity starts within the boardroom and encompasses diversity in 11 its broadest sense, including persons diverse in gender and ethnicity as well as diversity of viewpoints, ages, and professional and life experiences. Our board includes six women and four African Americans, including Leonard S. Coleman, Jr., our Lead Independent Director. 4 African American C U R R E NT M E M B E R S (2 Women of our B OAR D Strong Independent Oversight Board Refreshment & 2 Men) of D I R E CTOR S Our board, which is comprised of 10 independent The board has made tremendous directors out of 11, seeks to align our directors’ progress on its refreshment initiative, collective expertise with those skill areas most which has been underway since important to strong oversight of management. 2015. At our annual meeting in 2018, Accordingly, we periodically evaluate board our former chairman and two directors composition to help inform board succession stepped down from the board. From planning efforts, maintain close alignment March 2016 to February 2018, the board between board skills and our long-term strategy, appointed four new independent directors. and promote board effectiveness. Our Lead We have been focused on ensuring that Independent Director is elected annually and our board is representative of all of our provides valuable, consistent board leadership. constituencies – our clients, employees The board continually evaluates the scope and and shareholders – and that through nature of our Lead Independent Director role, regular evaluation of director skill sets, ensuring that the responsibilities are robust the optimal combination of expertise and, in fact, include those responsibilities is represented on the board. The result typically associated with a board chair. is a highly talented and diverse group In February 2019, the board most recently of directors with the skills, backgrounds enhanced the already robust responsibilities and experiences best suited to achieve assigned to this role to formally include the our strategic objectives. Through our recruitment, mentoring and development commitment, we have reduced our of directors, and also the authority to call average board tenure by approximately meetings of independent directors and oversee 33% since 2015. any conflicts of interests among directors. GOVERNANCE | 2019CR 37 Ethics and Integrity Omnicom’s success doesn’t just come from We are on track to complete the goals we our talent, our creativity or the work we do. established in 2018: We implemented global Our success also comes from the way we work and the way we interact with others – • Establish business ethics and/or antipolicies to ensure our with a solid commitment to integrity. bribery training for our full-time, regular employees worldwide. compliance with the EU’s Our Code of Business Conduct, which was significantly enhanced in 2018, underscores • Develop our Supplier Code of Conduct Global Data Protection by the end of 2020. our commitment to upholding the highest ethical standards. It spells out what we value, Regulation, which took what we believe and the policies that Omnicom Cybersecurity Training effect on May 25, 2018. expects us all to uphold. The Code applies to everyone who works on Omnicom’s behalf, We rely extensively on Information This included general including employees, both full and part-time, Technology systems at Omnicom and at every level, in every location around the all our agencies. Cybersecurity threats awareness training to world. It also includes everyone else who and attacks, which are becoming both more frequent and sophisticated, may pose our employees that have represents Omnicom, from contractors to our board of directors. a risk to our systems and networks. We have more exposure to personal systems and processes in place designed to protect against, detect, prevent, monitor, and identification information or respond to and mitigate cybersecurity incidents. Interactive cybersecurity training is offered in related high-risk situations. more than a dozen languages, every quarter. We augment our training with a quarterly newsletter that covers various security topics and a phishing simulation campaign, where we deliberately send out a phishing message to employees to track and learn from click through and report rates, while increasing awareness amongst our employee population. GOVERNANCE | 2019CR 38 Shareholder Engagement Human Rights Engaging with our shareholders remains one of our top priorities and At Omnicom, we recognize that we is a focus for the entire board. In 2018, we reached out to shareholders have the power to create positive change holding more than 60% of our outstanding shares and engaged with in society. While we are not a company shareholders representing more than 40% of outstanding shares. Broad that manufactures products, we seek to be topics discussed included company strategy and performance; board employers of choice and to provide a safe composition, refreshment and leadership; management succession; working environment. As a signatory to the executive compensation program; diversity and inclusion efforts across United Nation’s Global Compact, we are the organization; governance practices and sustainability initiatives. committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and eliminating discrimination In December 2018, the board amended our in respect of employment and occupation. by-laws to reduce the ownership threshold Our commitment to the highest ethical required for shareholders to call a special standards in the communities where we meeting from 25% to 10% in response to a do business is outlined in our Human shareholder proposal that received 50.3% Rights Policy. of the vote at our 2018 Annual Meeting. GOVERNANCE | 2019CR 39 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report provides a high-level overview of Omnicom’s corporate responsibility commitments, activities and progress in 2018. The report is organized to reflect our four focus areas: Community, People, Environment and Governance. We have included some of the top case studies from our diverse network of agencies to characterize our impact on social and environmental issues around the world. 40 Material Topics Identification Stakeholder Engagement In developing this report, we consulted various global reporting frameworks The content of this report was developed – including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and G4 Media through stakeholder interviews with Sector Disclosures, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Omnicom executives, subject matter experts Marketing and Advertising sector guidelines, the United Nations Global and Omnicom agency employees. We also Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals – and internal and held conversations with some of our largest external stakeholders to determine relevant material topics. shareholders and consulted CSR reporting frameworks. As part of our process, we We have identified our material topics as: interviewed NGO partners, clients and investors to solicit feedback on our 2017 • Diversity and inclusion corporate responsibility report, inform our future reporting strategy and further • Employee attraction, development and retention stakeholder inclusiveness in our corporate • Community engagement responsibility efforts. Feedback received from these external stakeholders centered • Environment around furthering our role in the community, leveraging partnerships for talent acquisition • Ethics and integrity and development, using our communications capabilities for the betterment of society and • Governance increasing our employees’ exposure to CSR. Scope The data in this report covers Omnicom’s global operations in FY2018 (from January 1 – December 31, 2018). Numbers throughout the report are estimates based on available data. Unless otherwise noted, data within the report reflects our United States operations. Our last report was published in 2017. We plan to continue publishing an annual comprehensive corporate responsibility report that references the GRI Standards and fulfills our commitment as a UNGC signatory to produce a Communication on Progress. ABOUT THIS REPORT | 2019CR 41 Omnicom UN Communication On Progress This report provides information on our corporate Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and space; energy efficiency; travel and commuting; responsibility strategy and performance for FY2018 procurement; and recycling and waste and covers the UNGC Communication on Progress Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination management. For more information on our requirements. in respect of employment and occupation. commitment to environmental sustainability, Omnicom’s directors, officers and employees are see the Environment section of this report. Human Rights required to comply with our Code of Business Conduct, which sets the foundation for how we Anti-Corruption Principle 1: Businesses should support should do business on a day-to-day basis. We and respect the protection of internationally are an equal opportunity employer and do not Principle 10: Businesses should work against proclaimed human rights; and discriminate against employees or job applicants corruption in all its forms, including extortion on the basis of race, religion, sex, national origin, and bribery. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity in human rights abuses. Omnicom operates in an increasingly complex and/or expression, pregnancy or any similar global environment, and our commitment to the Omnicom’s commitment to support and respect status or condition. For more information on highest ethical standards in the communities human rights is embodied in our Human Rights our commitment to fair labor, see the People where we do business is outlined in our Code of Policy and Code of Business Conduct. The Code section of this report. Business Conduct. Omnicom directors, officers of Business Conduct covers our commitment and employees are required to comply with all to comply with all laws of the places where we Environment applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, do business, our prohibition against insider including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, trading, our duty to advance our employer’s Principle 7: Businesses should support a the UK Bribery Act of 2010, and any other local legitimate interest and our commitment to precautionary approach to environmental anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws where equal opportunity. The Human Rights Policy challenges; we do business. For more information on our and Code of Business Conduct are available commitment to ethics and compliance, see the on our Corporate Governance website. For Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Governance section of this report. more information on our commitment to respecting human rights, see the Governance Principle 9: encourage the development and section of this report. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Omnicom is committed to promoting greater Labor environmental responsibility, and regularly Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the reports on environmental performance freedom of association and the effective throughout our operations. Omnicom’s recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Environmental Policy outlines our approach to minimize our impact by encouraging our Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced companies to consider their environmental and compulsory labor; footprint in terms of conscious design of office ABOUT THIS REPORT | 2019CR 42 GRI Standards Content Index DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Omnicom Group 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2018 10-K, Page 1 (Our Business) 102-3 Location of headquarters 437 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 102-4 Location of operations 2018 10-K, Page 8 (Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 10-K, Page 1 (Our Business), 7 (Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) 102-6 Markets served 2018 10-K, Page 1 (Our Business), 2 (Our Clients), 8 (Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) 102-7 Scale of the organization 2018 CR Report, Page 4 (About Omnicom Group) 2018 10-K, Page 2 (Our Employees), 6 (Item 2: Properties), 7 (Item 6: Selected Financial Data) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2018 CR Report, Page 4 (About Omnicom Group), 9 (Measuring Our Progress) 102-9 Supply chain 2018 CR Report, Page 17 (Emphasizing Supplier Diversity) We work with thousands of suppliers, with many buying decisions made at the individual agency level in the context of the production of client products and campaigns and general business operations. We are currently developing a Supplier Code of Conduct that will set clear standards for our suppliers at both the agency and holding company level. GRI INDEX | 2019CR 43 Title Bold TitleGRI DISCLOSURE Light STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and 2018 10-K, Page 11 (Acquisitions and Goodwill) its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Omnicom Environmental Policy 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 21 (Risk Oversight) 102-12 External initiatives CEO Action, Common Ground, Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality, The Valuable 500, UN Global Compact, UN Unstereotype Alliance 102-13 Membership of associations 4A’s Advertiser Protection Bureau, 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program, AAF Mosaic Center for Multiculturalism, Ad Council, ADCOLOR, Advertising Research Fund, Girl Effect, GLAAD, Makers, Trustworthy Accountability Group, Theirworld, Time’s Up 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2018 CR Report, Page 3 (Letter from Our CEO) 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2018 10-K, Page 3 (Item 1A: Risk Factors) 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Omnicom Code of Business Conduct behavior 2018 CR Report, Page 38 (Ethics and Integrity) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Omnicom Code of Business Conduct ethics Internal Control Line GRI INDEX | 2019CR 44 Title Bold TitleGRI DISCLOSURE Light STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ 102-18 Governance structure The Company’s Governance Committee works with management to adopt and make recommendations to the Company’s Code of Business Conduct, which includes economic, environmental and social topics. See also: 2018 CR Report, Page 37 (Diversity in Our Board Composition and Leadership) 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 25-29 (Board Leadership Structure) 102-19 Delegating authority 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 22 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Omnicom’s leadership team oversees economic, environmental, social and environmental, and social topics governance initiatives. The leadership team includes our Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary, Chief Diversity Officer, Dean of Omnicom University and Chief Communications Officer. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 2018 CR Report, Page 41 (Stakeholder Engagement) environmental, and social topics 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 7 (Shareholder Engagement) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 2018 CR Report, Page 37 (Diversity in Our Board Composition and Leadership) and its committees 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 14-19 (2019 Director Nominees) 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 25-26 (Board Leadership Structure) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 20 (Shareholder Nomination Process), 21 (Majority governance body Voting Standard for Election of Directors) 102-25 Conflicts of interest 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 30-31 (Ethical Business Conduct) 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 21-22 (Board’s Role and Responsbilities) purpose, values, and strategy Governance Committee Charter GRI INDEX | 2019CR 45 Title Bold TitleGRI DISCLOSURE Light STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance Senior management (see Disclosure 102-20) presents to the Board of Directors on body economic, environmental, social and governance topics. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 12-13 (Qualifications of the Members of the Board) performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 21-22 (Board’s Role and Responsbilities) environmental, and social impacts Governance Committee Charter 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 21-22 (Board’s Role and Responsbilities) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 28 (Board Operations and Committee Structure) social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Reviewed by Chief Financial Officer. sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 25 (Shareholder Communications with Board Members) 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 2019 Proxy Statement, Pages 5-9 (Meeting Agenda and Voting Recommendations) 102-35 Remuneration policies 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 8 (Executive Compensation Highlights), 32 (Director’s Compensation for Fiscal Year 2018), 37-65 (Executive Compensation) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 44 (Compensation Discussion & Analysis), 56 (Role of the Independent Compensation Consultant) 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 34 (Item 2: Advisory Resolution to Approve Executive Compensation) 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 66 (Pay Ratio Disclosure) GRI INDEX | 2019CR 46 Title Bold TitleGRI DISCLOSURE Light STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2018 CR Report, Page 41 (Stakeholder Engagement) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 0% of Omnicom employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2018 CR Report, Page 41 (Stakeholder Engagement) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2018 CR Report, Page 41 (Stakeholder Engagement) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2018 CR Report, Page 41 (Stakeholder Engagement) 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 2018 10-K, Exhibit 21 (Subsidiaries of the Registrant) statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2018 CR Report, Page 4 (About This Report) 102-47 List of material topics 2018 CR Report, Page 41 (Material Topics Identification) 102-48 Restatements of information No material restatements. 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Katie.Beaule@omnicomgroup.com report GRI INDEX | 2019CR 47 Title Bold TitleGRI DISCLOSURE Light STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report references disclosures from the GRI Standards 2018 and the GRI G4 GRI Standards Media Sector Disclosures, as detailed in this index. 102-55 GRI content index 2018 CR Report, Page 43 (2018 GRI Context Index) 102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 2018 CR Report, Page 8 (Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion), Boundary 15 (Developing Our People), 17 (Emphasizing Supplier Diversity), 19 (Contributing to the Global Good), 21 (Engaging with Communities and Volunteering), 32 (Our Approach), 36-39 (Governance) 103-2 The management approach and its See Disclosure 103-1 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See Disclosure 103-1 Topic-specific Disclosures: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 2018 10-K, Page 7 (Item 6: Selected Financial Data), F3-F7 distributed (Consolidated Balance Sheets) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 2018 10-K, Page 6 (Item 1A: Risk Factors) opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 2018 10-K, Page F26-F28 (Defined Benefit Pension Plans) retirement plans 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from Partially reported: The majority of our senior management at the Omnicom holding the local community company level are hired from the countries they work in. 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 2018 CR Report, Page 21 (Engaging with Communities and Volunteering) supported GRI INDEX | 2019CR 48 Title Bold TitleGRI DISCLOSURE Light STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2018 CR Report, Page 21 (Engaging with Communities and Volunteering), 22-30 (Improving Lives Through Client Work) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Most of Omnicom’s buying decisions are made at the agency level in the context of the production of client products and campaigns. 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 2018 CR Report, Page 42 corruption (Omnicom UN Communication on Progress: Anti-Corruption) 2018 10-K, Page 5 (Item 1A: Risk Factors) 205-2 Communication and training about anti2018 CR Report, Page 38 (Ethics and Integrity) corruption policies and procedures Omnicom Code of Business Conduct Topic-specific Disclosures: Economic 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2018 CR Report, Page 33 (Reducing Our Energy Footprint) 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 2018 CR Report, Page 33 (Reducing Our Energy Footprint) organization 302-3 Energy intensity 2018 CR Report, Page 32 (Our Approach) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2018 CR Report, Page 33 (Reducing Our Energy Footprint) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2018 CR Report, Page 33 (Reducing Our Energy Footprint) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2018 CR Report, Page 33 (Reducing Our Energy Footprint) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2018 CR Report, Page 33 (Reducing Our Energy Footprint) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2018 Climate Change CDP Response 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2018 CR Report, Page X (Reducing Our Energy Footprint) GRI INDEX | 2019CR 49 Title Bold TitleGRI DISCLOSURE Light STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ Topic-specific Disclosures: Social 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that The percentage of part-time employees at the Omnicom holding company level is are not provided to temporary or part-time insignificant. Omnicom doesn’t track this information at the agency level. employees 401-3 Parental leave Eligible full-time U.S. employees receive paid maternity leave depending on their tenure and the period of disability related to the pregnancy. Employees can supplement that time with paid time off (e.g. personal days, sick leave), as well as paid leave in accordance with the laws of various states and cities. 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Partially reported: 2018 CR Report, Page 15 (Leadership Development) employee Omnicom offers employees training related to cybersecurity, sexual harrassment, and ethics and integriy. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 2018 CR Report, Page 15 (Leadership Development) transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Employee performance and career development reviews are conducted at the performance and career development agency level. reviews 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 2018 CR Report, Page 9 (Measuring Our Progress), 37 (Diversity in Our Board employees Composition and Leadership) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Partially reported: 2018 CR Report, Page 39 (Gender Pay Gap) women to men 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies 2018 CR Report, Page 38 (Ethics and Integrity) or procedures Human Rights Policy Omnicom Code of Business Conduct GRI INDEX | 2019CR 50 Title Bold TitleGRI DISCLOSURE Light STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE ▼ ▼ ▼ 413-1 Operations with local community 2018 CR Report, Page 21 (Engaging with Communities and Volunteering) engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 415-1 Political contributions N/A Topic-specific Disclosures: Media G4-DMA Portrayal of Human Rights Various Omnicom agencies are doing positive work in this area. See: 2018 CR Report, Pages 19-20 (Contributing to the Global Good), 22-30 (Improving Lives Through Client Work) G4-DMA Cultural Rights Various Omnicom agencies are doing positive work in this area. See: 2018 CR Report, Pages 22-30 (Improving Lives Through Client Work) M7 Media Literacy Omnicom at the holding company level contributes to partners who empower audiences and society to develop skills. See: 2018 CR Report, Page 19 (Contributing to the Global Good) GRI INDEX | 2019CR 51 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT If you have questions or comments regarding this report, please email Katie.Beaule@omnicomgroup.com Read more at csr.omnicomgroup.com
