CSR Code Nowy Styl Group Sustainable Development Report 2016–2017 CSR Code Nowy Styl Group Sustainable Development Report 2016–2017 Table of contents Management letter 3 Together we make up a team 41 Employment 44 Summary of our promises 4 Remuneration 50 Good place for personal development 51 Who are we and what are we going to achieve? 7 Safety culture 54 Our market position 8 Employee benefits 57 Business strategy and development 8 Sports Club 58 Financial results 9 Employer branding 59 The Group’s structure 10 Range of activities 12 We respect the environment 63 Investments 13 Environmental influences in production processes 66 Materials 67 We act responsibly 15 Water 69 Ethics in our organisational culture 17 Effluents 70 Business responsibility 19 Energy 71 Awarded for CSR 20 Emissions 73 Dialogue with stakeholders 21 Waste 75 We create offices that serve people and companies 25 We build a sustainable supply chain 77 Comprehensive product portfolio 27 Supplier of the Year 80 We KNOW HOW to #MakeYourSpace 27 Purchasing policy 80 Optimally designed office – our inspiration 28 Common growth 81 Influence of global trends on the work environment 29 Health, quality and safety of products 32 We give an impulse to local development 83 Certificates and seals of approval 32 Ergonomics 34 About the report 93 Acoustics 36 Sustainable products and services 37 New solutions – which direction are we facing? 37 Good services 38 Design 39 Dear readers, associates, friends, customers and business partners GRI GRI In May 2017, 25 years had passed since Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. was established in the Sub102-14 102-11 Carpathian region. Within just a quarter of a century, we have managed to evolve from a small company that assembled chairs into a European leader in the furniture industry. Today, we are an international organisation which, thanks to foreign acquisitions, has enriched the Polish heritage with the competence, experience and stories of the employees and partners from Rohde & Grahl, Sitag and Grammer Office. The anniversary gave us the impetus to reflect on what creates our company’s organisational culture. We defined the values it relies on, such as honesty, tolerance, ambition and humility, and we described the behaviours and attitudes that characterise its creators and employees. We also considered our corporate documents that set out our ethical standards – the Code of Ethics and the Supplier Code of Conduct, as well as the strategic management of our social, economic and environmental impact, which we communicate through sustainable development reports, as the pillars of our company. We treat the reports very seriously, which is why, as the Management Board, we personally oversee the goals and implementation of the promises set in this area. For us, however, CSR is also a response to the needs of our customers, in the project market in particular. International customers, especially from Western Europe, with which we see the company’s greatest development potential, constantly increase their requirements concerning the quality, safety and environmental aspects of products. That’s why we are becoming increasingly better at managing the certification and standardisation of our solutions. The consequences of the adoption of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/95/EU are also visible. In Poland alone, around 300 new entities were required to disclose their non-financial data, including ethics management, as well as environmental and social issues. As a transparent and responsible company, we are a reliable partner, and we help our customers achieve their sustainable development goals. We believe that comfortable and environmentally friendly workplaces that provide their users with good health and well-being are, for many entrepreneurs, an important tool with which to win talents and build positive relationships with employees. Our strength is the knowledge of how to do this, not only thinking about the “here and now,” but also about the future. In 2017, our Workplace Research and Consulting Department analysed business and economic processes and created a book of global trends – social phenomena that reflect the current and future needs of entrepreneurs and meet employees’ business-related expectations. The most important are as follows: user experience, wellness, sharing economy, innovative economy, agile culture, green economy and storytelling. Based on the afore-mentioned trends, we have defined those that are strictly related to the office space; we use these to create our product and service solutions. At the same time, we share this knowledge with our customers in order to carry out our mission to arrange healthy, comfortable and safe workplaces responsibly. We place our sustainable development goals and directions in the context of environmental and civilization challenges. In this report, we clearly show how our strategy overlaps with the tasks set by the UN Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. Among them, the most important aspects for our industry are the responsible management of resources and the implementation of the circular economy model. In 2017, we started the implementation of a several-year contract for the Dutch defence and infrastructure ministries based on the “6 loops of circularity” concept, which includes not only the supply of new equipment, but also its repair, renovation, redistribution and recycling. This implementation of the circular economy principles was a pilot project for us, but we will be able to offer the solutions we develop to other customers too. The creation of processes that will ensure effective sustainable management of office equipment is the main challenge for the furniture industry, and we want to face it head on in the coming years. We hope you enjoy this report and find inspiration in reading it! Management Board of Nowy Styl Group Adam Krzanowski Dariusz Frydrych Jerzy Krzanowski Roman Przybylski Rafał Chwast 3 Summary of our promises We have managed to completely or almost completely (80–100%) achieve nine of the fourteen promises we made. The remaining five promises are still being worked on. THE DEGREE TO WHICH WE REALISED OUR PROMISES 0–49 % 2 promises 14 80–100 % promises 8 promises 50–79 % 4 promises The tasks we realised 80–100% Ethics / We will announce and implement the Nowy Styl Group Code p. 17 Corporate governance of Ethics that will strengthen our operational and communication standards. Ethics / We will implement the Supplier Code of Conduct in all Nowy Styl p. 80 Corporate governance Group’s subsidiaries – we will create an ethical assessment form for new suppliers and we will monitor our suppliers’ observance of the Code during periodical meetings and audits. HR We will create an onboarding program for those employed in p. 51 Poland. HR In the Polish market, we will implement Sports Cards for p. 57 employees that will be 50% financed by the company. HR In Poland, we will continue the Management Staff Development p. 53 Project and training courses for managers that are aimed at shaping leadership in the company. OHS In order to strengthen employees’ involvement in safety at our p. 56 factories, we will implement a program for reporting Potentially Accidental Events. Customers and products We will promote and develop competences in the field of p. 36, p. 73 innovative solutions concerning acoustics and low emission of VOCs. Social engagement We will create a policy of social engagement and donations. p. 85 Social engagement We will continue the Year of Music project. p. 87 4 The tasks we realised 50–79% Customers and products We will develop the base of knowledge p. 34 concerning the requirements for products and product components that are binding in Europe and globally. Customers and products We will create descriptions with environmental We create the descriptions and make them data for other products from our portfolio. available for our customers for a series of products for specific orders. Product specifications are collected in our internal database. Environment We will prepare a specification for suppliers We have prepared purchase specifications. concerning environmental requirements. For selected products, we have started creating a BOM (Bill of Materials), which is a multi-level product structure where all components and materials have appropriate environmental documents. Customers and products For new products launched into the project We have started certification processes in market, we will provide documents confirming the new system Blue Angel (XIO, XENIUM, their quality, durability and user safety. They will XPENDO and SCUDO chairs, as well also include information about the low emission as XIO and K40 furniture); we have also of VOCs and the lack of hazardous substances. expanded the list of products subject to Schadstoffgepruft certification (5 lines by Grammer Office, 1 line by Rohde & Grahl) and the Ergonomie Geprüft certificate. The tasks we realised 0–49% Ethics / Training courses concerning ethics We have included the ethical issues in the Corporate governance implementation training courses organised in the Sales Department. By the end of 2017, we managed to create material that will be used for the first time in a series of training courses at the beginning of 2018. p. 18 Ethics / In order to manage the CSR activities better, we When working on the CSR strategy, we Corporate governance will create a CSR strategy that will be combined decided to include its goals and activities in with the company’s business strategy. this report, which has become a document that is recognisable to our stakeholders. 5 6 WHO ARE WE and what are we going to achieve? 1 7 Our market position GRI For a few years, Nowy Styl Group has been a European companies in Europe. Our business aim is to become the favoured 102-1 leader in comprehensive furniture solutions for office and supplier of office solutions for large and medium-sized companies public spaces. We are one of the most quickly developing furniture in Europe. WE BUILD OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE ON: Global range Knowledge and experience Local approach to of our activities customers We are happy to share our Our customers can count on knowledge and experience with our We have local employees who are a comprehensive, high-quality service, customers if they need support, and close to our customers and who regardless of where they create their we listen carefully to our customers’ understand the specificity of the office; thanks to the scale effect and needs. market; a meeting in our showroom, integrated internal processes, our transport, project management, solutions prove to be effective. service and warranty repairs are all within our customers’ reach. Comprehensive product Production autonomy portfolio Huge order volumes, also in the Together with our customers, we intervention mode, and customised define the optimal office project and products – thanks to our own offer solutions tailored to their needs production, we are able to meet and possibilities that will allow for the great challenges. implementation of the project. Business strategy and development GRI We realise our business strategy in two segments: the processes in logistics and product management). The aim was to 102-10 commodity segment, in which we sell chairs to our end help people function more effectively, expand their knowledge, customers, and the professional segment, in which we sell a comand thus improve the performance of the whole company. prehensive service of equipping office and public spaces ( CSR Code 2014–2015, p. 14). The effectiveness of our activities was particularly noticeable on the markets of German-speaking countries, were we managed to After years of dynamic expansion through the acquisition of wellincrease our sales significantly (the sales in Germany, Austria and developed companies in Germany, Switzerland and Turkey ( CSR Switzerland increased by 70% between 2014 and 2017). At the Code 2014–2015, p. 15), for Nowy Styl Group, 2016 and 2017 were Group level, we maintained the company’s growth (4% in 2016 years of consolidation, integration and optimisation of internal and 6% 2017). processes (including investment in IT systems that automated 8 Who are we 1 Financial results GRI GRI 2016 2017 102-7 201-1 Nowy Styl Group (EUR thousand) (EUR thousand) Direct economic value generated a) Net revenues from the sale of products and services 259,179.92 273,489.41 Economic value distributed b) Operating costs without employee wages and benefits 158,104.16 174,205.89 c) Employee wages and benefits 70,260.32 73,846.01 d) Payments to investors 6,876.05 10,252.92 We present the financial results based on consolidated data from the whole Group, which means from the companies that belong to the corporate group and for which we have 100% of the shares, and from the Hungarian company Telmex-Nowy Styl Zrt., which we run together with a Hungarian partner (50% of the shares), without the division into the countries in which we operate. This is the way in which we also analyse data for our internal purposes on an ongoing basis. This approach is very useful since it allows us to measure the value we generate for customers at the Group level. The data presented in this report is consolidated in this way too. The increased revenues have allowed us to increase our participaincrease in fixed costs is not associated with turnover. In addition, tion in building the local economy – since 2013 our payment to we continue to implement processes connected with centralising the state and municipalities has grown gradually. In comparison services such as IT, Purchasing and Marketing, which helps us with 2015, the value of our income tax has increased by almost realise them more effectively. half. The increase in the scale of our business activity allows us to optimise some of our costs. The ratio of operating costs to The best tests of the effectiveness of our processes are the consales revenues is clearly decreasing year after year. This results tracts we enter into with global customers, such as those we from fixed costs making up a considerable share of the expenses initiated in 2017 for the Federal Employment Agency in Germany. structure (approx. one-third of the total) and the fact that the Business awards Investor Without Borders by PTWP Leaders of Tomorrow The One Who Changes Polish Industry 9 The Group’s structure GRI The overall structure of Nowy Styl Group and its manageand supervise the implementation of various activities. The man102-18 ment structures did not change in 2016 and 2017. Nowy aging directors of subsidiaries report to Nowy Styl Group’s ManStyl Group is run by a five-person management board, led by the agement Board. In addition, since the beginning of 2016, the Group company’s founders – Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski – as President has had a three-member operational management board, whose and Vice-President. The members of the management board are members are responsible for the functioning of the operation responsible for different departments of Nowy Styl Group and its department in Poland and on other markets. subsidiaries. They set strategic goals for the entire organisation Nowy Styl Group’s Management Board Adam Jerzy Rafał Dariusz Roman Krzanowski Krzanowski Chwast Frydrych Przybylski President of the Vice-President, Vice-President, Board Member, Board Member, Management Board Investment and Finance and IT Operational Director Sales Director Purchasing Director Director Nowy Styl Group’s Operational Management Board Board Member, Operational Director, Operational Director, Operational Director Technical Director Logistics Director 10 Who are we 1 GRI GRI 102-4 102-7 Nowy Styl Group’s structure Parent company Subsidiaries Joint-venture companies Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Rohde & Grahl GmbH TCC The Chair Company (Turkey) Nowy Styl GmbH Telmex (Hungary) Rohde & Grahl BV Ukraine Nowy Styl FR SAS Russia Nowy Styl UK Ltd. Nowy Styl SK s.r.o. Sitag AG GRI GRI Nowy Styl Group is a privately-owned company. from Germany, as well as SITAG AG which operates in Switzerland 102-5 102-45 In this report, in accordance with the principle of and Austria. We also describe the business activity of Rohde & materiality and influence, we present data concerning the comGrahl BV (the Netherlands), Nowy Styl FR SAS (France), Nowy panies that focus on production – Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. and the Styl UK Ltd. (Great Britain) and Nowy Styl SK s.r.o. (Slovakia) to following subsidiaries: Nowy Styl GmbH and Rohde & Grahl GmbH a limited extent. Jasło – główna lokalizacja produkcyjna Grupy Nowy Styl 11 Range of activities GRI GRI GRI GRI In 2016 our company employed 3,654 people, increasing to 3,771 in 2017. We supply our products and 102-3 102-4 102-6 102-7 services all around the world. We have our own representative offices in 16 countries. Legend: Our headquarters: Branches Factories Krosno – headquarters and the Board’s office Showrooms Jasło – Nowy Styl Group’s main production location Cracow – the Board’s office Our representative offices are located in: Austria Belgium Czech Republic France Germany Kazakhstan The Netherlands Poland Slovakia Switzerland Great Britain Hungary Kazakhstan Russia Ukraine Turkey The United Arab Emirates The United Arab Emirates 12 Who are we 1 Investments The competitive character of our solutions is based on advanced to support the user in maintaining an ergonomic body position and production technologies and the company’s effective operations, ensure optimal physical working conditions. NavigoSmart is one among other things. We continually invest in production and IT of the Internet of Things (IoT) solutions developed by Nowy Styl infrastructure, which supports the management of internal proGroup’s Innovation and Development Department. It is a testing cesses. By purchasing state-of-the-art machines, we improve ground in the application of IoT technology and the process of the effectiveness of using natural resources, primarily water and looking for its practical use in the office space. One of our priorities energy ( pp. 69 and 71). By automating our manufacturing profor the coming years is the implementation of our own solutions cesses and implementing modern tools ( CSR Code 2014–2015, from this field into the market. p. 22), we increase the company’s productivity and make working in our factories safer. Along with infrastructure development, we 3D printing – In recent years, we have purchased additional 3D allow our employees to develop and offer new jobs to an increasprinters, which has enabled us to extend the scope of their use in ing number of engineers and specialists. the daily activities of the Construction Department. Their main application remains the prototyping process: with the printers, we Selected investments: are able to prepare a prototype quickly and check its design and ergonomics, the kinematics of its parts and the assembly possiR+D Centre – In order to accelerate our company’s technological bilities of its components. As a consequence, we can significantly development and facilitate the process of launching new furniture reduce the number of changes required and accelerate the entire solutions into the market, we decided to build our own Research implementation process. and Development Centre in Jasło. The investment, made mainly in Using 3D printing technology, we also prepare tools – both for 2016 and 2017, included building the new infrastructure, purchasmaking prototype elements and for targeted products. In some ing research equipment, creating a dedicated team of scientists exceptional cases, we use 3D printers to produce elements of (ultimately 200 people) and defining a several-year research our chairs and furniture, which, thanks to the high quality of the agenda for such areas as ergonomics, acoustics, materials science equipment, have the same properties as the traditionally manuand the natural environment. The constructors, technologists and factured components. acousticians who work at the Centre develop new prototypes and improve and optimise furniture production technologies. UC (unified communication) system – On a daily basis we work The budget amounts to over PLN 13 million and the project will in about 30 different locations; we only have multiple locations be completed by autumn 2018. The project has received funding in Poland, where we have three offices in Cracow, one office in from the European Regional Development Fund. Jasło and one office in Krosno. In order to improve our internal communication and limit the number of domestic and foreign NavigoSmart – A prototype of a smart chair that we showed business trips, we implemented a videoconferencing system in for the first time at the CES fair in Las Vegas at the beginning of April 2017. The application, which is easy to use and available 2017. This swivel chair is equipped with a microcomputer and ULE on desktop computers, laptops and phones, has enabled us to technology, which enables it to communicate with a computer or transfer many phone calls and meetings to the virtual space. By smartphone. The sensors in the chair make it possible to monitor the end of 2017, we had held a total of 1,335 online meetings that the chair’s settings and the user’s behaviour, as well as measure lasted 1,453 hours. the physical conditions of the workplace. The aim of the solution is NavigoSmart 3D printing 13 14 We act RESPONSIBLY 2 15 Strategic goals Organisational culture Ethical standards To promote Nowy Styl Group’s To uphold ethical standards. organisational culture and its underlying values, such as ambition, honesty, humility and tolerance among employees and partners. Our promises for 2018–2019 ||We will organise events and prepare materials promoting cultural diversity for employees and the local community. ||We will expand the program of ethics training courses for employees. 16 Responsibly 2 Ethics in our organisational culture GRI GRI GRI 2017 was a special year for Nowy Styl Group – celebration with employees, which took place in June and October, 205-2 102-16 102-17 it was the anniversary of the original company focused on promoting Nowy Styl Group’s organisational culture. founded in Poland. Preparing the celebration of the company’s The Management Board talked about the values the company’s 25th anniversary provided an opportunity not only to summarise founders relied on, such as honesty, tolerance, ambition and all the company’s successes, but also to reflect on the things that humility, as well as the behaviours that have defined the Group’s have changed and the Group’s identity. The company’s birthday identity and contributed to its international success. How did we manage to implement the new Code? ||Project team: Management Board, Workplace Research and Consulting Department, HR Department, Marketing Department; ||Consultations with members of the Ethics Officer Association (2016); ||Consultations with employees: 4 meetings, 40 people from all the company’s sectors and departments; ||Tasks: to identify ethical threats in the company, to gather suggestions for changes to the Code, to appoint ambassadors of the company’s ethics. GRI We have decided to incorporate our organisational culcomply with the Code of Ethics and who are responsible for deal103-3 ture into the Code of Ethics, which we had been working ing with reports of violation of its rules. on since 2014 and which replaced the Nowy Styl Group Code of Conduct and Employee Principle Card in Poland in 2017. In addition to the Ethics Officers in Poland, there are counterparts in foreign companies. In Switzerland, this function is performed by The Code is a carrier of Nowy Styl Group’s organisational culture employee representatives, a woman and a man, to whom employand it defines ethical standards applicable in the following areas: ees can report any irregularities or ethical questions. In Germany, internal relationships, the company’s belongings, personal data at our factories in Voigtei, employees have access to three trusted protection, relationships with customers, relationships with suprepresentatives from the areas of administration, production and pliers, material benefits, conflicts of interest, competition, occupalogistics, who report any problems directly to the management tional health and safety, natural environment and local community. board. Additionally, in both these countries, employees can also report their complaints, expectations and ideas by putting them The document has emphasised the role of the company’s leaders into specially marked boxes. in shaping ethical attitudes and promoting the organisational culture. It has clarified the acceptable value of the gifts given and All new employees in Poland are obliged to familiarise themselves received as part of official duties, as well as the mechanism for with the Code. Its regulations are covered in our implementation reporting potential conflicts of interest. The Code has also introtraining courses, but they are also available on Nowy Styl Group’s duced a new function: Ethics Officers – two people located in the websites, the company’s Intranet and in printed format, in the Sub-Carpathian region and in Cracow who make sure employees offices of the company’s factories. 17 We consider anonymity and openness as the most important principles of the ethics officers’ activities, because we know that employees need a sense of security in order to entrust us with ethical issues, which are often very difficult and delicate. And it worked – after our first period of activity, we had the chance to solve several reported issues. I am sure that the process of disclosing and solving such problems on an ongoing basis brings the company great benefits: it helps the company grow in line with its values and minimise reputational risks. Marcin Płoszaj Ethics Officer The provisions of The Code of Ethics are consistent with The Sup2016 we organised workshops titled “Competition and consumer plier Code of Conduct, which we implemented in 2015 ( p. 80). protection in Poland – basic principles” for two groups: our sales Both documents are the basis for managing ethical standards representatives and the architects cooperating with us. within the company and in the value chain, especially in the area of human rights and fair business protection, as well as being GRI GRI Due to the company’s consistent implementation of 205-3 419-1 a tool for preventing corruption. These standards are based on the ethical policy, as in previous years, we did not the provisions of the International Human Rights Charter and the record any violations of free competition rules, fair competition declaration of the International Labour Organisation. rules in the free market or behaviours presenting signs of corruption. There were also no penalties imposed on the company Some selected ethical issues are also the subjects of thematic related to non-compliance with laws or regulations in the social training courses tailored to particular employees. For example, in and economic areas. By implementing The Code of Ethics, we are making another consistent step towards strengthening our global and local responsibility, as well as our responsibility and respect in our mutual relations. The Code is a summary of everything that we have learned so far, but it also helps us look into the future, set further goals and decide who we want to be in the future. As one of the elements of our organisational culture, along with the values and features that describe it, the document helps us cultivate the developed paths connected with our activities and responsible development. Extract from the introduction to The Nowy Styl Group Code of Ethics 18 Responsibly 2 Business responsibility GRI GRI Business responsibility is part of our organisational culture. We are responsible for managing the influence we exert 203-2 103-2 on the environment, and we would like to be an active player in shaping an environmentally friendly world for future generations. KEY AREAS OF NOWY STYL GROUP’S INFLUENCE AND THE CREATION OF VALUES Nowy Styl Group Economic influence Social influence Environmental influence ||Dominant employer in the ||Health and safety – educating ||Emission of CO2 and greenhouse region – creating new jobs; about healthy workplaces; OHS gases – white certificates; ||Cooperation with local activities; building a safety ||Emission of hazardous suppliers – our partners grow culture in workspaces; substances; and develop together with us; ||Well-being – better quality of life ||Waste production and recycling; ||Remuneration and employee and well-being thanks to healthy ||Energy and water consumption; benefits; and effective workplaces; ||Consumption of materials ||Taxes that aid in developing ||Talent development – training (wood, leather, wool, steel, national and local economies; courses and development plastic). ||Sponsorship – development of programs for employees, culture, sport, design and the cooperation with universities, modern business services sector; traineeship programs and theses, ||Membership in business scholarships for talented young and sector organisations – people; co-creating and promoting good ||Social engagement – support business practices. for the development of sport, culture and health care, support for groups threatened by social exclusion. 19 GRI The main tools for managing business responsibility are our strategic goals are consistent with the following UN Sustain102-12 Nowy Styl Group’s sustainable development reports, able Development Goals for 2030: titled CSR Codes, which are issued biennially. Apart from data, ||Good health and well-being, the reports include our strategic goals and promises for the com||Decent work and economic growth, ing years, which we review meticulously. ||Innovation and infrastructure, ||Responsible consumption and production. Our sustainable development complies with the UN Global Compact initiative, to which we are a signatory, and the “Guiding PrinWe relate our activities to these goals, which we describe further ciples on Business and Human Rights” approved by the UN, while in this report. Awarded for CSR We share our strategy and activities in the area of sustainable In 2016 we were in 29th place in the overall ranking (out of development and CSR with the public. We take part in external almost 70 qualified companies); in 2017, the ranking formula rankings related to corporate social responsibility and the review was changed and we were classified in the group of crystal of good practices, as this is a great opportunity for us to have companies, which included mature and CSR-active companies. our activities verified by external experts and refer them to the Within the group we were placed 4th out of 39 entities. market situation. ||Best practices ranking – A publication prepared by the Responsible Business Forum. Every year we enter several of ||EcoVadis – We would like to make the process of assessing our products into this ranking, which we want to use to inspire the company easier for our customers, therefore we voluntarily other companies with a similar business profile. undergo evaluations carried out by independent experts from EcoVadis. Their survey is based on the GRI, UN Global Compact In 2016–2017 we were also awarded: and ISO 26000 standards and consists of approximately 150 different criteria. As a result of the evaluation carried out in ||Sustainable Development Leader – We received this title 2016, Nowy Styl Group received a Silver Certificate, and Rohde from the jury of the Responsible Business Awards Competi& Grahl, a company operating on the German market which was tion for our corporate responsibility, care for social interests assessed individually, received a Gold Certificate. The EcoVadis and environmental protection. The competition is organised platform is used in 140 countries. by the Executive Club; ||CSR Leaves – The POLITYKA weekly assesses companies in six ||Top 10 Employers of Poland 2017 – Our company was among areas defined by the international social responsibility standard the winners of the competition organised by PTWP Group ISO 26000. In 2017 our company was part of the elite group of ( p. 59); 13 Polish companies that were awarded the Silver Leaf. ||Corporate Bulletins Competition – In the all-Poland competi||Responsible Companies Ranking – A ranking prepared by tion, our “Spinacz” magazine for employees came 3rd in the Prof. Bolesław Rok from the Business Ethics Centre at Leon “Printed Internal Bulletin” category. Koźmiński Academy, Deloitte and Dziennik Gazeta Prawna. Sustainable Development Leader Top 10 Employers of Poland 2017 20 Responsibly 2 Dialogue with stakeholders GRI GRI One of Nowy Styl Group’s four values is humilGRI We conducted a process of mapping our stakeholders for this 103-2 102-40 102-42 ity. We believe that the basis of our success report. In line with the current business strategy, we have choand sustainable development is the ability to listen to the envisen the following groups of stakeholders: distributors, individual ronment carefully. The intensity of our dialogue with particular customers, corporate customers, developers and commercial groups of stakeholders depends on their impact on our company specialists, and architects. and the influence our company exerts on them. STAKEHOLDER MAPPING GRI 102-40 6 Employees Environment Distributors 5 Developers and commercial specialists Supplier and Local sub-contractors community 4 NOWY STYL GROUP’S INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDERS Key corporate customers Individual Architects customers and designers 3 Competitors 2 Higher education facilities Public administration Media 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 STAKEHOLDERS’ INFLUENCE ON NOWY STYL GROUP 21 GRI Our business activity on the B2B market is based on ››employment structure and working conditions at Nowy 102-43 meetings – both individual and those held during furStyl Group. niture industry events – therefore we are in close contact with ||Respondents paid relatively little attention to environmental the majority of our stakeholders. We can talk with them directly issues, e.g. water consumption and waste and effluent manabout their needs and expectations of our company. Our business agement. This is a signal for us to emphasise the necessity and partners are also important observers of our company’s developimportance of pro-ecological actions in our communication ment, especially those from the real estate sector (commercial activities. specialists, administrators, developers and contractors), as well as architects and designers. More than half of respondents read the previous CSR report in electronic format, which indicates how future issues should be We also review our customers’ and partners’ opinions in a regudistributed. lar and systematic manner that ensures the reliability of their responses. We do this through: The survey shows that in 2016 and 2017 Nowy Styl Group managed ||Questionnaires, including after-fair forms; to enhance its image of a responsible company. However, there ||Surveys and interviews with distributors in Poland; are still some areas that need to be improved or communicated ||Flow surveys on websites; better. The conclusions drawn from the analysis will be taken into ||Job fairs. account while we carry out our current activities and set operating plans for the coming years. We relied on the conclusions from the As in previous years, the process of compiling this report was for survey when we were assessing materiality and choosing aspects us a time of dialogue with our stakeholders. We prepared a speto be covered in this report. cial survey, in which we asked our key stakeholders – employees, customers, suppliers and members of the local community – to During the survey we asked our respondents to pinpoint the best assess our previous CSR report (2014–2015) and express their CSR practices of our company and other organisations. We decided expectations concerning the scope and content of this report. to award the most interesting responses; here is one of them: We also took the opportunity to ask them about their ideas for pro-social activities. We received over 150 completed questionnaire forms, most of which were the opinions of our employees and customers. GRI 102-44 Selected conclusions drawn from the survey ||Almost 100% of respondents consider Nowy Styl Group to be a responsible company, and the majority – 80% – gave the I consider the creation of a new Code company a high or very high grade in this respect, representing an increase of 11% compared to the previous report. The numof Ethics and the unit responsible ber of people who assessed the Group as a little responsible for it as the company’s greatest or not responsible at all company has decreased four times (from 4% to 1%). success. The Group’s determination ||The proportion of positive opinions about the previous CSR and consistency in achieving the report has also grown since the previous report – from almost 60% to 66%. At the same time, the percentage of people who goal make us – employees – feel did not know about the report has decreased (from 20% to safe and comfortable. What’s more, 13%). What’s more, the vast majority of respondents see the positive impact of publishing CSR reports: nearly 9 out of 10 the company has become more respondents are convinced that the previous report has made transparent, especially for employees. the company more credible and transparent. ||While Nowy Styl Group has garnered positive opinions in the You can feel like an important link, fields of product responsibility, relationships with customers regardless of your position, be closer and working conditions, the company’s engagement in the local community has been assessed less positive. More than to the company, consider yourself half of respondents think that the company is not sufficiently a full member, but also become an involved in the life of the region, while almost 30% consider this area to be our weak point. Taking into account the considerable example for other companies. support the Group provides in the region, this may mean that we need to strengthen our communication activities around our pro-social projects. ||The subjects our recipients said they find most interesting include: ››new technologies and eco-friendly solutions in production; ››employee development; ››the company’s influence on the development of the environment and economy; Joanna Śmietana ››care for customer health and safety; Complaint Department 22 Responsibly 2 International organisations France GRI As the Group, and as individual companies functioning in ||l’UNIFA – National Chamber of the French Furniture Industry. 102-13 different markets, we also join initiatives and organisations ||ARSEG – Workplace Managers Association. that define and help maintain the right standards for products and business practices – in particular including those of the furniture Great Britain sector. ||BIFM – British Institute of Facilities Management – An organi||UN Global Compact Initiative – Since 2012 we have been sation that embraces between ten and twenty thousand a member of the international platform for companies and companies and experts connected with facility management. institutions that obey the UN universal regulations concerning It supports the development of competences and provides human rights, employment standards, environmental proteca platform for exchanging knowledge and experience. tion and anti-corruption. ||FEMB – European Office Furniture Federation – An organisation The Netherlands that represents the furniture industry in European institutions in the international arena, collecting standardised economic data. ||MVO Nederland – CSR Netherlands – In this network of companies, entrepreneurs and experts work together to develop Poland tools and share good CSR practices. ||Committee for Office Furniture and Educational Institu||Polish Confederation Lewiatan – One of the most influential tions Standardisation at NEN– NEN is a Dutch standardisation Polish business organisations, embracing more than 4,100 comorganisation. Hans Bloemendaal from Rohde & Grahl BV was panies that employ over 1 million people in total. The Confedthe chairman of the committee that prepared the new standard eration is also a member of the Social Dialogue Council. NPR 1813, used for standardising office chairs. ||Executive Club – A business organisation for executives of the ||VIP – An organisation for specialists in the field of office intebiggest companies from Poland. rior design. ||Family Business Initiative Association – Family-owned com||BNA – An organisation for Dutch architects. panies are at the core of European business. The current challenges of this sector in Poland include models of enterprise Switzerland internationalization and succession. Our company’s founders – Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski – joined the discussion about ||«möbelschweiz» – The Swiss Association of Furniture this, on panels in Sopot (EFNI 2016, EFNI 2017) and Katowice Manufacturers. (European Economic Congress 2016 and 2017), as well as during closed business meetings. ||Sub-Carpathian Business Club – An organisation that connects entrepreneurs and employers from the Sub-Carpathian region. Its co-founder is Jerzy Krzanowski, co-owner of Nowy Styl Group. ||Polish-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce. ||ASPIRE – An association that embraces over 180 companies from the IT and advanced business services sectors. ||Pro Progressio Foundation ( p. 30). Germany ||iba – Industrieverband Büro und Arbeitswelt e.V – A German organisation for office furniture manufacturers that conducts research and produces furniture industry statistics, promotes its members, represents members in standardisation institutions, and initiates sector projects. It initiated the creation of the OFML data standard and open applications for designing interiors. ||Quality Office – We have certified Quality Office experts who train our distributors and customers in the fields of ergonomics, work organisation, furniture technology and safety at work. ||German Design Award – Since autumn 2017 we have been a member of the German Design Council, which is one of the leading European organisations responsible for the development of design. 23 24 We create OFFICES that serve people and companies 3 25 Strategic goals More than a product Up-to-date solutions Building awareness To develop competence To optimise and facilitate Raising people’s awareness and promote solutions in the the process of product of the impact the office space following areas: implementation in order exerts on the fulfilment of its ››well-being to respond dynamically to users’ needs and the efficiency ››Internet of Things customers’ needs and market of business processes. ››acoustics changes. ››reduction of the use of hazardous substances in products ››office space research and consulting Our promises for 2018–2019 ||In order to facilitate the process of implementing products tailored to our customers’ needs, we will create an internal knowledge base that will include the requirements of standards and certifications for groups of materials, products and components that are binding on particular markets. ||We will continue to facilitate implementation processes and the flow of knowledge concerning products, by transferring the internal certification procedure for products and the base of certificates to the product lifecycle management system (PLM). ||We will implement specifications of purchasing requirements for materials and components of the products designed for the project market in our purchasing procedure. Our participation in the process of realising Sustainable Development Goals: 26 Offices 3 Comprehensive product portfolio GRI GRI Nowy Styl Group is an expert in furnishing office of well-qualified international distributors (3,500 partners in the 102-2 102-7 and public spaces. The company offers products EMEA region). and services through the following six brands: ||Nowy Styl – User-friendly chairs for any interior The Product Management Department is the unit responsible for ||BN Office Solution – Space without limits implementing our strategic aims in the product area. The Product ||Grammer Office – Comfort parameters. Perfect ergonomics. Council is also consulted on new projects. All product implementa||Rohde & Grahl – Work comfortably! tions are strictly tailored to our customers’ needs and the changing ||Sitag – Swiss precision market standards and requirements concerning environmental ||Forum Seating – Sitting systems for demanding audiences impact, as well as health and product safety. We have been collecting information about these issues in our internal knowledge We sell our solutions in both the commodity and project segbase since 2017. ments, using direct and indirect channels – we have a wide circle We KNOW HOW to #MakeYourSpace When building relationships with customers we focus mainly on their permanence and make sure they are based on trust, which stems from the real benefits we offer the other party. THE VALUES THAT ARE GENERATED BY AN OPTIMALLY DESIGNED OFFICE Design and the Product An effective Environmentally process of health and Quality and company that sustainable strengthening safety, employee technology attracts talents products the company’s well-being organisational culture ››www. mys. ››Ergonomically ››Investments in eco››Certificates ››Cooperation nowystylgroup.com advanced products logical production ››Internal Research with recognised ››Reports written by ››Safety certificates ››Pro-environmental and Development designers on new experts ››Internal quality education Department – products ››Participation of our tests ››Designing products new production ››Participation in experts in confer››Training materiin accordance with technologies international rankences and events als and training the circular econ››Analysis and interings and design connected with the courses in the field omy model nal development competitions – furniture industry of ergonomics of quality control awards, e.g. Red ››The “Does it hurt? processes Dot Award, Iconic Change your chair!” Award, German campaign Design Award ››Support from interior architects 27 In accordance with our mission, we want the offices and public people’s awareness of the impact of office spaces and the availspaces we create to serve people best. Therefore, generating value able solutions. for our customers is a key task for all of our departments. The direction of our long-term development in this area is determined We communicate our strategy through our motto “We KNOW by our strategic goals, which correspond to current trends and HOW to #MakeYourSpace,” which emphasises the fact that, thanks market challenges. to our competence, knowledge and experience, we are not only able to provide a healthy, safe and high-quality product, but also We are also aware of the social influence that we exert through become a responsible partner with whom customers can achieve the interiors we create. That’s why we not only respond to our business success. customers’ needs, but also initiate responsible purchases, raising Optimally designed office – our inspiration We build our relationships with customers on a mutual underHow to create a great office space? There are five main employee standing of needs and expectations. needs you should keep in mind – A report compiled by Nowy Styl As one of the largest experts in the furniture industry, we feel Group’s experts, who used the research we conducted among responsible for raising awareness of the important role office our customers to define the five main problems of contemporary spaces have in meeting users’ needs and increasing the efficiency offices. The report includes tips, inspiring ideas and ready-to-use of business processes. solutions that will help people deal with these problems or even avoid them. When thinking about the optimal design for an office, we take into consideration the following three elements: What do programmers want? – This report was created with ||People – An office should not only be healthy and comfortable, a view to juxtaposing stereotypes with the real expectations IT but also ensure employees’ well-being, which is understood as employees have of their office space and employer. We coma sense of satisfaction and support for individual work styles, piled the report in cooperation with the company Antal’s Market regardless of the generation they belong to. Such an office is Research Department. It was created on the basis of surveys and not only an employer branding tool, but it also strengthens interviews with programmers. employee commitment and supports creativity. ||Process – An ineffectively arranged office exposes the comCPL Jobs: Benefits and Motivation – A report based on the annual pany to significant losses, while a well-designed office can survey of employees’ motivation in the CEE region; our experts support the company in implementing its business strategy supported the publication by pointing out solutions in the field and, through the right arrangement adjusted to individual of workplace organisation that increase employee engagement. departments, facilitate the flow of processes. ||Place – An office space should be effective and functional. It Offices: a new definition of space – A report that is part of a bigshould also be adjusted to the company’s organisational culture ger project prepared by the magazine Harvard Business Review and work styles. The space owned by the company should be Poland. It presents the latest and most important trends in designused to the maximum extent possible. ing workspaces. We were a partner of this project and supported it with our expert knowledge. In 2017, our experts from the Workplace Research and Consulting Department conducted an analysis in which they identified Development of the BPO/SSC sector – A series of reports conglobal social trends noticeable in each of these three areas. cerning the situation in the BPO/SSC sector in 2017 in the following These economic, demographic and social phenomena shape the regional capitals: Poznań, Warsaw, Wrocław, Lublin and Rzeszów. current and future needs of entrepreneurs, as well as employees’ We were a content partner for the publication. expectations of the office space, and thus constitute office trends that set the direction of the furniture industry’s development ( p. 29). We share our knowledge of this field not only with our customers, for whom we offer consulting services and workplace research, but also with the communities in which we operate and that we really want to inspire. 1. Research reports – A source of unique data and expert analyses, as well as a practical tool that makes it easier for our customers and partners to carry out office arrangement projects. The materials are available for free on the Internet and in printed format. They are also used during our lectures and discussions accompanying industry events. 28 Offices 3 INFLUENCE OF GLOBAL TRENDS ON THE WORK ENVIRONMENT User experience Wellness Sharing economy Employee experience Wellbeing@work Desk sharing Innovative economy Agile culture Growth mindset Crowdsourcing Innovative creative space Agile working Communication hub Corpo-coworking Green economy Storytelling Work-life blending Biophilic design Office-telling Third place 29 2. Speeches made by our experts at industry events || For the real estate market and the business services (BSS) sector – For many years, large Polish cities have been among the most attractive locations for outsourcing centres in the EMEA region. The BSS/ITO sector is one of the most dynamically developing industries in terms of employment and, at the same time, it is transforming and becoming more professional. In order to get to know the challenges and expectations of the sector’s customers well, in 2016 we entered into cooperation with the Pro Progressio Foundation and the ASPIRE Association – organisations that embrace companies from this industry and serve as a platform for sharing knowledge and supporting best practices. ||In 2016, together with Pro Progressio, we initiated a series of regional meetings called “BPO Breakfasts.” We visited six cities: Gdańsk, Lublin, Poznań, Rzeszów, Wrocław and Warsaw; we shared our knowledge of effective office spaces, as well as their impact on employees and companies. ||In 2017, we developed our strategy for the real estate and BSS sectors, supporting approximately 50 conferences and industry meetings in Poland with our expert knowledge. ||Other important events held in different markets included, for example, the Real Estate Market Forum Stavebné fórum and Workplace Solutions Forum in Bratislava and the Smart Workspace Design Summit in Amsterdam. The BSS sector in Poland is undergoing constant change, including in particular the changes to the work environment that are implemented widely. These changes can be seen in companies’ brand image, employer branding, work ergonomics and optimisation strategies. For several years, Nowy Styl Group has been conducting a number of initiatives aimed at educating managerial staff and employees, resulting in a visible improvement both in work ergonomics and the way people perceive the BSS sector – as a conscious and mature employer. Wiktor Doktór President/CEO, Pro Progressio Foundation Training courses for distributors – We regularly conduct training Meetings and training courses with architects – The training courses for distributors from all markets. In Germany, we organised courses are organised in cooperation with Chambers of Architects the “NEW WORK” series (training courses in Berlin, Stuttgart, and the Association of Polish Architects (SARP) in Cracow. We Munich, Düsseldorf and Steyerberg) in 2016. Some of the issues participated in the most important European fairs: Orgatec 2016, discussed during the courses include a flexible world of work, Salone del Mobile in Milan 2017, Workspace Expo in Paris; and PolY + Z generations, an office layout and planning methods, an ish events: 4 Design Days 2017 in Katowice, Łódź Design Festival effective use of the workplace and the “office change manage2016 and 2017, Lublin Design 2016. We co-organised the “Office ment” concept. Superstar 2017” competition, in which architectural studios and investors competed for the title of best office interior in Poland. 30 Offices 3 The press office of the magazine Interni was designed by Mac Stopa and furnished with our products Tauko and Tapa during the Milano Design Week 2017. The exposition was later given the IIDA Global Excellence Award by the International Interior Design Association (IIDA) from Chicago. 3. Professional cooperation with the media – our experts’ 5. #OfficeVR – We presented this application for the first time articles and opinions can be found in leading titles in the folat the 2016 ORGATEC fair in Cologne, providing our customers lowing areas: with the virtual experience of being in a functionally arranged ||business office. They were able to change the colour concept, the furniture ||BSS/real estate system and the layout of the office. The application was very ||furniture industry positively received, so we decided to develop other versions of ||designers and architects it in the months following the fair. Today, we offer our customers ||HR 3D renders in the form of 360° panoramas, which transfer them to a virtual office interior when viewed on their own smartphones 4. Office Inspiration Centre in Cracow – In 2017 we opened our through VR goggles. This tool makes it easier for our customers flagship showroom in Cracow – a space for inspiration. It is where to move around a virtual space that has been specially designed we show the current office interior trends and display a model for them, which in turn reduces the risk of improvements being office divided into functional zones. It is where our experts from needed at more advanced stages of the project. A stationary the Product Training Department and the Workplace Research and version of the #OfficeVR application is available in the Office Consulting Department hold training courses. It is also where we Inspiration Centre. organise conferences and internal training courses that allow us to meet with our customers and partners. 6. Internet website Home of Vision – In 2017 our brand Sitag opened a showroom A. In 2016 we created an inspiring website – “Make Your Space” called “Home of Vision” that presents solutions for effective office (www.nowystylgroup.com/mys), on which we presented our spaces. It is located at the brand’s headquarters in Sennwald. expert knowledge of workplace arrangement based on our “PeoThe unofficial, almost home-like atmosphere of the showroom is ple, Process, Place” concept in an interactive form. a reflection of the concept of a modern office interior that stimuB. In 2017 we created a corporate website – www.nowystylgroup. lates employees’ creativity. com. A big part of the website was occupied by an inspiration zone: a base of articles written by our experts and examples of Our office solutions are also presented in the other 26 showrooms our completed projects. The website received an “Honourable located in the biggest cities in Europe and the Middle East ( See Mention” and was also nominated for the “Site of the Day” award the map, p. 12). We continually refresh their decor and complein the Awwwards.com competition. ment their offer with new products. Office Inspiration Centre in Cracow 31 Health, quality and safety of products GRI GRI Ensuring health, safety and comfort of use for all of We also offer products that are covered by the European Union’s 103-2 416-1 our products underlies the process of their design “New Approach” directive concerning product safety. These are: and manufacture. ||Tables and desks with electric height adjustment ||Telescopic/mobile stands with electric drive Certificates and seals of approval We ensure these products undergo the appropriate external tests and receive a CE mark. In maintaining the quality, safety and environmental aspects of our processes and technologies, we are supported by the impleOur wide product portfolio involves diverse products, from homemented management systems based on several standards: Quality office products to products designed for the project market. Management System standard ISO 9001, Environmental ManageWe allow the home-office products to be sold on the basis of ment System standard ISO 1400 and FSC (selected factories), as a structural assessment and a potential risk assessment. Internal well as the occupational health and safety management standtests cover all products made for the project market. Our internal ards such as Factory Production Control, OHSAS 18001 and PN-N research is also confirmed in part by reports from tests carried out 18001. All of our production plants operate in accordance with by independent research institutions, including accredited units, these regulations. which are authorised to issue certificates. Our products undergo tests carried out in our own research centre in Poland and in other external certified research units, both in Poland and abroad. OUR PRODUCTS COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS SET OUT BY THE FOLLOWING EUROPEAN STANDARDS: Storage furniture Café and Stationary Swivel Office (cabinets, conference chairs chairs desks pedestals) tables EN 16139 EN 1335-2 EN 527-2 EN 14073-2 EN 15372 EN 1728 EN 1335-3 EN 527-3 EN 14073-3 EN 1730 Resistance, durability EN 1022 EN 1022 EN 14074 and safety EN 14703 EN 12727 EN 1729-2 Dimensions EN 1729-1 EN 1335-1 EN 527-1 CERTIFICATES Resistance, durability and safety Certification bodies Country GS Certificate (Geprüfte Sicherheit – GS) TÜV Rheinland, TÜV SÜD Germany NF Office Excellence Certificate FCBA France Certificates › Institute of Technical Supervision Poland › COBRABID-BBC – Polish Centre for Research and Certification S.A. › Wood Technology Institute › Szutest (Engineering Test Institute) Czech Republic Quality Office Certificate Qualitätsforum Germany 32 Offices 3 Ergonomic requirements Certification bodies Country Ergonomie Geprüft Certificate TÜV Rheinland Germany Certificate of compliance with TÜV SÜD Germany the standard NPR 1813 Certificate of compliance with TÜV SÜD Germany the standard PPP 51051A Ergonomic assessment protocols Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine Poland Safety related to hazardous substances and emissions of volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde Certification bodies Country Toxproof/Schadstoffgeprüft Certificate TÜV Rheinland, TÜV SÜD Germany Blue Angel Certificate RAL GmbH Germany Hygiene certificates – compliance with Poland requirements for safety of use in public spaces in Poland Hygiene class E1 (emissions of Wood Technology Institute Poland formaldehyde) based on the EN 717-1 standard Resistance, durability, safety and low flammability for our upholsteries, including in terms of the lack of hazardous substances and environmental safety Certification bodies Country Oeko Tex Standard 100 Certificate TÜV Rheinland, TÜV SÜD Germany EU Ecolabel Certificate RAL GmbH Germany FSC Certificate ( p. 68) Blue Angel Since the middle of 2017, six product lines by Rohde & Grahl have had this ecolabel, which is considered the oldest in the world. The label shows that our products have better environmental characteristics than those manufactured by our competitors; the assessment of the environmental impacts covered the whole product lifecycle. 33 Because we offer a wide product portfolio and want to provide ||emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) (plywood, our customers with reliable information about the certificates polyurethane foam and upholsteries with tests carried out by our products possess, we manage the information systematically external manufacturers), using the SharePoint platform. It is a place where our employees ||flammability (all products classified as hardly flammable can easily find the latest documents for our furniture and comaccording to the regional standards, including EN ISO 11925ponents, such as seals of approval, test reports, certificates and 2, EN 1021-1 and EN 1021-2, EN 13501-1, ISO 13823, ISO 1716, BS statements. 5852, DIN 4102, DIN 53438), ||acoustics – sound-absorption tests in a reverberation chamber Forum Seating (according to ISO 11654, ISO 354). Due to the character of the projects they are designed for, Forum GRI GRI GRI In 2016–2017, no incidents were recorded of 416-2 417-2 417-3 Seating products are always tested at independent institutions for non-compliance with regulations and volmechanical safety and ergonomics (in accordance with the standuntary codes concerning the impact of products and services ards EN 12727, EN 16139, EN ISO 9227, EN 13200-4, NF D 60-013, on users’ health and safety. There were also no violations of the BS 5852, EN ISO 3385 and EN 1728, the Ergonomic Assessment labelling of products and services or the reliability of marketing Protocol and the Hygiene Certificate). information about them. In addition, we verify the following: ||content of heavy metals, ||emissions of toxic combustion products (armchairs to be sold on the Polish market, according to the PN-B-02855 standard), Ergonomics Office ergonomics not only means a comfortable and wellHOW DO WE UNDERSTAND ERGONOMICS? adjusted chair; it is also a holistic view that allows for adjusting office devices and tools to people’s physical and psychological features. Our contribution to ergonomics begins at the design stage of our chairs and furniture. We design products thinking about the positive influence they can exert on end-users’ health. Our products Ergonomic are made in accordance with the following standards: EN ISO workstation 9241-1, EN 1335-1, EN 527-1 and NPR 1813. An ergonomic chair is the basis of a healthy workstation, especially when it comes to professions that impose on employees the necessity to work at an individual desk for long hours. We Active design offer office armchairs that are equipped with innovative systems supporting “dynamic sitting”: that stimulates ||GLIDE-TEC (used in products by the Grammer Office brand; movement in the patented solution) office ||Duo-back (used in products by the Rohde & Grahl brand) ||S-MOVE (designed for the 4ME chair line by the BN Office Solution brand) ||X-MOVE (movable connection of the backrest and the seat; Healthy working patent pending) conditions ||AirShape (4-chamber adjustment of the backrest to the user’s back; patented solution) (light, humidity, ||SITAG SPRING-MOTION (designed for the SitagWave chair line) temperature) A sit-to-stand desk that allows the user to change their body position (from sitting to standing) quickly is perfect for a healthy workstation. In 2016, we implemented a new height-adjustable desk for the Play&Work system, so customers can now choose Good habits – from four different models (eModel, Play&Work, Xio Motion and rules of healthy SitagActive Liftmatic). work 34 Offices 3 If a special need arises, we are also able to design chairs for people with unusual spine disorders – such products include Arthrodesis and MediTre. In ergonomics, the key aspect is knowledge – both when designing and selling (selecting) ergonomic products and when using them. That’s why we train employees, distributors and users comprehensively in this area. The topic of workplace ergonomics is an inseparable element of any internal product training course. In 2016–2017, our Product Training Team conducted training courses for over 2,000 participants in total, including: RECIPIENTS OF THE PRODUCT TRAINING COURSES 559 559 340 281 Customers Distributors Employees Employees from from the outside Polish Poland market Examples of ergonomic initiatives we continued on the Polish market in 2016–2017 are the campaign “Does it hurt? Change your chair!” and the promotion of so-called “ErgoPoints” with a dedicated website – www.zmienkrzeslo.pl – among distributors. 35 Acoustics Research shows that 85% of employees consider the low level of ||At the beginning of 2017, we extended research services we noise as one of the most important factors affecting their welloffer our customers with an acoustic research service, which being in the office. Unfortunately, 31.6% of employees complain is an acoustic adaptation that allows our customers to comply about problems connected with workspace acoustics (out of with the guidelines stated in the standards PN-EN ISO 3382-3, the approximately 2,500 employees we surveyed). The lack of DIN 18041, VDI 2569, as well as PN-B-02151-4, which is binding silence prevents them from concentrating, which in turn leads to in Poland. a decrease in their efficiency. ||We have also developed a set of principles that are applied at the stage of designing office interior equipment, when archiFor several years, we have been developing internal competences tects take into account the noise propagation limitation. intensively in order to respond to the need for acoustically com||We have also conducted training courses for the Space Planfortable offices in a professional and comprehensive way. ning Department and the Sales Department concerning the impact of noise on human beings, interior acoustics and acousIn 2014, we created a team responsible for dealing with the issues tic products. and implementations of acoustic products. Through research and training, the team developed their knowledge of the acoustic As in previous years, we carried out sound-absorption tests on properties of materials and their arrangement. our materials and products at external institutions. For products ||In 2016, the team employed specialists educated in acoustics. with increased sound-absorbing properties and selected interior ||The team also purchased special equipment and software equipment products, we conducted a series of acoustic paramthat allowed for measuring the acoustic parameters of office eters analyses. The results were included in the technical sheets interiors. of these products. ||We tested the acoustic parameters defined in the standards PN-EN ISO 3382-2 and PN-EN ISO 3382-3 using the 3D model We are currently developing a line of sound-absorbing products of an open space office. We analysed the impact that soundfor office and public spaces, which will be a response to their absorbing products exert on acoustic conditions in the office acoustic problems. by comparing the results we achieved when applying different configurations of these products. 36 Offices 3 Sustainable products and services When designing new products, we take into consideration the We provide comprehensive information on the environmental influence they exert on the natural environment at each stage of properties of our products. We create environmental profiles for their lifecycle. We check the durability and recycling possibilities our products and label them in terms of their plastic content and of the materials they are made of. We ensure our products have recycling possibilities, in accordance with the standard ISO 11469. diverse functionalities, because we know that universal products can be used longer. We are constantly optimising our transport To ensure the safety of our products and minimise their impact and packaging systems, so as to reduce the financial and envion the environment, we concentrate on selecting the appropriate ronmental expenses. materials and components ( p. 67). New solutions – which direction are we facing? The process of designing products: ||In 2017, we entered into cooperation with API’UP in France. ||We conduct internal training courses on the influence our prodThe association specialises in upcycling and services for the ucts have on the environment. development of the circular economy. Together we have cre||We modify our implementation processes – the Xilium chair ated a catalogue of products, which includes furniture made line is made on the basis of the Bill of Materials, which includes of recycled wood, hangers and tables, as well as the services the requirements for suppliers regarding the health and safety we offer our customers as an addition to our standard offer, of the user (environment, toxicity, emissivity). such as the collection of old equipment. The implementation of the Xilium chair line: Compliance with the guidelines of circular economy: ||Design for Durability/Upgradeability – a durable product designed so that it can be used for a long time. Thanks to this feature, products have longer warranty. ||Design for Remanufacturing – easily accessible components, a simple way to replace them, an appropriate manual – the aim is to extend the product lifecycle. ||Design for Recycling – an easy division of subassemblies into materials, a disassembly manual, and information on what percentage of the product comes from recycling and is recyclable. ||A full list of materials used in the production of the chairs in this line (the Bill of Materials or BOM), together with the necessary statements from suppliers and other documents. 37 Good services The strength of Nowy Styl Group is its dense network of distribuIn line with the development of the circular economy, we are tors and partners, because of whom we can maintain our local working on new services that allow companies to manage their service at a very high level. Warranty and assembly services, relooffice equipment more sustainably. cation support and locally-delivered logistics are not only costeffective, but they also reduce environmental expenses. At the end of 2017, for a governmental procurement project, the company Rohde & Grahl (which belongs to Nowy Styl Group) created a concept of managing furniture equipment based on the 6 loops of circularity model, which takes into account the main principles of the circular economy. 6 LOOPS OF CIRCULARITY recycle repurpose refurbish repair redistribute maintain Within the procurement project, we will not only supply our products, but we will also provide the following services: ||furniture maintenance, ||redistribution of unused items, ||repairs of damaged parts, ||renovation, ||modification of product purposes, ||recycling of the furniture unfit for further use. All this will enable us to significantly extend the lifecycle of our products and reduce the amount of waste. The procurement made by the Dutch government takes a well-considered and consistent approach to the implementation of the principles of the circular economy. For many customers, including international customers, we provide some of the above-mentioned services selected directly or together with our partners – local and domestic companies, which enable us to provide opportunities for new job creation. 38 Offices 3 Design 2017 BEST OF YEAR AWARD by Interior Design magazine HiP AWARDS 2017 by Interior Design magazine PLAY&WORK TAPA Jan Wertel & Gernot Oberfell Mac Stopa WertelOberfell Massive Design HiP AWARDS 2017 by Interior Design magazine LEVITATE SitagTEAM Jan Wertel & Gernot Oberfell Dietmar Fissl & Angela Eberhardt WertelOberfell 2DoDesign 2017 BEST OF YEAR AWARD by Interior Design magazine HiP AWARDS 2017 by Interior Design magazine CX 3200 TAUKO Jen Korte Mac Stopa Massive Design 39 40 Together we make up a TEAM 4 41 Strategic goals A place for talent development Safety culture Employer Branding – to work out a strategy aimed at building the To continuously build a safety image of Nowy Styl Group as an employer of choice and a leader in culture among our factory developing talent. The activities in this area will be divided into two workers. groups: ››external – activities that will support Nowy Styl Group in having an attractive image for recruitment purposes and help the company win new employees; ››internal – activities that will be directed at current employees and aimed at creating an engaging work environment. Our promises for 2018–2019 ||We will develop our cooperation with ||We will improve the workplace safety in our higher education facilities in order to factories by conducting professional training match educational programs to the needs courses on qualified first aid for employees, of employers and build relationships with creating rescue teams and equipping our plants potential employees. with R1 medical bags, as well as by providing ||We will be present on recruitment portals. employees who need them with corrective ||We will create a professional “Career” tab on safety glasses. our website. ||For guests visiting our factories, we will create ||We will continue the Talent Program a video presenting the principles of safety. for employees who will take part in ||With the health and comfort of employees interdisciplinary training courses and working in the Office Furniture Factory in mind, implement projects. we will create a “First Aid Room” for those who ||We will maintain internal communication require it, as well as a “Rest Room” for pregnant with employees through our “Spinacz” women and nursing mothers. magazine, the Intranet, the organisation of Open Days, etc. ||We will develop our communication with international employees. Our participation in the process of realising Sustainable Development Goals: 42 Team 4 GRI Nowy Styl Group’s HR strategy falls under the company’s we conduct a survey using questionnaires. In 2016, we carried out 103-2 business strategy. Managers are consulted on the aims, an Employee Opinion Survey, to which 59% of our staff responded. activities and initiatives in this area at the beginning of each year The anonymous questionnaires the employees were asked to comand approved by those who are in charge of the relevant secplete aimed to measure their overall level of satisfaction and comtors of the company. The policy underlying the HR activities is mitment. The aspects of work at Nowy Styl Group that employees included in the procedures that define the way we achieve the assessed most positively included: cooperation, acceptance of company’s objectives. diversity, and work-life balance. Employee representatives are also consulted on important deciThe next step was to organise workshops for department represions and the direction of activities, and every two to three years sentatives, during which we discussed development activities. 43 Employment In line with our company’s development, the number of people Equality policy employed increases every year (by 3% annually, on average – as in previous years). At the end of 2016, 3,654 people worked GRI GRI In accordance with our Code of Ethics, equal oppor406-1 103-2 for Nowy Styl Group’s companies, while in 2017 the number tunities in terms of employment, remuneration, benamounted to 3,771.1 A small group of staff is made up of selfefits, promotions and professional development are the basis employed people and those who are hired on the basis of civil of our relationships with employees. Decisions in this area are law contracts. For us, the most important source of recruitment is based on the knowledge and competence of a candidate or an the local market (the region where individual units operate). We employee, regardless of their gender, age, disability, race, faith, employ the most people in Poland – 3,172 people, 95% of whom political views, social origins, nationality or appearance. are in the Sub-Carpathian region where our largest factories are located. We are one of the dominant employers in this region. In 2016–2017, no incidents of discrimination were recorded at any of our companies. The employment structure at Nowy Styl Group is similar to the structure in previous years. 62% of our employees have indefinite term contracts, and over 90% of them work full time. EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE BY GENDER GRI GRI 102-8 405-1 26 % 27 % Women Women 2016 2017 74 % 73 % Men Men THE RATIO OF WOMEN AND MEN TO THE TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WORKING AT THE COMPANY 2016 2017 Women Men Women Men Direct production employees 23.9% 76.1% 24.8% 75.2% Indirect production employees 16.9% 83.1% 17.2% 82.8% Specialists 43% 57% 44% 56% Managers 20% 80% 18% 82% Directors 19% 81% 15% 85% Management Board 0% 100% 0% 100% 1 Together with joint-venture companies, Nowy Styl Group employed 6,661 people at the end of 2017. 44 Team 4 EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE BY AGE GRI 405-1 18 % 18 % > 50 years old > 50 years old 2016 2017 22 % 22 % 60 % < 30 years old < 30 years old 30–50 years old 60 % 30–50 years old GRI THE PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES IN EACH AGE GROUP IN RELATION TO THE TOTAL NUMBER 405-1 OF EMPLOYEES WORKING AT THE COMPANY 2016 2017 <30 30–5 >50 <30 30–5 >50 Direct production employees 23% 58% 19% 24% 56% 20% Indirect production employees 23% 55% 21% 25% 53% 22% Specialists 28% 60% 11% 24% 65% 11% Managers 3% 83% 14% 3% 83% 15% Directors 0% 63% 38% 2% 60% 38% Management Board 0% 60% 40% 0% 67% 33% EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE BY TYPE OF CONTRACT GRI 102-8 2016 62.45 % 37.55 % 2.16 % 97.84 % indefinite term definite term part-time full-time contract contract contract contact 2017 62.05 % 37.95 % 2.55 % 97.45 % indefinite term definite term part-time full-time contract contract contract contact 45 GRI EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE BY TYPE OF CONTRACT 102-8 2016 Number of employees full-time part-time indefinite term definite term contract contract contract contract Women 780 6 481 305 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Men 2,266 3 1,331 938 Women 31 13 41 3 Nowy Styl GmbH Men 62 0 60 2 Women 6 12 5 13 Rohde & Grahl BV Men 22 1 3 20 Women 55 25 59 21 Rohde & Grahl GmbH Men 239 10 179 70 Women 25 4 29 0 Sitag AG Men 89 5 94 0 Women 897 60 615 342 Nowy Styl Group Men 2,678 19 1,667 1,030 2017 Number of employees full-time part-time indefinite term definite term contract contract contract contract Women 834 7 498 343 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Men 2,328 3 1,376 955 Women 25 13 35 3 Nowy Styl GmbH Men 62 0 57 5 Women 4 20 11 13 Rohde & Grahl BV Men 22 1 1 22 Women 54 25 59 20 Rohde & Grahl GmbH Men 241 17 188 70 Women 23 4 27 0 Sitag AG Men 82 6 88 0 Women 940 69 630 379 Nowy Styl Group Men 2,735 27 1,710 1,052 46 Team 4 THE PERCENTAGE OF FOREIGNERS IN THE TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WORKING IN THE COMPANY GRI 405-1 2016 2% 2017 2% 72 66 people people NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER GRI 401-1 2016 96 85 441 312 new employees ended contracts new employees ended contracts 2017 136 68 392 318 new employees ended contracts new employees ended contracts 47 48 GRI 401-1 2017 2016 Sitag AG Sitag AG Nowy Styl Group Rohde & Grahl BV Nowy Styl GmbH Nowy Styl Group Rohde & Grahl BV Nowy Styl GmbH Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Rohde & Grahl GmbH Rohde & Grahl GmbH NEW EMPLOYEES New employees (expressed New employees (expressed 392 7 35 0 5 345 as the number of people) 441 15 39 1 9 377 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups Men Men 74% 88% 74% 0% 71% 75% % of new employees 82% 79% 85% 20% 69% 83% % of new employees Gender Gender New employees (expressed New employees (expressed 136 1 12 8 2 113 as the number of people) 96 4 7 4 4 77 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups Women Women 26% 13% 26% 100% 29% 25% % of new employees 18% 21% 15% 80% 31% 17% % of new employees New employees (expressed New employees (expressed 286 1 21 1 5 258 as the number of people) 319 4 19 1 8 287 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups <30 <30 54% 13% 45% 13% 71% 56% % of new employees 59% 21% 41% 20% 62% 63% % of new employees New employees (expressed New employees (expressed 206 5 19 7 2 173 as the number of people) 193 10 18 4 4 157 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups 30–50 Age 30–50 Age 39% 63% 40% 88% 29% 38% % of new employees 36% 53% 39% 80% 31% 35% % of new employees New employees (expressed New employees (expressed 36 2 7 0 0 27 as the number of people) 25 5 9 0 1 10 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups >50 >50 7% 25% 15% 0% 0% 6% % of new employees 5% 26% 20% 0% 8% 2% % of new employees GRI 401-1 2017 2016 Sitag AG Sitag AG Nowy Styl Group Rohde & Grahl BV Nowy Styl GmbH Nowy Styl Group Rohde & Grahl BV Nowy Styl GmbH Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Rohde & Grahl GmbH Rohde & Grahl GmbH ENDED CONTRACTS Ended contracts (expressed Ended contracts (expressed 318 13 25 1 1 278 as the number of people) 312 21 23 0 5 263 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups Men Men 82% 81% 93% 20% 25% 83% % of ended contracts 79% 78% 66% 0% 38% 82% % of ended contracts Gender Gender Ended contracts (expressed Ended contracts (expressed 68 3 2 4 3 56 as the number of people) 85 6 12 1 8 58 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups Women Women 18% 19% 7% 80% 75% 17% % of ended contracts 21% 22% 34% 100% 62% 18% % of ended contracts Ended contracts (expressed Ended contracts (expressed 191 3 7 1 2 178 as the number of people) 190 5 11 1 5 168 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups <30 <30 49% 19% 26% 20% 50% 53% % of ended contracts 48% 19% 31% 100% 38% 52% % of ended contracts Ended contracts (expressed Ended contracts (expressed 143 6 14 2 2 119 as the number of people) 150 13 10 0 6 121 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups 30–50 Age 30–50 Age 37% 38% 52% 40% 50% 36% % of ended contracts 38% 48% 29% 0% 46% 38% % of ended contracts Ended contracts (expressed Ended contracts (expressed 52 7 6 2 0 37 as the number of people) 57 9 14 0 2 32 as the number of people) in particular groups in particular groups >50 >50 Team 13% 44% 22% 40% 0% 11% % of ended contracts 14% 33% 40% 0% 15% 10% % of ended contracts 49 4 Remuneration GRI Our remuneration policy is based on the equal treatment work performed. Due to the lack of possibility to report the figures 202-1 of women and men for work of the same quality. The for all the companies that belong to the Group, we present the wages are adjusted to the local legal regulations and they depend data that is available for some of them. on employees’ experience, education, internship and the type of GRI THE RATIO OF STANDARD ENTRY LEVEL WAGE BY GENDER COMPARED TO LOCAL 202-1 MINIMUM WAGE 2016 2017 Location Women Men Women Men Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Poland 142.02% 153.02% 141.00% 146.67% Nowy Styl GmbH Germany 144.68% 144.68% 139.03% 138.34% Rohde & Grahl GmbH Germany 107.29% 132.24% 102.83% 122.85% Sitag AG Switzerland 113.35% 140.13% 119.96% 143.28% GRI THE RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN BY THE POSITION OCCUPIED 405-2 Direct Indirect production production employees employees Specialists Managers Directors 2016 94.23% 97.83% 98.11% 98.68% 105.32% Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 2017 96.94% 99.55% 95.47% 101.19% 114.49% 2016 98.81% 80.59% 79.78% 80.54% n/a Nowy Styl GmbH 2017 98.81% 88.86% 89.43% 84.98% n/a 2016 n/a n/a 77.34% n/a n/a Rohde & Grahl BV 2017 n/a n/a 77.12% 69.38% n/a 2016 73.62% 76.97% 69.46% 78.42% n/a Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2017 76.23% 78.34% 95.18% n/a 66.05% 2016 84.92% 86.05% 83.04% n/a n/a Sitag AG 2017 94.63% 85.28% 81.36% n/a n/a 50 Team 4 Good place for personal development Nowy Styl Group’s very dynamic character means the company ||Willingness to keep learning requires highly committed employees. When recruiting new tal||Engagement ents, we place great emphasis on them identifying with our values, ||Work-life balance such as ambition, humidity, honesty and tolerance, as well as our work style, which is characterised by: We support employees’ long-term commitment by creating a safe ||Teamwork and motivating work environment where the process of achiev||Openness to the world ing business goals translates into the personal development of ||Spirit of enterprise each employee. ||Openness to change How do we introduce employees into the company? Since 2017, we have conducted an onboarding process that facilitates the introduction of new employees into the company. The process is adjusted to different groups of employees, and it includes: ||A folder with a package of basic information. ||Implementation training courses at the Production Improvement Centre in Jasło and Rzepedź – all production workers take part in these courses in the first weeks of work. They become familiarised with Nowy Styl Group and learn about standards and the 6S system in a practical manner. ||Implementation training courses for office workers – through training games, employees learn about the company’s organisational structure and all stages of order completion. ||Implementation training courses at the Office Inspiration Centre in Cracow – all employees from the Sales Department take part in these courses in the first few weeks of work. ||A visit to factories – during their first month at the company, new employees are invited to visit our production plants in Rzepedź and Jasło. They are shown around the factories by senior colleagues who tell them about the technological process and answer questions. 51 GRI The regular review of employees’ competencies and skills The most important types of training course that were continued 404-3 is the starting point for making decisions about training or developed in 2016–2017 were: courses, career paths and promotions. The formula, which is used ||all-development courses (e.g. communication, change manin the Logistics and Quality Departments, divides reviews into agement, professional assessment interviews, self-presentaa main interview (held at the beginning of the year) and a progress tion, chairing meetings); monitoring interview (held in the middle of the year). ||specialist courses (e.g. knowledge concerning production, logistics, quality, trade and finance, workplace design, workProduction workers receive feedback and an assessment of their place optimisation strategy, office change management skills, which is closely related to the matrix of skills developed for projects); each of the production plants. Thanks to this approach, employees ||professional development – training courses held by the Proare aware of the degree to which they have already acquired the duction Improvement Centre; skills and the direction they should take to improve them. ||technical courses (e.g. connected with implementing innovative software used by constructors); ||sales courses (e.g. trade negotiations, sales techniques); Education and training courses ||product courses; ||domestic and international “know-how” workshops, which We support employees who want to develop and give them aim to encourage employees from different departments and opportunities to improve the specialist, managerial and soft comworking in different countries to share their sales experience; petences that ensure their personal development. The training ||language courses. courses and development projects we carried out in 2016–2017 were a continuation of the activities we started in previous years. The structure of training courses and the methodology of measurAll the training needs we gather are included in a Training Plan, ing training hours are different in different companies. Therefore, which is compiled annually. the analysis of the absolute values presented in the table below requires additional detailed explanations. Our employees participated in internal and external training courses, workshops, conferences, and international, product and technological fairs. 52 Team 4 GRI AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER* 404-1 Women Men 2016 10.6 10.1 Nowy Styl Group 2017 14.7 10.3 * Nowy Styl GmbH does not keep this kind of data, which is why the tables below do not include the company. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY THE POSITION OCCUPIED Direct Indirect production production employees employees Specialists Managers Directors 2016 3.8 8.3 20.1 37.8 13.7 Nowy Styl Group 2017 3.5 3.5 25.8 61.9 13.0 Development programs A good idea! GRI In addition to training courses, our employees can take A spirit of enterprise and a willingness to keep learning are ele404-2 part in longer development programs, including the Key ments of our organisational culture. We promote them through Competences Project, the Production Manager Competence initiatives like the Employee Suggestion Program ( CSR Code Development Program (for about 90 masters, managers and pro2014–2015, p. 55) and the Program for Reporting Potentially Acciduction managers), the First Time Manager cycle and the Manager dental Events, which is aimed at factory employees ( p. 56). Academy ( CSR Code 2014–2015, pp. 53–55). So far, we have not run programs supporting employees in managing their career endings. Development activities for managers In 2016–2017, we continued development activities for managers working in the Logistics, Supply and Production Planning, Distribution, Technical and Quality departments. The activities involved about 100 employees and were divided into three stages, during which the managers improved their leadership competences in terms of team and change management, employee engagement and communication. We perceived the activities not as single tasks, but as comprehensive training and development projects. We put a lot of emphasis on learning through experience, which is why an integral part of any developmental training was to practice and use new skills in the everyday work environment. 53 Safety culture The safety of our employees is our highest priority and the basis Rate of injuries and occupational diseases of mutual trust in the employee-employer relationship. The new machines we invest in minimise occupational risks at the workGRI As in previous years, no instances of fatal accidents were 403-2 place. We train our employees and build a safety culture, empharecorded in our production plants in 2016 and 2017. In sising the importance of employees’ engagement in accident-free Switzerland, one accident was classified as serious. There were workplaces. no records of occupational diseases. Control In our annual incident analyses, we calculate the following coefficients that help us measure and monitor the safety level in our GRI Our safety management process conforms to the standfactories: the frequency coefficient (the number of accidents and 103-2 ards PN-N 18001 and OHSAS 18001. In Switzerland, annual the number of employees), the seriousness coefficient (the numcontrols are carried out by SUVA (Swiss Accident Insurance) and ber of accidents and the number of working days lost) and the ISO OHSAS 18001 auditors. incident coefficient (accident seriousness and frequency). ACCIDENT FREQUENCY COEFFICIENT* 2016 2017 Women Men Total Women Men Total Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 7.63 8.81 8.51 1.19 12.44 9.45 Nowy Styl GmbH 22.73 16.13 18.87 0 16.13 10 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 12.5 52.21 42.55 0 81.4 62.31 Sitag AG 68.97 21.28 32.52 37.04 34.09 34.78 * Calculated as the total number of accidents x1000 divided by the total number of employees ACCIDENT SERIOUSNESS COEFFICIENT** 2016 2017 Women Men Total Women Men Total Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 53.83 64.15 61.77 122 52.48 54.8 Nowy Styl GmbH 6 4 5 0 10 10 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 15 18.9 18.64 0 20.14 20.14 Sitag AG 14.5 39 26.75 2 8.33 6.75 ** Calculated as a quotient of the number of days of employees’ incapacity to work and the total number of accidents INCIDENT COEFFICIENT*** 2016 2017 Women Men Total Women Men Total Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 0.41 0.57 0.52 0.15 0.65 0.52 Nowy Styl GmbH 0.14 0.06 0.09 0 0.16 0.1 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 0.19 0.99 0.79 0 1.64 1.26 Sitag AG 1 0.83 0.87 0.07 0.28 0.23 *** Calculated as a quotient of the number of days of employees’ incapacity to work and the total number of employees 54 Team 4 ||In 2016, 26 accidents were recorded in Poland, in which 6 ||In our offices in the Netherlands no accidents resulting in peowomen and 20 men were injured. They resulted in 1,606 days ple suffering injuries were recorded. of absenteeism. In 2017, the company noted 30 accidents ||In 2016 and 2017, there were 4 accidents per year recorded in (1 woman, 29 men, 1,644 days of absenteeism). Switzerland (2016 – 107 days of absenteeism; 2017 – 27 days ||In 2016, the German company Nowy Styl GmbH noted 2 acciof absenteeism). In 2016, 2 women and 2 men were injured; in dents that caused injuries (1 woman, 1 man, 10 days of absen2017, it was 1 woman and 3 men. teeism). In 2017, there was one accident recorded (1 man, 10 days of absenteeism). ||In 2016, the company Rohde & Grahl GmbH noted 14 accidents (1 woman, 13 men, 261 days of absenteeism). In 2017, there were 21 accidents recorded (21 men, 423 days of absenteeism). 2016 2017 Total number of accidents causing 46 56 injuries Total number of people injured W: 10 W: 2 M: 36 M: 54 Total number of absenteeism days 1,984 2,104 Safety Tournament 2016 – providing first aid In November 2016, employees from the Chairs and Armchairs Production Plant in Jasło celebrated 365 days without accidents. 55 How do we build a safety culture in our company? are able to provide first aid in an extended scope. The people interested were invited to participate in a professional quali||A visualisation promoting safe behaviours – “You’re looking fied first aid training course, which ended with a state exam. at the person who is responsible for safety” – OHS mirrors were The rescuers were able to present their newly acquired skills in placed at exits in employees’ dressing rooms. In each of our Safety Tournaments held on our Open Days in 2016 and 2017. factories, we installed security boards with AED defibrillators. ||OHS cascade audits – We introduced weekly OHS audits in ||AED defibrillators – Since 2016, all of our factories have been production and storage areas. The audits are attended by the equipped with external portable AED defibrillators and orthodirector of a given area, production managers, masters, techpaedic stretchers. Resuscitation using external AED defibrilnologists, employees responsible for maintenance services lators is an effective way to increase the chance of survival and OHS, and certain operators. Together, they analyse incomduring a sudden cardiac arrest. The AED defibrillators have patibilities and take part actively in implementing solutions been put in clearly marked places that are easily accessible aimed at improving occupational health and safety. In 2017, we for all employees. In Rzepedź, the AED defibrillator is in the conducted 247 audits that resulted in over 1,900 issued recomporter’s lodge, which means it is also available for the local mendations. Cascade audits develop a sense of responsibility community. and increase employees’ safety awareness. ||Qualified First Aid – With a view to improving our employees’ safety, we decided to create a group of factory rescuers who Program for Reporting Potentially Accidental Events The aim of the program is to engage employees in building the company’s safety culture. The program is aimed at all employees working in our production plants, as well as visitors and subcontractors’ employees. When a dangerous situation is reported, it is recorded and then verified by the Management by Values Internal Units, and finally passed to the people responsible for undertaking preventive and corrective actions. Employees are given bonuses and prizes for reporting such situations. Implementation of the program has significantly increased the activity of employees in signalling dangerous situations – by the end of 2017 we had registered over 400 notifications. THE NUMBER OF POTENTIALLY ACCIDENTAL EVENTS REPORTED 2016 233 2017 213 Occupational diseases According to the measurements, in Poland there were 351 people working in positions exposed to exceeded threshold limit values GRI In 2016–2017, we did not report any cases of occupational in 2016 and 2017. At the German company Rohde & Grahl, the 403-3 diseases. The production processes carried out in our comnumber of employees exposed to hazardous working conditions panies in Poland and Germany involve the occurrence of various was 151 in 2016 and 154 in 2017. No such positions were recorded factors that exceed threshold limit values (TLV): noise, mechanical in the Group’s other companies. vibrations, solid wood dust, industrial dust, chemical compounds, and electromagnetic field. Our calculations and updates of the We undertake actions that limit the occurrence of harmful factors occupational risk assessment related to the exposure are based on an ongoing basis. Our preventive and pro-health activities on measurements of the work environment taken by external are directed to all employees. We provide them with appropriate institutions. preparation for the work performed, periodic training courses, collective and individual protection measures and proper organisation of work. 56 Team 4 Employee benefits The employee benefits Nowy Styl Group offers support our ||Free flu vaccinations organised in the autumn at all our comemployees’ private lives and their comprehensive development. pany’s locations in Poland. ||40% discount on our products. GRI In Poland, employee benefits include: 401-2 And the following benefits provided in accordance with the Regu||The MultiSport program, in which we offer our employees lations for Managing Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Company’s Social Benefit MultiActive cards. The cards are valid at selected sports faciliFund: ties throughout the country. They are financed 50% by the ||Additional financial benefits paid twice a year. company. We introduced the cards in 2016. In the first month – ||St. Nicholas’ Day gift packages (for children up to 12 years old). August 2016 – 189 employees joined the program, submitting ||Summer camps for our employees’ children aged 8 to 16 – the a total of 6 accompanying people and 12 children. After one company covers 50%–90% of the costs. year – August 2017 – 253 employees, 6 accompanying people ||Non-returnable financial grants for employees who are expeand 20 children were using MultiActive cards. Every month, riencing difficult life situations. more people want to use the cards. ||Voluntary Group Life Insurance for employees, their spouses/ life partners and adult children. Every year, people working for our company get together at a family festive event organised at our factories. During the Open Days, employees show their families their workplaces. They can see the modernised production lines located in the other plants and take advantage of various attractions. In 2016, the event was held under the motto “Safe, healthy, sporty.” The participants had the chance to take part in resuscitation training sessions and healthy food workshops, while the factory rescuers competed in the Safety Tournament. The runners who belong to our Sports Club organised a Safety Race – whole families ran the distance of 1.5 km, which went along the evacuation routes in our factories. Everyone became familiarised with our evacuation routes, received medals made in our production plants and took pictures holding plates with humorous slogans, e.g. “The boss told me to do that” or “I’m running faster with my daddy.” The children also drew pictures that presented the idea: “My parents work safely.” 57 Sports Club If it hadn’t been for the members’ passion, commitment and sucThe Club is a place that helps employees integrate, build their cess, our Sports Club would not be as strong as it is now. The physical culture and promote a healthy lifestyle. The Club’s amateur athletes from the NSG Running Team, NSG Football Team meetings are held live and online – on social media and on the and NSG Cycling Team take part in local and international competiIntranet – and are where the club’s members share their feelings tions wearing the same club colours; they practice together and and opinions after competitions. motivate each other to achieve further successes. The most active and the fastest-growing section of the Sports The members also undertake their own sports initiatives, such Club is made up of runners. Over 40 people, mainly from the as the Nowy Styl Group Football Tournament, during which 13 Sub-Carpathian region, regularly compete in races wearing the teams of employees fought for the cup in April 2017 in Krosno, or Club’s T-shirts, and the group of active runners is much bigger. It Endo-rivalry under the slogan “Fresh thinking of sport,” which has already become a tradition for the Polish-German-Dutch team included seasonal rankings of kilometres run and travelled by to participate in the relay race at the DLL Marathon Eindhoven. employees, as measured by the Endomondo system. NSG RUNNING TEAM The most active and the fastest-growing section of the Sports Club is made up of runners. 40 people regularly compete in races wearing the Club’s T-shirts. They competed in 206 sports events, including 30 marathon and ultramarathon starts. They ran 21,700 km in total. >2,000 km – the distance covered by each of the three most active runners in 2017. 58 Team 4 Łemkowyna Ultra-Trail The route of the Łemkowyna Ultra-Trail race runs through the former grounds of the Lemkos, giving the event its name. In 2017, nearly 2,000 runners, including our Nowy Styl Group Running Team, faced the long distance, variable autumn weather, a muddy terrain and a rapid river. Łemkowyna is also a huge organisational challenge, and our Club decided to involve in it as volunteers. 12 people organised and operated the regeneration point located in Chyrowa, which was the finishing line for many participants. The tired runners were not only greeted with drinks and provisions, but there was also a beach with deckchairs, music and Hawaiian flowers waiting for them. Employer branding People open to new knowledge, ambitious and with the spirit of enterprise – these are the talents we look for. To find them, we undertake image activities in employer branding and cooperate closely with higher education facilities. Top Employer Model human resources management and a significant impact on the economic development of the region and the country are the main criteria for selecting TOP 10 Employers in Poland, awards granted by the PTWP Group. In 2017, our company was one of the competition’s winners. As part of our cooperation with the State Higher Vocational School in Krosno, we support students from the Rotor circle, who construct ecofriendly racing cars and take part in the Shell Eco-marathons. 59 We cooperate with high schools and universities. Together, we sysWe also cooperate with governmental institutions of the labour tematically organise internships, as well as student, graduate and market, such as the Labour Office, to organise internships for diploma apprenticeships, within the following areas: production, people seeking employment. logistics, quality, finance, marketing, IT, sales, trading and HR. The best trainees are offered a job at our company. We enable young In Poland, the number of apprentices and trainees was 57 in 2016 people to become familiarised with the company’s structure, as and 46 in 2017. In Germany, there were 43 apprentices and trainees well as the organisational environment and culture, so that in the in 2016 and 42 in 2017. future, those who during the internships implement the school/ university program, after the end of their education would be We are also happy to share our knowledge and experience with eager to come back to us as employees. students writing their diploma theses. In 2016, together with the Stanisław Pigoń State Higher Vocational School in Krosno and the company IBS Poland, we introduced dual studies at the university – Designing and manufacturing in a virtual environment as a field of the Mechanics and machine construction faculty. The program combines the necessary engineering knowledge in the field of mechanics and construction with a huge number of laboratory classes on modern IT tools and practical vocational training during paid internships at Nowy Styl Group. The studies are also available in the “Studies 26+” formula, through which adults who study in the evening can become qualified constructors. We also strive to inspire young people. Our specialists give guest shown around our production plants, and ten in 2017. The young lectures and conduct workshops. Several times a year, our showpeople are not only able to see the technologies of office furniture rooms are visited by students of managerial studies (faculties: production, but they can also become familiar with the principles management, HR, real estate), whom we tell about sustainable of international business and the professional development oppordevelopment, our company’s business strategy and the impact tunities our company offers. workspaces have on business. In 2016–2017, we hosted groups from Italy (Universita Politecnica delle Marche in Ancona), GerWe take part actively in local job fairs in order to understand the many (Europaische Fernhochschule in Hamburg) and the Nethneeds and expectations of future trainees, apprentices and employerlands (Avans University of Applied Sciences in Breda). ees. Our participation increases every year: we had a stand at three job fairs in 2016, increasing to seven in 2017. Our factories are among the most modern in the region, so we organise visits for groups of students. In 2016, six groups were 60 Team 4 Aleksandra Żarnowska In 2017 Aleksandra did a 5-month internship in the field of quality. Since May 2018, she has been working in the Systems Management Team. What did you do during your internship? During my internship at Nowy Styl Group, I had the opportunity to learn and work in many different departments. For example, following the established program, I participated in a product audit, which was a customer assessment. I was able to verify whether the product was complete and perform a trial assembly of the product in accordance with the enclosed user’s manual. I was responsible for the quality acceptance of finished products based on the Control Cycle Sheet, and I also visually assessed the materials used in the production of armchairs and chairs using a light chamber. In the laboratory at the Wood Processing Plant, I was able to test the resin used in the production of plywood products. What was the most surprising thing for you during your internship? What do you appreciate about your time as an intern? The internship showed me how the different departments of a large company function and how business works. Now I know how much time you need to manufacture a particular product, and I understand how important the cooperation between teams is. I also met interesting people I could learn a lot from. In the German company Rohde & Grahl, trainees and students of dual studies make up about 10% of the team. 61 62 We respect the ENVIRONMENT 5 63 Strategic goals Energy efficiency of Efficient logistics and Packaging reduction production cleaner transport To reduce the consumption To reduce energy consumption To reduce fuel consumption of of materials in packaging for through the use of energydelivery trucks and minimise finished products and the number saving devices and increase exhaust emissions. of printed documents. the efficiency of production To look for new methods of processes. loading furniture in order to optimise the use of the available loading space. Our promises for 2018–2019 ||With a view to improving the working ||We will continue the implementation of conditions of the employees at the Wood advanced IT systems (Track&Trace, EDI, WMS), Processing Plant and reducing the electric which facilitate logistics processes and reduce energy consumption, we will replace the dust the number of printed documents. collection system in two production halls in ||We will create a logistics model that will include Rzepedź with a system that will have a higher reverse logistics, which takes into account the efficiency of extract air filtration. second lifecycle of products; we will carry out ||We will continue the process of changing the a pilot project on the Dutch market. lighting in the production and storage halls to ||We will develop a new logistics model that LED light sources. will include the use of the special corletta load ||We will use an alternative packaging method on carriers for transporting furniture. the German market. For the furniture range, we will use “L-shaped” pallets to make better use of the loading space, and for grupage orders, we will replace the stretch film with PP tape and limit the use of plastic packaging. Our participation in the process of realising Sustainable Development Goals: 64 Environment 5 The stork is unfortunately an endangered species, but it is protected. Because of this, we are very happy that a stork family decided to occupy a nest located on the inactive chimney of our factory in Rzepedź in 2017. In order to introduce a wide circle of people to our winged residents, we installed a camera that enabled all of us to watch the storks’ spring flights and autumn migration, the incredibly fascinating births of their chicks and the couple’s everyday activity in the care of their nest and offspring. Watching storks is not only very enjoyable, it also calms people down. GRI The process of managing the influence our company serves the German market (our largest market in terms of sales) 103-2 has on the environment includes the identification and in 2017. EMAS includes requirements significantly extending the monitoring of the significant environmental issues, the analysis scope of the standard ISO 14001. of processes that may affect them and the development of ecological solutions that minimise or neutralise our negative impact. We define our pro-ecological aims and monitor them on an ongoThroughout the whole company, employees’ work is based on ing basis through our Environmental Action Programs. the principles of the Environmental, Quality and OHS Management System (Integrated Management System Policy) based on GRI Because we operate in a systematic manner, we meet all 307-1 the standards ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and PN-N/OHSAS 18001. It is legal environmental requirements. As in previous years, no the most important document that defines the objectives in the penalties or other sanctions were imposed on any of our compaareas of quality, occupational health and safety and the environnies in this respect in 2016–2017. What’s more, the audits of our ment, as well as in the aspects connected with energy, water, management systems carried out periodically by external certifiemissions, effluents and waste management, which is highly cation institutions always resulted in a positive recommendation relevant to the company. The FSC®CoC Product Origin Control and in the company retaining the certificates. System (FSC Value Support Policy) is also applied across the entire company. In addition, we implemented a voluntary ecoWe also require all our suppliers to comply with environmental management and audit scheme (EMAS) in one of our German standards. We verify their compliance at the beginning of our production plants (Rohde & Grahl in Voigtei/Steyerberg), which cooperation and then during systematic controls. In addition to the typical requirements concerning the environmental management system, the main aim of EMAS is to reduce the negative impact on the environment by improving the company’s business activity. Besides compliance with the standard ISO 14001, EMAS sets out additional criteria connected with employee engagement, adjustment of the actions undertaken to meet legal regulations and the transparency of activities. 65 Environmental influences in production processes Natural and artificial materials (water, wood, metal, plastic, foam) Recycling and waste Energy management Packaging Emissions and distribution and effluents 66 Environment 5 Materials One of Nowy Styl Group’s strengths is production autonomy. We Our responsibility includes: have our own tool shop and a multifunctional machine park for ||Monitoring the origin of the materials we use – ensuring that wood, metal and plastic processing. In our production processes, their extraction is done sustainably and without violating we use wood, chipboard, fibreboard, metal, textiles, plastics and human rights; obtaining materials with certificates is a guarpolyurethane foam. antee of this; ||Making rational use of materials – applying the technologies that reduce the amount of production waste, and thus minimise the use of materials; ||Designing products in accordance with the circular economy model ( p. 37). GRI MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT AND VOLUME* 301-1 PolyureWood Plastics Metal Textiles thane foam (m3) (t) (t) (m2) (kg) Fibreboard, chipboard and others Timber material (m3) (m3) with without the FSC the FSC 2016 certificate certificate Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 13,422 4,985 16,038 3,236 11,573 1,669,085 1,071,160 Nowy Styl GmbH 18,398 8,270 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2,619 – – 791 132 n/a 217,810 Nowy Styl Group 16,040 4,985 16,038 4,027 11,705 1,687,484 1,297,240 PolyureWood Plastics Metal Textiles thane foam (m3) (t) (t) (m2) (kg) Fibreboard, chipboard and others Timber material (m3) (m3) with without the FSC the FSC 2017 certificate certificate Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 17,154 5,023 16,663 2,973 11,907 1,709,134 1,051,822 Nowy Styl GmbH 14,207 5,781 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 3,634 – – 927 58 n/a 231,960 Sitag AG 104,600 15,265 89,335 73 9,132 39,088 25,600 Nowy Styl Group 125,389 20,288 105,998 3,973 21,097 1,762,429 1,315,162 * The table does not include data for the company Sitag AG due to the difficulty in obtaining them. 67 By intensifying our production, we also increase the volume of processes, we also use FSC-certified solid wood and plywood, the materials we use. Therefore, we monitor their origin, choose which guarantees the timber comes from sustainably managed sustainable sources and constantly introduce technologies that forests. FSC-certified wood made up 25% of the total round rationalise their consumption. timber purchase in 2016 and 24% in 2017. Wood Textiles All of the wood used at our production plant in Rzepedź comes We use EU flower certified fabrics, textile products with the Oekofrom European Union forests and conforms to the requireTex® certificate and wool (the popular upholsteries are Synergy ments stated in the EUTR 995/2010 regulation, which focuses and Blazer) which has the Wools of New Zealand label, indicating on eliminating illegal timber logging. During our manufacturing sustainable sheep husbandry. The FSC® certificate (FSC-C120977) applies to responsible forest management and the entire flow of raw materials from the forest to the customer. Each stage of the chain is monitored in terms of social, ecological and economic performance. A product can only be marked with the FSC label if it fulfils all requirements, giving customers a guarantee that the wooden product (made of raw timber or plywood) is eco-friendly. Until now, only our Wood Processing Plant in Rzepedź and its storehouses were covered by the certificate, so the FSC label could only be obtained by products completely manufactured on those premises. In 2017, we significantly increased the possibility to manufacture certified products, since we submitted further plants to the FSC audit, such as the Office Furniture Factory and the Chairs and Armchairs Production Plant in Jasło. Plastics As a result, despite the increase in production, our consumption of the stretch film decreased by 15% in 2017 compared to 2015. The majority of the plastic waste we generate is processed into For us, this means saving costs, and for our customers it means the elements of our chairs. Their armrests, covers and carcasses less waste. are made of regranulate, which we produce in our factories. In recent years, we modernised the machinery park at the Plastic Eco-materials Processing Plant in Jasło. We bought energy-saving injection moulding machines and grinders for plastic that helped us manAn alternative material used at the Rohde & Grahl production age the production waste better and significantly optimise the plants is bamboo, which is used to produce chipboards. Bamboo material consumption in our production processes. 100% of the is an exceptionally durable and solid material. It can be 100% plastic parts manufactured in our factory are suitable for recycling. recycled and its resources are quickly renewed. Packaging We do our utmost to use eco-friendly materials that do not contain harmful substances, and that have a limited impact on the We offer alternative ways of packaging our products (e.g. the environment during the degradation process. We manage the use transport of furniture in special blankets ( CSR Code 2014–2015, of chemicals in accordance with the REACH directive and label p. 84)) and optimise the use of plastics in packaging. In recent our products and packaging in accordance with the principles of years, we have bought special machines for stretching the stretch the CLP regulation. film, which means we get 3.5 m2 out of 1 m2 of the stretch film. 68 Environment 5 The basic elements of the modular system Tepee are panels made of thermoformed felt – an innovative material made from PET bottles. Water We continuously improve standards, facilitate the technological The water used in our factories comes from two sources: the processes in which water is used and strive to reduce its conmunicipal water supply network (in all our locations) and surface sumption. We use water resources for technological, social and water intakes (in the Wood Processing Plant in Rzepedź, which is living purposes. equipped with own pumping station). GRI TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE* 303-1 Total volume (m3) Total water withdrawn by source (m3) 2016 2017 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 54,049 51,542 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 751 586 Surface water Sitag AG 0 0 Nowy Styl Group 54,800 52,128 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. 55,604 56,055 Rohde & Grahl GmbH 2,744 3,356 Municipal water supplies Sitag AG 1,936 1,139 Nowy Styl Group 60,284 60,550 Total 115,084 112,678 * The table does not include data for the companies Sitag AG and Nowy Styl GmbH due to the difficulty in obtaining them and their insignificant importance in terms of the entire company. 69 Effluents We are always careful to ensure the right management and elimithe Wood Processing Plant in Rzepedź, domestic sewage is channation of the effluents generated during our manufacturing pronelled to the Osławica river following treatment. In the second, cesses. Sanitary wastewater is discharged to Municipal Services located at the Metal Processing Plant, industrial sewage generDepartment systems. Two of the factories in Poland have their ated during the manufacturing process goes to the Jasiółka river own sewage treatment plants. In the first one, which is located at following treatment. GRI TOTAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE BY DESTINATION* 306-1 Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. Volume (m3) Wastewater discharge destination Wastewater treatment 2016 2017 To surface water By the company 33,146 36,745 (lakes, rivers, etc.) By the sewage treatment To municipal enterprises 21,528 20,667 plant Total volume of wastewater 54,674 57,412 Rohde & Grahl GmbH Volume (m3) Wastewater discharge destination Wastewater treatment 2016 2017 By the sewage treatment To municipal enterprises 3,356 2,744 plant Total volume of wastewater 3,356 2,744 Sitag AG Volume (m3) Wastewater discharge destination Wastewater treatment 2016 2017 By the sewage treatment To municipal enterprises 1,939 1,139 plant Total volume of wastewater 1,939 1,139 Nowy Styl Group Volume (m3) Wastewater discharge destination Wastewater treatment 2016 2017 To surface water By the company 33,146 36,745 (lakes, rivers, etc.) By the sewage treatment To municipal enterprises 26,823 24,550 plant Total volume of wastewater 59,969 61,295 * The table does not include data for the company Nowy Styl GmbH due to the difficulty in obtaining them and their insignificant importance in terms of the entire company. 70 Environment 5 Energy Energy consumption is one of the key areas connected with our environmental impact. We monitor it in the following way: ||we count it on the basis of our invoices, ||we control the amount of heating energy, ||we check the measurements from our factories, ||we check how much energy is consumed by our key machines and processes. We reduce our energy consumption GRI GRI Our goals are increasing the energy efficiency of 103-2 302-4 our production processes and factory buildings, using the renewable energy and reducing fuel consumption and the amount of emissions in logistics. Through these goals we are involved in the fight against global warming and the actions aimed at reducing the consumption of energy from non-renewable sources. Heating energy from biomass and biogas In Poland, we obtain a significant amount of heating energy from Energy-saving machinery park two boiler houses fuelled with biomass that comes from clean ||We have launched a laser cutting line in the Metal Production wood waste. They provide thermal energy for the needs of the Plant. The technology of CO2 lasers has been replaced with technological process and the central heating. a fibre technology. The fibre laser ensures the same quality, and at the same time is more reliable, occupies a smaller area In Germany, in Steyerberg, the heating energy is provided by a 230 and – most importantly – needs twice less power. The fibre kW bio-gasworks located on the premises of the Rohde & Grahl laser in a working mode consumes less energy that the CO2 GmbH production plants, but operated by local farmers. laser in a standby mode! ||We have also modernised the park of sewing machines in the 100% of green energy Chairs and Armchairs Production Plant. By replacing traditional In the Rohde & Grahl factory and offices located in Voigtei and engines with servo engines, we have reduced the energy conSteyerberg (Germany), 100% of the energy consumed is green sumption of these machines by 50%. energy, obtained from renewable sources – mainly Scandinavian hydroelectric power stations. The “Ökostrom” certificate was conMore efficient transport firmed by TUV SÜD auditors. The use of standard semi-trailers with double decks in the process of transporting chairs and furniture has allowed us to increase the use of the loading space. Fibre laser at the Metal Processing Plant 71 GRI ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION 302-1 BY TYPE OF MATERIAL* Volume Total consumption of the energy from (MWh) non-renewable materials (own or purchased) by type of material 2016 2017 Coal 2,719 2,946 Natural gas 6,394 6,830 Non-renewable Heating oil 161 157 Fuel oil Total consumption 9,274 9,933 Volume Total consumption of the energy from (MWh) renewable materials (own or purchased) by type of material 2016 2017 Biomass 41,547 42,216 Renewable Other (t) 1,020 1,030 Total consumption 42,567 43,246 Volume Total consumption of the energy (MWh) (own or purchased) by electric energy and heating energy 2016 2017 Electric energy 29,521 30,450 Heating energy (including the use of steam and 51,841 53,179 cooling energy) Total consumption 81,362 83,629 * The table does not include data for the company Nowy Styl GmbH due to the difficulty in obtaining them and their insignificant importance in terms of the entire company. Photo by Bartłomiej Winkajtis – in 2016 the picture was awarded in a corporate photography competition with the theme nature. 72 Environment 5 Emissions Reducing the emission of pollutants into the atmosphere is one of the indicators defined in permits for the emission of dust and gas the most important aims of our Environmental Policy. An accredinto the air for particular systems and production plants. ited laboratory takes emissions measurements at our production plants once a year, in conformity with the requirements of the We make particular efforts in the area of logistics since in our Environmental Protection Law. The measurements are based on value chain transport is the most significant source of the emisstandard emission indicators, according to the National Centre sions of carbon dioxide – a greenhouse gas responsible for global for Emissions Balancing and Management instructions, and on warming. GRI Transport vehicles with double decks 302-2 We often equip semi-trailer vehicles with double decks, which allow for placing products on two levels – the upper and the lower. The hard construction of the decks at a height of 2 x 180 cm and the use of a hydraulic lift ensure the goods are well protected and the distribution process is efficient. In this way, we increase the loading capacity for euro pallets (120 x 80 cm) by 63%. It is the perfect solution for customers who require the delivery of products of certain height due to their own internal conditions. According to our calculations, the reduction in transport vehicle traffic that results from this solution allows us to reduce the emission of harmful exhaust fumes by 40%. Also our marketing activities are educational and have a smaller adhesives in our products and replacing solvent-based adhesives environmental impact. In Germany, we compensate for the emiswith water-based adhesives that are free from VOCs ( CSR Code sions connected with the printing of marketing materials and 2014–2015, p. 75). corporate documents by supporting environmental programs (Climate Partner Certificate). We only print our materials using We cooperate only with suppliers who do not use freons (CFC and recycled paper. HCFC) that deplete the ozone layer, heavy metals and brominated substances in the foam. We are continuing our efforts to minimise the emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). We are reducing the consumption of We know how dangerous formaldehyde can be to people’s health. It is a component of furniture boards, but it can also be found in building materials, cosmetics (e.g. nail polishes) and cleaning agents. Therefore, the restrictive control of its emission is key. In 2016, we opened an internal Laboratory with a chamber for testing formaldehyde emissions at our Wood Processing Plant in Rzepedź. In this lab, we can test plywood and wood-based components in terms of their safety on an ongoing basis (by the end of 2017, we had conducted 89 tests). Moreover, we periodically verify our internal tests through external tests carried out by an independent accredited research unit. 73 GRI TOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 305-1 Greenhouse gas emissions GRI (tCO2e) 305-3 2016 2017 Direct emissions Emissions connected with the production of heat and with 15,644 13,471 the technological process* Emissions connected with the transport of materials, 589 570 products and waste – internal transport** Total direct emissions 16,233 14,042 Indirect emissions Emissions connected with the transport of materials and products – external transport (estimates concerning the 3,552 3,793 three main carriers)** * Data based on emission measurements, KOBiZE emissivity indicators, consumption of materials and the working time of systems. ** Data estimated on the basis of fuel consumption and KOBiZE CO2 emissivity factors. The table does not include data for the company Nowy Styl GmbH due to the difficulty in obtaining them and their insignificant importance in terms of the entire company. GRI NITROGEN OXIDES (NOx), SULPHUR OXIDES (SOx), AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS* 305-7 Volume of the significant air emissions (in kg) 2016 2017 CO 43,920 34,503 NOx 37,286 31,546 SOx 3,434 3,446 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 42,800 43,415 Dust (PM) 40,328 38,484 * Data based on emission measurements, KOBiZE emissivity indicators, consumption of materials and the working time of systems. The table does not include data for the company Nowy Styl GmbH due to the difficulty in obtaining them and their insignificant importance in terms of the entire company. Photo by Caroline Wirtz – in 2016 the picture was awarded in a corporate photography competition with the theme nature. 74 Environment 5 Waste For us, the group of waste materials includes the waste from our At the same time, we uphold the highest standards of recycling production processes and the products that we are not able to and management of the waste materials that we are not able to use again or process, and which end their lives in landfill or stored reuse: we hand them over to external companies that provide under special conditions (hazardous waste). comprehensive solutions in this area. According to the circular economy model, such waste should not We are well organised in managing used oils and fluorescent occur at all (the zero-waste concept). To follow this trend, we lamps – they are disposed of in accordance with legal requirements. carry out a series of activities that are aimed at minimising waste. We also help our customers utilise products properly. We deterFoams, scraps, leather and fabric snips – in many cases, we are mine the extent to which they can be recycled, e.g. by marking able to use them again in our production process. In order to them in terms of the plastic content according to the standard ISO recover heating energy, for example, we burn shavings and saw11469. We also mark components to facilitate their segregation. dust in boiler rooms located at our factories. The surplus is given to people who use these waste materials in their household central heating systems. GRI TOTAL VOLUME OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL 306-2 METHOD* 2016 2017 Non-hazardous Hazardous Non-hazardous Hazardous Volume of waste (t) waste waste waste waste Reusing 199.60 0.00 212.40 0.00 Recycling 4,609.61 420.23 5,283.03 390.38 Recovery (including energy recovery) 24,359.17 0.00 23,660.39 0.00 Combustion (or using as fuel) 2,217.19 0.00 2,828.02 0.00 Storage in landfill 3.07 0.00 114.70 0.00 Storage at the production plant 0.00 19.90 0.00 10.50 Total 31,388.63 440.13 32,098.54 400.88 * The table does not include data for the company Nowy Styl GmbH due to the difficulty in obtaining them and their insignificant importance in terms of the entire company. GRI TOTAL VOLUME OF WASTE BY TYPE 306-2 Waste volume (t) 2016 2017 Non-hazardous waste 5,882 7,108 Hazardous waste 420 390 75 76 We build a sustainable SUPPLY CHAIN 6 77 Strategic goals To concentrate on costTo centralise the effectiveness and timely purchasing function implementation management To specify buyers To manage strategies/ in certain purchase categories and the categories supplier database Our promises for 2018–2019 We will continue to develop purchase strategies for individual categories. We will create and implement purchasing processes on the IT platforms. In cooperation with the Logistics Department, we will deal with the optimisation of the following commercial parameters: LT, MOQ, payment deadlines and purchase cost. 78 Supply chain 6 GRI GRI Every day, we are constantly in touch with the entities that provide us 103-2 102-9 with materials necessary for production, components or services, e.g. in the field of logistics and technological processes. In total, we cooperate with over 2,000 companies. NOWY STYL GROUP’S SUPPLY CHAIN SUB-SUPPLIERS Direct cooperation with producers in order to lower costs and minimise risks. MACHINERY MATERIALS COMPONENTS PARK NOWY STYL GROUP Production in Poland, Germany and Switzerland. FINANCIAL RESOURCES Product R+D Production development FEEDBACK PRODUCTS AND SERVICES LOGISTICS PARTNERS 3,500 DISTRIBUTORS PROJECT MARKET RETAIL CUSTOMERS 79 Supplier of the Year Suppliers are our strategic partners, and we build long-term relaWhen using Camira fabrics, we create products that are more tionships with them. environmentally friendly. The Synergy and Blazer materials are made of certified wool that ensures sustainable sheep husbandry. In the “Supplier of the Year” competition, we reward the compaCamira received the Queen’s Award for Sustainable Development nies that contribute to the high quality and safety of our products, from Queen Elizabeth II for initiatives like natural cultivation, recyas well as ensuring the timely implementation of our customers’ cling and upcycling of materials, and energy-saving production. orders. When selecting the award-winning companies, we take into consideration environmental issues, innovative recycling soluThe furniture elements supplied by Hettich (such as the stoptions and energy-efficient production. control-plus system and the soft-close system) increase the safety and functionality of our products. The waste recycling rate of 97% The winning companies in 2016 were Camira, a British textiles and the energy-efficient building of the Hettich headquarters in manufacturer, and Hettich, a German company. Kirchlengern show that the company is effective in its sustainable development activities. Purchasing policy GRI We managed supply safety, which is the basis of our comto maintain our environmental standards in the supply chain. 103-2 pany’s functioning, by creating purchasing procedures In 2016 and 2017, a group of our suppliers was enriched with 24 based on the standard ISO 9001:2008. The main principle is supnew companies. Each of them passed the verification process. plier diversification: we maintain a wide portfolio of material suppliers in different countries, unify products and create a base of Shared standards alternative technologies. We have similar production technologies at our factories located in different countries (Germany, Ukraine GRI At the beginning of 2016, we published the Nowy Styl 414-1 and Russia). Moreover, we transfer some aspects of production to Group Supplier Code of Conduct – a document that defines our suppliers, which provides protection in case of emergencies. ethical regulations, as well as social, economic and environmental responsibility standards for our suppliers. They all are based on We also continue the supply centralisation process, which enables the principles we believe in, respect and want to share with the us to control the expenses of the whole Group and use the scale companies we cooperate with. From the very beginning, we knew and synergy effect more effectively. This means the same purchasthat the document had to be universal. We treated its effective ing strategy can be implemented throughout the whole company. implementation as one of our most important promises. Within two years, the document was accepted by nearly 100% of our key Out of concern for the environment suppliers in Poland and abroad. We are pleased that our action has been met with full understanding by the other party, resultGRI All entities with whom we enter into cooperation are ing in the feeling that together we support the healthy rules of 308-1 obliged to undergo a verification process in terms of running a business. their fulfilment of environmental criteria. In this way, we are able Supplier 99 % Code of In the last two years, the Supplier Code of Conduct has been signed by 99% of our Conduct direct suppliers. 80 Supply chain 6 Common growth GRI As a European leader in the furniture industry, we always Our development acts as an accelerator of local business growth. 103-2 feel responsible and care about the development of local We know many cases when our suppliers evolved from “garage” business, where the story of our company began over a quarter of companies into thriving enterprises, winning both domestic and a century ago. The majority of our suppliers are local companies, foreign markets in just a few years. A model, though not the which means those that operate in Poland and Germany – close only example, of such development is the company Fabryka 4x4 to our main production locations in Jasło, Voigtei/Steyerberg located near Krosno, which at the beginning was solely connected and Sennwald. with the automotive industry (off-road equipment production). After entering into cooperation with Nowy Styl Group, the comGRI The products and services from local suppliers constituted pany became a leading supplier of laser cutting services within 204-1 over 50% of the company’s expenses in 2016–2017. In just four years. Poland, it was 54% in 2016 and 52% in 2017, while in Germany it was 58% in 2016 and 65% in 2017. Thanks to Nowy Styl Group, we are now a completely different company. Nowy Styl Group asked us for a quote in the second month of our business activity. At that time, we had a small office at Kazimierza Pużaka Street in Krosno. We hired about 20 employees and had one laser for providing a metal cutting service. The idea of their enquiry was to supply details made using this technology. The quote presented by FABRYKA 4X4 was accepted, and this is how we established a cooperation that continues to this day. Nowadays, however, we are a completely different company. We employ over 50 people and we have moved to a hall that was built from scratch in the investment zone near Krosno. We have four lasers and two press brakes, with which we are able to fulfil orders for a wider circle of recipients, including foreign companies from outside Europe. We continuously develop and implement new technologies, the proof of which is the start of another investment – the construction of a hall covering an area of 1,000 m2 and the purchase of a new laser for processing pipes and profiles. I don’t want to hide the fact that we undertake these activities with a view to expanding our cooperation with Nowy Styl Group, which has had a huge impact on who we are today. I am convinced that new projects will soon result in mutual benefits. Paweł Majka President of the Management Board, Fabryka 4x4 81 82 We give an impulse to LOCAL development 7 83 Strategic goals To get involved in local To support young talents; development effectively to encourage culture development Our promises for 2018–2019 We will support the passion and development of talented young people. Our participation in the process of realising Sustainable Development Goals: 84 Local development 7 GRI We are an active member of the social environment. We where the company operates and to the extent adequate to 413-1 are mainly involved in local communities, in which our its business activity); offices and factories operate and on which our activities have ||Continuation – being aware of the importance of stability and a strong influence. predictability of our social engagement for the local community, we strive to maintain the established relationships. We strive to not disturb the existing balance (including the environmental balance). We also do our best to use the potential of The areas and priorities of our engagement were selected in relathe community and contribute to shaping its future. tion to the social needs recognised as the most important for the community. We also took into account the possibilities of Nowy According to the Donation and Sponsorship Policy, which was Styl Group and the effectiveness of its impact in a given area. accepted by the Management Board in 2017, our social engagement is guided by the principles of: Our decisions about supporting new undertakings are made on ||Locality – the company concentrates its social commitment the basis of donation or sponsorship request applications, which on initiatives at the regional and local level (at the locations help us assess their compliance with the “Policy.” AREAS OF OUR SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT Education of We invest in the development of children and childen and teenteenagers, in particular in equalising educational agers, including opportunities. We treat this as a long-term action, young disabled which is an indication of our concern for integrated people development of the whole region. We promote physical activity as a tool for Sport promotion preventative health support and an area that shapes and support people’s characters and improves the quality of their lives. We provide selected cultural institutions and Culture undertakings with financial and in-kind support. support We do this because we are aware of the influence they have on social development. We engage in initiatives that promote the spirit of enterprise and educate young people in the field Enterprise of economics. We do this because we believe that support a responsibly and efficiently run business is the basis of the economy and social well-being. As much as we can, we support the initiatives of Health healthcare institutions, in particular through in-kind care donations that increase the comfort of working and staying in the facilities. 85 GRI The biggest local community, in which we have been Charity Ball 2016 and 2017 in Krosno 413-1 functioning for 26 years, consists of inhabitants of the Every year our New Year’s event is attended by approximately Sub-Carpathian region located in the south of Poland. We use 1,000 children, including disabled children, from Sub-Carpathian the region’s natural resources and we are one of the most domieducational care centres and family-type children’s homes. nant employers, with over 3,100 employees from Krosno, Jasło and neighbouring towns. By paying tax locally, our company In 2016, the main motto of the event was: “Musical St. Nicholas’ participates in shaping the region’s economy to an increasing Day” – the guests had fun while discovering the music and dance extent. We also influence the local economy indirectly through from different parts of the world. our suppliers – over 50% of them are local entrepreneurs who are developing their potential through their cooperation with The families that belong to associations for disabled people and Nowy Styl Group ( p. 81). their carers emphasise the great integration function of the Ball and the fact that the children in their care can meet with such Being rooted in the life of the Sub-Carpathian region, we undera large group of non-disabled people. Everyone at the Ball has stand its needs and problems, and we are able to fully participate equal rights. If necessary, the disabled children receive additional in its development ( CSR Code 2014–2015, p. 109). help. They also have many opportunities to show their talent. In 2016, they were the front runners in music corners. Selected projects In 2017, the Ball participants played “On the Business Floor.” In We provide support through long-term strategic projects, as well a light-hearted and pleasant way, we presented the rules that as by supporting the bigger and smaller initiatives of our social govern the world of finance, showed the methods of recognising partners. The most important are: counterfeits, and talked about the currencies of different countries and the rules of the stock exchange. Janusz Korczak Foundation Created by Adam and Jerzy Krzanowski, the Foundation supWe invited participants to prepare for the Ball: ports the development of young people from the Sub-Carpathian We asked them to design new banknotes – among the work region. For many years, the Foundation has been running a scholwe received, there were some unique nominal values, as well as arship program for pupils and students. In 2016, 47 people used a completely new currency – “NS-zloty,” the banknotes of which the program, increasing to 50 people in 2017. We subsidise tuition were decorated with the images of our company’s chiefs. at universities, and we also support training courses that help young people be admitted to university. We invited them to take part in a competition for the best business plan, in which they were able to win “Our Business” micro SIEMACHA Association and DEMOS Foundation grants. The participants presented projects that their organisaSIEMACHA and DEMOS projects not only provide a sense of secutions wanted to implement: they indicated the potential benefits rity and regular care, but also trigger passions and stimulate the of the project, its detailed cost estimate, and the way in which development of children and teenagers who are experiencing they would collect the required 20% of the budget by themselves. difficult life situations. A modern children’s home in Odporyszów, The award-winning ideas included a new basketball court, a trip where only pupils and carers cook and clean, modern sports facilito the Copernicus Science Centre and the equipment for a multies, including the Horse Sports Centre, travels, activities in the timedia room. “new generation yards,” or in shopping malls – these and other innovative forms of social assistance convinced us to support Our business partners supported us in organising the Ball – the this organisation. “World of Money” Foundation, the PKO BP Bank Foundation, Citi Handlowy Bank, the National Bank of Poland, BZ WBK Bank (its Department in Jasło) and the Accountants Association in Poland all supported the event. 86 Local development 7 Economic education September 2016, fifth-grade pupils at the Primary School No. 14 The spirit of enterprise is one of the features of our organisain Krosno were able to attend economics classes. The curriculum tional culture. We believe that a good understanding of the rules covered 35 teaching hours and was enriched with visits to Nowy of economics aids in making good life decisions, so it is worth Styl Group’s production plants in Jasło. The pilot classes were learning them from a young age. In 2014, Jerzy Krzanowski and used to create didactic materials for teachers, which they can use his daughter Patrycja Krzanowska created the book “The World of to conduct similar lessons at other schools. The World of Money Money.” It is a colourful story about the history and importance of Foundation and Nowy Styl Group also strive to introduce these money in people’s everyday lives, told for children (the illustrations kinds of classes in Krosno. were made by famous illustrator Magda Grabowska-Wacławek alias Grabovska). Entrepreneurs and children were delighted Our charity activities are focused on the initiatives aimed at helpwith the book. Several of the largest Polish companies ordered ing young people who are threatened by social exclusion, people an additional printing for their own needs. The publication was who suffer from ill health and those who are poor. We provide promoted by the World of Money Foundation. To date, the book them with goods-in-kind and financial support. In total, in 2016 has sold 50,000 copies. and 2017, we donated over 1,000 pieces of furniture to schools, health centres and social organisations. Two years later, the book was published in Belarusian and Russian language versions. A decision was also made to create In Germany, we support the children’s hospice Löwenherz, for a lesson program for primary schools based on the book. Since example. DONATIONS Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. (PLN) 2016 2017 Including: 840,919.23 500,457.39 Charity Ball 177,838 182,017 Scholarships and social projects realised by the Janusz 177,521 158,740 Korczak Foundation Goods-in-kind 110,470.79 148,440.95 The Krzysztof Penderecki European Centre for Music Where the masters are born in Lusławice The Centre founded by Prof. Krzysztof Penderecki is most famous Nowy Styl Group has been a patron of the Centre’s educational for its master courses. Famous tutors from around the world – and concert programs for four years. Thanks to our support in masters of performance art and composers – come to Lusławice 2016–2017, the organisation was able to organise 182 concerts and to meet with very talented musicians, pupils and students from all performances which gathered together over 60,000 music lovers, over Poland and Europe. For a few days, they improve their skills, as well as 80 concerts on various stages across Lesser Poland as acquire knowledge, prepare a concert program and inspire each part of the Emanacje festivals. The music facility in Lusławice was other. For young people, a meeting with a master is an event that visited by leading symphony orchestras, world-famous chamber shapes their artistic personality and often determines their future. music stars, outstanding soloists and the most talented musicians of the younger generation. We are happy to support the organisation of courses that are at the highest level, making them available even for less affluent young people. We believe the European Centre for Music provides the best possible environment for shaping young talents, and thus significantly affects the development of the Polish school of virtuosos. 87 The Young Arts Festival in Krosno – Held as part of the Emanacje festival organised by the Centre in Lusławice, this was a new event on the cultural map of not only Krosno, but also the whole region, promoting classical music. The first edition of the festival took place in the summer of 2016 and, thanks to a huge attendance and many positive reviews, it was continued a year later. The festival, which lasted several days, was divided into two parts: workshops for young musicians from all over Poland, and open-air concerts for the public. The music was played not only in concert halls, but also in surprising locations. For example, the concert of pianist Leszek Możdżer took place in the air hangar! In the hall, there was enough room for crowds of music lovers, and the masterly performed music revived the unknown interior. The open-air event, which was held in the heart of the old town, turned out to be equally surprising and popular. Together with the festival’s students and teachers, several dozen residents – children and adults – presented their music skills. The great jam session was seen by several hundred attendees. The final concert of the first edition of the festival, which was held at the market square, remained in residents’ memory for a long time. The audience saw a performance by an orchestra composed of young music protégés under the baton of Krzesimir Dębski. The musicians presented refreshed arrangements of well-known pieces of classical music, convincing the attendees that “classical music is also music,” which was the main idea of the event from the very beginning. 88 Local development 7 2016 AND 2017 IN LUSŁAWICE 182 concerts and performances for >60,000 music lovers 119 master courses that gathered together 2,800 participants >100 masters Selected courses: ||Winter Music Academy ||Lusławice Talents Orchestra ||Shanghai Quartet Chamber Music Master Course ||Summer Music Academy ||Ensemble OPUS workshops ||Santander Orchestra ||Composers’ workshops during the Film Music Festival 89 Sports promotion and support compete in the Polish Rugby Ekstraliga. In Germany, we support We engage in the world of sport in terms of business and because local football and horse riding clubs. of the spirit and passion for sport that we wish to promote as a whole company. For a few years, we have been supporting the organisation of the Independence Run, which takes place in November in Krosno, We combine our business goals and the willingness to support and the Magura Ultramarathon in Krempna. We also sponsored local initiatives by sponsoring sports projects and institutions, the Smith’s Race in Jedlicze, the Łemkowyna Ultra-Trail and the including the Krosno Basketball Club, the Association of the Night Charity Swimming Marathon. Krosno Sport Development, the University Club AZS of the University of Rzeszów, and the Krosno Runners Club. We are one of We use our Sports Club as a platform for promoting physical the sponsors of the Juvenia Kraków rugby club, whose players activity among our employees ( p. 58). Tom Lüthi and Sitag – a strong team What does an office furniture expert such as Sitag have in common with a motorcycle racer like Tom Lüthi? Far more than one might first expect. The assumption that professionals rely on quality is the first thing that comes to mind. Tom Lüthi – like thousands of other SITAG customers – sits when he’s working and has a lot of requirements. Therefore, it’s not without reason that since 2014 Sitag has maintained a successful sponsoring partnership with Tom Lüthi. Nowy Styl Group’s Swiss brand and the motorcycle racer share above-average endurance and an unconditional willingness to become perfect. This similarity is proudly communicated through various channels during marketing events, on social media and via advertisements. Together with Tom Lüthi, Sitag presents its line of office swivel chairs SITAGWAVE and the SITAGACTIVE LIFTMATIC desk with automatic height adjustment. Lüthi’s photo also features in the sought-after Sitag annual calendars, and he is the guest of honour at prestigious events, such as the “AGV meets SITAG & Tom Lüthi” event, which was held in 2017. The slogan: “Sitting like a world champion. Tom Lüthi at work” perfectly reflects the successful cooperation between Sitag and the famous sportsman. Eisenhut 2014 Suter-Moto2 90 Local development 7 Koźmiński Foundation Our commitment is also visible on other local markets in the A foundation that runs initiatives supporting the development countries in which our company operates. We entrust our local of local and business communities in Poland. Jerzy Krzanowski managers in Germany, France and Great Britain with the choice is a member of the Foundation’s Council. of initiatives and groups of recipients who need our support. Cooperation between Rohde & Grahl GmbH and Lebenshilfe Nienburg GmbH The organisation Lebenshilfe Nienburg GmbH works with disabled people. It strives to provide them with opportunities for personal development and social integration. The company Rohde & Grahl in Germany has been cooperating with Lebenshilfe for years, offering its members jobs that help them become more independent. At the same time, our employees in Germany had the chance to get closer to people with physical and mental disabilities. Over 3,000 adults and children attended the Charity Ball in Krosno and the Open Day event in Rzepedź. 91 92 About the report 7 93 GRI GRI GRI This is the third corporate social responsibilGRI The indicators presented in the report have been chosen 102-50 102-51 102-52 102-46 ity report compiled by Nowy Styl Group. It according to the expectations of our key stakeholders includes the results of the business activity conducted by Nowy ( p. 21), including our customers, employees, partners and supStyl Sp. z o.o. and its subsidiaries within the period 01/01/2016 to pliers. The selection has also been influenced by the benchmarking 31/12/2017. The report is issued biennially. The previous report, of our competitors and Nowy Styl Group’s policy. CSR Code, which covered the calendar years 2014 and 2015, was based on the GRI G4 Guidelines and was published in 2017. In accordance with the GRI methodology, we have selected the GRI GRI This publication has been prepared in accordance sustainable development aspects and issues important for our 102-54 102-56 with the basic option (Core) of the new GRI Standcompany through a three-stage process: ards. Compliance of the report’s methodology with the above||identifying key indicators for the whole industry according to mentioned standards and the authenticity of the data included the current benchmarking of competitors and our previous have been verified by independent auditors from Deloitte AdviCSR Code reports; sory Sp. z o.o. The financial data presented in the report have been ||prioritising aspects based on our dialogue with stakeholders taken from our financial reports audited by independent expert (meetings with the company’s representatives and a questionauditors (PwC Sp. z o.o.). This assures us and the recipients of the naire survey open to everyone) ( p. 21); report that the data included in the report and connected with ||holding validating consultations with the Management Board, the following key areas of sustainable development – relationships during which we determined the scope of the report and parwith employees, influence on the environment, local community ticular indicators. and the market, and the effectiveness of the management of these aspects – are complete and reliable. GRI GRI GRI 102-47 102-49 103-1 Indicators identified as key for the company (high level Aspects assessed as less of importance) important for the company Economic performance, Presence on the market, Economic Indirect economic influence Procurement practices, Anti-corruption activities Materials, Energy, Water, Products and services, Overall, Emissions, Effluents and waste, Environmental Biodiversity, Compliance with Supplier Environmental regulations Assessment Employment, Occupational Health and Safety, Education Employees and training courses, Diversity and equal opportunity, Anticorruption activities Compliance with regulations, Society Local community Supplier Social Assessment Customer health and safety, Marketing communication, Product responsibility Product and service labelling Compliance with regulations 94 About the report 8 In accordance with the principle of materiality, in this year’s ediwhen presenting the results of our business activity. We engaged tion of the report we focused on the key aspects for our company, employees from our companies in Germany, the Netherlands, describing them accurately and vividly. At the same time, we Switzerland, France, Great Britain, Czech Republic and Slovakia have limited the number of indicators in order to keep the mesin compiling the document. Unfortunately, we were not always sage legible. able to present the overall data for the whole Group. Therefore, in some parts of the report we have shown data regarding selected Nowy Styl Group’s Sustainable Development Report is a highly companies, setting ourselves the aim to collect the overall inforanalytical document and describes all the activities undertaken mation in the coming years. by the company cross-sectionally. Therefore, its creation involved employees from all the company’s departments and external We would like to thank all those whose commitment made this stakeholders. The report is global, which is why we took into report possible. consideration the initiatives undertaken in all of our main markets GRI 102-53 Contact: Alina Szastok Przemysław Różowicz PR and CSR Senior Specialist Marketing & CSR Manager tel. +48 510 005 355 tel. +48 510 005 424 alina.szastok@nowystylgroup.com przemyslaw.rozowicz@nowystylgroup.com 95 Verification of the report GRI 102-56 96 About the report 8 Content Index Index Indicator name Pages PROFILE INDICATORS Organisational profile GRI 102-1* Name of the organisation 8 GRI 102-2* Activities, brands, products, and services 27 GRI 102-3* Location of headquarters 12, 100 GRI 102-4* Location of operations 11, 12 GRI 102-5* Ownership and legal form 11 GRI 102-6* Markets served 12 GRI 102-7* Scale of the organisation 9, 11, 12, 27 GRI 102-8* Information on employees and other workers 44, 45 GRI 102-9* Description of the supply chain 79–80 No significant changes concerning the organisaSignificant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation's GRI 102-10* tional structure and the size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain scope of the report have been recorded. Explanation whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is GRI 102-11* 3 addressed by the organisation Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, GRI 102-12* 20 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses GRI 102-13* Membership of associations and organisations 23 Strategy GRI 102-14* Statement from senior decision-maker 3 GRI 102-16* Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 17 Internal and external mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethical and GRI 102-17* 17 legal behaviours, as well as issues connected with the organisational integrity Governance structure of the organisation together with the committees subject GRI 102-18* 10 to the highest supervisory body ORGANISATIONAL ORDER Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40* List of stakeholder groups engaged by the reporting organisation 21 GRI 102-41* Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements No collective agreements GRI 102-42* Identifying and selecting stakeholders 21 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including engagement frequency by GRI 102-43* 22 type and stakeholder group Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders and the response from the GRI 102-44* 22 organisation, also through their reporting 97 Index Indicator name Pages Reporting practice GRI 102-45* Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 11 GRI 102-46* Defining report content and topic boundaries 94–95 GRI 102-47* List of material topics 94 Explanations of the effect of any restatements of information provided in No significant changes previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements and their influence concerning the scope GRI 102-48* (e.g. mergers, acquisitions, the change of a year/the reference period, the type of the report have been of organisation, measurement methods) recorded. GRI 102-49* Changes in reporting 94 GRI 102-50* Reporting period 94 GRI 102-51* Date of most recent report (if published) 94 GRI 102-52* Reporting cycle 94 GRI 102-53* Contact point for questions regarding the report 95 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards for Core or CompreGRI 102-54* 94 hensive level GRI 102-55* GRI content index 97–100 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the GRI 102-56* 94, 96 report Management approach GRI 103-1* Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 94 19, 21, 32–33 ,43–44, 54, GRI 103-2* Management approach and its components 65, 71, 79-81 GRI 103-3* Evaluation of the management approach 17 ECONOMIC TOPICS Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed (including revenues, operating costs, employee wages and benefits, subsidies and other community GRI 201-1 9 investments, economic value retained, payments to providers of capital and payments to government) Market presence Ratios of standard entry level wages by gender compared to local minimum GRI 202-1 50 wage Indirect economic impact GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact 19 Procurement practices GRI 204-1* Proportion of spending on services/products from local suppliers 81 Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 205-2* 17 (partial reporting) GRI 205-3* Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 18 98 About the report 8 Index Indicator name Pages ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Materials GRI 301-1* Materials used by weight and volume 67 Energy GRI 302-1* Energy consumption within the organisation by type of material 72 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption (partial reporting) 71 Water GRI 303-1* Water withdrawal by source 69 Emissions GRI 305-1* Direct greenhouse gases emissions 74 GRI 305-3 Other significant indirect greenhouse gases emissions by weight 74 GRI 305-7* Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 74 Effluents and waste GRI 306-1* Total volume of wastewater by final destination 70 GRI 306-2* Total volume of waste by type and disposal method 75 Environmental compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions GRI 307-1* 65 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Supplier environmental assessment GRI 308-1* New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 80 SOCIAL TOPICS Employment GRI 401-1* New employee hires and employee turnover 47–49 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary GRI 401-2 57 or part-time employees Occupational health and safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and GRI 403-2* 54–55 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 56 Education and training GRI 404-1* Average hours of training per year per employee 53 Programs for upgrading employee skills and lifelong learning that support the GRI 404-2* 53 continued employability of employees and transition assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career GRI 404-3 52 development reviews by gender and employment category 99 Index Indicator name Pages Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee GRI 405-1* 44, 45, 47 category by gender, age and other indicators of diversity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by the position GRI 405-2* 50 occupied Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 44 Local community Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and GRI 413-1* 85, 86 development programs Supplier social assessment GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 80 Customer health and safety GRI 416-1* Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 32–33 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts GRI 416-2* 34 of products and services Marketing and product and service labelling Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning GRI 417-2* 34 product and service information and labelling Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning GRI 417-3* 34 marketing communications Socio-economic compliance GRI 419-1* Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 18 * Indicators subject to verification by Deloitte Advisory Sp. z o.o. GRI 102-3 Address of the company: Nowy Styl Sp. z o.o. ul. Pużaka 49 38-400 Krosno, Poland Tel. (13) 43 76 100 Fax (13) 43 62 732 info@nowystylgroup.com 100 www.NowyStylGroup.com
