United Nations Communication on Progress (COP) 1. Statement of continued support We are World Challenge, a global community of trip leaders, teachers, students, parents, local partners and support staff, all passionate about making big things happen through ethical and responsible travel. We aspire to a world where local and global communities come together to take action for positive change and our 5 year plan drives us on to lead in the field of ethical student travel. This vision is led by the principles of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. A year in, we remain more committed than ever to actively embedding the principles of the UN Global Compact within our organization and wider community. Between 2017-19 we have concentrated activity in these areas: Active advocacy in child welfare. We’ve partnered with Rethink Orphanages to support the global movement recognizing the potential of residential care institutions to act as forms of modern slavery and instead championing family based models of care. Continued development of responsible volunteering practices. We remain wholly committed to ensuring local communities initiatives are responsibly supported, realistic expectations are set for our participants and we are raising awareness of the UN SDGS. Reducing our environmental impact. Proactively supporting our charity of the year, Plastic Oceans, and honoring our Travelers Against Plastics pledge, we are working hard to eliminate single plastic use throughout our supply chain. We look forward to developing further strategies around the ten principles and advocating for action around the SDGs amongst our growing global community. Kind regards, Pete Fletcher Global Managing Director World Challenge 17-21 Queens Road, High Wycombe, HP13 6AQ New customers: T +44 (0)1494 427650 E findoutmore@myworldchallenge.com Clients: T +44 (0)1494 427600 E customersupport@myworldchallenge.com weareworldchallenge.com World Challenge Expeditions Limited is a registered company in England and a wholly owned subsidiary of Travelopia. Company Number: 2173751 VAT Registration Number: 893557276 Registered Office: Origin One, 108 High Street, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 1BD. 2. Practical actions across the 4 main areas / 10 global compact principles Human Rights • We remain committed to supporting all basic human rights, enshrined throughout our company policies and practices throughout our supply chain. • We take specific measures to support the physical and mental wellbeing of all our contracted staff. Labour Standards • We ensure we don’t participate in any form of exploitative behaviour with our partners and third party suppliers, including no participation in child labour • We recognise that orphanages and residential care institutions can be forms of modern slavery, and do not participate in any related engagement with these institutions • Through best human resource practice, we ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Environment • We practice ‘leave no footprint’ principles in remote and natural environments, to ensure we minimise impact on the environments we visit • We regularly consider the environmental impact of our offices, actively seeking to switch to renewable energy supplies, eliminate contribution to landfill waste, reduce paper consumption and use only FSC certified paper when necessary. • We are committed to the elimination of single use plastics – our teams do not use single use water bottles on expedition, we treat and purify our own water. We are actively removing single use plastics from our supply chain. • We support and invest in digital technology – for the activation of sales collateral, customer journeys and through digital communication devices in the field to significantly reduce reliance on paper Anti-Corruption • We remain fully compliant with the Bribery Act 2010 and current EU legislation governing active work against all forms of corruption. Internal procedures underpinning the evaluation and contracting of local partners overseas, seek to enforce our commitments to anticorruption and ethical behaviour. World Challenge 17-21 Queens Road, High Wycombe, HP13 6AQ New customers: T +44 (0)1494 427650 E findoutmore@myworldchallenge.com Clients: T +44 (0)1494 427600 E customersupport@myworldchallenge.com weareworldchallenge.com World Challenge Expeditions Limited is a registered company in England and a wholly owned subsidiary of Travelopia. Company Number: 2173751 VAT Registration Number: 893557276 Registered Office: Origin One, 108 High Street, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 1BD. 3. Outcomes • In September 2017, we took the ‘Time to Change’ pledge, promoting the active support of mental health for our employees, releasing policies, signposting resources and starting a range of wellbeing initiatives. • To date, we have trained over 200 trip leaders in mental health first aid, with a target to train all our leaders by 2020, setting a new pre-requisite benchmark in the schools travel industry. • In September 2017, we completed our transition away from all orphanage partnerships. In 2018 we have run 4 ethical travel symposiums across Australia, with 5 further planned for 2019 in Dubai, America, Canada and the UK, promoting child welfare with partners like Save the Children, Rethink Orphanages and Monash University. • Across 2018-19, 1,775 participants have completed critical thinking workshops, engaging with best practice in responsible travel, building respect for the rights of indigenous communities and broadening their knowledge of some of the UN SDGs. Read more about the global action areas we promote with our students in ‘our global commitment’ position: https://issuu.com/weareworldchallenge/docs/global_action_areas_digibook_final_?e=0 • We have actively reviewed the amount of paper consumed by the business, switching to largely digital trip paperwork and reducing our paper consumption by an estimated 50%. World Challenge 17-21 Queens Road, High Wycombe, HP13 6AQ New customers: T +44 (0)1494 427650 E findoutmore@myworldchallenge.com Clients: T +44 (0)1494 427600 E customersupport@myworldchallenge.com weareworldchallenge.com World Challenge Expeditions Limited is a registered company in England and a wholly owned subsidiary of Travelopia. Company Number: 2173751 VAT Registration Number: 893557276 Registered Office: Origin One, 108 High Street, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 1BD.
