COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL 2018 PERFORMANCE 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact is the largest international voluntary initiative for sustainable development. It encourages companies to adopt and promote a number of principles relating to human rights, working conditions, respect for the environment and the fight against corruption. CLS is committed to making progress each year on each of the themes of the 10 Principles of the Global Compact. Adherence to this benchmark is FOCUS ON SPONSORSHIP fully in line with our CSR approach. In 2018, the CSR working group was merged with the Sponsorship Unit. Because the Canal du Midi is an endangered part of our heritage that our employees in Toulouse When CLS was founded in 1986, nobody was talking about corporate social responsibility. benefit from every day, CLS is supporting the However, even then the solutions developed by CLS were important in improving the way VNF Sponsorship Mission to replant the trees we handled environmental and social issues. Since 1986, our employees have been working along the Canal du Midi. As environmental on a daily basis for a more sustainable planet. protection is a key value in our activities, CLS is also supporting the French NGO Expédition 7e Continent in its fight against Convinced that companies have a role to play in achieving Our ambition is to incorporate CSR principles into all SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) plastic pollution. Finally, because we want to the greatest sustainable development goals facing our aspects of our value chain. We consider identifying and help change the way people view those with world, we decided in 2016 to join the United Nations managing our extra-financial challenges to be an essential CLS is playing its part in tackling the 17 greatest ecological, podisabilities, CLS is supporting the Handisport Global Compact. CLS is committed to making progress lever for continuing to develop CLS as a competitive litical and economic challenges facing our world. We are proud Rugby section of Stade Toulousain. every year on the themes covered by the 10 Principles and sustainable company appreciated by our employees. to be able to assert that 80% of our turnover is directly linked of the Global Compact, which relate to human rights, to the achievement of the UN’s sustainable development goals. working conditions, respect for the environment and the We openly reported our progress to all our stakeholders fight against corruption. in 2016 and 2017 through the “Progress Reports” available on our website. Since then, our CSR working group, composed of employees from all departments and all levels, has been This year, we are presenting our first Statement on implementing and monitoring actions that enable us to extra-financial performance. improve our extra-financial performance. In 2018, the working group focused on the consolidation and improvement CHRISTOPHE VASSAL, of our CSR process. Chairman of the CLS Executive Board OUR BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CREATION 4 5 RESSOURCES 5 BUSINESS UNITS SHARED VALUES … €10 million COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OUR VISION 1 • ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE CLS is a global company, invested each year in research deeply committed to devising and development • SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT and deploying satellite-based single planet — Earth — that OF FISHERIES COMMITMENT TRUST AGILITY we must observe, monitor and 130 solutions to improve knowledge of and protect our planet as well preserve • MARITIME SAFETY & SECURITY as to sustainably manage its satellites send their data to CLS resources. every day • ENERGY & MINING PASSION RELIABILITY COOPERATION > 30 years • FLEET MANAGEMENT 5 Satellites provide us with massive amounts of data. To exploit this data and enable our of experience. The skills and RESPONSIBILITY TRANSPARENCY ANTICIPATION processing customers to harness the vast information experience of our employees are THE 3 PILLARS OF OUR RESPECT KNOW-HOW INNOVATION available, we have decided to invest in the the group’s most valuable asset. DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY: field of artificial intelligence, including big data infrastructures and data analytics centres 1) Prioritise organic growth, a sign of a EXEMPLARITY DELEGATION ADAPTATION operated by CLS in France, the using powerful software to help our cusstrong and sustainable company United States, Italy and Spain tomers streamline their activities. For CLS, this is an essential step that will enable us to €127.5 million 2) Diversify our activities in the regions … RELATED BEHAVIOURS THAT UNITE US stay ahead of our multifaceted competition CLS HEADQUARTERS Toulouse and retain the trust of our customers. 704 KL-TRADING of turnover in 2018 where we are already present by relying on our offices and subsidiaries GOVERNANCE employees Seoul around the world UM KINÉIS 3) Increasingly foster recurring services • Analyse the business context ndon Toulouse that improve business predictability • Define the strategy NOVACOM • Set and monitor objectives ES-PAS and maximise associated cash flow. SIRS EUROPE Moscow • Foster innovation CLS Lille Amsterdam 26 SITES AROUND THE WORLD • Manage the finances rest CUBIC-I • Manage legal affairs TRE ALTAMIRA Tokyo CLS Milano WOODS HOLE GROUP CLS HEADQUARTERS • Manage Quality TRE ALTAMIRA Dover KL-TRADING Méditerranée Vancouver Toulouse Seoul • Communicate TRE ALTAMIRA FULCRUM KINÉIS • Share knowledge CLS Barcelona London Toulouse NOVACOM idart SIRS EUROPE ES-PAS Moscow CLS Lille Amsterdam Brest WOODS HOLE GROUP CLS WOODSPT CLS ARGOS HOLE CUBIC-I DESIGN AND GROUP TRE ALTAMIRA Tokyo Richmond La Réunion Bourne INDONESIA CLS MAROC CLS Milano DEVELOPMENT WOODS HOLE GROUP RabatJakarta Méditerranée OPERATIONS Lanham TRE ALTAMIRA • Carry out R&D CLS Bidart Barcelona SIT • Manage information systems Melbourne • Lead a project CLS PERU Lima CLS PT CLS ARGOS • Design information systems •M  anage the production of data La Réunion INDONESIA and services PROOCEANO Jakarta • Design application systems Rio de Janeiro SIT • Guarantee service commitments CUNLOGAN Melbourne •D  esign terminals, onboard and Valparaíso embedded software • Manage receiving antennas CLS HEADQUARTERS CLS HEADQUARTERS SALES THE WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN OF SHARE CAPITAL • Know CLS’s Products and Services offer 0,2% • Determine and monitor business objectives 14,11% • Organise sales actions FRANCE EUROPE 62 • Manage partner networks 443 EMPLOYEES • Respond to calls for tenders PROCUREMENT EMPLOYEES HUMAN • Listen, negotiate, sell RESOURCES • Manage signed contracts • Measure customer satisfaction ASIA-PACIFIC 31,75% THE AMERICAS 53,94% 163 36 INFRASTRUCTURES AND THE WORK EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES TELESPACE PARTICIPATION (CNES) TELESPACE PARTICIPATION (CNES) ENVIRONMENT ARDIAN ARDIAN IFREMER IFREMER OTHERS AUTRES IMPACT 6 7 80% of our turnover is directly linked COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals THEMES CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SDGS Monitoring migratory species Monitoring sea level height COMBATING CLIMATE and preserving terrestrial and ice level CHANGE AND wildlife PRESERVING BIODIVERSITY Monitoring marine species, Hydrology: identifying factors promoting sustainable fisheries such as pollution and flooding and combating illegal fishing EDITORIAL For its first Statement on extra-financial performance, CLS formed a working group composed of four members Sanitation, solutions for local of senior management (the Human Resources Director, the Legal & Compliance Director, the Deputy Director Continental surveillance: crisis General for Business Development, and the Deputy Director General for Digital Technology & Operations). authorities: water, gas, mapping (earthquakes, etc.) SUSTAINABLE electricity, health A total of eight of our staff directly contributed to this report. DEVELOPMENT OF THE ECONOMY, CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Continental surveillance: regional and urban planning The information presented in this We intend to extend this approach progresCHALLENGE 2 Statement concerns CLS France, sively across all CLS subsidiaries bringing i.e. 49% of CLS Group’s total them within the scope of the Report by 2022. Classify the issues identified, taking into workforce. account their impact on the company’s busiCLS is currently defining indicators for the ness, the risks and opportunities they involve, At CLS headquarters in Toulouse, where issues of “choice of suppliers”, “combating and the expectations of our stakeholders in most of our employees work, our CSR corruption”, “security of information systems” order to establish a materiality matrix for working group has implemented numerous and “general regulations for the protection our extra-financial risks. Monitoring humanitarian Monitoring epidemiological actions over the past few years to increase of personal data”. They will appear in the convoys data from isolated populations the company’s social responsibility. 2019 NFPS. The objective: to focus our NFPS on the issues most relevant to CLS. This analysis COMBATING POVERTY The policies relating to the issues of “choice was presented to and validated by the of suppliers” and “general regulations for Executive Board. Support for traditional and Improving working conditions the protection of personal data” have not small-scale fishing in traditional fishing fleets CHALLENGE 3 This NFPS presents the yet been formalised in 2018. following issues because The mandatory themes are addressed For each of the challenges selected, mobilise of their relevance: Social throughout the document. Only one theme the employees identified as the central actors dialogue Employee training not relevant to CLS’s activities is excluded: in the implementation of our best practices. Cybersecurity General combating food waste. The following have therefore been closely inregulations for the protection volved: our Legal & Compliance Director, our 10,000 20,000 100 of personal data Battery processing Environmental Human Resources Director, our Health, Safety and Environment Manager, our Purchasing companies working in the energy management Combating humanitarian vehicles and special active boats monitored by CLS CHALLENGE 1 Director, our Quality Assurance Manager sector use the services developed corruption Retaining our transport tracked each month and our Data Protection Officer. by CLS every year talents Health and safety Produce as exhaustive a list as possible of Quality approach Choice of CLS’s extra-financial issues. CHALLENGE 4 our suppliers. Set objectives and choose appropriate indicators to effectively manage this new approach to our risk-based CSR policy over the long term. CLOSER TEAM MANAGEMENT HR MANAGERS MEETINGS 8 9 MIXING WORK WITH PLEASURE In order to strengthen team management and give managers as many as possible FOR 2019 Every year, CLS Management organises of the tools they need to manage their Create a Social Roadmap COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS two Conventions. The first takes place activity and support their teams, CLS with the social partners early in the year (late January/early has also set up HR Managers Meetings. February) during Representatives’ Week. These meetings are an opportunity to exDuring this week, all the representatives change news, keep everyone fully up to of CLS offices, subsidiaries and persondate, ask questions and discuss related 12-MONTH nel are invited to a presentation of the OBJECTIVE topics (such as finance) with speakers previous year’s results, sectors of activity Implement a Commitment from outside Human Resources. and the vision for the coming and future Survey to measure the degree years. This is followed by a fun evening HR CUSTOMER’S VOICE SURVEY of employee commitment during which employees can relax and enjoy being together. To complement this, in June 2018, the HR department deployed an HR Customer’s MEDIUM-TERM A shorter second Convention is organised Voice survey for managers, in order to OBJECTIVE at the beginning of the 3rd quarter in the improve Human Resources assistance in same spirit, but without the representatheir daily work with teams. An Action Reach a total of 400 tives of CLS subsidiaries and offices. Plan was then prepared, communicated, employees using Workplace and is currently being rolled out. This will every week The purpose of these Conventions is to inbe an annual survey from now on. form all employees about the company’s successes, market position, results, prosKEY PERFORMANCE OPTIMISED LABOUR RELATIONS pects, vision for the future and finally how INDICATORS to make it reality. Negotiating agreements: in 2018, 1 agreement signed / 2 agreements negotiated CLOSE-UP: CLS’s core business involves people with a passion for technical projects with high societal value. In this context, Activity on Workplace: an it seems necessary for each management entity to maintain and demonstrate a willingness to remain attentive Disabled employees account average of 300 employees use for 8.5 worker units. There is Workplace every week. to the needs and interests of its employees. Maintaining a fruitful social dialogue is an opportunity to promote DIVERSITY AND DISABILITY peace and social stability, and to stimulate the corporate economy. still considerable room for improvement by CLS. One reason 43% for this delay is the difficulty in finding candidates with the of CLS managers Policy: In 2018, the Human In this way, everyone is kept informed of the Most, but not all, of the subjects are related qualifications sought by the are women Resources Directorate drew up subjects addressed by senior managers. In to the Group’s activities. This tool is especompany. CLS is working with a a programme of measures to be 2019, the Social Roadmap (or timetable) cially valuable for a Group with branches 13 temping agency specialised in taken in the form of its Labour will be shared with the social partners to on every continent. Information may appear the recruitment of people with Relations Roadmap. CLS strives promote dialogue and negotiation. in English, French and/or Spanish. disabilities. In 2019, disability is a different nationalities to increase its employees’ sense central issue in the discussions of ACTIVE INTERNAL CLS TV among CLS employees of commitment by including them our CSR working group. in the company’s governance COMMUNICATION CLS TV broadcasts audio-visual messages All generations represented and by using tools that promote CLS has set up the necessary tools: inforto the establishments of all directorates in internal dialogue. How? mation systems, events and infrastructures France. This provides a way of stimulating FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND to foster in-house discussions and our conversations with colleagues “around the COLLECTIVE BARGAINING corporate culture. coffee machine” about the company’s current events. There are regular meetings with employee WORKPLACE representatives, monthly for elected staff BUILDING DESIGN Workplace, a corporate social network for representatives and the Works Council the use of all the Group’s employees, has The new buildings include places where emand quarterly for the Health & Safety been a success since its implementation ployees can chat in a friendly atmosphere Committee (CHSCT). A Social Roadmap in June 2017. While the Communication (agora, auditorium, cafeterias, innovation was drawn up in 2018. Department has made it one of its key space Launchpad). Its steering entity, the Executive Board, channels for information, employees have meets weekly and the Management Board also been invited to use it freely, and this once a month. The Management Board disis what we are seeing in practice. There tributes its monthly report to all employees. are currently 121 discussion groups, on different topics. 10 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS RETAINING COMPENSATION quality of work that is fair and respectful towards everyone by offering a choice OUR TALENTS Aware that the compensation and benefits between a Full Package and a Reduced policy plays a key role in the attractivePackage for employees present in the Policy: CLS’s Social Roadmap sets ness of a company and the loyalty of its company when the agreement was signed. out the programme to support talents, CLS has for many years offered This agreement came into effect on 1st our employees throughout their its employees an incentive bonus and a January 2019. careers at CLS, attracting them A FULFILLING profit-sharing scheme (payment based on and retaining their loyalty results and calculated in accordance with by providing not only a work legal criteria) with a contribution from environment conducive to wellthe company if the sum is invested in the PROFESSIONAL LIFE being and creativity, but also benefits and opportunities whenever possible. Company Savings Plan. Furthermore, for any time off work, benefits kick in from the very first day and CLS COMMITMENT FOR 2019 CLS is proud of its talents and depends on them. ONBOARDING Implementation of a module pays more than 95% of the private cover The skills of our employees are the Group’s most valuable asset. as an integral part of the premiums to keep costs reasonable. The In order to help newcomers to the company, HRIS to facilitate the inclusion company also has an agreement concerning CLS has set up an “Onboarding” programme of new employees prior to their employees’ time-savings accounts, enabling to support employees from their very first arrival in the company. THE “MANAGERS’ TRAINING them to take all or part of their 13th month A COMPLETE day. Employees follow the programme durPROGRAMME” off in addition to their legal paid holidays We shall be starting ing their first few months in the company TRAINING to enable them to acquire complementary and compensation for reduced working discussions on a new 2018 also saw the deployment of the COMMITMENT FOR 2019 hours (RTT). compensation policy linked PROGRAMME «Managers’ Training Programme» for A new programme for “internal” skills, understand the processes and procedures, and also to understand where to career paths and branch all CLS managers, with specific training the entire sales force: WORKING HOURS Policy: Identifying employee the company comes from, where it is going classification. training and development needs around 10 carefully selected themes on man“Salespersons’ Programme”. and how. The new working time agreement was is a major topic of CLS’s Labour agerial practices. In 2019, this programme signed in November after being approved Relations Roadmap. will be enhanced through new themes. A Each new recruit is assigned a mentor, whose by more than 80% of employees through SHORT-TERM OBJECTIVE dedicated “New Managers” programme PURPOSE mission is to guide the young recruit through a referendum. Discussions on the OUR VISION will be deployed in order to best support The implementation of his or her integration process. implementation of new managers in their new positions and skills-based programmes The objective of this agreement is to better Learning more, progressing professionally The “Onboarding” programme thus gives emremote-working responsibilities. in connection with the meet the needs of our customers in a highly and perfecting one’s skills are the keys to identification of “the skillsets ployees the means with which to accomplish competitive context while maintaining a a satisfying working life. Employees’ trainTHE INDIVIDUAL of tomorrow”. their missions in good working conditions. ing and development needs are identified DEVELOPMENT PLAN through a procedure involving employees, their managers, BU managers and the HR At the end of 2017 and more specificaldepartment. ly in 2018, CLS set up the “Individual KEY PERFORMANCE Development Plan”, an individualised supINDICATOR MONITORING STRATEGY port system for employees working in a % of payroll spent on managerial position, moving from a non-exemployee training In order to professionalise and make ecutive to a management position or in need KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Training management more efficient, CLS of clearly-identified and specific training. 2.5 decided in 2018 to entrust it to an external Changes in permanent contracts specialised partner while retaining control This Individual Development Plan is 2.0 50 2.02 2018 shows a negative result 50 of training strategy and management. CLS drawn up jointly by the HR department, between inflows and outflows, 40 thus is provided with an efficient monitorthe Manager and the employee, with the 1.5 1.51 mainly due to several departures 34 ing tool that allows all managers, as well definition of specific objectives for support, 30 1.0 1.33 in the last quarter of the year. as the HR department, to accurately and training or implementation, over a fixed As the replacement of 20 24 25 thoroughly monitor the plan’s progress and period ranging from 4 to 6 months. The 0.5 departures or new hires has been 18 18 to provide complete statistics. employee’s progress is regularly monitored 10 pushed over to 2019, CLS has to make any necessary corrections and en0.0 budgeted for more than 30 hires. 0 sure the Plan’s success for both the employee 2016 2017 2018 and the company. 2016 2017 2018 12 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS WORK COMPLETED ON THE AREAS TO RELAX AND ENJOY noise-reducing headsets have been made TOULOUSE BUILDINGS DISCUSSIONS available to employees to enable them to benefit fully from this new work environment. Renovation work on the old buildings in Each floor has its own relaxation area. The Toulouse was completed in November 2018. ground floor houses a catering area with LOOKING AFTER SPORTS an outdoor terrace. A space dedicated to ENTHUSIASTS AN OPTIMISED WORK innovation and creativity has also been set ENVIRONMENT up to encourage CLS employees to think Changing rooms and showers have been about and develop their future projects. installed for the comfort of our many cyclists, The premises were designed and built as a runners and other sports enthusiasts. series of collaborative spaces, with a sucERGONOMICS cession of modern meeting rooms equipped TAKING FEEDBACK SERIOUSLY with the latest audio-visual systems and indiAll interior elements, such as carpets, ceilvidual work areas. The building’s large glass ings and partitions, have been chosen for Lastly, adjustments were made during walls enable natural light to predominate. their sound and thermal properties. In terms September and November to change the of furniture, chair and desk heights are layout of the premises in response to staff adjustable. Training was provided to ensure feedback and requests. that employees put this ergonomic furniture to optimal use. Lastly, silent keyboards and EMPLOYEE HEALTH KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND SAFETY % change in Growth in number of work-related absenteeism accidents 3.0 Health is the first fundamental step in ensuring employees’ well-being. This is a priority for CLS. 2 2,9 2 2.5 2,6 2,7 1.5 2.0 2,2 Policy: The HSE Policy, the Single RULES CONCERNING programme has been set up to adapt work1 Document, the Business Travel BUSINESS TRIPS stations and prevent musculoskeletal risks. 2 1.5 Policy and the Traveller’s Booklet All structural and organisational changes 0.5 are the reference documents The CSR working group has drawn up a are subject to validation by the employees’ 1.0 for the health and safety of Business Travel Policy that is particularly representative bodies, including the CHSCT. 0 employees in the company. important for sales representatives travIn 2018, a working group including CHSCT 2016 2017 2018 0.5 elling to high-risk countries. A geopolitical members was set up to update the Single *accidents on site with stoppage CLOSE-UP ON RISKS risk study is carried out and a “traveller’s Document. This innovative and voluntary 0.0 booklet” containing key advice is provided 2015 2016 2017 2018 approach means that employees are now inThe most relevant health and safety risks for to any employee travelling abroad. cluded in this task. Several updating sessions CLS have been identified. They include risks were held in 2018 and will continue in 2019. related to business travel, handling electrical QUALITY OF THE WORK equipment and psychosocial risks. In 2016, ENVIRONMENT CLS appointed an HSE Manager to ensure the implementation of the company’s health Taking care of its employees and involving and safety policy and work with the Health them in the governance of the company PERMANENT is an integral part of the Group’s policy, & Safety Committee (CHSCT) and Human OBJECTIVE 0 Resources to improve working conditions. which directly contributes to the prevention The HSE Manager also organises regular of psychosocial risks. In addition, CLS works awareness-raising campaigns to reduce closely with occupational medicine services accidents work-related accidents. to detect and treat as early as possible any pathologies that employees may develop. A 14 FROM CUSTOMER NEED TO 15 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS As a service company, CLS depends on its ability to meet the expectations of its customers effectively. The Group considers the performance of its quality system and the care taken in selecting its suppliers as clear opportunities for success, both in the short and long terms. INNOVATION ISO CERTIFICATIONS OUR QUALITY ASSURANCE SYSTEM CLS’s development strategy focuses on ISO 9001 certification is now an undeniproviding increasingly innovative soluable competitive advantage for winning Policy: Satisfy the demands and tions. We have created Innovation and new markets. CLS was first certified in needs of our customers with Solutions teams within each Business Unit 2004. In February 2018, CLS received innovative solutions and provide to design products that meet customers’ ISO 9001:2015 certification. This gives the them with the best available needs as closely as possible. The Innovation Quality Department a lever with which to data. CLS makes every effort Mission that reports directly to the General challenge the company’s operations. The to deliver perfectly functional Management has been consolidated to certification, which is reviewed each year solutions to its customers within further stimulate, and ensure a central during the follow-up audit, provides proof the agreed deadlines. CLS role for, the imagination and inventiveness for all its stakeholders of the efficiency of adheres strictly to its policy of employees. the company’s management system. One relating to ISO 9001 and its of the goals for 2019 is to obtain ISO quality management process. 27001 certification for Information Security Management. CHOOSING Suppliers are screened and selected on the basis of objective criteria such as their skills, OUR SUPPLIERS product quality and financial health. The systematic use of a multi-criteria selection COMMITMENT FOR 2019 QUALITY CONTROL Policy: CLS has raised the bar matrix that includes the opinions of the concerning the selection of its various stakeholders allows for the greatest Implementation of “People”, Our Management System is based on collaborative business tools that promote an suppliers to ensure the success of SHORT-TERM possible objectivity in the selection of supa communication platform efficient and controlled production system: SHAREPOINT, JIRA, ERP, CRM, a reporting its projects and the quality of its OBJECTIVE pliers. To date, 100% of the choices made on CLS’s intranet via which and governance portal, etc. products and services. How? Improve the quality of by the Purchasing Unit have been made employees will be able to our software to produce REVIEWING OUR PURCHASING using this methodology. download numerous tools better and faster by further POLICY such as their specifications ER REVIEW CURRENT SUPPLIERS M ION developing agility and templates, supplier O T ST AC continuous integration CLS is undergoing a real cultural change. recommendations, etc. Stakeholder satisfaction CU ISF CLS wishes to pursue its strategy of reguT In 2018, the company created a new Supply Shareholders, suppliers, employees ... SA MEDIUM-TERM larly and intelligently challenging its panel Chain-Purchasing Department (DSA), with 10 Measure customer satisfaction OBJECTIVE of suppliers. For this purpose, an internal a Purchasing Unit of 3 employees. CLS saw Develop agility across the contact person will be appointed for each SHORT-TERM OBJECTIVE 9 Ensure after-sales service this review of the purchasing function as entire CLS group supplier and will be responsible for giving an an opportunity to be seized. From now on, In 2019, CLS plans to halve Risk management in 8 Perform the services annual and reasoned opinion on his or her purchases are systematically placed in the the number of referenced defined and relevant 7 Begin procurement satisfaction with the supplier. The DSA also hands of experts. suppliers in order to optimise bodies KEY PERFORMANCE plans to implement more in-depth quality the management of active Business Enterprise 6 Validate feasibility with the customer INDICATORS OBJECTIVE CRITERIA control of products from its suppliers, and supply partners. Risks, Crises, Production, Since 2004, CLS’s ISO 9001 to develop more demanding performance Projects, Processes, etc. 5 Carry out studies certification has been renewed Each CLS project has its own specific feathresholds. unfailingly. tures. This is why the selection criteria are 4 Review the contract and sign it with the customer tailored to each one. 3 Discuss and fine-tune solutions with the customer 2 Draw up and review the proposal 1 Collect customer requirements, analyse needs, decide to meet them ER TOM S S D CU NEE CLOSE-UP MANAGING ENERGY PRODUCTION SUPPORT FOR HUMANITARIAN CRISIS RESPONSE CLS supports offshore energy players imple105 menting an environmentally-friendly and resHumaNav is a real-time satellite-based 16 NATURALLY ponsible approach by deploying and operating products and services based on satellite and in situ oceanography, radar interferometry, geolocation and fleet management system designed to ensure the safety and security of humanitarian organisations, NGOs and countries 17 ENVIRONMENTALLY-FRIENDLY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS location and data collection. CLS offers solutions for securing both the production of United Nations (UN) agencies. over 7,000 oil and gas at offshore sites and mining and vehicles tracked ACTIVITIES civil engineering infrastructures. We do this by studying the sites before any work begins on them, forecasting currents and potential ground movements. In 2019, CLS will continue to develop its new offer for offshore wind power. The projects of CLS teams have a high environmental and social added value, which is a great source of pride for all our employees. However, to operate, the beacons and other equipment provided by CLS are fitted with batteries. How these devices are disposed of is a public health issue and more broadly an environmental issue. MONITORING BIODIVERSITY MARITIME SURVEILLANCE PROJECTS THAT DEALING WITH they must never come into contact. These HELP TACKLE 100% CLS and Argos help scientists, NGOs and CLS’s activity contributes to understanding, governments measure the health of biodiplanning for and the rational management end-of-life batteries are meticulously stored ENVIRONMENTAL versity. The results of these observations are of all the events and actions occurring in BATTERIES in different sealed containers according to a of the batteries arriving at CLS procedure for rendering them secure. SingleISSUES the basis for the protection measures that the maritime sector with a potential impact Policy: The monitoring of are processed in compliance with cell batteries, unlike accumulator batteries, benefit a large number of threatened species. on the safety and security of property and batteries used in CLS products European regulations Close-up on the social and have a given charge and when they are persons, law enforcement at sea, defence, throughout their life cycle is environmental impact of CLS’s empty do not require such stringent storage border control, protection of the marine based on European regulations activities conditions. Employees who handle these 100,000 environment, fisheries control and the ecoon industrial and hazardous TRANSPORT objects are taught not to allow batteries MEASURING GLOBAL WARMING nomic interests of States. waste (IHW), equipment tracking animals tracked since the Tracking forms allow batteries to be folto leave the safe waste treatment cycle, or forms and the training of creation of Argos in 1978 lowed throughout their life cycle. The transto be mixed together. More than 90 oceanographers and 25 years employees concerned. of expertise in satellite altimetry enable us to NEWS FOR 2018: port of products equipped with batteries is observe with certainty the slightest change Since 19 March, SOS THE PROBLEM closely monitored. They can be shipped by COMBATING ILLEGAL FISHING CLOSE-UP: in our seas and oceans. As a result of this Méditerranée has been using sea, road and air, according to procedures Batteries contain electrolytes and heavy specific to each mode of transport. In acwork, CLS provides the mean sea level rise Using tools that combine satellite obsera locator beacon provided metals which, at the end of their life, becordance with the regulations imposed by curve (average increase of 3.3 mm/year). vations, numerical models and real-time by CLS to enable the NGO come hazardous toxic waste. If they are not the International Air Transport Association THE CIRCULAR This curve, plotted jointly with CNES and data collection and location systems, CLS to be more responsive during ECONOMY fully and properly recovered, they are likely (IATA) on the transport of hazardous maLEGOS and published since 1992, is one supports many governments in setting up operations at sea. to constitute a serious hazard and pollute, terials, three CLS employees are trained in of the best indicators of global warming. rational fisheries management, deploying CLS has not identified any which is why batteries must be collected the safe packaging of lithium. means to combat illegal fishing and imcontribution to the circular under special conditions for recycling. Europlementing plans for the management of economy directly related to its pean regulations on industrial and hazardEACH TYPE OF BATTERY IS sustainable fisheries. activity. In 2019, a workshop NEW IN 2018: ous waste (IHW) place the responsibility PROCESSED AS REQUIRED on the theme of the circular for this waste until its final disposal on CLS. Ocean monitoring indicators COPERNICUS CLS products contain alkaline battereconomy will be organised to (OMIs) are now available free ies, lithium-ion batteries or lead batteries. raise awareness among our Copernicus is a major European Earth of charge with data sets over Lithium and lead are chemically incompatemployees and generate ideas. observation programme jointly initiated by the past 25 years, including ible materials from a storage point of view; the European Space Agency (ESA) and the data on ocean warming, sea European Union. CLS is participating in all level rise or ice melt. six environmental and climate monitoring services. COMMITMENT FOR 2019 MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVE 6,000 KEY PERFORMANCE On 1 January 2019, CLS acquired the INDICATORS French company Novacom Services. Overcome the local specificities 450 kg A comprehensive review is planned of countries that do not have oceanographic beacons send to ensure that waste treatment adequate waste treatment systems their data to CLS every day of batteries processed practices are fully aligned across in order to apply CLS France’s by CLS in 2018 the Group. A third storage container battery processing practices to all especially for alkaline batteries our international service centres. will soon be installed. 18 ENVIRONMENTAL COMBATING CORRUPTION 19 MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CLS conducts business in countries considered by agencies such as Transparency International as posing significant ethical risks. In addition, CLS customers include governments and international cooperation agencies. In this context, the development of a clearly defined and effective Compliance policy can help Our employees contribute through their work to the pursuit of an environmentally-friendly activity. the company protect itself against many risks. It is natural for CLS to make special efforts to limit its own environmental footprint. For this reason, in 2017 the company created an environmental database linked to its energy consumption. 2018 marks the first publication of CLS’s environmental management audit. Policy: CLS is developing its INTERNAL ALERT SYSTEM GIFTS AND HOSPITALITY POLICY anti-corruption compliance programme step by step, in Pending the development of the internal We regulate the situations in which offeraccordance with the requirements alert system designed to meet both GDPR ing or receiving gifts and various services Policy: CLS uses environmental the new Office 365 tools, which enable DEMATERIALISATION OF and Sapin II Law requirements, an e-mail (meals, travel, leisure) is authorised by law. KPIs to help it develop solutions remote work and document sharing. These DOCUMENTS of the “Sapin II Law” of 9 December 2016, in order to address is available for employees wishing Our gifts and hospitality policy provides for reducing the ecological modes of communication have quickly beto report conduct or situations contrary our employees with guidelines on how to footprint of the company’s come part of CLS’s culture and, together Following the optimisation of waste manensure sound and transparent agement and printer use in 2017, 2018 was commercial and institutional to the CLS Anti-Corruption Compliance behave. operations. Environmental with the implementation of the new Travel Programme: compliance@groupcls.com management is carried out by the year of digitisation. The validation of relations. How? Policy, are responsible for the significant PROCEDURE FOR the CLS “Work Environment” unit reduction in business travel by air and rail. supplier invoices, previously printed for cirTRAINING THE EVALUATION AND culation between departments to be signed Compliance is the responsibility of the and more particularly by its HSE CLS Legal Department. The Group’s MANAGEMENT OF THIRD manager. How? RENEWABLE ENERGIES by several different managers, was switched The first training sessions designed to help PARTIES to electronic processing in February. This Compliance Officer is responsible for dethe most exposed employees assimilate our BY TARGETING WEAK POINTS The solar panels installed at CLS produced is the final step in the dematerialisation ploying the anti-corruption system and has Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme In 2018, CLS drew up a detailed procedure 8279 kWh of electricity between September of purchases, along with reception and set up a Compliance Team from among will begin in 2019. CLS also plans to set up for selecting commercial partners that The audit in 2017 found that 61% of CLS’s 2017 and September 2018. Since 2017, payment forms. the Group’s employees. Implementation of an e-learning module for the entire Group. leaves nothing to chance and alerts senior carbon emissions were indirect (mainly 100% of the electricity consumed comes the 8 measures imposed by the legislative management at the slightest sign of an due to travel). Direct emissions are mainly from renewable sources. Charging stations METRICS framework is progressing step by step toCODE OF CONDUCT alarming development. related to the consumption of electricity for for electric cars were installed at the end wards the development of a comprehensive powering and cooling data centres. of 2018, and more are planned for 2019. Seven key environmental performance anti-corruption compliance programme. The publication of CLS’s code of conduct indicators have been monitored for the Convinced of the relevance of these measin 2017 laid out our best practices. A pockENCOURAGING CYCLING years 2016, 2017 and 2018, enabling us to ures, our Compliance Team has set itself the et-sized brochure has been published and TO WORK track the results of the actions undertaken. objective of completely eliminating any risk 700 copies have been distributed so that of CLS being involved in corrupt practices. all our employees can be made aware of 2019 OBJECTIVES The Toulouse buildings are located right our values. next to the Canal du Midi. We provide lockImplement the procedure for SHORT-TERM OBJECTIVE ers for recharging the batteries of electric evaluating and managing bicycles, as well as changing rooms and Establish indicators to assess the effectiveness of policies CLS’S ANTIthird parties showers for our cyclists. Code to encourage cycling CORRUPTION Deploy a training system for CLS chose to participate in the winter and COMPLIANCE all employees spring 2018 editions of the AYAV challenge (for Allons-y à vélo or “Let’s go by bike”), KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PROGRAMME of Conduct The Code of Conduct is available in English, French, Our commitment in terms of integrity and responsibility in order to use a fun initiative to raise Business trip-related CO2 emissions Energy consumption MAPPING CORRUPTION RISKS awareness among its employees concerning (air and rail)* Spanish and Italian. CLS also the use of bicycles. CLS competed in the CLS maps corruption risks, combining each intends to translate it into 100-500 employees category, taking 1723048 3200000 identified risk scenario with a description of Portuguese. 1678606 302002 9 1700000 3000000 2nd place in the winter challenge and 4th policies, procedures, controls and other super2800000 place in the spring. Also, since March, the 1500000 2600000 2747311 visory measures, as well as recommendations CycloStand association has been visiting 2400000 for improving preventive measures. 1353179 255105 6 the company’s car park one day a month to 1300000 2200000 maintain and/or repair the staff’s bicycles. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 CO2 in kg/km/passenger Consumption in kWh REDUCE LONG-DISTANCE JOURNEYS 325,427 kg/km/passenger of CO2 In 2017 and 2018, there was a emissions were avoided in 2018 significant increase in energy Half of CLS meeting rooms are equipped on air and rail travel. A very real consumption due to building for videoconferencing. All personnel have improvement on 2017! renovation projects. also been trained via internal webinars on *For Ramonville Saint-Agne 20 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS MONITORING SECURITY DRAWING UP THE “GDPR PROJECT” Monitoring tools are used for continuous improvement. These include a software In order to achieve its objective, CLS has OBJECTIVE FOR 2019 code inspection tool, internal audits with set up a project team combining legal help from external experts, and the audits and technical expertise. The project team Meet all the requirements performed by customers. was selected from among the members of of the GDPR and data CLS’s Legal Department and is led by the protection legislation. Group’s Data Protection Officer (DPO). It is based on constantly updated mapping and the maintenance of a register listing COMMITMENT FOR 2019 all the personal data processing that CLS is and will be required to carry out in the A cybergovernance scoreboard course of its activities. is currently being developed ACTION PLAN GDPR PROJECT The actions undertaken so far by CLS PROGRESS SHORT-TERM OBJECTIVE DATA PROTECTION CLS has begun the process to obtain ISO 27001 certification. first concerned all its websites and platforms accessible on the web. Secondly, an information campaign aimed at all CLS Calculated by the CLS DPO ENSURED employees was carried out. Technical and organisational measures, in particular for the implementation of “by design” and “by default” processing development principles, are being developed and will be covered THE GENERAL DATA 40% Information security is one of CLS’s prime concerns. This is because its products and services depend entirely on by procedures drawn up jointly with the 60% its information system. Their added value derives from the diversity and volume of data managed by CLS. PROTECTION Group’s Quality Department. In addition, The protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data is also covered, a fundamental CLS endeavours to update the content REGULATION (GDPR) right that has become essential since the entry into force of the European Regulation known as the GDPR on 25 of its contracts as and when necessary in May 2018. Policy: CLS takes all necessary order to allocate responsibilities between measures to secure the way it the parties involved in the various processprocesses personal data and to ing operations regarding personal data, in ensure that its partners apply accordance with the GDPR. S  hare of the project to be A CLEAR OPERATIONAL development teams and project managers implemented SECURING the same strict standards. How? ORGANISATION are given training in information systems The next challenge is to set up an alert INFORMATION security. Our subcontracts include non-disprocess that will meet the requirements Share already completed The organisation responsible for informaclosure commitments and the Business of both the GDPR and the Sapin II Law. SYSTEMS tion security is composed of an Information Continuity Plan covers cybersecurity risks. Policy: CLS’s cybersecurity Systems Security Officer (ISSO), an The Guidelines for Information System practices are based in particular Information Systems Security team of 3 Security (CPSSI) details the cybersecurity on its Information Systems technicians, Information Systems Security approach CLS requires of its suppliers. Security Policy (ISSP), its IT Correspondents (ISSC) in each CLS deSecurity Charter and its Office partment, and finally external expert supCabinet de Saint Front, in its capacity as Statutory Auditor of CLS, Automation Charter. How? port for assistance and audits. appointed as an independent third party, attests that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report A WRITTEN AND WIDELY AWARENESS & PRECAUTIONS in accordance with article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code DISSEMINATED POLICY and certifies the fairness of the CSR Information provided, namely Awareness-raising campaigns are conducted annually among staff and service the results of policies, including key performance indicators, The Information Systems Security Policy providers. Newcomers are systematically and actions relating to the main risks. (ISSP) was approved by the General Management and sent to all personnel. informed of the IT Security Charter and Reading it was made mandatory and the Office Automation Charter, which are proven by completion of an online quiz. attached to CLS’s Internal Regulations. IT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 22 © CLS 2019 studio ogham
