Communication on Progress (COP) 2019 ...give yourself the advantage Company name Bowden Prin ng Pty Ltd Trading as The Bowden Print Group Member since May 2009 Loca on 26 Hindmarsh Avenue Welland South Australia 5007 Australia Contact T 61 8 8340 3588 F 61 8 8340 3533 W bowdengroup.com.au E bowden@bowdengroup.com.au ANZIC Code Prin ng (including the Reproduc on of Recorded Media) Contact Name Damien Burchell Posi on Chief Execu ve Oﬃcer Date COP Submi ed 8th May 2018 ...give yourself the advantage Le er of Intent The Bowden Print Group supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and an -corrup on and will iden fy opportuni es to embrace the 17 Goals to Transform Our World. With this communica on, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of inﬂuence. We are commi;ed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day opera ons of our company, and to engaging in collabora ve projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Na ons, par cularly the Millennium Development Goals. The Bowden Print Group makes a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for par cipa on in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communica on on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s eﬀorts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within two years of joining the Global Compact, and every year thereaDer according to the Global Compact COP policy. Yours faithfully, Damien Burchell Chief Execu ve Oﬃcer ...give yourself the advantage Company Overview 2019 We provide our clients with sustainable print based procurement, display and marke ng solu ons. We do this by understanding their goals, implemen ng cost-saving workﬂows and providing solu ons that create growth. Damien Burchell, CEO, With origins da ng back to 1935, Bowden Group is one of South Australia’s leading print and marke ng solu on providers. We are incredibly proud of our heritage and our ability to remain at the forefront of our industry by having a relevant, contemporary vision. 84 years on, we con nue the same enthusias c vision for the future as its founder, Frederick Bowden. Bowden Group is a modern opera on that embraces the latest technologies and innova ons, but at the same me, never losing sight of the family values that formed the founda on of the company. “Team Bowden” all share an unshakeable belief in con nuous improvement and evolving the business to meet and exceed its clients’ needs. Every one of our 27+ staﬀ plays an integral part in the success of our client rela onships, working together to ensure the best possible client experience …. friendly, eﬃcient, reliable and professional. Our clients and our people no ce the diﬀerence, and it is this reason that we are passionate about what we do and how well we do it. Our mission is simple… … to partner with our clients to produce eﬀec ve, compelling, targeted and accountable communica on solu ons, from concept to distribu on, that meets their objec ves and exceeds expecta ons. Our vision is clear… …to build a be;er Bowden brand and posi on ourselves as a print-based communica ons provider and add value to print through digital solu ons. Our values are our promise… ... to provide the best solu ons, the best quality, and value for money, with delivery on me guaranteed. We all share a belief that having the best possible client service further enhances our clients’ experience. ...give yourself the advantage Company Overview 2019… con nued We value the rela onships we have with our clients. Our desire to truly understand and know what is important to them, to make their lives easier and our ability to play a meaningful role in growing and sustaining their business is at the core of our success. Many of our clients are ‘best of breed’ world-class, industry leaders. They are organisa ons that are led by community and business leaders that make Australia such a great place. And of course, we count amongst our loyal clients the family businesses, that like ours, had small beginnings that grew, and we con nue to grow with them. While our clients’ come from a variety of diverse industries, they share similar business objec ves of reduced opera ng expenses, reduced me to market, increased market share and ul mately increased proﬁtability. We help our clients meet these objec ves in a vola le marketplace by providing cost-eﬀec ve value-added solu ons. At Bowden Group, whatever your requirements, we work with you to develop the best solu on. ...give yourself the advantage Statement of support Bowden Prin ng Pty Ltd as a company have shown that we have the character to back our commitments in all the areas of endeavour that we have been commi;ed to; included are  Marketplace  Environment  Workplace and  Our communi es. We have by way of acknowledgement and support displayed our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact and we believe that as we move forward, implement and progress, our drive will be in the direc on of reaching out to the en es and people we do business with. We foresee and expect they will in turn appreciate our eﬀorts they will also abide by the principles of the Global Compact. Our belief is that we cannot be an island all by ourselves and the special meaning we a;ach to the word “global”, as in Global Compact, is what will strengthen our resolve. Ac vity Statement The Bowden Print Group understands that the 10 principles of the Global Compact that deﬁne clearly a global culture that should be upheld by companies worldwide. Implemen ng measures should not be seen by companies as an inhibitor to business but as an opportunity to be;er themselves to the peers; locally, na onally and globally. We submit to the United Na ons Global Compact a commitment over the next twelve months to maintain standards implemented and recording processes across all 10 principles. This evalua on of measurements will ensure that we maintain and implement con nual improvement methodologies. We have iden ﬁed processes in line with Global Compact recommenda ons that we have adopted. ...give yourself the advantage Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec on of internaonally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our understanding and support for the United Na ons Universal Declara on of Human Rights underline an important part of acknowledging commitment to social responsibility since 2009. We understand that our commitment entails that we work con nuously to support and improve the worlds social performance by seNng our own high objec ves and integra ng human rights considera ons where necessary into our daily business. We ensure that nobody whose work is contribu ng to our success is deprived of his or her human rights, or suﬀers mental or bodily harm. We consider this as an unwri;en Code of Conduct which is a non-nego able requirement from within and entails that all our suppliers and their subcontractors, without excep on, should adopt and follow this code. Our Policy and Procedure Manual provides an objec ve guide to handle, solve, capture, analyse, and inves gate compliance failures iden ﬁed by employees. We see it as our responsibility to help ensure that our suppliers act in accordance with our minimum requirements. The need for such a set of guidelines is due to the overall compliance we wish to a;ain within the industry. An unfortunate fact is that suppliers fail to ensure compliance with governing labour standards. The requirements in the Bowden Print Group Code of Conduct are therefore stricter in many areas than the general standard in comparison to similar businesses in our country. Clearly there may be structural condi ons or cultural tradi ons that may give rise to non immediate compliance with the Bowden Print Group Code of Conduct. We consider the most important point is that suppliers are prepared to ac vely work to ensure they eventually comply with the requirements. Our Code of Conduct expresses our support for the UN Declara on of Human Rights, and we also encourage our suppliers to sign up to the UN Global Compact. ...give yourself the advantage Human Rights (con nued) The Bowden Print Group provides access to basic health and educa on for the workers. Social assessments are considered in certain circumstances if the employee can not aﬀord the medical treatment. If an employee is found to be not able to pay, the employee may be either granted or subsidised by way of a loan to a;ain the needed health care. A programme designed for the considera on of human rights will be developed for our employees to be;er understand the involvement of Amnesty Interna onal in this area. WHS Policy At Bowden Prin ng Pty Ltd (“the Company”), the Health, Safety and Welfare of all Employees, Contractors, whilst carrying our work for the Company, and Visitors are of equal importance to all other business ac vi es. All Employees agree to work together to ensure a safe workplace. We have a duty to “ensure health and safety” which requires a person to eliminate risks to health and safety, so far as reasonably prac cable, or if not reasonably prac cable, to minimise risks so far as reasonably prac cable, to the extent which a person has the capacity to inﬂuence and control the ma;er, or would have that capacity but for an agreement or arrangement purpor ng to limit that or remove that capacity. To meet the objec ves of this policy, we are commi;ed to regular discussions with employees to ensure that health and safety issues are regularly reviewed. Health and safety is most eﬀec ve when a joint owner, manager and employee approach is used to iden fy and solve problems. We are commi;ed to con nuously improving WHS by addressing hazards and reviewing outcomes. ...give yourself the advantage Human Rights (con nued) Employer, Manager and Supervisors responsibili es: The Responsibility of the Company is to establish and maintain a safe system of work by:  provide a safe working environment, plant and equipment.  ensure the workplace is safe and without risks to health.  ensure the safe use, handling, storage and transport of plant, goods and substances.  provide Employees with informa on, instruc on, training and supervision in an appropriate language.  monitor Employee’s Health and Safety at work, and the condi ons in the workplace.  provide protec ve clothing, protec ve eye, ear and head wear as appropriate.  display warnings in a prominent posi on as required.  employ competent staﬀ and engaging independent contractors who will carry out their work safely.  provide a suitable Work Health & Safety Induc on Programme to new employees, employees taking up new tasks or du es, and contractors in the workplace.  day to day management of Health and Safety issues  ensuring new employees receive informa on, training and supervision  ensuring employees receive training prior to commencing new tasks or when using new equipment  supervising employees to ensure their health and safety is maintained  acquaint contractors and visitors with the Work Health & Safety Policy of the Company as appropriate.  Their responsibili es under the Act and Regula ons are met. Employees Responsibili es: The Employee’s responsibility is to:  Follow all reasonable instruc ons on all ma;ers including Work, Health, Safety and Welfare and to use safety and protec ve equipment provided by the Company.  Carry out their du es in a safe manner, ensure personal health and safety and that of fellow employees, contractors and visitors.  Ensure their own health and safety, and that of others, by not working under the inﬂuence of alcohol and other drugs.  Report to management any ma;ers that may cause injury or illness in the workplace or at a worksite. Visitors and contractors must ensure:  Not put themselves or any of our employees at risk.  Abide by our safety policy and rules.  Not enter restricted areas without permission. Policy Review The Company undertakes to review this policy as required to meet the needs of the Work Health & Safety Act (SA) 2012 as amended from me-tome. ...give yourself the advantage Human Rights (con nued) 2018 Ac ons implemented: Con nual reviews and a focus on health will see the following training objec ves reviewed for implementa on:  WHS Systems integra on with our QMS and EMS Systems  Transi on to new QMS and EMS Cer ﬁca ons  High Performance Culture reviews and educa on. 2019 Ac ons to be implemented: Con nual reviews and a focus on health will see the following training objec ves reviewed for implementa on:  BMS—Bowden Management System—integra on of our cer ﬁed QMS and EMS Systems and our WHS System  Review Corporate Social Responsibility: Ongoing  High Performance Culture reviews and educa on: Ongoing ...give yourself the advantage Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa on and the eﬀec ve recogni on of the right to collec ve bargaining; Principle 4: the elimina on of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the eﬀec ve aboli on of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimina on of discrimina on in respect of employment and occupa on. All personnel – whatever the level/qualiﬁca on – are en tled to join trade unions for the protec on of individual and collec ve interests. The Bowden Print Group acknowledge the role of union representa ves, who are not subject to any discrimina on, and ensure, for union ac vi es, the appropriate retribu on of absence and the means to communicate with personnel in the workplace. The Bowden Print Group stands commi;ed not to resort to any form of forced and compulsory labour. The Bowden Print Group is against the illegal use of child labour, exploita on of the work of children and all other unacceptable forms in the treatment of workers. Our policy is to iden fy where possible and not to work with suppliers and contractors whose labour prac ces are reproachable, such as the use of child labour, physical punishment, female abuse, and forced labour and other forms of abuse. The Bowden Print Group has the permanent concern to respect and promote the principle of non discrimina on on all the levels of our Human Resources, with special emphasis on: recruitment, career development and training. With this inten on, the Bowden Print Group commits not to prac ce any form of discrimina on, that it is founded on the age, the sex, the religion, origins (social and ethnic), poli cal aﬃlia on or trade-union membership. The communica on link between the Union and the worker’s is never negated. The Bowden Print Group con nually monitors as part of our management systems strategies to improve working condi ons within the prin ng industry. Our systems provide us with ﬁrsthand insight into factory condi ons and serves as an important tool to measure factory progress against our standards. Monitoring not only helps us leverage our inﬂuence over compe tors through face-to-face interac on, but also provides us with regular data about factory condi ons and a mechanism to assess the impact of our eﬀorts over me. ...give yourself the advantage Labour (con nued) We will aim to ensure our suppliers comply with a Code of Conduct based on ILO (Interna onal Labour Organiza on) standards. At our request suppliers will be able to sign a code of conduct covering many areas related to the Global Compact. One such notable area is child labour. Suppliers are prohibited from using workers under the legal age of employment in any country or local jurisdic on where the supplier performs work for the Bowden Print Group. If the minimum age of employment is not deﬁned, the minimum age of employment shall be governed by local, state and federal acts. The Bowden Print Group is Composed of managers from all facets of business: Senior Management, Sales and Marke ng, Produc on, Financial and Human Resources. We have commi;ees to look and understand Ethical Conduct which looks to ensure compliance with the company’s Code of Conduct and human rights principles . All of the current workplace agreements signed in the Bowden Print Group address occupa onal equality between men and women. Each employee has a contract of employment sta ng the terms and condi ons of service. Each employee has a current job descrip on. The company funds by means of assessment any ﬁnancing of programmes requested. Annual research is conducted to establish benchmarking of wage rates for similar func ons within the same industry. The Bowden Print Group con nually researches programmes that can be applied to staﬀ within the company. Promo ng knowledge, awareness, leadership skills, aNtudinal changes, and the ability to balance work and personal life is a key culture of the company. ...give yourself the advantage Labour (con nued) 2018 Ac ons implemented and ongoing QMS  Transi on to the new QMS Standard  A;ain ISO 9001:2015 cer ﬁca on in February 2019  Weekly mee ngs will discuss and review each transi on module. From the review will come weekly plans to transi on successfully to the new standard that are distributed to management for ﬁnal comment, review and implementa on. EMS  Transi on to the new EMS Standard  A;ain ISO 14001:2015 cer ﬁca on in February 2018  Weekly mee ngs will discuss and review each transi on module. From the review will come weekly plans to transi on successfully to the new standard that are distributed to management for ﬁnal comment, review and implementa on.  Communica on – Internal and External  Updates to all staﬀ/clients will be communicated quarterly ...give yourself the advantage Labour (con nued) 2018 Ac ons implemented and ongoing (CONTINUED) WHS  Improve employee well being  Iden fy training opportuni es thru yearly performance reviews and provide monthly training via online training sources.  Review employee manual and update the format of the manual in line with the current QMS and EMS Policies and Procedures.  Reduce risk of employee injury  Review and update safety policy and procedures and distribute to employees via a planned approach of QTR Reviews  Employee safety training to be assessed quarterly and distributed to employees via a planned approach of QTR Reviews CSR  Track CSR Ini a ves  Record, report and communicate Grass Roots Print. Collect data on number of clubs supported and in-kind value of support and communicate results both internally: Weekly Kick-start and externally: QTR Newsle;er.  Record, report and communicate Prooﬁng Studio Collect data on number of people who u lised the Prooﬁng Studio and communicate results both internally: Weekly Kick-start and externally: QTR Newsle;er ...give yourself the advantage Labour (con nued) 2019 Ac ons to be implemented QUALITY QMS: OFI’s to be at a rate of 75% comple on of the year total produced at June 2020 QMS/WHS High Performance Wheel: Annual Survey to be completed and reviewed by November 2019. QMS Improve to achieve an Eﬃcient and Eﬀec ve Correc ve Ac on System Eliminate Repeated Mistakes. Make the system easy to audit. ENVIRONMENT EMS Communica on – Internal and External Updates to all staﬀ and clients will be communicated weekly and quarterly respec vely. Internally the weekly Kick-start will inform staﬀ, and externally the quarterly newsle;er will inform clients. Waste We will recycle 100% of all possible paper, plas c and cardboard: Inputs and outputs will be measured to report on recycling programme. We will con nue to develop our waste saving strategies through research and development. Inves gate the possibility of crea ng a zero waste to landﬁll target by the end of 2020: Research similar business or industries that create similar waste. ...give yourself the advantage Labour (con nued) 2019 Ac ons to be implemented (con nued) CSR Track CSR Ini a ves Create a Reconcilia on Ac on Plan (RAP) MANAGEMENT Improve proﬁtability and company value: Analyse current lines of business for probable growth, proﬁtability and risk. Improve customer awareness of our business ac vi es Increase Gross Margin to 45% of revenue Eﬃciency: To become more eﬃcient in our opera ons: Sales, produc on, store and dispatch. OTD’: achieve on me delivered to be greater than 99%. Dispatch all items by 2:30pm on the requested delivery date. Record levels within the pre-press department. Training: Complete systems oﬃce and allow access to training to al staﬀ ...give yourself the advantage Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau onary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake ini a ves to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The Bowden Print Group recognises that all its ac vi es have a poten ally harmful impact on the environment. The Bowden Print Group accepts social and moral responsibility for a con nual improvement of our impact on the environment beyond the requirement of current legisla on and other requirements we subscribe to. In 2011 the Bowden Print Group achieved ISO 14007 Environmental Management System Cer ﬁca on. This was our major focus throughout 2010 and 2011 to a;ain. We will make conscious decisions to ensure the environment is a key considera on in all ac vi es undertaken by the Bowden Print Group. We will:  Favour preven on of waste over reuse, before recycling and disposal to land ﬁll.  Strive to reduce pollu on and minimise the environmental impacts and costs of our opera ons.  Train and mo vate our employees to understand their environmental responsibili es and par cipate ac vely in our environmental programmes.  Regularly communicate our environmental performance to our shareholders, employees, customers and other interested par es and maintain an open dialogue with them. To apply a common environmental management methodology throughout the company, the Bowden Print Group have employed the use of external consultants to assess and approve “Minimum Environmental Requirements”. The requirements enable standardised prac ces throughout the company, regardless of their ac vity, the geographical area where they operate, and the applicable legal requirements. Op mal product recycling begins in understanding the overall impact that arises from recycling issues. We evaluate the ecological eﬀects of all processes over the whole life cycle of the product by means of a ‘cradle to the grave’ methodology and ECO Mapping. These results help the company employees choose and develop alterna ves early on that oﬀer the greatest ecological improvement over the whole life cycle of the product. ...give yourself the advantage Environment (con nued) The ACE Commi;ee, which consists of internal and external experts with environmental knowledge (execu ves in charge of environmental ma;ers, and members from within the company) considers the Bowden Print Group’s environment-related opera ons, such as recycling and emissions trading, as well as the company’s con nual improvement in its manufacturing processes help to promote to show the greatest possible responsibility and concern for the environment. We are doing our part for the environment by implemen ng “green” prac ces that help minimize the overall ecological footprint and contribute to more sustainable livelihoods by decreasing energy needs and increasing water conserva on. We are constantly challenged to improve the sustainability of the technologies, processes and materials employed in our opera ons and we can show examples of environmental impacts reduced by such ini a ves. The recent review of all processes will iden fy improvements in the use of power and fuels and a packaging review will aim to deﬁne the environmental implica ons of materials and prac ces in packaging. 2019 Ac ons to be implemented: EMS Communica on – Internal and External Updates to all staﬀ and clients will be communicated weekly and quarterly respec vely. Internally the weekly Kick-start will inform staﬀ, and externally the quarterly newsle;er will inform clients. Waste We will recycle 100% of all possible paper, plas c and cardboard: Inputs and outputs will be measured to report on recycling programme. We will con nue to develop our waste saving strategies through research and development. Inves gate the possibility of crea ng a zero waste to landﬁll target by the end of 2020: Research similar business or industries that create similar waste. ...give yourself the advantage An -Corrup on Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrup on in all its forms, including extor on and bribery. The Bowden Print Group will not condone any viola on of the law, dishonesty or unethical business dealing by any employee, including any payment for, or other par cipa on in, any illegal act such as bribery, fraud, theD, money-laundering or illicit dealing in goods or stolen property. Employees or contractors who are concerned that laws, regula ons, standards or the Code of conduct may be being breached, including safety-related issues, can raise concerns through our weekly staﬀ mee ngs that are aimed at bringing issues to the forefront in an informal surrounding. All reports are ini ally handled by a review process before being forwarded to the appropriate person within the Bowden Print Group. Concerns are passed to a regional chapter of an industry based body who advises as required. The Bowden Print Group will not tolerate retalia on against anyone who raises issues or is named. Any allega on of retalia on is inves gated and, if substan ated, disciplinary ac on will be taken against those responsible The Bowden Print Group has introduced measures and processes that address this issue and these have been successfully developed and implemented. ...give yourself the advantage Ac on Plan Update Ac on Plan Details Comple on Date Not Started In Progress Completed Code of Conduct based on ILO (Interna onal Labour Implement a Code of Conduct Policy. December 2019 Organisa on) standards. Corporate Sustainability Implement procedures and plans that December 2019 Leadership create sustainability in the workplace. To implement a plan that is supported by the ISO 26000 (CSR Guidance) guidance that the ISO 26000:2010 standard December 2019 aspires to. B5 Ini a ve: Review and How can the Bowden Print Group engage at implement Corporate Social December 2019 a more socially responsible level. Responsible prac ces Establish Training schedule by Training Schedule December 2019 September 2019.. Review and implement quality and QMS and EMS Environmental systems to migrate to new Feb 2019 QMS and EMS Standards QMS and EMS Recer ﬁca on of QMS and EMS Feb 2019 Combine QMS and EMS Systems to create a BMS December 2019 Bowden Management System Measure, review, understand, plan and Company Culture communicate cultural improvements within December 2019 the company. Implement a plan to analyses Risk and Risk and Opportuni es Opportunity within our QMS and EMS December 2019 Systems. Reconcilia on Ac on Plan Create an implement RAP December 2019 BMS Communica on Increase distribu on of BMS Ac vi es December 2019 Update website and social pages weekly Social Engagement September 2019 with BLOG updates. Create weekly VLOG Relaunch Prooﬁng Studio to support the Prooﬁng Studio September 2019 industry and clients. Relaunch website to support community Grass Roots Print September 2019 spor ng clubs. Align and develop support with iden ﬁed NFP Support September 2019 NFP chari es ...give yourself the advantage
