DocuSign Envelope ID: DFC3C3DF-77A2-4134-A481-90C12AD12631 Stockholm Sweden 13 February 2019 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Statement WhistleB Whistleblowing Centre AB aims to be the leading global provider of whistleblowing system and services. The WhistleB system is a tool for organisations to conduct business in a good and ethical way, preventing wrongdoings and minimise business and human risks. WhistleB serves all companies, organisations and authorities from various branches; from small organisations to global corporations. The WhistleB system is a secure and user-friendly system, accessible for employees and other stakeholders in any language. WhistleB ensures whistleblower anonymity and protects sensitive data. 1 We are pleased to confirm WhistleB’s support of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Our work for high business ethics and sustainable operations reflect the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues and follow our performance on these issues systematically. In the Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. Gunilla Hadders Karin Henriksson Founding partners, WhistleB Stockholm, Sweden WhistleB, Whistleblowing Centre PO Box 70396 Visiting address: World Trade Center https://www.whistleb.com SE 107 24 Stockholm Klarabergsviadukten 70, Stockholm Sweden DocuSign Envelope ID: DFC3C3DF-77A2-4134-A481-90C12AD12631 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: WhistleB actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. WhistleB sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including The Global 2 Compact Principles 1-2, the protection of human rights, health and safety. It provides the ethical and behavioral framework on which we base our decisions every day. The Code is anchored in values and beliefs and underpins all that we do. Activities: We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 1-2. We follow up of WhistleB Code of Conduct through management reviews and the WhistleB whistleblowing service. Performance: In the past year WhistleB has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents on violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. WhistleB, Whistleblowing Centre PO Box 70396 Visiting address: World Trade Center https://www.whistleb.com SE 107 24 Stockholm Klarabergsviadukten 70, Stockholm Sweden DocuSign Envelope ID: DFC3C3DF-77A2-4134-A481-90C12AD12631 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: We respect the right of workers and operate our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. WhistleB sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. Systems: 3 Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 3-6. Activities: We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 3-6. We follow up of WhistleB Code of Conduct through management reviews. Performance: No incidents on violations of labour rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. WhistleB, Whistleblowing Centre PO Box 70396 Visiting address: World Trade Center https://www.whistleb.com SE 107 24 Stockholm Klarabergsviadukten 70, Stockholm Sweden DocuSign Envelope ID: DFC3C3DF-77A2-4134-A481-90C12AD12631 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment: We recognise that our operations have a negative impact on the environment. We constantly work to minimize these effects. Business travels are our key environmental issue and we work constantly to reduce CO2 emissions among others through a strict travel policy, promoting where possible web and phone meetings before travels. WhistleB is a climate neutral company. Systems: 4 Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 7-9. Activities: We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 7-9. We follow up of WhistleB Code of Conduct through management reviews. WhistleB monitor and offset climate emissions created by our operations. Performance: No incidents on violations of the environmental principles have been reported to the Company Management. WhistleB, Whistleblowing Centre PO Box 70396 Visiting address: World Trade Center https://www.whistleb.com SE 107 24 Stockholm Klarabergsviadukten 70, Stockholm Sweden DocuSign Envelope ID: DFC3C3DF-77A2-4134-A481-90C12AD12631 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: WhistleB do not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. WhistleB and its employees and others acting on behalf of WhistleB may not offer, give or accept bribes or other illegal payments. Business partners and representatives of the authorities may not be offered any inappropriate financial benefits in order to promote WhistleB’s business activity or other company interests. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact 5 Principle 10. Activities: We work systematically to strengthen business ethics, including Global Compact´s Principles 10. All employees are systematically trained in ethical business. Our ethical guidelines support and anticorruption policy support correct behavior if an employee should face an ethical dilemma. We follow up of WhistleB Code of Conduct through management reviews and the WhistleB whistleblowing service. Performance: No incidents on violations of the Anti-corruption principle have been reported to the Company Management. WhistleB, Whistleblowing Centre PO Box 70396 Visiting address: World Trade Center https://www.whistleb.com SE 107 24 Stockholm Klarabergsviadukten 70, Stockholm Sweden
