Strategy Welcome to read about our contribution to the renewable Sustainability future. Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 includes our strategic, sustainability and financial performance, and governance. Financials Stora Enso Annual Report 2018 Governance Contents Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Annual Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 Strategy Sustainability Financials Governance Stora Enso supports customers Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 Our sustainability work covers Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 Financials includes the report Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 Governance covers Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 to meet consumers’ demand social, environmental, and of the Board of Directors and Stora Enso’s governance for sustainable products based economic responsibility the financial statements, as policy, practices, and on renewable materials. Our throughout our operations, well as Stora Enso in capital actions as well as our solutions provide low-carbon with human rights integrated markets and our tax footprint. remuneration statement. alternatives to products based into everything we do. Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability on fossil fuels and other non-renewable materials. Financials Financials Financials Financials Sustainability Governance Governance Governance Governance Strategy Sustainability Financials Governance This is Stora Enso.................................................2 Governance...........................................................4 Stora Enso in 2018................................................2 Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018.....2 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders...............5 Shareholders’ meetings.........................................2 Stora Enso worldwide.........................................4 Report of the Board of Directors.......................3 Our targets..............................................................9 Board of Directors (Board).....................................3 Stora Enso in 2018................................................5 Adopting the SDGs............................................... 10 Consolidated financial statements.................20 Board committees..................................................7 CEO’s overview.....................................................7 Human rights........................................................ 12 Notes to the Consolidated Management of the Company...............................8 financial statements..........................................25 Internal control and risk management How we create value.......................................... 10 Social agenda..................................................... 16 related to financial reporting................................ 10 Employees and wider workforce......................... 17 Extract from the parent company Transformation................................................... 11 Community...........................................................22 Stora Enso Oyj financial statements............... 74 Remuneration Statement................................. 11 Divisions.............................................................. 19 Business ethics....................................................27 Decision-making procedure................................ 11 The Board of Directors’ Proposal Consumer Board..................................................20 Main principles of remuneration.......................... 11 Financials Environmental agenda......................................31 for the distribution of dividend.........................76 Packaging Solutions.............................................25 Remuneration Report 2018.................................. 13 Materials, water, and energy................................32 Auditor’s report..................................................77 Biomaterials..........................................................30 Carbon dioxide.....................................................42 Members of the Board of Directors................. 15 Wood Products.....................................................35 Stora Enso in capital markets..........................80 Forests, plantations, and land use.......................49 Members of the Group Leadership Team....... 17 Paper.....................................................................40 Stora Enso as a taxpayer...................................86 Economic agenda..............................................55 Group Leadership Team....................................45 Customers............................................................56 Capacities by mill in 2019..................................88 Suppliers...............................................................60 Information for shareholders...........................91 Investors...............................................................64 External recognition.............................................66 Data and assurance...........................................67 Reporting scope...................................................68 Data by production unit........................................69 Governance Auditor’s assurance report...................................72 The GRI index is available at storaenso.com/gri2018 Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy Stora Enso supports customers Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 to meet consumers’ demand for sustainable products based on renewable materials. Our solutions provide low-carbon alternatives to products based Sustainability on fossil fuels and other non-renewable materials. Financials Governance Contents Strategy Annual Report 2018 Our renewable products provide a sustainable alternative to fossilSustainability based materials. This is Stora Enso................................ 2 Stora Enso worldwide........................ 4 Stora Enso in 2018............................... 5 CEO’s overview.................................... 7 Financials How we create value..........................10 Transformation...................................11 Divisions............................................. 19 Consumer Board................................. 20 Packaging Solutions............................ 25 Biomaterials......................................... 30 Wood Products.................................... 35 Paper.................................................... 40 Group Leadership Team................... 45 Governance 2 This is Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – This is Stora Enso Strategy Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso Strategy Part of the bioeconomy, Stora Enso is a leading global provider of renewable solutions in packaging, biomaterials, wooden This is Stora Enso constructions and paper. We employ some 26 000 people in more than 30 countries and our shares are listed on the Helsinki (STEAV, Stora Enso worldwide STERV) and Stockholm (STE A, STE R) stock exchanges. Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 Our fibre-based materials are renewable and recyclable. Our solutions provide low-carbon alternatives to products based on CEO’s overview fossil fuels and other non-renewable materials. We believe that everything that is made from fossil-based materials today can How we create value be made from a tree tomorrow. Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team Financials Governance 3 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – This is Stora Enso Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview Divisions How we create value in brief Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper The ambition of the Consumer The Packaging Solutions The Biomaterials division offers The Wood Products division is a Stora Enso is the second largest Board division is to be the global division provides fibre-based a wide variety of pulp grades leading provider of innovative woodpaper producer in Europe with an leader in high-quality virgin fibre board materials and corrugated to meet the demands of paper, based solutions. The product range established customer base and cartonboard. We aim to be the packaging products and services board, tissue, textile, and hygiene covers all areas of construction, a wide product portfolio for print preferred partner of our customers, that are designed for a wide array product producers. We are including massive wooden elements and office use. Customers benefit Financials such as converters, brand owners of applications. Our renewable maximising the business potential and wooden components. It also from Stora Enso’s broad selection and retailers, in premium end-use high-end packaging solutions of the by-products extracted in includes a variety of sawn timber of papers made from recycled and packaging and graphical segments. serve leading converters, brand our processes, such as tall oil and goods and pellets for sustainable virgin fibre as well as our valuable Our wide board and barrier coating owners, and retailers – including turpentine from biomass. Based on heating. The emerging product industry experience, know-how and selection is suitable for consumer those in e-commerce that are our strong innovation approach, all range of Biocomposites addresses customer support. packaging for liquid, food, looking to optimise performance, fractions of biomass, like sugars and the opportunities to replace plastics pharmaceutical, and luxury goods. drive innovation, and improve lignin, hold substantial potential for in consumer goods and creates their sustainability. use in various applications. potential in various demanding exterior applications in a costcompetitive way. Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Group sales Group sales Group sales Group sales Group sales 25% 13% 16%* 15% 29% Share of Group Share of Group Share of Group Share of Group Share of Group Governance operational EBIT operational EBIT operational EBIT operational EBIT operational EBIT 17% 18% 32% 13% 18% *of which internal sales 25% 4 Serving markets Europe North America Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Stora Enso worldwide Strategy Stora Enso’s head office is in In the United States, Annual Report 2018 Helsinki, Finland. Most of the Stora Enso has a pilot facility Group’s sales and operations take in Danville, Virginia, to develop place in Europe, where we are a technologies for the conversion around the world leading producer of packaging of biomass into highly refined board and solutions, pulp, sugars and lignin. In 2018, the wooden products and paper. production of xylose started Stora Enso has three research in our demonstration plant in centres in Imatra (Finland), Raceland, Louisiana. These Karlstad (Sweden), and new technologies will enable Mönchengladbach (Germany), the development of sustainable Strategy Stora Enso operates worldwide and focuses on utilising expertise in renewable materials and creating value in and two innovation centres in Stockholm and in Helsinki. In replacements for fossil-based materials in various industries. packaging, pulp, paper, and wood. We combine global resources with local presence, service, and sustainability. Northern Europe, we source most of our main raw material – wood – South America This is Stora Enso from private forest owners and our Latin America is important forest associates Bergvik Skog and Tornator. for Stora Enso’s strategy of obtaining low-cost pulp from tree Stora Enso worldwide plantations. In Brazil, we own Asia 50% of Veracel Celulose pulp Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 The demand for Stora Enso’s products, especially consumer mill. Our share of the eucalyptus pulp is mostly used in our paper Europe 88% Europe 87% board, is growing fast in China. and board mills. Veracel also CEO’s overview Sales by Asia Pacific 5% Purchases Asia Pacific 9% In 2018, our new consumer owns land, around half of which origin by region board mill continued to ramp up is former degraded pasture South America 7% South America 4% in Beihai, in the Guangxi region, lands planted with eucalyptus. How we create value where our operations also The other half is dedicated to include eucalyptus plantations. protecting local biodiversity In addition, Stora Enso has three by restoring the natural Transformation packaging plants and operates Atlantic rainforest. one jointly owned paper mill. The Montes del Plata pulp mill in Uruguay is a joint operation Divisions between Stora Enso and Arauco. Finland 25% Stora Enso’s share is sold entirely China 21% Group Leadership Team as market pulp, mainly in Europe Sweden 20% and Asia. Montes del Plata’s tree plantations are also utilised Poland 8% as pastures by local farmers Personnel Germany 4% through land rental schemes. Europe 73% by country1 Russia 4% Asia Pacific 18% Other Europe 16% Sales by North America 4% Financials destination Americas 1% South America 2% Other countries 1% Other 3% ¹ Excluding employees of our 50%-owned joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. Governance 5 Stora Enso Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Stora Enso in 2018 Strategy Annual Report 2018 in 2018 Strategy Stora Enso is creating This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Stora Enso in 2018 a renewable future in Sustainability the bioeconomy. CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team Operational ROCE Average Sales and operational EBIT personnel 15.5% EUR million % 12 000 18 10 000 15 Financials 8 000 12 6 000 9 71% 4 000 6 Consumer Board 16% 2 000 3 Packaging Solutions 30% Biomaterials 7% 0 0 Wood Products 15% 2015 2016 2017 2018 of sales from Paper 19% Sales, EUR million growth businesses Other 13% Operational EBIT, % Governance 6 Highlights of 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Stora Enso in 2018 Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy This is Stora Enso Award-winning Lineo Startup collaboration Sustainable solutions for accelerates growth packaging authentication Stora Enso worldwide LineoTM by Stora Enso is made Stora Enso was recognised as ECOTM by Stora Enso is a new Sustainability from lignin, which is an abundant Stora Enso and Orthex brought to the Stora Enso in 2018 product as it is one of the main Finland’s most startup friendly sustainable RFID tag technology market a new range of kitchen utensils made from DuraSenseTM biocomposites. building blocks of trees and thus company. One reason for the that is designed for intelligent CEO’s overview a step towards replacing fossilaward is the collaboration with the packaging functionalities in supply based products with renewable startup company Sulapac, with chain, retail and e-commerce How we create value solutions. Lineo has received an whom Stora Enso will begin the applications. The technology overwhelmingly positive response development of biodegradable enables paper-based RFID tags, Transformation from stakeholders and received straws as well as fully renewable providing a plastic-free and several awards for being a significant, caps and closures for liquid recyclable solution for packaging Divisions innovative bio-based product. packages. Plus, in cooperation authentication. To further develop with another startup, Trä Group, the intelligent packaging business, Group Leadership Team Stora Enso will increase digitalisation Stora Enso established a new Strategic LVL investment in the wooden construction value intelligent packaging unit. ramped up chain by providing services for healthy and affordable living. The ramp-up of laminated veneer lumber (LVL) production in Varkaus was completed during the year. Financials It reached the EBITDA break-even already during the first quarter. Sustainable profitable Combatting Sustainable forestry –18% 96% growth continues global warming Introducing biocomposites to reduce the consumption of plastic 8 consecutive quarters less CO2e per tonne compared of the lands we own or manage were covered by DuraSenseTM by Stora Enso biocomposites enables the use of renewable wood-based fibres, which can be used as substitutes for fossil-based plastic. It offers customers a wood fibre-based alternative which improves sustainability performance and, depending on the product, significantly reduces the carbon footprint. Stora Enso is building a new Biocomposites Competence Centre at its Hylte Mill in Sweden to speed up market access. Governance of sales growth to the 2010 base-year level forest certification schemes 7 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – CEO’s overview Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview How we create value The power of trees Stora Enso’s raw material is renewable, recyclable Transformation and fossil-free. This provides us with a great advantage in addressing the global megatrends and in leading Divisions business and industry towards the bioeconomy. Across markets and in businesses, there are calls for change Group Leadership Team because consumers are increasingly turning to ecofriendly products and solutions. Stora Enso’s promise for a renewable future is based on sustainability, innovation and having the technological capabilities to meet the demands for a greener world. We believe that everything that is made from fossil-based materials today can be Financials made from a tree tomorrow. Accelerated pace of innovation By building on a strong portfolio that is based on wood fibres, we aim to leverage our raw material, market-leading expertise and market insight to ever greater extents. We are investing more in innovation and R&D and increasing sales in new applications, products and services. The share of sales of new products and services has risen from 1.5% in 2015 to 9%. Our target is 15%, which would mean that we effectively renew our product portfolio every ten years. In 2018, we introduced: Lineo™ by Stora Enso, biocomposites DuraSense™ by Stora Enso and the sustainable ECO™ RFID tag for intelligent packaging. We initiated partnerships with the startups Sulapac and Trä Group, and launched our second Accelerator Governance programme to intensify our work with new startups. We also joined TreeToTextile, a textile fibre joint venture with H&M group and Inter IKEA group, and took full ownership of the cellulose technology company Cellutech. 8 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – CEO’s overview Strategy Annual Report 2018 Operational ROCE % 16 Strategy 14 12 10 8 This is Stora Enso 6 2015 2016 2017 2018 Stora Enso worldwide Operational ROCE, % Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 Target >13% CEO’s overview Dividend proposal Earnings How we create value per share per share Net debt to operational EBITDA Transformation EUR 0.50 EUR 1.28 4.0 3.2 Divisions 2.4 1.6 Group Leadership Team 0.8 Close to 9% 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net debt to operational EBITDA of sales came from new products and services. Target <2.0 Financials We will continue to invest selectively in mergers and acquisitions pleased with the quite significant increase in full year EPS of 62.5%. of biocomposite granules at our Hylte Mill and are moving closer to strengthen our market share in our core business areas. Alongside We continue to strengthen our balance sheet and net debt/EBITDA to the completion of the cross-laminated timber unit at Gruvön. innovation, we will continue to capitalise on developments in digitalisation, amounted to 1.1. In another potential step in our transformation journey, we also particularly in the areas of customer engagement, industrial digitalisation Three of our five divisions reached their strategic profitability initiated a feasibility study to evaluate the potential conversion of in operations and supply chain and the smart back office. targets in 2018. Our fixed costs to sales ratio is still above our strategic Oulu paper mill into packaging board production. target of 25%, and we forecast that our costs increase in 2019. Among our investments, we signed an agreement to acquire forest Profit improvement of 32% We will therefore implement measures to mitigate these increases assets in Bergvik Skog. This is a natural step for Stora Enso as we The strength of our strategy and progress shows in our figures and the increased uncertainties in the markets and the economy. aim to secure competitive raw material supply and further develop for 2018, as we continued on our path of sustainable growth. We Therefore, we launched a new profit protection programme aiming long-term sustainable forest management. have had already eight consecutive quarters of sales growth, and at reduction of costs. our sales are again well above 10 billion euros with an increase Sustainability at the heart of 4.4% from 2017. This was achieved mainly due to higher sales Supported by investments With rising consumption and global warming, it is increasingly Governance prices and active mix management in all our divisions. We reached During 2018, the ramp-up of strategic investments in Beihai, clear that an economy based on fossil-based fuels and other a substantially improved profitability with an operational EBIT that Varkaus and Murów continued. The production of wooden building non-renewable materials is not viable. Stora Enso is contributing was 32% higher than last year. Our operational ROCE was close components (LVL) is well underway at Varkaus and the new fluff to the transition to a circular bioeconomy by providing bio-based to 16%, well above the strategic target of 13%. I am also very pulp line at Skutskär Mill is up and running. We began production solutions that are renewable, recyclable and low-carbon. 9 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – CEO’s overview Strategy Annual Report 2018 Our promise for a renewable future is based on sustainability, Strategy innovation, and the technological This is Stora Enso capabilities to meet the growing demands for a greener world. Stora Enso worldwide Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 Reaching key financial targets CEO’s overview EUR million 2018 2017 2016 Target Performance against target How we create value Payout ratio , %1 39% 52% 63% See below2 Transformation Operational ROCE, % 15.5% 11.9% 10.2% >13% Debt/equity ratio 0.31 0.38 0.47 <0.60 Divisions Net sales growth3, % 5.9% 8.5% 3.1% Group Leadership Team Net debt/last 12 months’ operational EBITDA 1.1 1.4 1.9 <2.0x Fixed costs/sales 23.6% 25.1% 25.3% <20% 1 Dividend per share / EPS. 2 To distribute 50% of EPS over the cycle. Achieved 3 Excluding the paper business and the divested businesses. Not achieved Financials The United Nations have defined a set of 17 Sustainable People lead the way Rising from our roots Development Goals (SDGs) that address social and economic Sustainability, our purpose and values, safety and business ethics For us, profitable growth needs to be sustainable on all dimensions development issues on a global scale, each with their own set of form the base for everything we do. We are committed to the UN – for our stakeholders, the planet, and society as a whole. This is the related targets. Stora Enso supports all 17 SDGs, and we have identified Global Compact’s ten principles and the UN’s Guiding Principles on power of trees – they allow us to meet rising demand for eco-friendly three strategic goals that our business has the most impact on. These Business and Human Rights. We recognise the importance of diversity products, support sustainable forestry, promote efficiency in the value are SDG 12 on Responsible Consumption and Production, SDG 13 and equality as prerequisites for building a culture characterised by chain, serve our markets responsibly, and develop new and better concerning Climate Action and SDG 15 regarding Life on Land. innovation and sustainability. sustainable solutions together with our customers. We have set tough science-based targets regarding the reduction To ensure we have the capabilities and motivation to deliver As always, I thank all our partners, suppliers, and employees for of carbon emissions and will continue our drive to improve energy on our strategy, create new products and services faster than our their contributions throughout 2018, and our customers and investors efficiency and lower our use of fossil fuels. We have a raw material competitors and best support our customers, we promote systematic for their valued trust. that is renewable because trees grow back. Furthermore, living trees leadership development, employee engagement, and open Governance also absorb CO2 and together with wood-based products act as communication. I am very pleased that Your Voice, our annual global carbon sinks. We promote sustainable forest management and work survey of all employees, continues to show a positive development to ensure that forests are renewed after harvesting. Our business – regarding strong leadership and engaged employees as well as Karl-Henrik Sundström and society – depend on this. a high level of team efficiency. Stora Enso’s CEO 10 How we create value as a renewable materials company Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – How we create value Strategy Annual Report 2018 Key inputs Key outputs Key impacts • Investments in Human Rights • Eight highest priority human rights defined during 2018 • Respect for Human Rights in all operations Strategy Due Diligence programme Social • EUR 1 330 million salaries and benefits This is Stora Enso • Impacts of injuries, illness, and well-being • 26 000 direct employees in more • Personnel turnover 15.0% • Engaged and motivated employees and a Stora Enso worldwide than 30 countries • 6.1 TRI rate capable organisation • OHS and well-being • Illness related absenteeism 3.0% • EUR 1 276 million value through taxes Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 borne and collected • • Employee and leadership development Partnerships with communities Our fibre-based materials • • 22 hours of training per employee Leadership index 83/100 • Value creation with local communities CEO’s overview and universities are renewable and recyclable. • 453 voluntary community investment projects • Value through ethical operations in the • EUR 2.7 million voluntary • Code of Conduct index 85/100 market place community investments How we create value • Business ethics and compliance Transformation Divisions Environmental • CO2 reduced with our renewable products and carbon neutral energy Group Leadership Team • 933 000 hectares of lands under • 10.3 million tonnes of board, market pulp, and paper, • Trees absorb CO2 and products store management • 6 million m3 of wood products carbon • 38.7 million m3 of wood used • Certification coverage 96% for lands in wood • Environmental impacts of operations and • EUR 46 million environmental production and harvesting and 76% for sourced wood along the value chain investments • 26% utilisation rate for Paper for Recycling • Forests work as carbon sinks and provide • 2.5 million tonnes of Paper for Our solutions provide • 98% utilisation rate for process residuals and waste ecosystem services Recycling (PfR) low-carbon alternatives • 96% of water withdrawal returned back to the Financials • 2.5 million tonnes of pigments, fillers environment incl. 291 million m3 process water and other chemicals to products based on discharges • 587 million m3 water withdrawal fossil fuels and other • 3.55 million tonnes fossil CO2e emissions from • 159 PJ fuels of which 81% biomass generated and purchased energy • 7.7 TWh externally sourced electricity non-renewable materials. • 1.2 TWh externally delivered electricity/heat/steam Economic • EUR 10.5 billion sales of products and services • EUR 8 824 million capital employed • Customer satisfaction: Net Promoter Score 51% • 9% of sales from new products • EUR 149 million R&D investments • 56 patent applications and over 324 patents granted • EUR 7.1 billion paid to suppliers • 20 000 suppliers and 23 000 private • 95% of supplier spend covered by Supplier Code of • EUR 574 million capital expenditure forest owners Conduct • EUR 323 million dividends for shareholders • 94 000 shareholders • 52 third-party supplier audits • EUR 133 million interests for creditors • EUR 8.1 billion market capitalisation Governance Trees absorb CO 2 and store carbon together with wood-based products, which can then be recycled as raw material or used for energy generation. Read more in Financials 2018 and Sustainability 2018. 11 The world Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2018 needs a new Strategy This is Stora Enso approach Stora Enso worldwide to materials Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview Global warming is one of the biggest challenges of our time. There How we create value is an increasing demand for raw material that is renewable, recyclable and fossil-free. By replacing fossil-based materials with Stora Enso’s Transformation renewable solutions, we will help drive the transition from a fossil fuel consuming world to a sustainable future based on bioeconomy. Divisions The demand for food, clothing, housing, energy, infrastructure and Group Leadership Team consumer products continues to increase, driven by global megatrends, such as population growth, urbanisation, rising incomes, and changing lifestyles. More people and more consumption mean that the planet’s resources are being stretched even further. Our customers are looking for solutions that can help to replace non-renewable materials in packaging, construction and chemical intermediates Financials with renewable materials. Everything that’s made from fossilbased materials today can be made from Governance a tree tomorrow. 12 Stora Enso’s business is based on Our products contribute to a greener planet Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2018 supporting our customers in meeting consumers’ demand for renewable products. We aim to be a leader in our field, Renewable Recyclable Biodegradable Wood-based products Our products are Many renewable materials preferred partner, and a respected member are renewable because recyclable. Fibres can biodegrade in weeks, unlike in the societies where we work. Responding trees – our raw material – be recycled 5–7 times. plastics, aluminium and glass to today’s challenges and demands grow back in sustainably which take hundreds of years Strategy for a greener planet, we bring value to managed forests. to degrade. our customers, employees, investors, This is Stora Enso suppliers, and other stakeholders. Every tree is traced Material is used Produced sustainably We know the origin of all efficiently In 2018, our fossil CO2e Stora Enso worldwide the wood we use through We make the most out of emissions per saleable tonne traceability systems. every tree we use. Over the of board, pulp and paper were Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 Our purpose: years, for example, we have 18% lower than the 2010 doubled the amount of carton benchmark level. CEO’s overview Store carbon produced from the same Do good for people Renewable materials help amount of wood. How we create value and the planet. Replace combat global warming – our products store carbon. Transformation fossil-based materials Divisions with renewable solutions. Group Leadership Team Our values: Lead. Do What’s Right. Financials Governance 13 Creating value Sales by business Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2018 in the bioeconomy -3% 21% 2% 25% Stora Enso’s transformation into a renewable materials 29% company ensures that we can continue to deliver sustainable profitable growth of 4–6% annually, excluding Paper, and Strategy generate superior return on capital employed (ROCE). Our 2006 12% 30% 2018 71% strategy is based on innovation and customer insights, 13% This is Stora Enso supported by structured processes and motivated employees. 70% Stora Enso worldwide Four of our divisions are growing while the Paper division 15% is focused on cash generation. We will continue to invest in 16% Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 attractive segments and concentrate on offering innovative products and services to our customers. With renewable, CEO’s overview recyclable, and fossil-free wood fibres as our foundation, we have an important role to play in the bioeconomy. How we create value Operational EBIT by business Transformation Divisions -3% 2% 18% 17% Group Leadership Team 35% 2006 38% 13% 2018 18% 82% Financials 62% 6% 32% Consumer Board Packaging Solutions1 Biomaterials Stora Enso is transforming from a traditional paper and board Wood Products producer to a renewable materials growth company. The capital Paper 2 expenditure for 2012–2018 amounted to 5.5 billion, of which Other and eliminations 3.2 billion was strategic capex. As part of the transformation, Stora Enso has closed 4.9 million tonnes of capacity since 2006. Governance from growth businesses 1 In 2006 in Consumer Board 2 In 2006 includes merchants 14 We need speed to make an impact and to be the Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2018 first out with new products and services. We offer fast support to our customers as they respond to changing consumer trends, thus helping lessen dependence on fossil-based materials and decreasing the burden on the environment. Therefore, we invest more in innovation and Strategy R&D, which is accelerating our profitable growth. Our capital expenditure for the next five years is This is Stora Enso expected to be around EUR 3 billion. High-quality Value added services in Intelligent packaging Biocomposites Stora Enso worldwide containerboards corrugated packaging Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 In 2018 Long-term target 9% 15% CEO’s overview How we create value Our drivers for accelerating growth Transformation of our sales came of our sales is expected Divisions from new products to come from new products and services. and services. Group Leadership Team Next generation liquid Building components Bio-barriers Future bio-based and food packaging and systems chemical intermediates Financials Capital expenditure Shareholder return • Stora Enso aims to keep investments at or below the level of depreciation and the • Stora Enso’s dividend operational decrease in the value of biological assets over the business cycle. policy is to distribute 50% Governance • We allocate approximately EUR 250 million annually to continue and accelerate growth. of earnings per share (EPS) • Stora Enso’s capital expenditure in 2018 was EUR 574 million, while depreciation over a business cycle to and the operational decrease in the value of biological assets totalled EUR 545 million. shareholders as dividend. 15 Sustainable profitable growth starts from the forest Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy Access to wood is a critical advantage in the bioeconomy. At Stora Enso we have set ambitious Science Based Targets for Stora Enso is one of the largest private forest owners globally and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout our value controls about 30% of its wood raw material. We are committed to chain. We commit to reducing GHG emissions from operations by This is Stora Enso forest certification and wood traceability; we always ensure that the 31% per tonne of pulp, paper and board produced by 2030 when wood and externally purchased pulp we use come from sustainably compared to the 2010 baseline. To reduce emissions in the value Stora Enso worldwide managed sources. Overall, sustainable forest management is the chain, Stora Enso commits to having 70% of its non-fibre raw material Sustainability cornerstone of a successful bioeconomy. suppliers and downstream transportation suppliers in terms of spend Stora Enso in 2018 set their own GHG reduction targets by 2025, towards the aim of adopting science-based GHG reduction targets by 2030. In addition, CEO’s overview we will educate 100% of customer-facing staff on the advantages of setting science-based targets by 2020. How we create value Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team Financials As a renewable materials company, Stora Enso contributes to a circular In addition to wood and fibre, Stora Enso sources other raw materials, Integral to all our work is respect for human rights. We strive to align economy. This means that waste is minimised as materials are reused products, and services from over 20 000 suppliers globally, including our work with the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and and recycled to maximise environmental, social and financial added chemicals, fillers, energy, fuels, maintenance, logistics, and IT services. Human Rights. value. Stora Enso is committed to continuous improvements in energy We strive to build strong relationships with suppliers who can contribute A well-defined Community Investment framework supports Governance efficiency and energy self-sufficiency. We always assess opportunities to to our ability to innovate and work efficiently. We stress the importance communities close to the sources of our fibre, mills and other use biomass fuels or other low-carbon options in connection with energy of sustainability and safety with every supplier. Our suppliers are units as well as our ambition to be attractive as a socially investments. For over a decade, we have actively been reducing the expected to follow Stora Enso’s Supplier Code of Conduct and the responsible employer. energy intensity of our operations and our dependency on fossil fuels. applicable legal requirements. 16 Ending the era of Innovation projects with high potential impact Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Transformation to transformation Strategy Annual Report 2018 fossil-based materials Bio-barriers, Native and Intelligent MFC films modified MFC packaging Global megatrends are boosting the demand for renewable, recyclable, and fossil-free materials. Innovation work at Stora Enso Strategy therefore concentrates on finding renewable solutions that will replace fossil-based materials in packaging, building construction, This is Stora Enso and industrial intermediate chemicals. This means innovating Stora Enso worldwide bio-based solutions to replace plastics, concrete, glass, metal, and other non-renewable materials. Sustainability Specialty papers, Sophisticated Stora Enso in 2018 Liquid and food packaging nonwovens, personal and applications to brand home care, barrier materials owners and supply chains CEO’s overview R&D expenditure in 2018 was EUR 149 million How we create value Lignin for phenol Bio-based carbons Transformation replacement Carbon fibre for energy storage Divisions Group Leadership Team In addition to our own researchers, we In 2018, Stora Enso announced joining H&M work with our customers, partners, and group and Inter IKEA group in a joint venture, startups as well as academic and research TreeToTextile, with the aim of developing new institutes, such as Aalto University, Chalmers textile fibres in a sustainable way at attractive University of Technology, Royal Institute cost levels. Stora Enso will support the of Technology, SweTree Technologies Ltd, industrialisation of TreeToTextile’s production and Wallenberg Wood Science Center R&D. process by jointly setting up a demonstration Financials We will continue developing an innovation plant at one of our existing Nordic mills and Reduction of Sports and leisure, Anode material for fossil raw materials wind energy, automotive, batteries, activated carbon ecosystem in the Nordics and globally. We contributing to the technology development. in adhesives aviation for double layer capacitors utilise external partners and knowledge for the efficient processing of wood components into chemical intermediates, materials, Dissolving pulp and products. to novel cellulose Bio-based plastics materials Biocomposites Governance Replacement of Chemical intermediates Textiles and nonwovens fossil-based plastics in composites 17 Innovations through Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Transformation the value chain Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy Forestry End-product This is Stora Enso competitiveness starts from the right Stora Enso worldwide raw material Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview How we create value New technologies Enabling new potential Transformation applications for wood fibre Divisions Group Leadership Team Customer insights Research and innovation centres Finland, Sweden and Germany Financials Operations How we efficiently use assets and resources while Robotics and 5G technology harnessed for efficiency managing the value chain Digitalisation projects and new technologies our Oulu Mill where real-time information is being Across the company, emphasis has also been support our divisions and functions to optimise used in mill maintenance. put on strengthening information security and raw material sourcing, production and supply We also continue to look at the potential of harmonising processes. chain, operational efficiency, customer robotics, automation and artificial intelligence Stora Enso has screened around 300 experience and data and analytics. During 2018, (AI). In our operations and back office, a total of startups via the structured engagement Products and Stora Enso progressed digitalisation in mill 33 robotic process automation processes were programmes Accelerator and Combient Governance applications maintenance further by developing augmented launched in 2018. For example, finance delivery Foundry, and established deeper collaboration Renewable alternatives reality (AR) and 5G technology solutions together robots, including one AI solution, have enabled us with nine of them. In Finland, Stora Enso was for fossil-based and other with telecommunications company Telia. The to reduce costs and save time from transactional awarded the title of the most startup-friendly non-renewable materials utilisation of augmented reality was first tested at work to analytics and strategic business support. company in 2018. 18 Building competencies in leadership, sales and innovation Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2018 Success in delivering sustainable profitable growth depends Combining work with startup companies and executive greatly on our people and culture. Leadership is a key factor in training, the Stora Enso Accelerator programme aims at further enabling Stora Enso’s transformation into a renewable materials strengthening the capabilities required for our transformation. company. We continuously invest in the development of our Focus has been placed on deepening competencies and managers with programmes such as Lead Through People, which skills in innovation, entrepreneurship, customer insight and targets all managers in the organisation. Since 2015, approximately change management as well as developing new business 2 600 managers have participated in this programme. opportunities with startups. Strategy Our Commercial Excellence Programme focuses on To further promote new talent and diverse perspectives, developing capabilities in sales and commercial acumen. Stora Enso runs the GROW Global Trainee Programme We have run a common Sales Academy programme for about where young professionals are introduced to the Stora Enso This is Stora Enso 200 sales leaders in 2017 and 2018 and created a competence organisation globally during their first 18 months of employment, framework for the sales organisation to be utilised for its enabling them to learn while participating in business projects. Stora Enso worldwide development. Other outcomes from the Commercial Excellence In 2018 we continued the programme with 28 GROW trainees. Sustainability Programme are harmonised sales processes and common Stora Enso in 2018 systems like Customer Relationship Management. CEO’s overview Leadership How we create value Evidence of progress in global employee survey 85 Stora Enso conducts an annual global survey (Your Voice) 80 75 Transformation of all employees. In 2018, the survey was conducted for the seventh time and had a response rate of 88% (91%). The survey 70 65 Divisions follows progress in areas that impact our ability to deliver on 2015 2016 2017 2018 our strategic agenda, steering activities, and priorities. It also Group Leadership Team supports managers and teams as they continuously improve Leadership Index is measured annually in Stora Enso’s Your Voice employee survey, and consists of numerical answers to 16 questions related to the respondent’s view their work methods. All main indices in the survey continued of the direct manager. on positive or stable trends in 2018. Engagement 85 80 Financials 75 70 65 2015 2016 2017 2018 Employee Engagement Index is measured annually in Stora Enso’s Your Voice employee survey, and consists of numerical answers to seven questions related to engagement indicators including, but not limited to motivation, pride and goal orientation. Employee Net Promoter Score 30 20 10 0 -10 2015 2016 2017 2018 Governance Employee Net Promoter Score is measured annually in Stora Enso’s Your Voice employee survey, and consists of one question related to the likelihood of recommending Stora Enso as a workplace to a friend. A positive score indicates that there are more promoters than detractors, while a negative score indicates the opposite. 19 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions Strategy Annual Report 2018 Divisions Strategy Consumer Board 20 Packaging Solutions 25 This is Stora Enso Biomaterials 30 Stora Enso worldwide Sustainability Wood Products 35 Stora Enso in 2018 Paper 40 CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team Financials Governance 20 Consumer Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Annual Report 2018 Board The ambition of the Consumer Board division is to be the global leader in high-quality virgin fibre Strategy cartonboard. We aim to be the preferred partner of customers and brand owners in premium This is Stora Enso end-use packaging and graphical segments. Our wide board and barrier coating selection is Stora Enso worldwide suitable for consumer packaging for liquid, food, Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 pharmaceutical, and luxury goods. CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Financials Group Leadership Team “Powerful megatrends transform our society and change the role of packaging. We are therefore constantly commercialising new renewable solutions in close collaboration with our customers. Together we drive innovation to create the packaging of the future, meeting the highest quality and safety standards to stay competitive and do Governance business in an even more sustainable way.” Annica Bresky Executive Vice President Division Consumer Board 21 Offering Business environment Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Annual Report 2018 • Liquid packaging board for, e.g. milk, yogurt, juice, soups, wine, soft drinks, and water, etc. Consumer packaging board accounts for 15% of the global consumer packaging materials • Food service board for hot and cold drinking cups, market, while flexible and rigid plastics together make up close to 70%. By replacing fossilfast food, ice cream, catering, etc. • Carton board for, e.g. dry, frozen and chilled based and unsustainable materials with innovative fibre-based products, we will be able to food, beverages, chocolate and confectionery, gain market share and significantly accelerate growth going forward. pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, luxury, and cigarettes etc. • Graphical board for book and notepad covers, Strategy greeting cards, tickets, tags, and brochures, etc. • Speciality paper for bags, pouches, labels, and banderoles, etc. This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide The global consumer packaging market is growing by 2.5% per year. Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Leading market position in core segments Stora Enso is one of the largest Packaging Solutions producers of virgin fibre board in the Biomaterials world. We are the global leader in liquid Europe 65% packaging and the biggest producer in Wood Products Sales Asia Pacific 25% our strategic segments in Europe. Paper Rest of the world 10% Financials Group Leadership Team The Consumer Board division operates five mills in Finland, Sweden and China. Consumer Board has a strong foundation in European markets, where its main competitors are BillerudKorsnäs, Metsä Board, and Holmen. The main competitors outside Europe include Klabin, Evergreen, Weyerhaeuser, Georgia-Pacific, and International Paper. The main growth opportunities in packaging lie within liquid packaging board (LPB), folding box board (FBB), and coated unbleached kraft (CUK). Governance Consumer Board mills 22 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Innovation driven from Annual Report 2018 an existing customer base We work in collaboration with Operational ROOC We are the industry leader 11.9% our long-term customers to understand the drivers behind in micro-fibrillated cellulose consumer needs in order to (MFC). The advantages of create the packaging of the future. Our innovation and R&D Strategy MFC in packaging are source focus is on material efficiency and replacing fossil-based (Target >20%) This is Stora Enso reduction and light-weighting packaging materials with renewable solutions based on Stora Enso worldwide while maintaining strength. fibres. One example is the use of the micro-fibrillated cellulose Sales and operational EBIT Further development includes (MFC) technology, to enable EUR million % Sustainability 3 000 24 Stora Enso in 2018 bio-barriers based on MFC and Leading position in attractive segments light-weighting of our board. Other examples are replacing 2 500 2 000 20 16 CEO’s overview biocomposites as alternatives We have a strong market PE-barriers for food and liquid packaging with fibre-based 1 500 1 000 12 8 How we create value to fossil-based materials. position in all our product segments and have close, solutions and developing biocomposite components for 500 4 0 0 Transformation long-term relationships with different packaging applications, 2015 2016 2017 2018 our customers. We actively work such as screw caps for milk Sales Divisions together to find new solutions cartons to reduce the use of Operational EBIT, % to improve the quality, efficiency plastics. We work internally Consumer Board and design of packaging by within Stora Enso and also Packaging Solutions using renewable materials. throughout our value chain with external partners, customers, Biomaterials and startups to accelerate Wood Products innovation. Paper Global footprint geared for growth Financials Group Leadership Team The commercial ramp-up of Strong assets with further our mill in Beihai allows us to development potential serve new customers and new geographical markets. It continues Our asset base is strong, to be a key growth initiative for with cost-competitive integrated the division because the most mills in Imatra and Skoghall, significant growth in virgin fibrespecialised mills in Fors and based consumer board is taking Ingerois, and a state-of-the-art place in China and Asia Pacific. mill in Beihai. Strong product brands based on renewable materials Consumer Board offers the widest product portfolio within Our division’s innovation work focuses the premium sector of its industry in Europe. We have launched on material efficiency, bio-barrier solutions Governance several new products in the last few years to meet our customers’ and new materials and applications, increasing demands on product safety, functionality, sustainability and recyclability, for example CKB Nude, Trayforma, new Ensocoat, such as micro-fibrillated cellulose and Performa Brilliance and Natura Life. intelligent packaging. 23 Highlights of 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy This is Stora Enso Continued investments in micro-fibrillated cellulose Stora Enso worldwide Sustainability Stora Enso has invested in Stora Enso in 2018 the acceleration of the product development of new microCEO’s overview fibrillated cellulose (MFC) applications in recent years. How we create value MFC can be used in barrier layers for grease and oxygen, and in Transformation the future as biodegradable films that can replace aluminium Accelerated growth in renewable materials through co-operation Divisions in paperboard packaging. The operational optimisation and Stora Enso signed a joint development agreement with the Consumer Board commercialisation of MFC for startup company Sulapac to licence its materials and technology. Packaging Solutions light-weighting is proceeding The cooperation targets the development of biodegradable as planned, following the packaging components for packaging applications and accelerates Biomaterials completion of the development the commercialisation of sustainable packaging components in Wood Products projects and investments in the the division. The cooperation between the companies began in Paper Ingerois, Imatra and Fors mills. 2017 through Stora Enso’s Accelerator programme. This involves partnering with Aalto University and startups to ideate and innovate Financials Group Leadership Team Launch of the upgraded Performa Brilliance by Stora Enso around renewable products. Simplifying complex Stora Enso introduced new grammage packaging information with Value Wheel Sustainable RFID tag technology ECO for intelligent packaging ranges for its Performa Brilliance carton board. Stora Enso introduced a Stora Enso launched a new sustainable RFID The new, higher grammage of 370 g/m2 is new digital presentation tool for choosing the right renewable tag technology, ECO™ by Stora Enso, designed intended for high-quality folding carton material for different packaging for intelligent packaging functionalities in supply purposes. Value Wheel by and graphical products such as calendars, Stora Enso helps to compare chain, retail and e-commerce applications. The technology enables paper-based RFID tags, cards and displays. The new 395 g/m2 grade different packaging boards and papers and shows how they meet providing a plastic-free and recyclable solution is enhanced with micro-fibrillated cellulose different end use requirements. for packaging authentication. In addition, a and designed for creating lighter, stronger new Augmented Reality (AR) application was Governance launched, presenting the life cycle of a liquid and more sustainable folding cartons for beverage package to showcase the potential premium and luxury packaging. of new technologies to customers. 24 Main focus Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Iceland Foods goes for renewable packaging Annual Report 2018 and targets for 2019 With its 900 stores, Iceland Foods accounts for 30% of frozen ready meal sales in the UK and the business is growing. Until recently, ready meal trays have been mostly made of black plastic, which is currently not Safety – aim for recycled and is one of the plastics littering our oceans. zero accidents “We are moving away from plastic. In 2018, we launched two new major product ranges in paperboard trays, which are fit for purpose and sustainable in Strategy Continue the ramp-up of every way. Sustainable forestry and an environmentally Beihai Mill, plus build a sound production process, largely run by bioenergy, premium market position make paperboard a sustainable choice and it is also This is Stora Enso recyclable in the paper stream when rinsed well,” says in the Chinese and South Ian Schofield, Own Label & Packaging Manager at Stora Enso worldwide East Asian market Iceland Foods. Sustainability TrayformaTM by Stora Enso proved to be the right Stora Enso in 2018 choice for Iceland Foods. Besides being sustainable, Maintain market position the board for ready meal packaging must be formable CEO’s overview for core segments in to different shapes and sizes, plus food-safe and Europe and grow in suitable for cooking at high temperatures in ovens and How we create value selected markets microwaves. The trays are manufactured by Southern Cross Packaging. Transformation For Iceland Foods, this is just the beginning. Accelerate the The company will continue to look for non-plastic options Divisions commercialisation of for packaging, not just board but also coatings and films. innovation programmes Consumer Board within MFC, barrier Read more about lceland Foods Packaging Solutions board, biocomposites, Biomaterials and intelligent packaging Wood Products Paper Strengthen competitiveness Financials Group Leadership Team through the continuous development of assets Governance 25 Packaging Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Annual Report 2018 Solutions The Packaging Solutions division provides fibre-based board materials and corrugated Strategy packaging products and services that are designed for a wide array of applications. Our renewable This is Stora Enso high-end packaging solutions serve leading converters, brand owners and retailers – including Stora Enso worldwide those in e-commerce that are looking to optimise Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 performance, drive innovation and improve their sustainability. CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Financials Group Leadership Team “Our strategy remains focused on growing significantly in containerboard and expanding selectively in corrugated packaging. The global trends of sustainability and e-commerce currently favour market growth. Retailers and brand owners alike are becoming increasingly aggressive in their plastics replacement strategies, thus creating opportunities for fibre-based solutions. Furthermore, leveraging product innovation and digitalisation to create competitive advantage will Governance play a key role in our strategic roadmap.” Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen Executive Vice President Division Packaging Solutions 26 Offering Business environment Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Annual Report 2018 • Kraftliner: corrugated box liner, e.g. for food, fruit, vegetables, and consumer electronics The customer base in containerboards and corrugated packaging is fragmented • Recycled liner: corrugated box liner, e.g. for as it encompasses converters, brand owners, retailers, industrial and e-commerce furniture, electronics, and e-commerce boxes • Semi Chemical fluting: corrugated box fluting, e.g. companies. This offers opportunities for differentiation as customer expectations for fruit, vegetables, and heavy-duty goods are evolving to leveraging packaging as a tool for brand building and engaging • Recycled fluting: corrugated box fluting, e.g. for industrial and consumer goods with end-consumers. Strategy • Corrugated packaging: corrugated boxes, e.g. for food, retail, e-commerce, and industrial goods • Packaging automation: packaging machines, such This is Stora Enso as box formers, case packers,and palletising robots Corrugated packaging and containerboards are the largest • Design services: packaging design Stora Enso worldwide development services segments in the paper and board business globally with 45% of the total volume, • Technical services: equipment optimisation services Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 • Intelligent packaging: RFID-based packaging solutions for track and trace possibilities CEO’s overview • Kraft papers: high strength paper, e.g. for grocery bags and construction materials How we create value offering room for growth in several areas. Transformation Divisions Leading market position in core segments As an industry leader in renewable Consumer Board packaging, the Packaging Solutions Packaging Solutions division holds a strong position in the Biomaterials Europe 70% corrugated packaging focus markets: Wood Products Sales Asia Pacific 15% a leading status in the Nordics, second Rest of the world 15% in the Baltics and Poland, third in China Paper and fifth in Russia. The main competitors Financials Group Leadership Team are Smurfit Kappa, Mondi, DS Smith and International Paper. In containerboard the division has world-class assets and provides high-quality products. The market is fragmented in both containerboard and corrugated packaging with many larger and smaller players. Packaging Solutions division operates three containerboard mills, four rigid box plants, 17 corrugated box plants, 10 design centres and one innovation centre. Containerboard Governance Corrugated packaging 27 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Annual Report 2018 Operational ROOC Strategy 27.2% (Target >20%) This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Sales and operational EBIT EUR million % Sustainability 1 500 25 Stora Enso in 2018 1 200 20 900 15 CEO’s overview 600 10 300 5 How we create value 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Transformation Sales Operational EBIT, % Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Positive growth trends Access to virgin fibre Wood Products Paper In containerboard we see continued demand and growth for Stora Enso has, partly through direct forest holdings, good access kraftliner for use in the areas of fresh produce and food, and to the wood necessary for producing virgin containerboard. Financials Group Leadership Team demanding industrial and retail applications. Our focus is to be a strategic supplier and deliver high performing products and services within these segments. Innovation capabilities In corrugated packaging we strive to build partnership positions with larger brand owners and retailers based on innovative value We bring added value to our propositions. The e-commerce segment is especially attractive customers through dedicated due to its anticipated fast market growth (15% CAGR 2017–2021). design centres for the Corrugated packaging is fossil-free, renewable, recyclable and development of innovative compostable and therefore well positioned as a packaging material packaging, for example in versatile application areas. for traditional retail and e-commerce, high-quality printing facilities, market Integrated supply chains leading containerboard products and intelligent packaging. Packaging Solutions maintains a vertically integrated position in the supply chain. Our operations cover paper collection for recycling Governance and purchasing of wood up to the production of light-weight containerboards and versatile solutions for corrugated packaging. 28 Highlights of 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Annual Report 2018 Strategy This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Upgrading Heinola Fluting Mill Investments to accelerate growth Paper The EUR 28 million investment in Stora Enso is expanding the Tychy corrugated packaging plant in Poland. Furthermore, responding to Financials Group Leadership Team a strong increase in demand, we are also investing in capacity expansion and technology upgrades in China. Heinola Fluting Mill in Finland was The project is expected to be completed in mid-2019. Additionally, there will be an EUR 9 million investment to upgrade and expand the corrugated packaging plant in Riga, Latvia. completed successfully. The investment was made to improve product quality and increase the production capacity of the Sustainable RFID tag technology Centre of excellence for corrugated packaging AvantFlute SC product portfolio, thus Stora Enso launched a new established in Lahti meeting the increased demand for high sustainable RFID tag technology, ECOTM, designed for intelligent The consolidation of corrugated packaging manufacturing in quality fluting products used for food, fruit, packaging functionalities Finland was completed, improving and vegetable packaging. AvantFlute SC in supply chain, retail, and e-commerce applications. profitability and competitiveness by creating a centre of excellence is Semi-Chemical fluting made from virgin The technology enables paperfor corrugated packaging in Lahti. Governance based RFID tags, thus providing The Heinola corrugated plant was fibre and has been developed to endure a plastic-free, recyclable and cost-effective solution. closed permanently, and packaging manufacturing was transferred to demanding conditions. the upgraded Lahti plant. 29 Main focus Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Packaging innovation reducing Annual Report 2018 and targets for 2019 transport costs and emissions Stora Enso supplies corrugated packaging to Husqvarna Group, a leading global producer of outdoor power products and innovative solutions for forest, park and Safety – aim for garden care. Our Packaging Solutions division has, in zero accidents deep cooperation with Husqvarna, created a coneshaped package for Husqvarna’s chainsaw, which has enabled them to save on transportation costs, reduce Strategy Drive the containerboard complaints and lighten the burden on the environment. business to its full The Cone Box has enabled Husqvarna to increase potential the fill capacity of pallets by 37%. And as more packages This is Stora Enso can be added to a pallet, the total number of pallets has decreased by 5 300 while the number of containers Stora Enso worldwide needed to transport fewer pallets has decreased by 180, Expand the Sustainability reducing CO2 emissions by 190 tonnes. Stora Enso in 2018 corrugated business The Husqvarna Group named Stora Enso its most in selected markets innovative supplier in 2018 and stated: “Stora Enso CEO’s overview invests for the long term in competence, resources and proactive involvement in order to understand its How we create value Leverage digitalisation customers’ needs. Through this initiative, Stora Enso for better customer has enabled Husqvarna Group to sustainably achieve Transformation experience and its ambitious goals concerning development and operational efficiencies innovations in the supply chain.” Divisions Consumer Board Read more about Husqvarna Group Increase our focus on Packaging Solutions customer value creation Biomaterials Wood Products Capitalise on Paper completed investments and upgrades Financials Group Leadership Team Governance 30 Biomaterials Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy Annual Report 2018 The Biomaterials division offers a wide variety of pulp grades to meet the demands of paper, board, tissue, textile, and hygiene product producers. We are maximising the business potential of the Strategy by-products extracted in our processes, such as tall oil and turpentine from biomass. Based on This is Stora Enso our strong innovation approach, all fractions of Stora Enso worldwide biomass, like sugars and lignin, hold substantial potential for use in various applications. Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Financials Group Leadership Team “Biomaterials aspires to meet the growing demand for replacing products made from fossil-based materials. As a strong and specialised chemical pulp producer, we develop new offerings and solutions with wood-based biomass. Our aim is to maximise the value of eucalyptus pulp in Latin America, to differentiate our Nordic mills’ business and pulp production and to generate profitable Governance growth from innovation platforms.” Markus Mannström Executive Vice President Division Biomaterials 31 Offering Business environment Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy Annual Report 2018 • Bleached hardwood pulp for papers, labels, release liners, wallpaper, container board, packaging The global pulp market continues to grow with demand and supply in balance, • Bleached softwood pulp for papers, labels, release and supported by the megatrends of the growth of the middle class in the developing liners, wallpaper, container board, packaging • Unbleached pulp for container boards, kraft papers, countries and progress in digitalisation, urbanisation, eco-awareness and changing specialty papers lifestyles. The market for renewable textiles, non-wovens, carton board, hygiene • Fluff pulp for personal and medical care, incontinence protection, baby diapers, napkins, etc. products, specialty and tissue papers continues to grow, generating demand for our Strategy • Dissolving pulp for viscose staple fibres, sustainable various pulp grades with the aging population specifically driving demand for fluff pulp. textiles, pharmaceuticals, sponges, cellophane Furthermore, the megatrends are driving demand for virgin pulp in China. • Lignin for phenol replacement, formaldehyde-free This is Stora Enso binder, carbon fibre or energy storage • Xylose for dental care and food applications Stora Enso worldwide • Tall oil for use in detergents, soaps, adhesives, Our aim is to maintain our competitive position and to extract Sustainability lubricants, paints, coatings, biofuels, etc. Stora Enso in 2018 • Turpentine for fragrances, flavours, detergents, solvents and thinners among other products the maximum value from our joint operations at Veracel and CEO’s overview Montes del Plata, in Latin America. We continuously improve How we create value production, ensure operational reliability and guarantee wood availability at competitive cost. Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Leading market position in core segments Biomaterials division has operations in Packaging Solutions Brazil, Finland, Sweden, Uruguay, and the United States. Biomaterials Europe 67% Wood Products Sales Asia Pacific 26% In our Nordic mills, the aim is to increase Paper Rest of the world 7% the share of specialised pulp, i.e. fluff and dissolving pulps. This responds to the Financials Group Leadership Team increasing demand for sustainable fibres in the textile industry and for renewable hygiene products, among others. We are also exploring areas where digitalisation can help us improve efficiency and safety in our mills while reducing cost. Other pulp makers in the markets include, for example, UPM, Metsä Fibre, Södra, Eldorado, CMPC, Arauco (our partner in Montes del Plata), and Suzano (our partner in Veracel since early 2019 when Suzano merged with our previous partner Fibria). Governance In terms of new potential markets for Biomaterials pulp mills renewable solutions, the Biomaterials R&D facilities and/or pilot plants division faces competition from biochemical Plantations companies and the chemical industry. 32 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy Annual Report 2018 Operational ROOC Strategy 17.9% (Target >15%) This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Sales and operational EBIT EUR million % Sustainability 1 600 40 Stora Enso in 2018 1 200 30 800 20 CEO’s overview 400 10 0 6 How we create value 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sales Transformation Operational EBIT, % Fibre knowledge Superior customer service and strong customer relations Divisions World-class experts in fibres and chemistry work for the Biomaterials We have been working closely with our customers to understand their Consumer Board division and continually advance our know-how of what wooden fibres business challenges and to identify and develop unique or innovative Packaging Solutions can do. Their daily mission is to transform biomass into renewable value offerings that respond to those challenges. Our technical experts solutions on our selected innovation and technology platforms. We advise customers on the best usage of our pulp for reaching the desired Biomaterials are proud to work with top scientists who link us to global research runnability and quality of their products. Most of our sales go directly to Wood Products and thus also add value to our customers’ businesses. producers instead of traders, thus allowing us to build solid, regular and Paper long-term relationships with them. Financials Group Leadership Team In addition to innovating in pulp Strong focus on innovation Largest portfolio of pulp grades with the right pulp mix products, the Biomaterials Our Innovation Centre for biomaterials in Stockholm, and for customer needs division consistently develops the Pulp Competence Centres in Imatra and Karlstad, plus the Unlike many other suppliers that are focused on one specific pulp a strong business portfolio for pilot project plant in Danville and grade, we offer the widest pulp regenerated cellulose and MFC demonstration plant in Raceland concentrate on research, portfolio in the market. This, combined with stable quality, as well as for lignin and bioproduct development and the commercialisation of new allows our customers to keep their recipes unchanged and to based chemicals. products and services. improve the efficiency of their own products and processes. Governance 33 Highlights of 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy Annual Report 2018 Lignin commercialised and awarded Lineo™ by Stora Enso was launched as a renewable replacement for oil-based Strategy phenolic materials. Lineo is made of bio-based lignin – one of the building blocks of trees. Lignin This is Stora Enso can be used in a range of applications in which fossil-based Stora Enso worldwide materials are currently used. Sustainability Examples include adhesives used Stora Enso in 2018 in plywood, laminated veneer lumber, oriented strand board, CEO’s overview and laminates. In the future, lignin can be developed into other types How we create value of formaldehyde-free binders and could potentially also be Transformation used in carbon fibre and energy Dissolving pulp investment in Enocell proceeding as planned storage applications. Lineo was Divisions awarded ‘Bio-Based Product of Biomaterials is increasing its dissolving pulp production capacity the Year’ at the Bio-Based World in Finland. Enocell Mill will be converted to focus entirely on the Consumer Board News Innovation Awards 2018, production of dissolving pulp with completion during the second Packaging Solutions ‘Best Product Innovation’ at the half of 2019. This investment improves our pulp mix, adding ICIS Innovation Awards 2018 and softwood dissolving pulp to our product portfolio and supporting Biomaterials ‘Innovative Product Award 2018’ the mill in becoming an integrated biorefinery plant for new Wood Products by the Institution of Chemical bio-based chemicals. Paper Engineers (IChemE). Stora Enso has been producing quality Financials Group Leadership Team kraft lignin on an industrial scale Innovation in the core business since 2015. Biomaterials explores the potential for its innovations by discussing issues with its current pulp customers. We will continue to build strong business with lignin, create new business in regenerated cellulose and MFC, and further develop extraction and separation technology New fluff pulp line up and running in Skutskär and bio-based chemicals. Also, we will look into the opportunities offered by extracted sugar. In lignin, the short-term focus is on the Production started as planned at the new fluff replacement of phenol. However, there is great potential within other applications, such as carbon fibres. Lastly, we are also exploring the pulp line at Skutskär Mill in Sweden following potential for bioplastics, working closely with our packaging divisions. the EUR 26 million investment to meet the growing demand in the hygiene market. We Stabilising xylose production and commercialising xylose also completed the EUR 16 million investment Biomaterials started producing xylose at the division’s Raceland Governance facility in May 2018. The xylose will be sold to xylitol producers to be to improve Skutskär Mill’s environmental used in dental care and food applications. The demonstration plant is the first of its kind and utilises sugar cane bagasse, which is the performance by reducing sulphur emissions. bio-based waste from sugar cane processing. 34 Main focus Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy Aiming at future with 100% bio-based resin Annual Report 2018 and targets for 2019 Rolkem is a producer of phenolic resin for plywood application, with another core business in the impregnation of technical papers. Since late 2015, Rolkem has used renewable lignin from Stora Enso Safety – aim for to replace fossil-based chemicals in its phenolic zero accidents resin production. “Stora Enso provides industrial lignin that can be adapted to Rolkem’s needs, so the partnership has Strategy Production and been a perfect fit for us,” says Patrick Palos, General operational efficiency Manager at Rolkem. “Lignin allows us to reduce the focusing on business use of fossil-based materials and chemicals in our This is Stora Enso production. Renewable products such as lignin are continuity and also linked to sustainable commercial development. Stora Enso worldwide digitalisation For example, it is important that our customers see that Sustainability we are able to develop new products.” Stora Enso in 2018 The collaboration is an interesting exchange between Customer centricity and two companies of very different sizes. CEO’s overview supply chain efficiency “Rolkem’s small size brings reactivity into the ensuring product quality, relationship while Stora Enso can provide excellent How we create value lead-time reliability, and support with, for example, research and development the traceability of pulp activities,” says Palos. “Perhaps, in the future, we can Transformation deliveries work together to develop a 100% bio-based resin for plywood bonding or paper impregnation.” Divisions Lineo™ by Stora Enso, Stora Enso’s commercial lignin Generate profitable offering, can be tailored to any customer’s specific needs. Consumer Board growth from new Lineo was awarded ‘Bio-Based Product of the Year’, Packaging Solutions products and services ‘Best Product Innovation’ and ‘Innovative Product’ in 2018. Biomaterials Wood Products People, competence, and Read more about Rolkem Paper capability development for entering new markets Financials Group Leadership Team Governance 35 Wood Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Annual Report 2018 Products The Wood Products division is a leading provider of innovative wood-based solutions. The product Strategy range covers all areas of construction, including massive wood elements and wood components. This is Stora Enso It also includes a variety of sawn timber goods and pellets for sustainable heating. The emerging Stora Enso worldwide product range of biocomposites addresses the Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 opportunities to replace plastics in consumer goods and creates potential in various demanding CEO’s overview exterior applications in a cost-competitive way. How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Financials Group Leadership Team “Wood Products continues its successful transformation from a traditional classic sawn producer to a leading provider of innovative woodbased solutions. We aim to grow our business profitably, driven by three focus areas – growing Building Components and Solutions faster than the market, the fast growth of Biocomposites and Governance selective growth in Classic Sawn.” Jari Suominen Executive Vice President Division Wood Products Stora Enso provided the PEFC-certified cross-laminated timber (CLT) panels for the 9 metre high timber sculpture, ‘Head Above Water’ in London, UK. 36 Offering Business environment Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Annual Report 2018 • Classic sawn • Classic planed Wood Products has close to 2 500 customers in 60 countries. The customer and • Cross laminated timber (CLT) supplier market is highly fragmented, competitive, and volatile because it is connected • Laminated veneer lumber (LVL) • Construction beams to the construction market. We see this as an opportunity for a developed player like us. • Window and door components • Building solutions • Building components Strategy • ThermoWood • • Pellets Biocomposite The European new construction market is growing at 3.5% annually. This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview How we create value Stora Enso’s Wood Products division is the largest supplier of wooden construction Transformation material in Europe and the fourth largest in the world with 21 production units in Divisions 11 different countries. Consumer Board Leading market position in core segments Packaging Solutions Approximately 60% of Wood Products sales go directly to industry, merchants or Biomaterials retailers and the remaining 40% go through Europe 63% Wood Products Asia Pacific 24% wholesalers and trading houses. As the share Paper Sales of value-added products and the development Middle East and North Africa 9% of distribution centres increases, the share of Financials Rest of the world 4% Group Leadership Team direct sales will grow. The global market growth for sawn softwood is estimated to be 2–3% annually. Competition varies from other sawmills to manufacturers of construction and interior materials. Wood pellets face competition from other heating systems whereas for biocomposites, the main competitor is conventional plastic. In the construction market the new usages of wood is gaining market share from materials such as concrete, steel, glass, and metal. Governance Other significant sawmilling and wooden material providers include: Binderholz, Pfeiffer, SCA Timber, Metsä Fibre, Production units Holzindustrie Schweighofer. 37 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Annual Report 2018 Operational ROOC Strategy 28.1% (Target >20%) This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Sales and operational EBIT EUR million % Sustainability 2 000 28 Stora Enso in 2018 1 500 15 1 000 10 CEO’s overview 500 5 0 0 How we create value Broad product and service offering 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sales Transformation Our high-quality wood-based products and services target the Operational EBIT, % end-user segments of construction, packaging, furniture and bioenergy. Divisions Our fibre products like wood chips and sawdust are sold as raw material to the pulp, pellets or bioenergy sectors. We always utilise our wooden Consumer Board materials to the fullest. On average, the utilisation rate of wooden raw Packaging Solutions Global sales network combined with local presence material is over 99%. Biomaterials Our global know-how and broad product portfolio are our competitive Wood Products advantage. We are close to our customers and serve them locally Paper through our extensive sales network. We also differentiate through Wood-based innovations are our future and digital services innovative services such as our integrated distribution centres, building Financials Group Leadership Team systems and building components as well as eBusiness solutions. and technology will take it to Renewability as the next level. a competitive advantage Wood is the only construction Competitiveness through innovation and digitalisation material suitable for large scale construction that is both fully To support our accelerated growth agenda, selected innovation recyclable and renewable. projects have been defined to ensure focus and speed to market. Using wood with efficient Examples include bringing new and updated building components building processes reduces and solutions to the market and ensuring successful launches of CO2 emissions. Wooden biocomposites as a renewable replacement for plastics. buildings also store carbon. As a part of a leading forest industry company, we see significant opportunities in driving digitalisation in, for example, wood Governance procurement, value chain optimisation, the introduction of robotics to increase operational efficiency, and the development of our online service offerings. Digital solutions will increase transparency between all players in the building process. 38 Highlights of 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Joint development of digital Annual Report 2018 services for wooden buildings with Trä Group New Building Solutions concept for commercial offices Stora Enso and the startup Coming soon, Stora Enso will extend its portfolio of building company Trä Group signed a joint development agreement to develop concepts. Besides concepts for residential multi-storey innovative digital services for buildings as well as schools, Stora Enso will launch a new wooden buildings. The target is to Strategy concept for commercial office buildings. Building Solutions make the design and specification easier by establishing a digital by Stora Enso will enable customers in the construction sector platform and toolbox that connects This is Stora Enso to build using massive wooden products and components. wood construction industry professionals throughout the value Stora Enso worldwide chain. The first services are planned Sustainability for launch in 2019. The co-operation Stora Enso in 2018 between the companies began in 2017 in Stora Enso’s Accelerator CEO’s overview programme, which involved partnering with Aalto University How we create value and startups to ideate and innovate renewable products and services. Transformation Divisions Varkaus investment completed, Launkalne coming up Consumer Board The new laminated veneer lumber (LVL) line at Varkaus Mill reached Packaging Solutions EBITDA break-even during the first quarter and the ramp-up was completed successfully during the second quarter. Stora Enso is Biomaterials also investing approximately EUR 13 million in an additional sawline, Wood Products a planing line and a pellet mill at Launkalne, Latvia. The start-up Paper is expected to take place in phases during the second and third quarter of 2019. Financials Group Leadership Team Strengthening position Building with wood as a market leader in CLT Stora Enso was selected as the provider of wooden material to several The EUR 45 million investment in a new building projects around the world, including: new cross laminated timber (CLT) • 25 King Street in Brisbane, Australia, the largest wooden Biocomposites in production and commercial use unit at the Gruvön sawmill in Sweden commercial office building in the world: total floor area of close to proceeded during the year as 15 000 m2 covering 10 floors The production of biocomposite granules began in 2018 at Hylte Mill in Sweden under the brand planned. Production is scheduled to • 14-storey wooden building in Joensuu, Finland: Light House name DuraSense™ by Stora Enso. Biocomposite granules enable the use of wood to substitute begin during the first quarter of 2019. Joensuu to be the country’s tallest wooden high-rise building, for a large percentage of the fossil-based materials in products typically produced in plastics. To meet the continuously growing providing 120 student apartments During the fall, Stora Enso and household products company Orthex brought to the market demand for sustainable building • Üstra apartment buildings in Hannover: project of 9 houses and a new range of kitchen utensils made from DuraSense. These innovative products contain 98% components, Stora Enso has started 139 flats to be built as rental homes for employees of Üstra – bio-based material. In addition, Stora Enso has been collaborating with several brand owners, up CLT rib panel production in Ybbs, a major transport company including H&M group, to introduce products made from DuraSense to the market – the initial Austria. Rib panels offer an effective • The Arts Centre at Sherborne Girls School, Dorset, England, the Governance market focus will be on Europe. and cost competitive solution for final project in the school’s Growing for the Future development At the Hylte Mill, Stora Enso is also building a Biocomposites Competence Centre and construction projects that require programme driven by multiple needs and aspirations diversifying the raw material base for biocomposites, which will provide more choice in technical long spans, such as commercial and • Grand CARRE-Auchan, Lille, France, five office buildings linked properties and the selection of fibres. Production is scheduled to begin before the end of 2019. industrial buildings and schools. together and a first-floor carpark 39 Main focus Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Supercell proudly building with wood Annual Report 2018 and targets for 2019 The demand for building offices with massive wood is increasing. Stora Enso has delivered massive wooden elements like Cross Laminated Timber (CLT) and Laminated Veneer Lumber (LVL) to an increasing number Safety – aim for of office projects in Europe like Green Office Enjoy in zero accidents Paris as well as some large-scale projects in Australia. One of the most recent projects is the Helsinki headquarters of the mobile game company Supercell, Strategy Improve service to the known for games like Clash of Clans and Hay Day. Scandinavian building The eight-storey building will be part of Wood City, market by successfully a whole city block built with massive wood, which This is Stora Enso should be completed by 2020. ramping up Gruvön “We are proud to be part of innovative and Stora Enso worldwide CLT mill environmental-friendly way of building. Wood has Sustainability been an essential part of all our office interiors in San Stora Enso in 2018 Francisco, Shanghai, Seoul, and Tokyo and now it is the Grow the attractive main element for our headquarters. It represents our CEO’s overview offerings of Finnish roots and shows that we take pride in them,” biocomposites to replace says Ilkka Paananen, CEO of Supercell. How we create value fossil-based plastics Stora Enso is the leading provider of innovative wood-based solutions. In early 2019, the company Transformation will launch a concept for office buildings that includes Develop new building information about building with wood – for example, Divisions concepts for new design guidance, case studies with BIM models and cost building types analysis – that is directed towards architects, designers, Consumer Board and applications developers and construction companies. This concept Packaging Solutions widens the portfolio of already existing solutions for residential and modular buildings. Biomaterials Develop innovative Wood Products digital services for Read more about Supercell Paper wooden buildings together with Trä Group Financials Group Leadership Team Continue the implementation of the digital roadmap Governance 40 Paper Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Paper Strategy Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso is the second largest paper producer in Europe with an established customer base and a wide product portfolio for print and office use. Customers benefit from Stora Enso’s broad Strategy selection of papers made from recycled and virgin fibre as well as our valuable industry experience, This is Stora Enso know-how, and customer support. Stora Enso worldwide Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Financials Group Leadership Team “Our ambition is to be the best sustainable value creator in the paper business through customer focus and efficiency. This means being better than the competition in understanding customer needs, commercial, and operational Governance excellence and profitability.” Kati ter Horst Executive Vice President Division Paper 41 Offering Business environment Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Paper Strategy Annual Report 2018 • Newsprint and book papers • Uncoated magazine papers (SC) for magazines European paper demand is declining at a rate of 3–5% per year, varying across paper and retail advertising grades and geographies. However, this is still a large global business and paper will • Coated papers for magazines, brochures, catalogues, and art books continue to play a significant role in media and advertising in the future. After significant • Office papers for notepads, capacity closures and conversions, especially in newsprint and supercalendared (SC) envelops, printing, and copying • Technical customer service papers in the last few years, the European paper markets are currently well balanced. Strategy • eBusiness solutions • Sustainability support This is Stora Enso Stora Enso worldwide Stora Enso has nine paper mills with Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview 18 production lines in Europe and one How we create value joint venture paper machine in China. Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Leading market position in core segments Print and digital media complement Packaging Solutions each other: flyers and folders are used in advertising and online retailers Biomaterials publish printed magazines and establish Europe 81% Wood Products Sales Asia Pacific 10% physical store locations to improve Paper Rest of the world 9% customer experience. Financials Group Leadership Team Publishers still create most of their revenues from print and print media remains the most trusted source of information. Print advertising brings consumers into stores. Book paper sales have remained stable as many people prefer reading books in the traditional paper and ink format. Copy paper is performing relatively well as people continue to print at offices and home. With its comprehensive product range, Stora Enso’s Paper division is the second Governance biggest paper manufacturer in Europe, where the main competitors are UPM, Sappi, Holmen, Norske Skog, and the Paper mills Navigator company. 42 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Paper Strategy Annual Report 2018 Cash flow after investing activities to sales Strategy This is Stora Enso 5.7% (Target >7%) Stora Enso worldwide Sales and operational EBIT Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 EUR million % 4 000 20 3 000 15 CEO’s overview 2 000 10 1 000 5 How we create value More than 90% of Focused innovation 0 0 Stora Enso paper brands 2015 2016 2017 2018 Transformation awarded ecolabels Operational excellence is Sales about having competitive assets Operational EBIT, % Divisions We use our sustainability and a sound cost structure. Our expertise to help our customers process innovations improve the Consumer Board perform better on sustainability division’s efficiency and ways of Packaging Solutions measures. Our ambition is to working, for example, through make sustainability a competitive digitalisation. The investments Biomaterials advantage. Our performance in for green energy solutions at Strong assets serving global paper markets Wood Products different areas of sustainability our Maxau and Nymölla Mills Paper Paper division reviews its key assets – pulp mills, paper machines, has been recognised by many are examples of improved and energy set-ups – continuously. We ensure that asset and sales stakeholders, for example competitiveness and a reduced Financials Group Leadership Team strategies are aligned to increase our competitiveness in changing WWF’s Environmental Paper environmental impact. market conditions. We are developing our ways of working for Company Index. More than 90% New or improved paper instance in supply chain area, and utilising data to improve efficiency of our own paper brands have grades to fit customer needs. and safety in our operations. been awarded the European Many of our products have been Ecolabel, the official EU developed together with our recognition for Greener Products. customers, like our carbon-neutral copy paper Multicopy Zero. Non-paper related new Commercial excellence businesses utilising our knowhow through long-term and infrastructure. For example, customer relationships the Hylte biocomposites We continuously improve Key focus areas in our business emerged from the Paper innovation process. the operational efficiency of our commercial excellence include paper mills. For example, Anjala optimising sales by product and mill through product Mill has achieved an EUR 8 million Governance management, pricing as well as improvement in productivity solid business intelligence and the commercial competence of during the last three years. our global sales network. 43 Highlights of 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Paper Strategy Annual Report 2018 The steam turbine investment in Maxau Mill reduces CO2 emissions by Strategy 50 000 tons annually. This is Stora Enso Collaborating with Gasum on biogas Stora Enso worldwide Stora Enso and the energy company Gasum will build Sustainability a biogas plant at Nymölla Mill in Sweden to turn the Stora Enso in 2018 mill’s wastewater effluent into renewable energy. The expected liquified biogas production of the plant CEO’s overview is 75–90 GWh per year, equal to the amount of fuel needed annually for more than 200 long haul lorries. How we create value Increasing efficiency with Transformation the Paper Production System Divisions The roll-out of the Paper Production System continued during the year. Based on lean manufacturing Consumer Board principles, this shared method of operating our mills Packaging Solutions aims for further improved productivity and reduced waste regarding time or the use of excess materials. Biomaterials Optimised paper handling and logistics with ReadyReel The programme also investigates how digitalisation Wood Products could best be used to our benefit and which Paper competences need to be developed in operations. Stora Enso launched a new service, Financials Group Leadership Team ReadyReel, from its Lumipaper NV converting services site located in Antwerp, Belgium. ReadyReel is a rewinding and palletising service that Boosting green energy generation in Maxau offers a rapid delivery of reels ready Stora Enso is investing EUR 25 million at Maxau Mill in Germany and installing a new in the format and position needed for steam turbine with a closed-loop cooling loading directly on to a press. This Harnessing digitalisation for mill operations system and additional biomass storage. allows customers to manage the As technology advances, the Paper division increasingly utilises the benefits of digitalisation. This will reduce the energy cost and ever-growing demands for shorter For example, the Oulu Mill in Finland has piloted secure the long-term cost competitiveness Governance augmented reality and 5G technology solutions in mill of the paper mill. The investment enables runs and faster turnaround within maintenance. By using a virtual model of a machine and real-time data concerning information points, a higher share of biomass and a clear their process. we can improve the operational reliability of the mills. reduction in our CO2 emissions. 44 Main focus Production Manager Fabrice Nicolle and Quality Manager Roger Ferry from Lagardère. Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Divisions: Paper and targets for 2019 Strategy Annual Report 2018 Safety – aim for zero accidents Strategy Focus on the right products and customers This is Stora Enso by paper mill Stora Enso worldwide Pricing excellence Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 across all paper grades CEO’s overview Variable and fixed How we create value cost control to ensure continued profitability Transformation Divisions High operational efficiency and capacity Consumer Board utilisation at all Packaging Solutions paper mills Biomaterials Wood Products Focused innovation Paper and digitalisation in paper sales, supply Financials Group Leadership Team chain, and operations. Softproofing gets the colours right Softproofing employs unique software a defined screen – the Softproofing service Getting the colours right on a print job used specially calibrated to show what a print job is a ready-made solution that allows users to to require trial runs that took time and money. will look like before it hits the presses. During check their pre-press data on site. Lagardère What you see on the computer screen is not the softproofing process, users can select has one booth and the printing company always what you get to print and the changes different paper types to show what results has another. are not always dependent on the paper. Hard each type of paper would produce, allowing When the processes are optimised, the proofs need to be sent via physical post, which them to adjust the pre-press files accordingly. best print results are found quickly and the slows down the process. Lagardère also greatly appreciates the customer saves time, effort, money and Softproofing by Stora Enso is a service that flexibility Softproofing brings – now it is materials. “We are particularly pleased with streamlines the printing process. Saving both possible to make even last-minute changes. this solution as it is a very simple tool with an time and money, it is the choice of the Lagardère Housed in a standardised environment efficient back-up team that is highly reactive,” group, a global leader in content publishing, similar to an old-fashioned telephone say Fabrice Nicolle, Production Manager production, broadcasting and distribution. booth – with defined light resources and at Lagardère. Read more about Lagardère Governance 45 Group Leadership Team Karl-Henrik Sundström Stora Enso 2018: Strategy – Group Leadership Team Strategy Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Annual Report 2018 Johanna Hagelberg Executive Vice President, Jari Suominen Annica Bresky Sourcing and Logistics Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Division Wood Products Division Consumer Board Ulrika Lilja Executive Vice President, Communications Per Lyrvall Executive Vice President, Legal, Strategy Kati ter Horst General Counsel, Country Manager Sweden Executive Vice President, Division Paper This is Stora Enso Markus Mannström Executive Vice President, Stora Enso worldwide Division Biomaterials Sustainability Stora Enso in 2018 CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team Financials Seppo Parvi Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Deputy Noel Morrin to the CEO, Country Manager Finland Executive Vice President, Governance Sustainability For more detailed information about the Group Malin Bendz Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen Leadership Team, see Governance 2018, or Executive Vice President, HR Executive Vice President, Division Packaging Solutions storaenso.com/investors/governance. Strategy Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Our sustainability work covers Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 social, environmental, and economic responsibility throughout our operations, with human rights integrated into everything we do. Sustainability Financials Governance Contents Strategy Annual Report 2018 We are creating a renewable future in the bioeconomy. Governance.......................................... 4 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders................................... 5 Our targets............................................. 9 Adopting the SDGs...............................10 Sustainability Human rights........................................12 Economic agenda............................. 55 Customers........................................... 56 Suppliers.............................................. 60 Investors.............................................. 64 External recognition............................ 66 Financials Social agenda.....................................16 Environmental agenda..................... 31 Data and assurance.......................... 67 Employees and wider workforce.........17 Materials, water, and energy............... 32 Reporting scope.................................. 68 Community.......................................... 22 Carbon dioxide.................................... 42 Data by production unit....................... 69 Business ethics................................... 27 Forests, plantations, and land use...... 49 Auditor’s assurance report.................. 72 The report contents have been assured by an independent third-party assurance provider with a level of Limited Assurance. A level of Reasonable Assurance has been provided for our direct and indirect fossil CO 2e emissions. Governance The GRI index is available at storaenso.com/gri2018 2 Our year 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Our year 2018 Strategy Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Minimising waste Combatting Enhancing safety The utilisation rate for global warming performance Human rights our process residuals Our CO2e emissions Compared to 2017, and waste was 98%. were 18% lower than a 18% reduction was the 2010 base-year level. achieved on our TRI rate. Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics @storaenso October 11 @storaenso December 18 Environmental agenda Stora Enso has been top-ranked Stora Enso recognises the urgency to for gender balance and gender #StepUpNow and supports ambitious Materials, water, and energy #equality by @equileap, ranking at #EU2050 targets to combat global warming. Carbon dioxide 12 out of 200 top companies globally. #COP24 http://stepupnow.eu/ @StepUpNowEU Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit A single set of values Sustainable forestry Responsible sourcing Auditor’s assurance report Our code of conduct was 96% of the lands we We began using renewed and rebranded own or manage were sustainability criteria in Governance as the Stora Enso Code. covered by forest the tender phase of each GRI Index certification schemes. sourcing process. 3 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Our year 2018 Strategy Annual Report 2018 Human rights In 2018, we defined our eight highest priority human rights. Sustainability Governance @storaenso December 4 @storaensoworld January 15 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Here’s our secret revealed: Improving energy efficiency can mean Our targets Stora Enso and startup Sulapac have either process changes or developing the Sustainability Adopting the SDGs joined forces to develop renewable systems for better monitor and control. and biodegradable straws. These are some essential tools for that work. Human rights Read more: http://fal.cn/Sepa #storaensoworld #storaenso#papermaking #energyefficiency Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide New products to replace External recognition Leadership fossil-based plastic We received several performance Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Our innovative products, recognitions including The Leadership Index, such as the DuraSenseTM top-ranking in greenhouse measuring our employees’ and LineoTM by Stora Enso gas management and perceptions of their Economic agenda are a step towards replacing performance by the Transition managers, improved to Customers fossil-based products. Pathway Initiative (TPI). 83/100, surpassing our target. Suppliers @storaensoworld August 22 Investors Management commitment is essential in all safety work, and last week Marie Morin was appointed mill manager. The picture when she one early Data and assurance @storaenso May 22 winter morning stood at the gate discussing safety issues with contractors makes me happy, because cooperation and commitment from her is Reporting scope Beetles have an important role in the ecosystem as important to my daily work and to our aim towards a safer mill. As the first Data by production unit Community investments decomposers. Leaving behind enough decaying wood female mill manager in Skoghall I hope she will continue to motivate and Auditor’s assurance report 25% of our voluntary during harvesting is vital for forest biodiversity – and inspire just by being herself and sharing her drive and engagement with all contribution to communities a top priority to Stora Enso. #BiologicalDiversityDay of us #storaensosverige #storaensoworld #skoghall #management #chef Governance around our operations #Biodiversity https://goo.gl/8zfwsz #skoghallsbruk #safety #contractorsafety #hammarö #storaenso GRI Index support education. 4 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance Strategy Annual Report 2018 Governance Our sustainability agenda covers social, Sustainability environmental, and economic responsibility. Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 5 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets 9 Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Adopting the SDGs 10 Human rights Human rights 12 Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 5 Strategy, governance, Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Strategy Stora Enso’s strategy for transformation is about sustainable Annual Report 2018 profitable growth based on customer insight and innovation, and stakeholders supported by structured processes and motivated employees. Inherent in our strategy, we work to support customers to meet consumers’ demand for sustainable products based on renewable materials. Our Sustainability Agenda encompasses the social, Global megatrends drive the world’s demand for renewable materials. We have environmental, and economic responsibility of our operations throughout the value chain. The agenda is based on the Triple an important role to play in the transition to a fossil-free, more sustainable world. Bottom Line framework widely used in corporate responsibility Sustainability work. It addresses the ten sustainability topics identified as material to Stora Enso and our key stakeholders: Employees and wider workforce; Community; Business ethics; Materials, water, and energy; Governance Carbon dioxide; Forests, plantations, and land use; Customers; Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Suppliers; and Investors. Respect for human rights is considered to be so integral to our long-term success that it is an overarching theme of Our targets Sustainability our Sustainability Agenda. Adopting the SDGs In line with our Sustainability Agenda, we have set ambitious targets and defined key performance indicators (KPIs) for our Human rights sustainability work. Progress is regularly monitored at Group level and quarterly via division-level business reviews. Consolidated results on our sustainability performance are reported annually in Social agenda the Sustainability report. Selected sustainability indicators are also Employees and wider workforce reported quarterly in our Interim Reports. Stora Enso acknowledges the importance of the United Nations Community Sustainable Development Goals as part of a commonly agreed global Business ethics ambition to end poverty, protect our planet, and ensure prosperity for all. Read more about our approach to the SDGs on page 10–11. Environmental agenda Structured sustainability processes Our Sustainability Policy describes our overall approach to Materials, water, and energy sustainability. At the same time, our code of conduct – the Stora Enso Carbon dioxide Code – and other policies and guidelines on specific sustainability topics further elaborate our approach, while also guiding our Financials Forests, plantations, and land use employees in their everyday work. These documents are available at storaenso.com/sustainability. Following a comprehensive review of the company’s existing sustainability policies and guidelines in Economic agenda 2016, Stora Enso introduced a revised Sustainability Policy as well Customers as revised policies and guidelines steering our environmental work in 2017. In 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy, which replaced Suppliers our previous Human Rights Statement. Investors Sustainability governance Sustainability is promoted by the Board of Directors, the CEO, and the Data and assurance Group Leadership Team (GLT). The CEO has the ultimate responsibility for the successful implementation of our sustainability strategy. Reporting scope The Board of Directors’ Sustainability and Ethics Committee Data by production unit oversees the implementation of our sustainability strategy and the ethics and compliance strategy. The committee met four Auditor’s assurance report times in 2018 and has reviewed the disclosures in this report. Governance The main focus areas of the committee in 2018 are described in our Governance 2018. GRI Index 6 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Strategy Stakeholder input Annual Report 2018 Materiality Sustainability governance at Stora Enso Board of Directors Sustainability and Ethics Committee Social Sustainability agenda Employees and Community Business wider workforce ethics Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders CEO Human rights Our targets Sustainability Group Leadership Team Adopting the SDGs Environmental Human rights agenda EVP, Sustainability Materials, water, Carbon Forests, plantations, and energy dioxide and land use Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Economic Business ethics agenda Sustainability Group Customers Suppliers Investors Council* Sustainability Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Total Contribution to Society (TCS) * Stora Enso’s operational sustainability work is steered by our Sustainability Council, Financials Forests, plantations, and land use which includes members from our divisions, Sourcing and Logistics function, and subject matter experts from our Group Sustainability team. EVP Sustainability chairs the Sustainability Council. Members of the Council report Economic agenda Our Sustainability Agenda is based on the classic Triple Bottom Line model. It addresses the ten sustainability topics identified as material to Stora Enso. directly to their respective EVP. Customers Suppliers Investors At Stora Enso, sustainability work is led by the Executive Vice Stora Enso’s sustainability work is steered by our Sustainability sustainability indicators. For more information on remuneration see President, Sustainability, who reports directly to the CEO and is part of Council, which includes members from our five divisions, our our Remuneration Statement. the Group Leadership Team (GLT). Everyday sustainability topics are Sourcing and Logistics function, and subject matter experts from our Data and assurance managed by our Group Sustainability team together with our Human Group Sustainability team. Chaired by the Executive Vice President, Sustainability governance of joint operations Resources, Legal, Wood Supply, and Sourcing and Logistics functions, Sustainability, its work involves sharing good practices and identifying Our joint operations in Brazil (Veracel) and Uruguay (Montes del Plata) Reporting scope and our divisions (Consumer Board, Packaging Solutions, Biomaterials, longer-term opportunities and challenges that may require a Grouphave their own sustainability teams, and sustainability topics are Data by production unit Wood Products, and Paper). Each of our business divisions has its wide response. The Sustainability Council met ten times during 2018. regularly discussed by their boards, which include representatives own Head of Sustainability, who reports directly to the Executive Vice The GLT is periodically informed of sustainability developments, as from their parent companies. Sustainability is also regularly covered Auditor’s assurance report President of the division. Other key functions, such as Wood Supply is the Board of Directors when appropriate, through its Sustainability by Stora Enso’s joint operation steering committees for Veracel and Governance and Sourcing and Logistics, have sustainability organisations to support and Ethics Committee. Montes del Plata. In addition, Stora Enso is represented on the boards their management teams. The everyday implementation of Stora Enso’s Sustainability is one of the performance metrics in the GLT of the forestry companies Tornator and Bergvik Skog in Finland and GRI Index Sustainability Agenda is the responsibility of line management members’ remuneration through Short Term Incentive programmes. Sweden respectively. supported by functional experts at all levels. Different members of the GLT can be assigned appropriate 7 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Strategy Stakeholder engagement Annual Report 2018 Open dialogue with our key stakeholders is crucial if we are to successfully identify stakeholder concerns, global trends and market expectations. Our stakeholder engagement work is based on both structured and ad hoc interaction, as well as regular surveys on topics such as customer and employee satisfaction and investor expectations. We also obtain important information through formal grievance channels. Engaging with stakeholders on social media is important for us in understanding our stakeholders’ opinions Sustainability and concerns locally around our units, as well as on divisional and Group level. We actively monitor social media discussions and respond, where appropriate, to stakeholder queries through Governance social media channels. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Materiality review Our targets Sustainability We periodically assess how well our agenda is aligned with the Adopting the SDGs expectations and perceptions of our key stakeholders. The Group’s latest focused materiality review was carried out in 2017. The review Human rights involved an external expert organisation consulting 124 group-level stakeholders around the world through online and telephone surveys to assess if our Sustainability Agenda and external communications Social agenda were focused on the right topics. The consulted stakeholders included Employees and wider workforce campaigners (e.g. NGOs), customers and corporate peers, experts, investors, partners and suppliers, and the media. Community In the consultation, stakeholders were asked to rank the aspects Business ethics of Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda they consider to be most important, and to indicate if anything significant was missing. In the consolidated results, the most important sustainability topics for Environmental agenda the Group’s stakeholders were: • sustainable forestry Materials, water, and energy • human rights Carbon dioxide • global warming • business ethics Financials Forests, plantations, and land use • sustainable materials and products, and • responsible sourcing. Economic agenda Other elements in our existing Sustainability Agenda were also Customers considered important. The results were largely in line with Stora Enso’s previous focused materiality review carried out in 2014, despite not In 2018, the results have been used in our sustainability work, Suppliers being fully comparable due to different terminology. including in the incorporation of the UN Sustainable Development ”Stora Enso uses a four-tier Investors The consolidated results from our materiality review were Goals into our Sustainability Agenda and reporting. examined by the Group Leadership Team and the Sustainability and Through focused in-depth consultations of external stakeholders, structure in its reporting to present the Ethics committee of the Board of Directors in 2017. our materiality review complements our Enterprise Risk Management most material opportunities and challenges. Data and assurance In addition to ranking the importance of different sustainability (ERM) process and includes a broader scope of sustainability topics topics, the consultation identified opportunities to further clarify the than those identified as the Group’s key risks. Whereas our statutory This is recognised as good practice. Reporting scope links between topics within our Sustainability Agenda. The most Non-Financial Reporting in the Report of Board of Directors includes Stora Enso also clearly articulates the Data by production unit important ones were: those sustainability topics that are identified as the Group’s key potential impacts of external trends and • human rights, business ethics, and responsible sourcing risks, our longer Sustainability Report also covers topics considered Auditor’s assurance report • sustainable forest management and our commitment to combat important by stakeholders in our broader materiality review process. regulations, describing the approaches Governance global warming In 2018, our Consumer Board division carried out its own taken to manage and address this.” • renewable materials and products, in terms of innovation, waste materiality assessment using a similar methodology to that of the GRI Index reduction and product safety Group. The results were well aligned with the group-level assessment Rodney Irwin Managing Director of Redefining Value • community investment in a wider social responsibility context done in 2017, but also identified some division-specific priorities. World Business Council for Sustainable Development 8 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Strategy Purpose-driven disclosure as the development of sustainability reporting and assurance. About this report Annual Report 2018 Through our participation on WBCSD’s Redefining Value Board Examples of our collaboration during 2018 can be found below and Sustainability 2018 is structured to reflect our Sustainability Agenda, we support and help develop processes and tools that lead to in the relevant sections of this report. with the agenda’s ten elements addressed through a common purpose-driven disclosure (PDD). The objective of PDD is for In 2018, Stora Enso’s CFO signed a Statement of Support by four-tier framework: companies to disclose relevant, useful ESG information for investors Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) to promote better disclosure of to encourage the flow of capital to more sustainable companies climate risks and opportunities. A4S aims to inspire action by finance Opportunities and challenges and outcomes. Redefining Value PDD achievements so far include leaders to drive a fundamental shift towards resilient business models guidance on materiality and the release for consultation of a “ESG and a sustainable economy. The Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Task These sections examine the external factors and global trends Disclosure Judgement Handbook”. Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommends currently affecting the topics included in our Sustainability Agenda. Sustainability a framework for disclosing climate related risks and opportunities Please note that our corporate risk management assessment appears Collaboration with non-governmental organisations that goes beyond current practices. The TCFD recommendations in Financials 2018. Stora Enso actively cooperates with prioritised international and nonrespond to a growing demand for improved financial disclosures Governance governmental organisations (NGOs) and industry associations. We from companies in relation to climate risks. In addition to investors Our policies Strategy, governance, and stakeholders are involved in developing industry practices related to combatting and regulators, leading companies are also communicating their global warming and food loss and waste, circular and bioeconomy, support for the recommendations through Statements of Support These sections set out the strategies and policies we use to address Our targets Sustainability sustainable forestry, human rights, and business ethics, as well by Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) key opportunities and challenges. Adopting the SDGs How we work Human rights These sections describe the processes, procedures, and systems we deploy to realise our strategies and policies. Social agenda Particularly significant stakeholder Employees and wider workforce groups for Stora Enso include: Progress • Consumers Community • Customers These sections report on our performance during 2018. Business ethics • Employees • Forest owners External assurance • Governments The report has been assured by an independent third-party provider Environmental agenda • Investors with a level of Limited Assurance. Given our commitment to combat • Local communities global warming and related emission data reliability, a level of Materials, water, and energy • Media Reasonable Assurance has been provided for our direct and indirect Carbon dioxide • NGOs fossil CO2e emissions (Scope 1 and 2). For more information on • Partners and suppliers assurance, see page 72. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use • Trade unions Economic agenda Customers Creating value for society Stora Enso engages with communities all over the world through In 2018, Stora Enso actively collaborated Suppliers its operations, sales and supply chains. Stora Enso has a range with a range of international organisations: Investors of positive financial, social, and environmental impacts on society, • A4S Accounting for Sustainability, pages 8, 44, and 65 such as direct and indirect employment, taxes and dividends, • BSR, pages 13 and 20 and products providing renewable alternatives to non-renewable • International Finance Corporation (IFC), page 15 Data and assurance materials. For more information about how we create value • International Labour Organisation (ILO), page 14 and contribute to society, see Strategy 2018. For details of • Science Based Targets initiative, page 42 Reporting scope Stora Enso’s annual tax footprint in the countries we operate, • The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group (CLG), page 45 Data by production unit see Financials 2018. • Transparency International, page 28 Stora Enso continues to explore ways to define and report on • UN Global Compact, page 68 Auditor’s assurance report the monetary value associated with the company’s non-financial • We Mean Business Coalition, page 45 Governance sustainability impacts and actions. • World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), pages 10, 34, 50, and 59 GRI Index Read more about how we create value in Strategy 2018. • WWF, pages 50 and 52 9 Our sustainability targets and key performance indicators (KPIs) Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance – Our targets Strategy Annual Report 2018 Key performance indicator (KPI) 2018 2017 Targets Progress Human rights To be reviewed during 2019 Eight highest priority 88% of the human To be reviewed during 2019 In progress human rights defined rights actions completed and 100% resolved¹ Sustainability Employees and wider workforce Total Recordable Incident (TRI) rate² 6.1 7.4 6.7 by the end of 2018 New target will be communicated in the Interim Report Achieved In progress for Q1/2019 Governance Leadership Index³ 83 81 80 by the end of 2018 Achieved New target: 85 by end of 2022 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Community Total voluntary community investment, EUR million4 2.7 n/a To be reviewed during 2019 In progress Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Business ethics Code of Conduct Index³ 85 83 Positive trend Achieved Social agenda Materials, Number of significant environmental incidents5 8 10 Zero significant incidents5 Not achieved Employees and wider workforce water, and energy Community Materials: Process residuals utilisation rate (%)6 98% 98% To be reviewed during 2019 In progress Business ethics Water: Total Water Withdrawal per saleable tonne of board, pulp, 56 56 Decreasing trend In progress and paper (m3/tonne) Water: Process water discharge per saleable tonne of board, pulp, 26 26 Decreasing trend In progress Environmental agenda and paper (m3/tonne) Materials, water, and energy Energy: Reduction in electricity and heat consumption per -4.2% -4.2% -15% by the end of 2020 from a 2010 base-year In progress saleable tonne of board, pulp, and paper (kWh/tonne) Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide Reduction in CO2 equivalents per saleable tonne of board, pulp, -18% -21% -31% by the end of 2030 from a 2010 base-year In progress Financials Forests, plantations, and land use and paper (kg/tonne) (Science-based target) Economic agenda Forests, % of the owned and managed lands in wood production and 96% 97% Maintain the high coverage level of 96%7 Achieved plantations, harvesting covered by forest certification schemes7 Customers and land use Suppliers Suppliers % of supplier spend covered by our Supplier Code of Conduct 95% 95% Maintain the high coverage level of 95% Achieved Investors Data and assurance 1 Stora Enso carried out a Group-wide Human Rights 2 Number of incidents among our own employees per one 4 Voluntary community investments covering cash, employee 6 Utilisation rate for process residuals excluding, for example, Assessment during 2014. Action plans to address the findings million hours worked. As of January 2018, Stora Enso’s joint working hours for voluntary community work, and in-kind. tall oil, turpentine, and wood chips. Reporting scope were defined during the first half of 2015. At the end of 2017, operations Veracel and Montes del Plata are included in the Includes 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes 7 During 2018 the KPI and target were reviewed to include a process for completion was in place for three Group-level Group’s consolidated safety performance. The 2017 figure has del Plata in Uruguay. only lands in wood production and harvesting. Includes joint Data by production unit actions, but the completion was carried forward into 2018. been recalculated accordingly for comparability. 5 Environmental incidents involving a non-compliance with operations in Latin America. 3 Measured in the annual employee survey. environmental legislation, a permit or a significant stakeholder Auditor’s assurance report concern related to environmental performance. For more Governance details, see page 41. GRI Index 10 Adopting the Sustainable Development Goals Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance – Adopting the SDGs Strategy Annual Report 2018 The seventeen United Nations Sustainable Our priority SDGs Development Goals (SDGs) address social and Sustainability economic development issues on a global scale, Stora Enso supports all seventeen SDGs, but the following three goals were identified as the most each with their own set of related targets. All strategic to our business: Governance sectors of society, including businesses, are Strategy, governance, and stakeholders encouraged to work and collaborate on these Our targets goals. For business to deliver its contribution, SDG 15 Sustainability Adopting the SDGs they must be integrated into company agendas Life on land Human rights and strategies. SDG 13 Integrating the SDGs into our strategy Social agenda In 2016, we investigated how our business operations relate to the Climate action Employees and wider workforce SDGs, based on previous materiality reviews, risk assessments, and stakeholder consultations. In 2017, an external expert organisation SDG 12 Community engaged with our divisions and functions to prioritise the SDGs Responsible Business ethics according to their relevance to our operations, and assess our impacts consumption and related business opportunities. The outcomes were reviewed by and production Stora Enso’s CEO and Group Leadership Team (GLT). Environmental agenda In 2018, the GLT confirmed the SDGs most startegic to Stora Enso’s business. We also decided to work on new 2030 sustainability targets Materials, water, and energy that are aligned with our contribution to our prioritised SDGs. We aim to Carbon dioxide finalise these targets during 2019. During the year, we also participated in the development of SDG 12 – Responsible consumption and production Financials Forests, plantations, and land use the SDG Sector Roadmap as part of our co-chairing of the Forest Our contribution and business opportunities related to SDG 12 can be summarised by the Solutions Group (FSG) at the World Business Council for Sustainable concepts of circular economy and bioeconomy. Our operations are based on renewable raw Development (WBCSD). The roadmap describes the forestry materials and sustainable forest management, which contribute to responsible consumption and Economic agenda sector’s current level of alignment with the SDGs, and identifies the resource use. Customers key impact opportunities and actions that the sector should take. The Forest Sector Roadmap will be launched at the United Nations Suppliers Our mills promote material efficiency and enable circular resource use such as by using Paper for high-level political forum in New York in July 2019. The roadmap follows WBCSD’s set of SDG Sector Roadmap Guidelines, published Recycling (PfR) as a raw material. Our operations also generate emissions and discharges that Investors in April 2018. account for our biggest negative impacts related to SDG 12. We are committed to improving our Our way of working is in line with the SDG Compass, which was environmental performance through Best Available Technologies (BAT), our management systems Data and assurance developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the UN Global and our environmental targets. Compact (UNGC), and WBCSD as a guide for companies. Reporting scope In this chapter, we outline our key impacts in relation to our most Our wood and fibre-based products help to replace fossil-based materials in society, and Data by production unit strategic SDGs – SDG 12, 13 and 15. We further explain our reporting we promote the bioeconomy with new and innovative products. Packaging plays a key role to the SDG sub-targets in a separate online appendix. in combatting food waste, which is one of the sub-targets for SDG 12. Stora Enso is one of Auditor’s assurance report the largest producers of renewable packaging for food in the world. With safe and intelligent Governance packaging we can extend product shelf-life and design right-sized packaging for small households to help cut food waste. GRI Index Read more in the Materials, water, and energy, and Customers chapters 11 SDG 13 – Climate action Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance – Adopting the SDGs Strategy Annual Report 2018 The use of renewable materials enables us to contribute towards a low-carbon economy. How to transform our world – together Trees in sustainably managed forests absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere and “As the renewable materials company, Stora Enso relies on together with wood-based products act as carbon storage. Our products help our customers a healthy planet, which is why we support the Sustainable and society at large to reduce CO2 emissions by providing low-carbon alternatives to Development Goals,” says Noel Morrin, EVP Sustainability at solutions based on fossil fuels and other non-renewable materials. As the first in our industry, Stora Enso, in our animation. “But a healthy planet is everyone’s we set ambitious science-based targets for reducing our greenhouse gas emissions in 2017. business. Look around you: what more could we do – together?” We also contribute to raising awareness of global warming, which is a central topic in our communications with stakeholders. Sustainability In addition, global warming poses physical risks to our operations and has been identified as Governance one of the Group’s key risks. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Read more in the Carbon dioxide, Forests, plantations, and land use, and Customers chapters Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights SDG 15 – Life on land Sustainable forest management safeguards forest health and productivity, helps combat global warming, and protects biodiversity whilst securing the long-term availability of Social agenda our renewable resources. In our sustainable forest management, we are committed to Employees and wider workforce responsible sourcing and land use – to safeguard the health and ecological functions of Community ecosystems and help conserve biodiversity, soil, and water resources. In order to achieve this, we maintain open dialogues with our stakeholders. Business ethics All roundwood, chips, sawdust, and externally purchased pulp supplied to our mills come from sustainable sources. We use a range of tools to ensure this, and to guarantee the Environmental agenda sustainability of each part of the forest management cycle. These tools include forest Materials, water, and energy certification and third-party traceability systems such as the Forest Stewardship Council’s Carbon dioxide (FSC)1 Chain of Custody/Controlled Wood scheme, the Chain of Custody/Due Diligence Watch the video storaenso.com/sdgs System of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), and the Financials Forests, plantations, and land use ISO 14001 environmental management standard. As wood is our most important raw material, our Group’s key risks cover forests and land use. Economic agenda Read more in the Forests, plantations, and land use chapter Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 1 Stora Enso Communications’ FSC® trademark license number is FSC-N001919. 12 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance − Human rights Strategy Human rights Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso’s highest priority human rights were defined in 2018 Our commitment to respect human rights covers all our operations, including our employees, contractors, suppliers, and neighbouring communities. Opportunities and challenges Sustainability Addressing challenges globally When it comes to human rights, Stora Enso’s operations cover Governance challenging markets such as Russia, China, Laos, and Brazil. Many Strategy, governance, and stakeholders of the human rights challenges we face are deeply rooted in local society and can only be effectively addressed through a longOur targets Sustainability term commitment and close cooperation with global and local Adopting the SDGs stakeholders. We must also remain vigilant for the risk of modern slavery in all our markets. Human rights The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights emphasise that companies have an ongoing responsibility to respect human rights, even where government actions and regulatory Social agenda frameworks are inadequate. Compliance with these principles Employees and wider workforce requires companies to conduct human rights due diligence procedures to identify, assess, and remedy the human rights risks Community and impacts of their operations, products, and services. Business ethics Our policies Environmental agenda Guided by international human rights standards In addition to our commitment to the UN Guiding Principles on Business Materials, water, and energy and Human Rights, Stora Enso respects and follows the requirements Carbon dioxide of the UK Modern Slavery Act and we continue to monitor the development of similar legislation in other countries. Human rights are Financials Forests, plantations, and land use integrated into our Sustainability Agenda, which is aligned with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, including human rights. Economic agenda Relevant Stora Enso policies on human rights include: Customers • Stora Enso Code – our Code of Conduct that expresses our respect for human and labour rights. Suppliers • Supplier Code of Conduct – imposes strict contractual Investors requirements on our suppliers regarding human rights. • Human Rights Policy – expresses our respect for international human rights instruments including: Data and assurance –– The UN International Bill of Human Rights –– The core labour rights conventions of the International Labour Reporting scope Organisation (ILO) Data by production unit –– ILO Convention no.169 on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, including the principle of Free, Prior, and Informed Consent Auditor’s assurance report and Participation Governance –– The OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises –– The Children’s Rights and Business Principles developed GRI Index by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact, and Save the Children (relevant to the forest products sector). 13 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance − Human rights Strategy How we work Annual Report 2018 A long-term partnership to improve our Systematic assessment of human rights impacts human rights work Human rights risks and impacts are required to be taken into For four years, the global nonprofit organisation BSR has worked account throughout our operations, including investment decisions with Stora Enso to support the company’s human rights journey. related to mergers, acquisitions, and divestments. Our investment Stora Enso is one of the first companies globally to systematically guidelines stipulate that environmental and social risks and impacts, track its human rights impacts and publish the findings. including those related to human rights, must be duly identified, During the partnership, both BSR and Stora Enso have learned assessed, and addressed prior to any investments in projects with valuable lessons. Sustainability business-critical risks. “Case studies on Stora Enso’s work have been shared within Business ethics risks and specific investment compliance with the the BSR Human Rights Working Group as topics for discussion Stora Enso Code and our Business Practice Policy are also assessed, and learning, which has directly impacted the group’s member Governance together with environmental due diligence. On-going human rights companies and, more widely, the global human rights field,” Strategy, governance, and stakeholders due diligence continues with Environmental and Social Impact BSR writes in their blog. Assessments (ESIAs), and the periodic monitoring of compliance with Our targets Sustainability Stora Enso’s Group-wide Minimum Human Resources requirements Adopting the SDGs for labour conditions, and our Supplier Code of Conduct. Additional elements will be defined in our updated human rights due diligence Human rights and monitoring programme, currently under development, which will be based on our highest priority human rights, defined in 2018. We Read the full article at BSR.org also continued to provide human rights training and expert capacity Social agenda building during the year, and have initiated security risk assessments Employees and wider workforce at units identified as high priority. Community Environmental and social impact assessments (ESIA) Business ethics We conduct ESIAs for all new projects that could directly or indirectly cause significant adverse effects in local communities. Such projects A third-party-administered grievance channel is available to all annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement was published in include board, pulp, paper, or sawmills built on greenfield sites, our employees. The channel enables employees to report instances 2018 on storaenso.com/sustainability. Environmental agenda industrial scale plantation projects, and any large-scale expansions of where their rights may have been infringed, or where they have existing facilities. observed violations of the Stora Enso Code, including those related Progress Materials, water, and energy An important element of any ESIA involves assessing the to human rights. Carbon dioxide operational context from a social impact perspective, including human We have also established local grievance channels for Highest priority human rights confirmed rights, and establishing dialogues with local residents, members of communities and other external stakeholders associated with our In 2018, we completed the defining of our human rights priorities Financials Forests, plantations, and land use local organisations, experts, researchers, and other stakeholders. plantations and mill in Guangxi, China. We encourage anyone with with support from BSR, an international expert organisation. To reflect This is done through interviews, meetings, workshops, and public concerns to call our anonymous hotline number, write to us, visit us, this, we updated and published our Human Rights Statement as hearings. ESIA results give us valuable information on how local or talk to our field personnel. Stora Enso’s employees are trained to a Human Rights Policy and confirmed eight Group-wide highest Economic agenda communities may be affected by changes in their socio-economic distribute information about our operations in local villages, and to priority human rights: Customers situation and any impacts on cultural heritage, while also setting out duly process any grievances, even in villages not engaged in any kind • Health and safety implications for community health, safety, and security. of business relationship with the company. • Fair employment conditions Suppliers During 2018, we conducted an ESIA in Oulu, Finland, to evaluate Similar local grievance channels exist for our project in Laos, and • Forced labour Investors the potential conversion of our paper mill into a packaging board mill. our joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. • Freedom of association The ESIA included an assessment to understand the socio-economic For more information on our formal grievance mechanism, which • Non-discrimination and non-harassment impacts of the project, including its indirect employment impacts. is also open to external stakeholders in countries where legislation • Land and natural resource rights acquisition and management Data and assurance allows, see page 29. • Grievance mechanisms Grievance and remediation mechanisms In 2018, access to grievance and remediation mechanisms was • Children’s rights (relevant to the forestry sector). Reporting scope In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and identified as one of Stora Enso’s highest priority human rights issues. Data by production unit Human Rights and our own Human Rights Policy, Stora Enso is In recognition of this, the results of our mapping of existing community While we respect and consider all human rights important, our committed to remedy situations where our activities have caused grievance mechanisms will be incorporated into all our future due identified highest priority human rights will be the primary focus of our Auditor’s assurance report or contributed to adverse human rights impacts. Where violations diligence efforts. future work. This includes our updated due diligence and monitoring Governance are committed by third parties with links to Stora Enso through our programme, which will be finalised and implemented in 2019. We also operations, products, or services, we strive to use our influence Reporting on our performance aim to develop a new consolidated key performance indicator (KPI) GRI Index together with the relevant stakeholders to ensure that those Stora Enso reports on its human rights work annually. We also follow for our human rights work during 2019 to monitor compliance with our impacts are remedied. the legal requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act. Our second eight highest priority human rights. 14 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance − Human rights Strategy Country-specific actions in 2018 included: Some stakeholders have criticised Veracel for issues related to land use Tieshangang industrial zone, about 40 km from Beihai city. Stora Enso Annual Report 2018 and landless people’s social movements. In 2018, Veracel continued its owns 83% of the operations, the International Finance Corporation Veracel, Brazil dialogue with the landless movements and the Bahía State government owns 5%, and the remainder is owned by two state-owned Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation with the Brazilian company Suzano1, to address issues of land distribution in Bahía. Veracel’s also continued organisations: Guangxi Forestry Group Co Ltd and the Beihai Forestry manages a pulp mill, eucalyptus plantations, and related logistics its ongoing implementation of the Sustainable Settlements Initiative in Investment and Development Company. in southern Bahía State. Veracel’s active community engagement response to this issue, and signed a new agreement with the landless focuses on land use, and local social and economic development. peoples’ social movements in 2018. For more information about During 2018, our human rights work in Guangxi focused on internal landless people’s social movements in Bahía and Veracel’s community and external capacity building and strengthening due diligence: During 2018, Veracel strengthened its commitment to human rights engagement, see pages 24–26. • Human rights training for key employees, including those working Sustainability through activities such as: Veracel maintains good relations with local indigenous villages, with sourcing, legal issues, human resources, and sustainability. • Continuing to implement the Sustainable Settlements Initiative and supports programmes designed to strengthen the cultural identity • Ongoing development efforts with key forestry contractors. This (SSI) for disputes related to land and landless movements, and of 28 Pataxó and three Tupinambá communities. Local indigenous included reviewing safety guidelines together with contractors, Governance indigenous people’s rights. Read more on page 25. communities are calling for the expansion of the Barra Velha Indian as well as providing training in defensive driving to the managers Strategy, governance, and stakeholders • Together with the municipality of Belmonte, co-managing Reserve. The extension would include hundreds of land properties, of 30 wood transportation companies and over 200 Stora Enso a project aimed at ensuring an effective protection system for the including 3 219 hectares of land acquired by Veracel before the employees. Our targets Sustainability care of local child and adolescent victims of violence (for more indigenous peoples first made claim to the land. At the end of 2018, • Continuous review of our Responsible Sourcing Programme, Adopting the SDGs information, see page 25). this case was still being processed by the regional federal court. Veracel launched in China in 2018, which aims to improve supplier • Fully implementing Veracel’s supplier code of conduct. Associated remains committed to fully comply with the court’s eventual decision. cooperation and transparency. For more information about Human rights training, audits, and follow-up procedures will continue during responsible sourcing, see pages 60–63. 2019. Additional human rights training is provided annually to Guangxi, China those employees of Veracel’s security service provider who work Stora Enso’s operations in Guangxi province consist of eucalyptus During the year, we continued the pilot human rights work related to Social agenda as guards. tree plantations in several locations and a consumer board mill in the our local due diligence programme, which covers both our forestry Employees and wider workforce and manufacturing operations in Guangxi, in accordance with the requirements of the UN Guiding Principles. This work will continue Community in 2019. Business ethics When required, consultation with community stakeholders, including Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC), continues to be a key element in our human rights due diligence and forestry Environmental agenda operations in Guangxi. Our forestry employees work in dialogue with the communities neighbouring our plantations to maintain good Materials, water, and energy community relations, and to understand and address the potential Carbon dioxide social impacts of our operations. Our work to further improve our local community consultation processes continued in 2018. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Pakistan As part of our responsible exit from Pakistan following the 2017 Economic agenda divestment of the 35% minority holding in the equity accounted Customers investment Bulleh Shah Packaging (Private) Ltd. (BSP), Stora Enso completed a three-year Public Private Partnership with the Suppliers International Labour Organisation (ILO) at the end of 2018. Investors In 2018, Stora Enso continued to support six schools in cooperation with the Pakistani non-governmental organisation Idara-e-Taleem-o-Aagahi (ITA). These schools were set up in 2015 to Data and assurance provide education for the 640 children identified as child workers in BSP’s supply chain that was subsequently shut down in 2014. The Reporting scope contract for the school programme, together with Stora Enso’s funding Data by production unit for ITA, will remain in place until 2023 when the youngest children will complete compulsory primary school education as required by the Auditor’s assurance report state of Pakistan. Governance GRI Index Veracel supports local communities through the Sustainable Settlements Veracel supports programmes that strengthen the cultural identity of 1 The merger between Fibria and Suzano was announced in March 2018 and finalised Initiative (SSI). Building schools is one example of SSI’s work. 28 indigenous Pataxó communities. on 14 January 2019. 15 A grievance channel is Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Governance − Human rights Strategy Annual Report 2018 available to all our employees. Sustainability Laos Stora Enso has continued to develop trial plantations in the Saravane and Savannakhet provinces of southern Laos on lands Governance totalling 3 805 hectares (3 731 in 2017), of which 3 113 (2 988) are Strategy, governance, and stakeholders planted with eucalyptus. Stora Enso Laos has 123 employees (125). Our targets Sustainability During 2018, our human rights work in Laos focused on Adopting the SDGs community engagement in land acquisition processes, community communication, and management systems: Human rights • The Environmental and Social Management and Monitoring Plan launched in 2017 was fully implemented during 2018. • In 2018, Stora Enso became the first forest products company Social agenda in Laos to have their plantation and nursery operations certified Employees and wider workforce under OHSAS 18001 for occupational safety. • The community grievance mechanism created in cooperation with Community the International Finance Corporation (IFC) was fully implemented Business ethics and actively communicated to local communities to ensure they know which channels to use in case of concerns. • Measures were taken to enhance stakeholder engagement and Environmental agenda communications to ensure that Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC) procedures are duly followed in Stora Enso’s land use Materials, water, and energy and land leasing when applicable. Stora Enso also continued to Carbon dioxide enhance gender involvement in the land acquisition process and community consultation meetings. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use • An additional tool for FPIC procedures was developed to ensure communities understand the information shared with them. Economic agenda Stora Enso’s tree plantations in Laos are located near villages that Customers are culturally and ethnically diverse. This makes it essential for us to engage in dialogues in a culturally appropriate way, based on informed Suppliers consultation and participation, and obtain community consent for Investors our projects. In 2018, we continued to train Stora Enso employees on stakeholder engagement and community consultation, particularly considering the interests of women and vulnerable groups. Data and assurance A set of community consultation tools jointly launched by Stora Enso and Village Focus International in 2017 were fully Reporting scope implemented during 2018, as part of our efforts to improve our Data by production unit engagement with local communities. The tools help empower the communities to gain a deeper understanding of our agroforestry Auditor’s assurance report model, its benefits and impacts on their villages, and to enable Governance the entire community to participate in decision-making related to Stora Enso’s activities. GRI Index In Guangxi, China, we reviewed the safety guidelines of our key forestry contractors. 16 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda Strategy Annual Report 2018 Social Sustainability agenda Governance We care about all our people, engage Strategy, governance, and stakeholders with local communities, and strive to Our targets conduct ethical business. Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Employees and wider workforce 17 Community 22 Social agenda Business ethics 27 Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 17 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy Employees and wider workforce Annual Report 2018 TRI rate Leadership We aspire to be an attractive employer and to provide safe and rewarding 6.1 Index 83/100 workplaces for our employees. TRI = Total recordable incident Sustainability Opportunities and challenges Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Change through people Stora Enso is transforming into the renewable materials company. Our targets Sustainability Engaged and motivated employees in a capable organisation will Adopting the SDGs enable us to deliver our business strategy. The development of capabilities in customer insight, innovation Human rights and operational efficiency, as well as the ability to utilise new technologies will be critical for our future success. We need to ensure we have competent and engaged employees and manage employee Social agenda turnover and the demographic structure of our workforce in various Employees and wider workforce markets. This will require careful workforce planning and responsible leadership. To be successful and to promote a safe working culture, Community we need to ensure we develop our leadership, organisation, Business ethics competencies and processes. Our policies Environmental agenda Motivated employees and a capable organisation Materials, water, and energy Stora Enso’s People Agenda guides our efforts to create engagement Carbon dioxide and motivation among our employees, and to build a capable organisation that can help us realise our business strategy. Key Financials Forests, plantations, and land use areas in our People Agenda include: leadership development, performance management, people ethics, health and wellbeing, talent management, competence development, workforce planning and Economic agenda employer branding. Customers Stora Enso’s Health and Safety Policy defines the objectives for our safety management as well as our governance model on how we Suppliers manage health and safety topics in practice and how we integrate Investors them into annual planning and reporting. Other key policies applied in our people and safety management include our: Data and assurance • Stora Enso Code – our Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct Reporting scope • Minimum Human Resources Requirements – Data by production unit Labour Conditions • Global Framework Agreement Auditor’s assurance report • Diversity Policy Governance GRI Index 18 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy How we work Annual Report 2018 Everybody home safe, every day Stora Enso’s goal is to be an accident-free workplace. Encouraging a company-wide safety culture means that everyone is responsible for making every workday healthy and safe – from our top management and throughout the company. Safety management at Stora Enso is based on international standards such as OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001, but our processes Sustainability go beyond these requirements. Responsibility for implementing each tool and programme in our units lies with line management, supported by local staff and OHS professionals. Governance Since 2018, safety and industrial hygiene are managed by Strategy, governance, and stakeholders the Group Sustainability function. Occupational health including wellbeing is managed by our Group Human Resources function. Our targets Sustainability Stora Enso’s Safety Steering Group directs strategic long-term Adopting the SDGs planning at Group level and oversees the work of the Safety Management Team, which develops and aligns Group-wide safety Human rights programmes. Our country-level OHS networks in Finland, Sweden, Germany, and China also share good practice and organise training to enhance our safety procedures and competencies. Local OHS Social agenda committees and working groups at our units provide forums for Employees and wider workforce raising safety-related topics and suggestions. Our units report monthly on safety performance data, including Community incidents, absenteeism statistics, and safety observations. Stora Enso Business ethics also monitors the number of safety incidents among on-site, logistics, and forestry contractors. Environmental agenda We encourage everyone Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide to provide ideas on how to further improve safety. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Leadership is the strongest driver for performance, wellbeing, and company culture. Safety training for contractors Economic agenda Stora Enso’s approach to safety extends to contractors, suppliers, Customers and on-site visitors. We encourage everyone to give feedback Building a safety culture and provide ideas on how to further improve safety. Additionally, Suppliers What makes a safe workplace? Safety gear, warning signs, safer we promote safety among our contractors and suppliers through Investors machines? They all help but it’s people who create a strong a dedicated e-learning – Safety Trail. We also emphasise the safety culture. importance of safety by asking suppliers for information on their safety “Ultimately, it’s about trust,” says Sari Sarin, Head of Safety performance in our tendering process. For more information about our Data and assurance and Occupational Health at Stora Enso. “When employees supplier approach, see pages 60–63. We also cooperate closely on trust each other and their managers, they feel safe saying that safety work with our joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay. Reporting scope they’ve made a mistake, that this accident happened because of Data by production unit something I did. Then the community works together to find the Leadership – a key enabler root cause, learn from it, and make changes – this is the best way Leadership is a key enabler of our strategy as it is the strongest driver for Auditor’s assurance report to ensure people are committed.” performance, wellbeing and company culture. Our culture is based on Governance our values “Lead” and “Do what’s right”, which we expect our leaders to embrace and demonstrate through their actions and behaviour. We GRI Index measure our progress on leadership by using an overall Leadership Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Index that measures employee perceptions of their managers. 19 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy Performance management both motivated and able to perform their work. These requirements Annual Report 2018 @storaenso July 19 Performance management is an important part of promoting engaged address areas such as working hours, basic worker rights, working and motivated employees. We set targets for both our business conditions, and non-discrimination. Based on a self-assessment Thanks to the Accident-Free Mill programme at our and employees, provide context and continuous feedback as well conducted in 2017, the vast majority of our production units are in Anjalankoski Mills, the number of accidents at the as follow up on targets and expectations during annual employee compliance with these requirements, and units with improvement mill has plummeted to close to zero. The secret? performance appraisals. needs have action plans in place to become fully compliant with the Working together & caring for yourself and others. requirements. The next self-assessment will be conducted in 2019. Have a safe summer! #safety #OHS Diversity In 2018, we signed a Global Framework Agreement with three We believe diversity strengthens our competitiveness and we aim to global unions – IndustriALL Global Union, UNI Global Union and the Sustainability reflect the societies in which we operate. Diverse working teams Building and Wood Worker’s International – as another step towards enable us to explore different perspectives and challenge our way creating working environments where all our employees are treated of thinking, contributing to better decision-making. To benefit from with respect and in a fair manner. comprehensive picture of safety performance as it also includes Governance diverse working teams, we need inclusive work environments that less-severe accidents. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders respect and appreciate individual differences. Dimensions such Progress In 2018, our TRI rate decreased to 6.11 (7.4 in 2017). Compared to as skills and experiences, gender, age, cultural background and 2017, a 18% reduction was achieved on the TRI rate. There were no Our targets Enhancing safety performance Sustainability personality are important to Stora Enso when we strive for diversity. fatal accidents involving Stora Enso employees or onsite contractor Adopting the SDGs From January 2017, Stora Enso has applied Occupational Health employees at our units. Human rights Fair working conditions and Safety Administration (OHSA) definitions in the reporting of With regard to occupational health, Stora Enso measures illnessWe care for all our employees and are committed to fully respecting total recordable incident (TRI) and lost-time accident (LTA) rates to related absenteeism with a focus on encouraging units to invest in human rights throughout our operations. be better aligned with international standards and to enable future proactive health management. In 2018, illness-related absenteeism All Stora Enso units are expected to work systematically to benchmarking with peers and companies in other sectors. amounted to 3.0% (3.1%) of total theoretical working hours. Social agenda ensure that employees are treated with respect and fairness. Units In the beginning of 2018, Stora Enso changed the main KPI for The average number of safety observations reported per employee Employees and wider workforce should also comply with a set of minimum requirements for labour measuring safety performance from the Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate was 10.5 (9.0). conditions in order to create an environment where employees are to the Total Recordable Incident (TRI) rate. The TRI rate gives a more Other focus areas in our safety management work during 2018 Community included: Business ethics • Updating the group-wide safety instructions to ensure consistent criteria for our key safety topics. • Developing and piloting a new safety audit process to verify the Environmental agenda Total recordable incident rates (TRI)¹ ² Lost-time accident rates (LTA)¹ ² implementation of the updated safety instructions. Number of incidents among our own employees Number of lost-time accidents among our • Systematically sharing the learnings from accidents within the Materials, water, and energy per one million hours worked own employees per one million hours worked company to reduce the risk of similar accidents happening in other Carbon dioxide units or functions. 25 12 • Ensuring sufficient resources for safety management and Financials Forests, plantations, and land use 20 developing the competence of our safety professionals. 9 15 Contractor accidents Economic agenda 10 6 Stora Enso’s reporting of accidents involving contractors has been Customers 3 developed in recent years. From early 2017, contractor accidents 5 were reported in separate categories for on-site accidents and Suppliers logistics incidents, to allow better comparability with statistics from 0 0 Investors 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 other companies. In 2018, proactive measures have been taken when China 2.9 2.4 2.8 1.4 1.4 China 0.9 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.8 seeing statistically more accidents with some contractors than others. Finland 21.7 16.6 19.0 11.5 9.7 Finland 9.3 7.8 5.0 8.7 8.0 Data and assurance Germany 17.3 18.8 13.8 13.6 6.0 Germany 6.1 5.4 6.0 3.6 4.5 Leadership and performance management Poland 4.7 4.2 5.1 4.4 3.5 Poland 3.8 3.9 3.0 4.1 3.5 Stora Enso’s key performance indicator (KPI) for leadership, Reporting scope Russia 2.6 8.3 6.3 5.3 3.1 Russia 1.6 4.7 4.2 3.2 1.0 the Leadership Index, measures employee perceptions of their Data by production unit Sweden 19.2 17.4 19.4 12.0 9.8 Sweden 6.9 6.6 8.4 8.4 7.2 managers. The index is calculated based on our annual employee Group 12.5 11.0 11.7 7.4³ 6.1 Group 5.2 4.7 4.4 5.2³ 4.6 survey. Our target was to achieve an index of 80/100 by 2018. The Auditor’s assurance report Leadership Index in 2018 improved to 83 (81). The response rate to Governance ¹ For Stora Enso employees, including joint operations. our employee survey remained high at 89% (91%). Our new ambitious ² As of January 2017 Stora Enso applies new Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) definitions in the reporting of TRI and LTA rates to better align with international target is to achieve an index of 85/100 by 2022. GRI Index standards. Due to this change, the 2017 and 2018 figures are not comparable with earlier years figures. ³ As of January 2018 Stora Enso’s joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata are included in the Group’s consolidated safety performance. 2017 figure has been recalculated accordingly for comparability. 1 Recalculated due to additional data after the Q4/2018 Interim Report. 20 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy We continuously invest in the development of our leaders through Annual Report 2018 programmes such as “Lead Through People” which targets all managers Diversity enables us to in the company. Since 2015, approximately 2 600 managers have participated in our Lead Through People programme. As our leaders explore different perspectives, need to lead the transformation we have launched new modules for Lead Through People that focus on developing skills in change management. challenge our way of thinking, We promote performance management by setting clear expectations and contribute to better with team and individual goals and development objectives, providing regular coaching and feedback, and ensuring employees understand Sustainability decision-making. the wider context of how they contribute to the success of the company. All Stora Enso employees should be involved in at least one formal performance review meeting with their manager each year. In 2018, 91% Governance of our employee survey respondents stated that they had taken part in Strategy, governance, and stakeholders a performance review during the past twelve months (91%). Our targets Employee diversity Sustainability Adopting the SDGs When asked about diversity in the annual employee survey, 83% (81%) of our employees reported that their management was able to Human rights create diverse teams. Our objective was for 80% to respond positively. When it comes to gender diversity, our aim was to achieve a gender balance of 70% male and 30% female among senior managers by Social agenda the end of 2018. At the end of 2018, the ratio was 80% (79%) male Employees and wider workforce and 20% (21%) female. The Group Leadership Team had five female and seven male members in 2018. In the 2018 report by Equileap that Community assessed gender equality among 3 200 public companies, Stora Enso Business ethics was ranked as number 12 globally and as number 1 in Finland. Providing living wages Environmental agenda Every other year, the global non-profit organisation BSR supports us in defining and calculating living wages in relevant locations. In 2017, Materials, water, and energy we reviewed the current situations in Brazil, China, Russia, Laos, and Carbon dioxide Uruguay. The results of this study indicate that overall, Stora Enso pays minimum/entry level wages above the living wages defined by Financials Forests, plantations, and land use BSR. The next assessment will be conducted in 2019. Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Employee distribution by country¹ Investors Finland 25% China 21% Data and assurance Sweden 20% Poland 8% Reporting scope Germany 4% Data by production unit Russia 4% Auditor’s assurance report Other Europe 16% Governance Americas 1% Other countries 1% GRI Index ¹ Excluding employees of our 50%-owned joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. 21 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy Compensation and equal opportunity1 Our lowest wages compared to local minimum wages1 Annual Report 2018 Ratio of highest individual compensation Female employee compensation Ratio of our lowest wage to the local minimum wage to median compensation2 compared to male employees1 3 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Brazil² 1.0 1.1 China 89 81 101% 100% China³ 1.2 1.3 Finland 15 14 97% 97% Estonia 1.1 1.0 Germany 5 5 93% 97% Laos 1.2 1.3 Poland 24 19 87% n/a Latvia 1.1 1.2 Sustainability Russia Sweden 30 43 31 37 93% 99% n/a 100% Lithuania 1.4 1.0 Poland 1.0 1.0 ¹ Figures for the six largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. Russia 1.5 1.0 Governance ² The ratio shows how many times larger the highest individual annual total compensation, including incentives, is compared to median Uruguay4 1.0 1.1 compensation. For 2018 reporting, the calculation methodology was developed to include incentives consistently. The 2017 figures are recalculated accordingly for comparability. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders ³ Calculated using weighted averages based on gender comparisons within each country’s employee categories as applicable. 1 In material locations of operations, compared to minimum wage levels set at national, state, or provincial level as applicable. The ratio shows how many times larger our lowest wage is compared to the local minimum wage. Our targets Figures for China and Germany based on samples due to data availability. Sustainability 2 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Veracel. 3 Due to variations in regional minimum wages, the ratio is calculated as a weighted average for Stora Enso’s units in China. Adopting the SDGs The weighting is based on the units’ total number of employees. Human rights Share of female employees at Stora Enso 4 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Montes del Plata. 2018 2017 Total number of employees at year-end1 25 880 25 210 Social agenda Share of women among all employees (%) 26% 26% Share of women among senior managers (%) 20% 21% Employees and wider workforce Women in the Group Leadership Team 5 out of 12 5 out of 12 Community Women on the Board of Directors 3 out of 9 3 out of 9 Business ethics 1 Excluding employees of our 50%-owned joint operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. Reporting changed for the 2018 report from full-time equivalents to headcount. 2017 figure restated accordingly. Environmental agenda Employee distribution and turnover1 Materials, water, and energy China4 Finland Germany Poland Russia Sweden Group total Carbon dioxide Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Number of employees 2 590 (48%) 2 780 (52%) 1 320 (20%) 5 150 (80%) 220 (21%) 830 (79%) 450 (20%) 1 770 (80%) 270 (24%) 860 (76%) 1 070 (21%) 4 100 (79%) 25 880 Up to 30 990 1 240 120 560 30 140 90 340 30 130 140 510 21% Economic agenda 31–50 1 580 1 470 750 2 560 100 310 240 970 200 610 550 1 590 51% Customers 51 and over 20 70 450 2 030 90 380 120 460 40 120 380 2 000 28% Number of Suppliers hires2 1 070 (44%) 1 360 (56%) 80 (20%) 330 (80%) 30 (50%) 30 (50%) 30 (27%) 80 (73%) 30 (33%) 60 (67%) 100 (30%) 230 (70%) 4 040 Investors Up to 30 620 930 20 70 20 20 10 40 10 30 30 80 53% 31–50 450 420 50 200 10 10 20 30 20 30 60 120 42% 51 and over 0 10 10 60 0 0 0 10 0 0 10 30 5% Data and assurance Number of leavings3 1 230 (49%) 1 300 (51%) 60 (20%) 240 (80%) 20 (29%) 50 (71%) 20 (13%) 130 (87%) 10 (14%) 60 (86%) 100 (28%) 260 (72%) 3 890 Reporting scope Up to 30 720 840 0 10 0 10 0 30 10 10 10 30 47% Data by production unit 31–50 510 450 20 70 10 10 10 50 0 40 60 90 39% 51 and over 0 10 40 160 10 30 10 50 0 10 30 140 14% Auditor’s assurance report Employee Governance turnover 48% 47% 5% 5% 9% 6% 5% 7% 5% 7% 9% 6% 15% 4 1 Figures for the six largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. Rounded to the nearest 10. GRI Index 2 Hires: numbers of permanent employees joining the company. Excluding hires due to acquisitions. 3 Leavings: numbers of permanent employees leaving voluntarily or due to restructuring, retirement or death. Excluding leavings due to divestments. 4 The employee turnover in China mainly comes from Stora Enso China Packaging units where packaging manufacturing operations are relatively labor intensive and the number of employees vary according to seasonality. The high employee turnover of China Packaging units also has a significant impact on the Group employee turnover. The Group employee turnover excluding China Packaging units is 7%. 22 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy Annual Report 2018 Community Total voluntary community investment We respect the cultures and values of local people and societies EUR 2.7 million in the various regions we operate. We always strive to contribute to social and economic development. Sustainability Opportunities and challenges The importance of local communities Governance Global companies can make a positive contribution in local Strategy, governance, and stakeholders communities through active corporate citizenship. Such voluntary investments can benefit communities and the company over the long Our targets Sustainability term. Adopting the SDGs Stora Enso’s operations are heavily dependent on local communities for a motivated and competitive workforce, as well as Human rights the sourcing of our most important raw material – wood. Therefore, the communities we depend on must be resilient and able to thrive economically, socially, and environmentally over the long term. Social agenda Stora Enso’s operations generate emissions and our tree Employees and wider workforce plantations influence land use that may adversely impact local communities. Our socio-environmental impacts must be managed Community responsibly, in order to minimise negative impacts, maximise our Business ethics positive influence, and maintain cooperative community relations that ensure our long-term license to operate. Environmental agenda Our policies Materials, water, and energy A comprehensive approach to community work Carbon dioxide The policies that guide Stora Enso’s community relations include our: • Sponsorship and Donations Policy Financials Forests, plantations, and land use • Community Investment Guidelines • The Stora Enso Code – our Code of Conduct • Business Practice Policy Economic agenda • Guidelines for Social Responsibility Customers • Human Rights Policy • Tax Policy Suppliers Investors Our joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay have each developed formal procedures for their respective community work to reflect Stora Enso’s requirements. Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 23 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy How we work Voluntary community investment Annual Report 2018 Community investment is an essential part of building a sustainable Managing social responsibility future for our business as part of our engagement with communities. In many locations, Stora Enso is a major employer, taxpayer, and Building on the local community work Stora Enso has carried out over partner for local entrepreneurs that benefits the local economy. In many years, we implemented a new Group-wide framework in 2017. addition to implementing mandatory and regulated contributions We want to be an active corporate citizen and to make every place “Today’s world requires companies to to communities, we apply precautionary management actions to we operate in better as a result of our presence by contributing to the demonstrate a social license to operate and to mitigate and remedy potential adverse environmental and social resilience of the local communities. understand the difference their contributions impacts on neighbouring communities. These include: Community investments are contributions that involve engaging Sustainability • Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) conducted with local communities beyond our core business and legal make to business and society. LBG is the for all new projects that could cause significant adverse effects in responsibility. Stora Enso defines community investment as the global standard to measure and manage local communities. For more information, see page 13. voluntary donation of cash, working hours, and in-kind for non-profit Governance • Due diligence assessments, which are realised as part of purposes or non-profit community organisations in accordance with corporate community investment, it also acts Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Stora Enso’s acquisition and investment processes prior to any the LBG framework, which is a globally recognised framework for as a membership platform to share learnings. Our targets critical decision. These assessments cover relevant factors related measuring these activities. For Stora Enso, community investments Stora Enso has shown commitment to measure Sustainability to environmental, social, and business practices. They play are managed locally, where the community is the main beneficiary Adopting the SDGs an important role in building our understanding of local operating – but where we recognise that the company can also benefit over and share its community investment activities in Human rights environments, while also helping us to develop constructive the long term. a transparent and consistent way.” relationships with stakeholders such as governments, business In 2018, Stora Enso mapped and analysed its community Clodagh Connolly partners, local communities, and NGOs. Any subsequent investment to define the Group’s community investment focus areas. Associate Director investment decision must consider our ability to mitigate and We aim to increase the proportion of volunteered working hours and Corporate Citizenship, LBG lead Social agenda manage identified adverse impacts. in-kind contributions compared with cash. Employees and wider workforce • Third-party certified management systems at our production units, applying international standards such as ISO 14001, OHSAS Progress Community 18001 and ISO 50001. reporting, the total contribution of these activities consisted of cash Business ethics • Third-party forest management certification for our own forestry Measuring our contribution (76% of total contribution), volunteered working time (13%), and operations and suppliers, such as the Forest Stewardship As a global company with a strong local presence, particularly in wood in-kind contributions (11%). In 2018, the total voluntary contribution to Council (FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest procurement, we are committed to numerous community activities. communities as defined by LBG was EUR 2.7 million, including 50% Environmental agenda Certification (PEFC). In 2018, the total number of Stora Enso’s voluntary community of the community investments by our 50%-owned joint operations in • When necessary, restructuring processes and closure of investment projects was 453, including those facilitated by our Brazil and Uruguay. Materials, water, and energy operations realised in cooperation with the authorities to joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. Carbon dioxide support the communities through related changes, and to create The largest community investment areas in 2018 were economic Communities are part of our value chain opportunities for new business initiatives. development, education, and healthy lifestyles. Based on our During 2018, we engaged with the local communities close to our Financials Forests, plantations, and land use operations in various ways, including investments in agroforestry programmes, and capacity building projects. Economic agenda Europe Customers Donated heat supports local artists and athletes Stora Enso’s voluntary community investments in Europe focus on Our Nymölla paper mill in Sweden donates “used” heat as part of enhancing the attractiveness of communities situated close to our Suppliers their community investment work. Once hot water sold to the local sites, with the aim of benefitting our existing and potential future Investors municipality has circulated through the district heating system, employees. To support our potential labour pool, we participate in it comes back to the mill. One recipient of this donated heat is a programmes that promote education and youth training, and provide nearby sports complex with an outdoor football field and a sports internships and public research opportunities. We also strive to Data and assurance arena – a new way to sponsor local sports teams. promote local workforce diversity by participating in programmes that The mill also donates heat to Ifö Center, an old ceramics factory facilitate the employment of disadvantaged people and refugees. Reporting scope turned into a centre for the arts. “Ifö Center provides work spaces To support the everyday vitality of communities, we also financially Data by production unit for high-class artists, and it’s great that we can support them in this support local associations, including sports clubs and cultural activities. way,” says Michael Lindemann, Mill Manager at Nymölla Mill. Our Hylte Mill in Sweden has supported language training Auditor’s assurance report initiatives for refugees since 2015. Over a three-week period, the mill Governance provides refugees with opportunities to practice their new language skills in real working situations, and to get acquainted with a Swedish GRI Index Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability workplace by following the day-to-day activities at the mill. This gives them good insights into Swedish working life. 24 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy Voluntary community investment by investment area1 Voluntary community investment Annual Report 2018 by contribution type1 Economic development Education Healthy lifestyle 40% 25% 11% Cash 76% Working hours 13% In-kind 11% 1 Total community investment includes cash, voluntary working hours and in-kind as Sustainability defined in the LBG framework. Including 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. Governance advance Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC) processes in land Strategy, governance, and stakeholders leasing. For more information, see page 14. Our forestry operations in Guangxi run community projects to Our targets Sustainability address challenges in rural villages near our plantations. During 2018, Adopting the SDGs Stora Enso supported 20 community projects focusing on topics such as sanitation improvement and the availability of clean drinking water. Human rights One of the clean drinking water projects was located in Liuwenpo village where the water source was upgraded with Stora Enso’s support in 2018. Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Veracel, Brazil Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation owned together with Suzano1 owns Community 213 500 hectares of land in Bahía, Brazil, of which about half has been Business ethics reserved for rainforest restoration and conservation. Veracel also leases 11 000 hectares of land. Supporting income generation and employment for local communities are the top priorities of Veracel’s Environmental agenda sustainability agenda. Since 2012, Veracel has been involved in the Pact for the Development of the Discovery Coast. Under this Materials, water, and energy Environment Social welfare Arts and culture Emergency relief Other agreement, the government has committed to reimburse Veracel the Carbon dioxide 9% 7% 4% 2% 2% ICMS tax credits paid by the company, in return for investments in local development programmes. The pact’s projects contribute to the Financials Forests, plantations, and land use sustainable development of family farming by forming associations for small producers and indigenous communities. During 2018, the pact supported two projects related to cassava production. Economic agenda Stora Enso’s Skutskär Mill in Sweden collaborates with a technical Guangxi, China Customers college to support youth employability and to ensure the availability Stora Enso leases 82 217 hectares of land in Guangxi province China, Supporting multiple land uses of skilled labour in the future. The forest industry in Sweden is of which 29 265 hectares (29 581 hectares in 2017), corresponding Veracel also supports local livelihoods by making some of its land Suppliers undergoing a generational shift, and most companies in the sector are to 36% (36%) of the total area, is social land leased from village available to family farmers, and by providing training and technical Investors faced with a shortage of younger workers. We received five trainees collectives, individual households, and local forest farms. Engagement support. The Agrovida farming programme, for instance, aims to to Skutskär Mill through this collaboration, and we offer summer work with local communities is a key element of our everyday operations. produce food for the local community and to trade surplus production placements to students from the school programme. Stora Enso’s Stora Enso’s field staff and social engagement officers speak regularly in regional markets. The Roça do Povo project supports local families Data and assurance employees mentor the students, host school visits, and participate in with local people impacted by our plantations and mill, and along our cultivating cassava and other crops. By the end of 2018, the Agrovida steering group meetings with peer companies and the school. transportation routes, to inform them about our operations and to initiative involved 47 (153 in 2017) farmers cultivating 64 (208) Reporting scope In 2018, we continued to voluntarily support the Finnish Forest enable them to express their concerns and contribute ideas. Our aim hectares, while the Roça do Povo scheme assisted 79 (82) farmers Data by production unit Foundation by matching voluntary donations from forest owners, is to understand social risks in advance, so we can properly mitigate cultivating 80 (80) hectares. which are linked with the purchase of wood. Stora Enso has and remedy them. Veracel also allows local beekeepers to keep their hives on the Auditor’s assurance report supported the foundation since 1995. We also report to community During 2018, we continued the socio-economic profiling of local company’s land and provides training in beekeeping. In 2018, a total Governance investment funds that provide social benefit, such as education and villages in order to better understand and address ethnic structures, of 176 (155 in 2017) honey producers, mostly working through local youth. Activities include taking students to forests, inspiring young opportunities for development, and other characteristics that can help cooperatives, benefitted from this support. GRI Index people to pursue a career in forestry and, funding research projects us maximise the positive impacts of our operations, and mitigate any 1 The merger between Fibria and Suzano was announced in March 2018 and finalised that focus on the social aspects of the forestry sector. negative impacts. During the year, where applicable, we continued to on 14 January 2019. 25 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy Voluntary community investment by country1 Voluntary community investment projects by country2 Annual Report 2018 EUR 2.7 million By number of projects (In total 453 projects) Brazil 46% Finland 42% Finland 17% Sweden 19% Sweden 16% Russia 7% Uruguay 9% China 5% China 3% Austria 4% Russia 2% Uruguay 4% Sustainability Other 7% Other 19% Governance ¹ Total community investment includes cash, voluntary working hours and in-kind as defined in the LBG framework. Including 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. 2 Including joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights In 2018, Veracel also continued to support the local fishing Sustainable Settlements Initiative. Dialogue with landless people is communities of Belmonte, Santa Cruz Cabrália, and Santo Antônio. important for Veracel, particularly as certain groups have occupied The cooperation includes support for studying the dynamics some of the company’s land since 2008. During 2018, Veracel Social agenda and development opportunities for local fishing, and providing continued to engage in dialogue with the Government of the State Employees and wider workforce infrastructure for its commercialisation. of Bahía, the National Institute of Colonisation and Agrarian Reform (INCRA), and the representatives of six officially recognised landless Community Investing in local social welfare and causes people’s social movements: Business ethics To strengthen the labour market in neighbouring communities, • The Movement of Landless Workers (MST) Veracel is cooperating with several NGOs to prepare young people • The Federation of Agricultural Workers (Fetag) for the labour market. In 2018, this cooperation covered training on • The Movement for the Struggle for Land (MLT) Environmental agenda coastal and marine environments together with the NGO Instituto Mae • The Peasant Resistance Movement (MRC) Terra. During the year, the company also cooperated with the National • The Front of Free Workers (FTL) Materials, water, and energy Business Apprenticeship Service (SENAC) to help 60 students • The Association Unidos Venceremos (Aprunve) Carbon dioxide graduate with an assistant degree in administration, and with a sewing and cutting course for 20 women to help them improve their income. In 2018, work continued on a related Sustainable Settlements Initiative Financials Forests, plantations, and land use During 2013–2015 and 2017–2018, Stora Enso and Veracel launched in 2012 to provide farmland and technical and educational successfully cooperated with the NGO Childhood Brasil to support to help hundreds of local families improve their incomes. This combat child abuse and exploitation in the municipalities of initiative is facilitated by the Government of the State of Bahía through Economic agenda Porto Seguro, Santa Cruz de Cabralia, and Eunápolis in South the Secretariat of Rural Development (SDR), and is conducted in Better livelihoods from fishing in Brazil Customers Bahía. The cooperation included formulating, implementing, and cooperation with the landless people’s social movements and INCRA. Fittingly shaped like an ice cube, the small white ice factory strengthening public policies related to child exploitation, and Through this initiative, the social movements have pledged to leave in Santo Antônio provides ice to three nearby communities, Suppliers providing training for professionals. Municipality of Belmonte areas occupied since July 2011, while Veracel has agreed not to seek to mainly local fishermen and restaurants. Investors participated in the cooperation in 2018. repossess areas occupied before this date. The initiative relates to a total The ice factory saves time and money for the local fishing For information on Veracel’s engagement with indigenous area of approximately 16 500 hectares of Veracel’s lands designated communities. “I come here twice a week to buy ice,” says a communities, see page 14. for the settlements to be purchased from the company by INCRA. man from a locally-owned restaurant. “Before this ice factory, Data and assurance In addition to advancing this process during 2018, Veracel also provided we had to source ice from far away so the factory saves time Continuous dialogue with the landless people’s movement socio-economic support for the landless people’s social movements, and transport costs.” Reporting scope Land invasions of private property are a long-running challenge including support for agricultural activities and literacy enhancement. Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation, voluntarily supports local Data by production unit in Brazil that have affected various actors who use areas of land, During the last quarter in 2018, Veracel signed a new agreement fishing communities in various ways for example by providing such as mining companies and farming businesses. In 2018, some with the social landless movements to complement the earlier the infrastructure to support the commercialisation of fishing. Auditor’s assurance report stakeholders criticised Veracel for its land use and evictions of agreed Sustainable Settlements Initiative. In the new agreement Governance landless people’s from illegally occupied lands. Landless movements Veracel sells 3 300 hectares of previously occupied lands to the have also illegally invaded Veracel’s lands. To help find sustainable movements and related associations, and the movements will leave GRI Index local solutions, Veracel strives to maintain continuous dialogue from Veracel’s lands corresponding to 800 hectares. In addition, Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability with these movements and supports land allocations through the Veracel donates 225 hectares. After this new agreement, 468 hectares 26 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy of productive land owned by Veracel remained occupied by social Annual Report 2018 landless movements not involved in the Sustainable Settlement Initiative or in the new agreement. Stora Enso also reports on this additional occupied area in the Group’s Interim Reports. Veracel will continue to seek repossessions of remaining occupied areas through legal processes. Previously Veracel has voluntarily reserved 16 500 hectares to support the Sustainable Settlements Initiative. At the end of 2018, the total land area owned by Veracel was 213 500 hectares, of which 76 000 hectares are planted with eucalyptus for Sustainability pulp production. Montes del Plata, Uruguay Governance Montes del Plata, our 50/50 joint operation owned together with Strategy, governance, and stakeholders the Chilean company Arauco, runs a pulp mill in Punta Pereira, in southwestern Uruguay, together with associated eucalyptus plantations Our targets Sustainability mainly located in central and northwestern parts of the country. Adopting the SDGs Montes del Plata owns 190 000 hectares and leases 61 500 hectares (Alianzas programme) of land. Human rights Montes del Plata seeks to benefit local communities near the mill by fostering local employment opportunities, maximising local hiring, and participating in mentoring programmes. It also promotes local Social agenda education to improve future opportunities for local people and the Employees and wider workforce qualified labour pool for the company. Montes del Plata promotes entrepreneurship among young people through events such as Community “start-up weekend” It also finances local development by supporting Business ethics initiatives carried out by local community groups. The aim is to boost local social cohesion and strengthen community organisations. In addition to community investments, Montes del Plata continued Environmental agenda to work on the Alianzas programme which integrates social and Through the Alianzas programme, local farmers can keep cattle on Montes del Plata’s lands. business interests into business models. The programme provides Materials, water, and energy additional income for local farmers by enabling them to integrate Carbon dioxide eucalyptus plantations into their farms on suitable lands. At the end of the year, 426 (374 in 2017) farmers participated in the programme In 2018, Montes del Plata worked together with local government and regular meetings are held with the owners of the transportation Financials Forests, plantations, and land use with 61 500 hectares (56 500 hectares), of which 48 500 (45 000) are and Algorta town to promote commercial forest mushroom picking. companies to follow up on safety indicators. planted with eucalyptus. For local women, mushroom foraging can be an opportunity to improve Montes del Plata, together with its logistics contractors and their Alianzas also promotes the diverse use of Montes del Plata’s their livelihoods. truck drivers, works to raise awareness of traffic safety issues in the Economic agenda lands, for purposes such as cattle grazing and honey production. Montes del Plata works to get the local community better locations most severely affected by the company’s traffic. In 2018, Customers By the end of the year, 189 (183) farmers kept cattle on Montes del acquainted with its operations. Stakeholder engagement work in this work included cooperation with 15 schools on local road safety Plata’s land. 33 (39) farmers produced honey from approximately 2018 included several educational visits to the mill, Montes del Plata’s development projects. Suppliers 8 100 (6 500) beehives situated on Montes del Plata’s land to tree nursery, the main port, and the company-owned Bioparque Investors supplement their incomes. At the end of the year, 47% (31%) of these M’Bopicuá environmental centre. The environmental centre, which Laos hives were certified organic and Montes del Plata is working with local received over 2 000 visitors during the year, promotes education as Stora Enso’s plantations in Laos have been established in a way that governmental initiatives to promote tourism and the consumption of well as enables visitors to experience native wildlife at first hand and enables local farmers to grow rice and cash crops between the trees. Data and assurance organic honey. The diverse use of land enhances local livelihoods, to learn how ecosystems function. Before establishing plantations, Stora Enso makes the land safe by reduces forest fire risks, and helps to build stronger relationships removing unexploded bombs dropped over Laos during the Vietnam War. Reporting scope with the community. Mitigating negative impacts from logistics In Laos, we have established a village development fund to share Data by production unit The company has a long-term strategy for the transportation of benefits among local villagers, and to further support local development wood, including annual action plans involving truck drivers, transport and livelihoods. Most of the 2018 funding was directed to projects such Auditor’s assurance report Strong and resilient companies, and local communities. Montes del Plata’s wood supply as electricity provision, purchases of livestock to enhance food security, Governance is operated by approximately 680 truck drivers from 20 different and the repair of a school building. These projects have been designed GRI Index communities contribute transportation companies. Montes del Plata carefully trains all drivers before they start working for the company. Quarterly workshops together with the villagers according to their needs. All the projects are endorsed by the local authorities. For more information about our to successful business. on safety and social responsibility are organised for truck drivers human rights work in Laos, see page 15. 27 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Business ethics Strategy Annual Report 2018 Business ethics Code of Conduct Index For Stora Enso, complying with regulations is only the beginning. A culture of honesty, transparency, and ethical behaviour is key to our long-term success. 85/100 Sustainability Opportunities and challenges Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Broad ethical approach beyond compliance Stora Enso operates in locations including high-risk markets that offer Our targets Sustainability good business opportunities, but may also entail exposure to serious Adopting the SDGs risks relating to topics such as corruption and fraud. Joint venture agreements may also involve risks related to competition law. The US Human rights Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and the French Loi Sapin II are all examples of effective legislation that governments and authorities have introduced to combat corruption. These laws place Social agenda high demands on companies’ controlling mechanisms, but they also Employees and wider workforce help to build accountability and trust among stakeholders. Complying with international trade sanctions may also require companies to take Community new measures. Business ethics Digitalisation brings great opportunities for organisations, but it also presents challenges regarding cybersecurity and the treatment of stakeholders’ personal data. New legislation such as the EU General Environmental agenda Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) sets requirements concerning the processing of personal data, with heavy fines imposed for Materials, water, and energy infringements. While compliance with laws and regulations is always Carbon dioxide the highest priority for us, we believe that adopting a wider ethical approach is also crucially important. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Our policies Economic agenda Comprehensive approach to ethics and compliance Customers Our code of conduct, renewed and rebranded as the Stora Enso Code in 2018, is a single set of values for all our employees that explains Suppliers our approach to ethical business practices, human and labour rights, Investors as well as environmental values. These values are applied wherever we operate. Data and assurance Other policies relevant to ethics and compliance include our: • Business Practice Policy Reporting scope • Data Privacy Policy Data by production unit • Supplier Code of Conduct Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 28 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Business ethics Strategy How we work Annual Report 2018 Combatting misconduct on all fronts Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance function is a sub-function operating within our Legal team, headed by our General Counsel, who reports directly to the CEO. Our Ethics and Compliance Management Committee, a governance body appointed by the CEO, monitors Stora Enso’s legal compliance and ethical business conduct by following up on our Ethics and Compliance Action List. The Sustainability Committee met four times during 2018. Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance Strategy forms the basis for Governance annual action plans. The strategy has five focus areas: Strategy, governance, and stakeholders • Top level commitment • Improved communication and training Our targets Sustainability • Intensified efforts in countries with heightened concerns Adopting the SDGs • Developing our grievance channels • Ethics and compliance as a competitive edge. Human rights Stora Enso is represented in Transparency International’s (TI) Steering Committee for Business Principles for Countering Bribery, where Social agenda we actively participate in the network’s efforts to combat corruption Employees and wider workforce globally and nationally. We are also a member of TI’s Corporate Supporters’ Forum. Community Business ethics Top-level commitment In our efforts to make Stora Enso a more value-driven organisation, we highlight the significance of top-level commitment. All managers Environmental agenda in key positions are required to participate in training and make a personal commitment to the Stora Enso Code and our Business Materials, water, and energy Practice Policy, and to provide related information for employees Carbon dioxide within their respective organisations. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Training our employees We strive to ensure that Stora Enso’s employees and business partners all understand what ethical behaviour is, and how they Economic agenda should respond to any ethical dilemmas that arise. Communications We have a zero tolerance for corruption, and we strive to ensure that our partners are aware of and share our commitment. Customers and training are a crucial part of this work. Our employees receive Stora Enso Code training, either through Suppliers an e-learning tool, or through face-to-face training provided for Investors those who do not have direct computer access. We aim to ensure Group Leadership Team, for divisional and mill management teams, Comprehensive risk assessments on compliance that our new employees receive such training within their first and for employees dealing with competitor contacts, purchasing, Operating in high-risk markets and entering into joint ventures can month of employment. In addition, an in-depth e-learning course on marketing, and sales. The training has been run since 2013 and entail exposure to serious risks. Our risk assessment procedures on Data and assurance anti-trust and anti-corruption is mandatory for all members of our was updated in 2018 to be more interactive and to better reflect the compliance cover all our units. The most significant compliance risks challenges of today’s work environment. All relevant employees will in our global operations relate to anti-trust and corruption. Reporting scope receive the updated training during 2019. The management and employees of our fully and jointly owned Data by production unit The Stora Enso Data Privacy Policy aims to protect the company operations in Brazil, Uruguay, and China receive training on our against risks related to breaches of data privacy, to let our employees Business Practice Policy. Employees in our joint operations in Brazil Auditor’s assurance report Our code of conduct was know how Stora Enso collects and uses their personal data, and to and Uruguay additionally receive training on their respective Codes of Governance ensure that the privacy rights of our employees, business partners, and Conduct and Business Practice Principles, covering topics such as GRI Index renewed and rebranded as other stakeholders are protected. All white-collar Stora Enso employees are required to complete our e-learning training on data privacy. By the human rights, environmental impacts, safety, and ethical practices. Anti-trust guidelines designed for our joint operations are implemented the Stora Enso Code in 2018. end of 2018, 7 432 white-collar employees had been trained. with the help of related training in Uruguay, Brazil, and China. 29 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Business ethics Strategy During 2018, our Ethics and Compliance team continued to Annual Report 2018 provide training in Brazil, China, and the Baltic countries. This training How we investigate suspected non-compliance cases involved meetings with local employees and managers face-to-face, to gain a better understanding of local ethical dilemmas, and to train local personnel on key topics. Formal grievance mechanisms Our employees are encouraged to report suspected cases of misconduct or unethical behaviour. Sustainability Stora Enso uses an additional external service through which Report received, Investigation Findings reported Proven cases can our employees globally, and also external stakeholders in certain reviewed, and of the reported to ECMC and BoD* lead to disciplinary, locations, can anonymously report potential non-compliance cases recorded circumstances legal, or other Governance by phone, mail, or online. This service is available 24/7. Our operations action Strategy, governance, and stakeholders in China and Laos have established internal grievance channels in local languages for those stakeholders whose knowledge of the main Our targets Sustainability language is inadequate. Adopting the SDGs All potential non-compliance cases are duly investigated. Any findings are recorded and reviewed by the heads of our Internal Heads of Internal Audit and Ethics and Compliance functions are responsible for the overall process. Human rights Audit and Ethics and Compliance functions, and reported both to our Ethics and Compliance Management Committee, and to our * ECMC = Ethics and Compliance Management Committee Board of Directors’ Financial and Audit Committee. Proven cases of BoD = Board of Directors’ Sustainability and Ethics Committee and Board of Directors’ Financial and Audit Committee Social agenda non-compliance can lead to disciplinary or legal action. Employees and wider workforce Our joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay each have their own local grievance mechanisms. Community In 2018, a total of 68 reports received through Stora Enso’s various Business ethics grievance channels were identified as potential non-compliance cases (61 in 2017). Based on the investigations finalised by end of the year 2018, proven misconduct leading to disciplinary actions, legal Environmental agenda actions and/or process improvements was identified in 20 (14) of the completed investigations, while 18 (22) further complaints were found Competitive advantage from business ethics to give our divisions and functions a better overview of the progress their Materials, water, and energy to be valid without involving misconduct. Being value-driven gives Stora Enso a competitive advantage at units are making in implementing our policies and compliance measures, Carbon dioxide Based on our assessments, two of the proven misconduct cases a time when stakeholder interest for business ethics is growing, as while also identifying possible gaps and risks related to compliance. can be considered relating to corruption and/or fraud. Both cases it builds trust both within Stora Enso and with external stakeholders The results are addressed through the Compliance Forums, with Financials Forests, plantations, and land use resulted in employee dismissal or disciplinary process, and in one the such as customers and potential employees. We are committed action plans subsequently developed, implemented, and monitored as business relationship with an external party was terminated. to conducting our business ethically and strive to ensure that our necessary. As of 2018, results are cross-checked between more people business partners are aware of and share our commitment. within each unit to gain a deeper understanding of their reliability. Economic agenda Customers Progress Focus on data privacy and tax evasion The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force Suppliers Comprehensive monitoring in May 2018, entailing new responsibilities for data controllers such as Investors We use an index to monitor and evaluate employee perceptions of our Stora Enso. With preparations for the requirements on-going since 2015, work on topics covered by our code of conduct. The index is based Stora Enso is well-equipped to comply with the regulation. We have, Breakdown of potential non-compliance cases on employee responses to related questions in our annual employee for example, documented our personal data processing, implemented 2018 2017 survey. In 2018, this index improved to 85 (83 in 2017). Our goal is to required actions to IT systems and other registers, trained employees, Data and assurance Anti-trust 1 8 maintain this positive trend. By the end of 2018, 20 930 Stora Enso and established processes to manage new obligations such as the Reporting scope Conflict of interest 7 6 employees had received training on our code of conduct. identifying and reporting of personal data breach incidents and fulfilling Data by production unit Corruption 9 14 Following the establishment of the Division Compliance Forums the requests of data subjects. Fraud 2 4 and the Group Function Compliance Forum in recent years, a Wood The UK Criminal Finances Act makes companies liable for failing to Auditor’s assurance report Supply Compliance Forum was established during 2018. These prevent the facilitation of tax evasion and allows authorities to use new Governance General human resources 33 16 forums, eight in total by the end of 2018, bring together the heads of investigatory tools. To reflect the Act’s requirements, we updated our tax Health and safety 3 2 key functions and divisions to assess risks and monitor compliance. policy in 2018 to highlight our commitment to national and international GRI Index Miscellaneous 13 11 Our Ethics and Compliance Self-Assessment Tool (T. E. S. T.), tax laws and regulations. We have also taken measures to improve tax risk Total 68 61 introduced in 2015, was run once in 2018. This tool has been designed assessments, train relevant personnel, and raise awareness internally. 30 Stora Enso is represented in Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Social agenda – Business ethics Strategy Annual Report 2018 Transparency International’s Steering Committee for Business Principles for Countering Bribery. Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Encouraging employee discussions on ethics Community We continued to use our internal communications concept “Ethical Business ethics Spotlight of the month” to help managers discuss ethics topics with their teams. The concept includes topic-related communications materials to facilitate discussions. In 2018, topics included sexual Environmental agenda harassment, protecting company assets, promoting the culture of listening, and ethics issues related to digitalisation. Materials, water, and energy Compliance rules can be complicated and ensuring that all our Carbon dioxide employees know Stora Enso’s purpose, values, goals, and policies can be challenging. In 2018, our Ethics Ambassadors, consisting of Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Making sure that laws, regulations, and company rules are complied with is an essential part of our business. Stora Enso employees, continued their work in voluntarily supporting our Ethics and Compliance function by running training sessions, clarifying our rules, and answering questions in their respective units. Economic agenda During 2018, new functionalities were added to our “Do What’s Customers Right” mobile application. The app gives all our employees access to Doing what’s right all relevant compliance policies whenever and wherever needed and Could I hire my brother? Who should I tell about the unsafe Suppliers allows employees to report suspected violations. The new features behaviour I saw? Making the right, ethical decision in our daily Investors also make it easier for the company to inform employees about work is not always easy. The Stora Enso Code, our updated regulatory or policy changes directly through their mobile devices. Code of Conduct, helps employees work out ethics questions. “We have also introduced Ethics Ambassadors,” says Data and assurance Enhanced compliance control processes Yang Zhang, Legal Counsel in Stora Enso’s Ethics and Making sure that laws, regulations, and company rules are complied Compliance team. “They are more trained in ethics than their Reporting scope with is an essential part of our business. To ensure this compliance peers and are better equipped to notice when something is off Data by production unit control, we developed and implemented a more comprehensive due and can raise their voice. That’s all we need.” diligence system for on-boarding critical business partners in 2018. Auditor’s assurance report In 2018, we also incorporated a function into our travel cost Governance reimbursement tool that controls the gifts and hospitality offered to public officials, customers, and suppliers. The change improves the GRI Index visibility and enforcement of our requirements for appropriate gifts, Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability hospitality, and entertainment. 31 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda Strategy Annual Report 2018 Environmental Sustainability agenda Governance We use natural resources with care, combat global Strategy, governance, and stakeholders warming, and respect the environment. Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Materials, water, and energy 32 Human rights Carbon dioxide 42 Social agenda Forests, plantations, and land use 49 Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 32 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2018 Materials, water, and energy Share of biomass in our internal Process residuals energy production utilisation rate We contribute to the transition from a fossil-based world into a circular Sustainability bioeconomy with our biobased, renewable, recyclable, and low-carbon solutions. In our operations, we always look for ways to make more from less. 81% 98% Governance Opportunities and challenges Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Reduced waste, maximum value Our targets Sustainability Global megatrends such as global warming, population growth, Adopting the SDGs eco-awareness, and urbanisation are affecting consumer and corporate decision-making around the world. At Stora Enso, we Human rights proactively respond to these trends by developing products and solutions based on materials that are both renewable and recyclable. Social agenda Materials Employees and wider workforce As a renewable materials company, Stora Enso operates at the heart of the bioeconomy and contributes to a circular economy. In a circular Community economy, waste is minimised as materials are reused and recycled Business ethics to maximise environmental and financial value. The European Commission (EC) has adopted several legislative proposals on waste reduction within its Circular Economy Package, as well as strategies Environmental agenda on plastics and bioeconomy to protect the environment from plastic pollution whilst fostering growth, bio-based innovation, and recycling Materials, water, and energy and reuse initiatives. The EC has for example announced the Carbon dioxide establishment of a EUR 100 million Circular Bioeconomy Thematic Investment Platform to bring bio-based innovations closer to the Financials Forests, plantations, and land use market and lower the risk for private investments in sustainable solutions. The objectives of these ambitions provide business opportunities for Stora Enso. Economic agenda Customers Water Water plays a central role in Stora Enso’s production, heating, Suppliers cooling, and cleaning processes, and in generating renewable Investors electricity from the hydropower we purchase. We clean process water in our high-performance water treatment plants before discharging it back into the nature. Sustainably managed forests and plantations Data and assurance have a key role in maintaining natural water cycles and increasing resilience to the impacts of global warming. We consider water in the Reporting scope planning and management of our forest and plantation operations. Data by production unit Our forests and plantations also need rainwater for growth, and active water management in plantations contribute to positive effects on Auditor’s assurance report total water balance, water storage, purity and quality. Governance GRI Index 33 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy While water is relatively abundant in most of our production Annual Report 2018 locations, water scarcity may still impact operations locally and through our wider supply chains, as controls on pollution, recycling, and water pricing are tightened. Some mills have been impacted by water stress in terms of availability and increased water temperatures, and we consider water stewardship to be an area of increasing importance. At the same time, such challenges give us opportunities to reduce costs by using water more efficiently. Sustainability Energy The EU’s 2020 Climate and Energy Package, 2030 Climate and Energy Framework, and 2050 Low Carbon Economy Roadmap outline Governance the way forward for industrial energy. The rules for the next trading Strategy, governance, and stakeholders period of the Emissions Trading System (for more information, see page 43) have also been decided. Our targets Sustainability The Energy Efficiency Directive II sets new energy efficiency Adopting the SDGs targets for 2030 requiring energy savings of 0.8% per year on energy consumed. Additionally, the Renewable Energy Directive II sets Human rights member states a binding collective target on EU level to derive 32% of their final energy consumption from renewable sources by 2030. With its high proportion of biomass-based energy, the forest industry Social agenda can help the EU achieve its targets. Employees and wider workforce A high proportion of biomass is used in the internal energy production of most of our mills. This renewable energy is generated Community from by-products and residuals from our own production processes, Business ethics harvested residues, recovered wood, and waste streams. Our policies Environmental agenda Guidance throughout the supply chain Materials, water, and energy Stora Enso’s policies relevant to our use of materials, water, and Carbon dioxide energy include our: • The Stora Enso Code – our Code of Conduct that guides us on Financials Forests, plantations, and land use issues related to resource use. • Supplier Code of Conduct – includes practical instructions for Compliance with legislation and permits is monitored by the environmental authorities and by our mills. Stora Enso’s suppliers, Purchasers’ Instructions, Sourcing Policy, Economic agenda and Sourcing Guidelines: a guiding framework for the responsible Customers sourcing of materials and energy. • Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land Management efficiency, is supported by third-party certified environmental management systems. All our board, pulp, and paper mills and By 2018, 95% of our total Suppliers Investors – our commitment to the responsible integration of forestry, land use, sourcing, and water stewardship into our sustainable forest sawmills are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management system standard, along with all but one corrugated packaging energy consumption was management and land use practices. unit. The interests of local communities and forestry operations are certified to the ISO 50001 Data and assurance • Policy on Energy and Carbon – a policy stating our ambitions in combatting global warming. respected in our approach to systematic Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) in due diligence executed in conjunction energy management system. • Environmental Guidelines – a comprehensive overview of our with mergers, acquisitions, and divestments (see page 13). Reporting scope policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. By the end of 2018, 95% of our total energy consumption was Data by production unit certified to the ISO 50001 energy efficiency management system in question. Non-compliances and incidents are reported by mills to How we work standard. For unit-specific information on certificates, see page 69. Group management on a quarterly basis, and significant incidents Auditor’s assurance report The emissions generated by each of our mills are regulated are reported immediately. For details of all significant incidents and Governance External initiatives guide our work by the relevant authorities, with limits set through environmental violations of environmental permits in 2018, see page 41. We apply precautionary management actions to mitigate and remedy permit processes that consider local environmental conditions, Environmental improvements and investments at our production GRI Index potential adverse environmental impacts. The environmental work stakeholders, and legislation. Compliance with legislation and units are driven by regional and local conditions. The EU’s Best at our mills, including water and energy management and resource permits is monitored by the environmental authorities and by the mill Available Techniques (BAT) Reference Documents have limits for 34 In 2018, Stora Enso became Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2018 a signatory to the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment, led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce @storaenso June 5 Community Did you know that there is a sustainable alternative Business ethics to fossil-based plastics? The journey towards a plastic free world has started. #BeatPlasticPollution #WorldEnvironmentDay #Biocomposites Environmental agenda #whatatreecando https://youtu.be/KICxh2sx8Kk Materials, water, and energy Our wood-based biocomposites offer a bio-based alternative to fossil-based plastics and can reduce a product’s CO 2 footprint by up to 80%. Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda effluents and emissions to air, and the BAT conclusions for pulp As a founding board member of WBCSD’s circular economy We ensure that hazardous waste is safely processed at suitable Customers and paper, as well as medium and large combustion plants apply to initiative, Factor10, we worked to develop forward-looking policy facilities, and we report on hazardous waste disposal in accordance board, pulp, paper, and sawmills in Europe. The related investments recommendations and pilot metrics for our material flows in with relevant regulations. Our third-party certified ISO 14001 systems Suppliers are proactively planned as part of Group investment processes. the circular economy. Stora Enso also launched a platform to increase comprise of on-site management procedures for handling chemicals Investors These investments fit into Stora Enso’s normal capital expenditure recycling throughout Europe together with other members of the and waste at our mills. Expertise and best practices related to framework and policy. Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (ACE). optimising material streams are shared within Stora Enso by networks focusing on the environment, materials, Paper for Recycling, chemical Data and assurance Contributing to the circular bioeconomy Value from waste and residuals safety, and product safety. Stora Enso works proactively to support the transition towards In addition to our traditional products as well as lignin, tall oil, Stora Enso’s long-term circular economy vision is to maximise Reporting scope a global circular bioeconomy. We minimise waste and resource turpentine and energy pellets, Stora Enso’s production processes the value of material streams, and work towards zero process waste. Data by production unit use and aim to maintain the value of products and materials for as generate various residuals and wastes, including ash, sawdust, bark, We will achieve this by emphasising circular material flows in our long as possible through product design, innovation and recycling. and wastewater treatment sludge. Many of these materials are used value chain and by maximising the net value of waste and residuals Auditor’s assurance report When a material or product has reached its end-of-life, we promote in our internal bioenergy generation and pulp production, or supplied while reducing waste to landfill to as close to zero, whenever legally, Governance recycling and energy recovery to create further value. to partners to be used in applications such as agriculture, or land and technically and commercially possible. In 2018, Stora Enso became a signatory to the New Plastics road construction. We are constantly innovating to improve resource During 2018, we continued to monitor our financial value GRI Index Economy Global Commitment led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, efficiency and make profitable use of material streams that would creation from process waste and residuals and commercialise new in collaboration with UN Environment. otherwise end up as waste. product applications. 35 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Paper for Recycling Annual Report 2018 Wood and fibre are the main raw materials in Stora Enso’s production Stora Enso’s water withdrawal and consumption processes. Materials made with virgin fibre are used for products with special safety requirements such as food packaging and pharmaceuticals. For more information about our wood procurement, see page 51. Virgin fibre is needed in the paper recycling process. After several recycling rounds, paper fibres become too short to be reused but can be burned for bioenergy, which drives the need for new virgin fibre. Sustainability Stora Enso also uses paper for recycling (PfR) wherever it makes environmental and economic sense. Seven of Stora Enso’s mills currently use PfR. Recycled newspapers and magazines are used to produce Governance certain paper grades at Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium (where they Strategy, governance, and stakeholders account for 100% of sourced fibre), Sachsen Mill (100%) and Maxau Mill (approximately 75%) in Germany, Dawang Mill in China (95%), and Our targets Sustainability Hylte Mill in Sweden (55%). Recovered board is used to make specific Adopting the SDGs containerboard grades at Ostrołeka Mill in Poland (90% of fibre sourced for containerboard production) and at Varkaus Mill in Finland. Human rights Through cooperation with local authorities and waste management companies, and our own collection facilities, we secure sufficient PfR from industrial, commercial and domestic sources. In Poland, we own Social agenda and manage a network of 21 depots where PfR is collected and baled Employees and wider workforce for transportation to our Ostrołeka Mill. According to the Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI), Community Europe’s overall PfR collection rate has been high for many years. Business ethics In 2017, the rate was 72.3%, which is equivalent to 57 million tonnes of Almost 96% of the water we withdraw is PfR (+1.2% compared to 2016). This is a noteworthy achievement as not recycled back to the local environment after all paper can currently be recycled, such as tissue paper. While overall being carefully purified. Environmental agenda collection rates within the EU are relatively high, certain central and southern European countries still have potential to improve. Focusing on Some 4% of the water we withdraw is Materials, water, and energy EU countries with collection rates below 60%, Stora Enso and the paper consumed in our production. Carbon dioxide industry are actively supporting best practices while these countries establish sustainable collection systems. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Responsible water use Production at Stora Enso’s mills requires large amounts of water. Safeguarding marine environments at Beihai Mill Economic agenda However, only around 4% is consumed in our production processes Stora Enso’s Beihai board mill in Guangxi province is located Customers while almost 96% is recycled and returned to the local environment. beside the South China Sea. Having industrial production so Process water is purified by our treatment plants and then discharged, related risks at our production units. The assessment identified five close to the sea shore requires special considerations for the Suppliers whereas cooling and other non-process water can be safely released mills operating in water basins where water stress occurs. It also marine environment, especially since large amounts of water Investors without treatment. calculated the total proportion of our water withdrawn from waterare circulated in the mill’s production and cooling processes. stressed basins to be 2%. “The vast majority of the water we use is released back into Our strategic approach to water stewardship builds upon six pillars: As a public commitment to water resource management and the the environment – to the sea – after being carefully purified,” Data and assurance • assessment of conditions in mills and water basins where we operate, development of sustainable water strategies, Stora Enso signed the says Mill Manager Weiyan Zhu. “The water we release to the • setting ambitious levels and goals, United Nations Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate in 2009. We sea is significantly cleaner than the sea water, and we even Reporting scope • investments, actively follow the latest water footprint methodology developed by have tilapia fish living in the discharge pond.” Data by production unit • mill water use mapping to identify saving potential, researchers and standardisation bodies. In 2018, we also signed • performance measurement, and the Finnish Water Stewardship Commitment. Auditor’s assurance report • communication and engagement with stakeholders. In 2018, we transparently disclosed our water-related strategies Governance and performance to CDP Water (score of B-). Stora Enso withdraws 98.8% of its total water from surface water, Our strategic water goals are to reduce impacts on water use, to GRI Index 1.1% from municipal sources and 0.1% from groundwater. We have minimise impacts on quality, and to recycle water within mills when Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability applied the Global Water Tool devised by WBCSD to assess the possible to reduce the need for water intake. Our Group targets are to 36 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy decrease both total water withdrawal and process water discharges. combined heat and power production, and shareholdings in power Utilisation of process waste and residual materials¹ Annual Report 2018 Quantified water targets are always set based on the local context generation companies such as Pohjolan Voima Oy and Teollisuuden as part of our mill environmental management systems to drive Voima Oy in Finland. For more information on these partnerships, continuous improvement. see our Financials 2018 (Note 14). Energy generation 68% Approximately 2% of our water use is recycled internally by reusing Stora Enso is committed to continuous improvement in energy Wood pellet and chipboard manufacturing 17% cooling and non-contact water as process water. Optimising our water efficiency and energy self-sufficiency. We always assess the Pulp manufacturing 3% use also reduces the need for water pumping and heating, which opportunities to use fuels from biomass residual streams or other Landscaping, landfill and road construction 3% creates energy savings and makes the purification of the remaining low-carbon options in connection with energy investments. Other 6% wastewater more efficient. Sustainability We continue to explore the potential to use refined wastewater Structured approach to energy management Process waste to landfill 2% Agricultural use 1% residue in new products. For example, our Skoghall Mill in Sweden Stora Enso’s Energy Services team is responsible for procuring is working together with the University of Karlstad to use wastewater energy and managing the implementation of our energy strategy. Governance residues to create bio-based products such as bioplastics and This work involves the hedging of energy prices, managing the trading ¹ Covers all Stora Enso production units, as dry tonnes. Excluding joint operations. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders hydrogen gas from biosludge. Several Stora Enso mills in Sweden are of emission rights, consulting our mills on a wide range of energy involved in a research programme led by the independent research topics, trading in green certificates, and monitoring our carbon dioxide Our targets Sustainability foundation Mistra in cooperation with the mining industry to refine allowance balance. We also monitor and contribute to developments Process waste to landfill¹ Adopting the SDGs other challenging residuals such as green liquor dregs and lime mud. in energy legislation. 68 615 tonnes The biomass residue streams used for energy within Human rights Long-term energy supply contracts Stora Enso’s operations is mainly purchased by our Wood Supply Fly ash 59% Board, pulp, and paper production processes are the most energyorganisation, whereas each mill is individually responsible for the Green liquor dregs 25% intensive phases in Stora Enso’s value chain, which makes it essential procurement of most other fuels. Mills are also responsible for Social agenda for our mills to have access to a reliable energy supply at a reasonable optimising their energy efficiency using internal tools and certified Bottom ash 6% Wood handling waste 2% Employees and wider workforce cost. Stora Enso’s energy supply is managed under long-term environmental and energy management systems, with support from contracts, direct market access through energy exchanges, efficient our energy efficiency teams. Lime mud 1% Community Other process related wastes 6% Business ethics 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding joint operations. In addition to process waste to landfill, Stora Enso’s production units created a total of 1 990 tonnes Environmental agenda of non-process waste, and 70 971 tonnes of process waste was sent to on-site Materials, water, and energy We continue to explore the potential of using refined wastewater storage facilities. Carbon dioxide residue in new products. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Paper for Recycling: procurement by origin Thousand tonnes1 Economic agenda Western Europe 1 315 (53%) Central Europe 705 (28%) Customers Always be better: finding new ways to save energy Nordic countries 359 (14%) Suppliers Energy efficiency doesn’t happen on its own. People make it China 90 (4%) Investors happen by always looking for ways to make our processes, tools, Other countries 8 (1%) and ways of working better. At Anjala Mill, a new innovation will save 50 000 MWh in energy and 5 000 tonnes in CO2 emissions Data and assurance every year. “We need to use a lot of electricity to ensure a steady 1 Total amounts of Paper for Recycling (recovered paper and board) procured within Reporting scope production of paper and board, so direct reductions in electricity these regions for delivery to our mills. Data by production unit use are challenging,” says Risto Mänttäri, Engineering Manager at the mill. “But we’ve found many ways to be more energy efficient.” Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability 37 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Nine Stora Enso’s board and paper mills in Europe and five of our Paper for Recycling Annual Report 2018 Nordic sawmills monitor their energy efficiency online in real time. Stora Enso used 2.5 million tonnes of paper for recycling (PfR) in All Stora Enso’s board, pulp, and paper mills are part of an energy 2018 (2.5 million tonnes), making us one of the largest PfR consumers efficiency best practice network. in Europe. The PfR utilisation rate in our paper and board production was 26% (26%). Progress Chemical safety management Materials During 2018, Stora Enso started to roll out Group-wide Chemicals Management Instructions, which outline the minimum requirements Sustainability Value from waste for all our units globally, including occupational health and safety and Stora Enso’s utilisation rate for process residuals and waste across environmental safety. During the year, we identified the properties of the Group includes internal and external uses amounted to 98% chemicals that need restricted use or should be replaced. To further Governance in 2018 (98% in 2017). During the year, Stora Enso’s revenue from improve chemical safety, we have implemented new routines to Strategy, governance, and stakeholders residuals amounted to EUR 34 million (EUR 26 million in 2017). help us share learnings between all divisions. Compliance with the We continued the commercialisation and product development instructions will be verified in 2019 as part of our Safety Toolbox and Our targets Sustainability applications for fly ash from several paper mills. One example of management system audits. Adopting the SDGs circularity from our Paper division is the beneficial use of fly ash at Human rights Oulu Mill in Finland. Annually 15 000 tons of fly ash from the solid fuel Water boiler is granulated onsite at Rakeistus Oy’s granulation plant. The granules are used as natural fertiliser in the forests in the vicinity of Promoting water efficiency the town of Oulu. The financial yearly savings compared to landfill We continued to identify mill-specific water-related challenges and Social agenda are approximately EUR 0.8 million. opportunities in 2018. The work focused on assessing water efficiency Employees and wider workforce activites at Imatra, Sunila, and Enocell Mills in Finland. Hazardous waste A good example of achieved combined heat and water savings Community During 2018, Stora Enso’s production units generated a total of in 2018 was a project at our Anjala Mill in Finland, where investments Business ethics 5 229 tonnes of hazardous waste, up from 3 858 tonnes in 2017. were made to improve hood ventilation, heat balance, and water This waste includes oils, solvents, paints, laboratory chemicals, and balance. The objective was to save natural gas, replace fresh steam batteries. In addition, 8 309 tonnes of sludge classified as hazardous with recovered heat energy, and reduce fresh water consumption. Environmental agenda waste was generated at the disused Falun copper mine in Sweden The achieved energy savings amounted to 35 GWh/year and, and (16 276 tonnes). water savings 1.4 million m3/year. Efficiency work will continue at other Materials, water, and energy mills in 2019 as part of our approach to define business cases in water Lignin-based products, such as LineoTM by Stora Enso, can be used Carbon dioxide and energy stewardship. as non-toxic, renewable alternatives to fossil-based materials. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Phosphorus1 Nitrogen1 Absorbable organic halogen Chemical oxygen demand (COD)1 compounds (AOX)1 135 14 1.4 130 110 11 Customers 120 12 1.3 120 500 100 100 9 Suppliers 400 80 Investors 105 10 1.2 110 90 7 90 8 1.1 100 300 60 80 5 200 40 Data and assurance 75 6 1.0 90 70 3 60 4 0.9 80 100 20 60 1 Reporting scope Trend Trend Trend Trend Data by production unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 14−18 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 14−18 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 14−18 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 14−18 Auditor’s assurance report tonnes 108 124 109 111 110 2% 1 000 tonnes 302 312 282 290 296 -2% 1 000 Governance g/tonne 10.7 12.2 10.4 10.5 10.5 -2% tonnes 1.19 1.13 1.12 1.21 1.18 -1% g/tonne 72 75 68 71 73 1% tonnes 93 96 92 93 90 -3% Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. g/tonne 118 111 107 114 112 -5% kg/tonne 9.3 9.4 8.8 8.8 8.6 -8% 1 1 Figures from bleached chemical pulp production units only. GRI Index Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per 1 Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported 1 Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. unit of sales production. Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per per unit of bleached chemical pulp production. Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. unit of sales production. 38 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Several mills experienced water stress situations related to water Fuels¹ Annual Report 2018 availability and cooling capacities due to the unusually long, warm, and dry summer season in northern Europe. The most severe situation Biomass 81% occurred at Nymölla Mill in Sweden. The mill was forced to close Gas 6% production on one pulp line and one paper machine in October due Coal 5% to extremely low water levels in the Lake Ivö, which supplies water for Peat 3% mill operations. Oil 2% Our EUR 25 million investment at Maxau Mill in Germany to install Other fossil 3% a new steam turbine with a closed-loop cooling system and additional Sustainability biomass storage is expected to be completed in 2020. The cooling system will relieve pressure on the Rhine River through a lower thermal Our total annual fuel consumption was 153 862 terajoules (TJ) in 2018 output and by withdrawing considerably less water. (150 864 TJ in 2017). 1 TJ = 10¹² joules Governance Stora Enso and energy company Gasum signed a contract in ¹ Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. Excluding joint operations. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 2018 to build a biogas plant at Stora Enso’s Nymölla Mill in Sweden. The plant, built and operated by Gasum, will turn the mill’s wastewater Our targets Sustainability effluent into renewable energy. Adopting the SDGs The objective of our KPIs on total water withdrawal and process water discharges is to drive a downward trend from our 2016 baselines of Electricity¹ Human rights 57 m3 and 27 m3 per saleable tonne, respectively. In 2018, our total water withdrawal was 56 m3 per saleable tonne (56 in 2017) and our process Internally generated 43% water discharges amounted to 26 m3 per saleable tonne (26 in 2017). Purchased: nuclear 43% Social agenda Purchased: fossil 8% Employees and wider workforce Effluents to water Purchased: hydro 3% The wastewater treatment facilities treating process water from our Purchased: other renewable 3% Community production processes release effluents to water. These effluents Business ethics include phosphorus (P), nitrogen (N), chemical oxygen demand substances (COD), and absorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX). The wastewater treatment facilities ensure that discharged During 2018 we generated and purchased 12.6 terawatt hours (TWh) of electricity and consumed 12.3 TWh (12.8 and 12.4 during 2017). 0.3 TWh was sold (0.4). Environmental agenda water is ecologically safe. The discharge of process water that has not TWh (terawatt hour) = 109 kilowatt hours. been properly treated can contribute to local environmental impacts. Materials, water, and energy Excessive concentrations of phosphorus compounds in water, ¹ Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. Excluding joint operations. In 2018, we assessed water efficiency activities at three Finnish mills. Electricity from Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO) included in purchased electricity. Carbon dioxide together with nitrogen compounds and organic substances, can lead to increased biological activity in natural watercourses through Financials Forests, plantations, and land use eutrophication. AOX is a collective term for the amount of chlorine or other halogens bound to organic matter such as wastewater. In 2018, Stora Enso’s Group-wide nitrogen effluents to water amounted to Economic agenda 1 180 tonnes (1 210 tonnes), phosphorus effluents to 110 tonnes Customers (112 tonnes), and AOX to 300 tonnes (297 tonnes). Water withdrawal and consumption1 In 2018, Stora Enso announced the EUR 22 million investment Suppliers in wastewater treatment improvements at Skoghall Mill in Sweden. Million m3 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Trend 14–18 Investors The investment will reduce the effluents of COD and total suspended Process water 287 306 297 291 291 1% solids, including remaining low effluents of nitrogen and phosphorus Cooling water (net) 323 283 301 304 297 -8% being discharged into Lake Vänern. The investment, consisting of Total water withdrawal 610 589 598 595 587 -4% Data and assurance rebuilding the biological water treatment process including extended m3/tonne 61 58 57 56 56 -8% pre-sedimentation, will be completed in 2020. Reporting scope Data by production unit Energy Water consumption 25 23 23 25 23 -7% Our Group-wide target is to reduce specific electricity and heat m3/tonne 2.5 2.2 2.2 2.3 2.2 -12% Auditor’s assurance report consumption per tonne of pulp, paper, and board production by Governance 15% by 2020, compared with the baseline year of 2010. In 2018, Process water discharges 266 272 280 272 273 3% this indicator was 4.2% lower than the 2010 baseline (4.2% in 2017). GRI Index Specific energy consumption has been reduced by structural factors m3/tonne 27 27 27 26 26 -2% such as production line closure or conversion to new products in ¹ Figures from board, pulp, and paper production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. 39 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Heat consumption1 2 our mills, as well as product portfolio choices and operational issues Annual Report 2018 on production lines. Stora Enso’s science-based target is to reduce 100 10.0 greenhouse gas emissions from our operations by 31% per tonne of 95 9.5 board, pulp, and paper produced by 2030 from the 2010 baseline. For more information, see page 46. 90 9.0 In 2018, our total energy self-sufficiency rate1 was 63% (63%). 85 8.5 The share of biomass in our internal energy production was 81% (82%). During the year, our electricity self-sufficiency level1 was 44% (43%). 80 8.0 Approximately 86% (86%) of our purchased electricity1 was Sustainability 75 7.5 generated from low-fossil carbon sources, including nuclear and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Trend 14−18 renewable energy. Existing contracts and our internal electricity PJ3 91.2 90.2 94.0 94.0 94.0 3.1% generation capacity are estimated to cover around 77% of our needs Governance GJ/tonne 9.07 8.85 9.00 8.88 8.95 -1.3% for the next five years (80% in 2017). Energy accounted for 10% of Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Stora Enso’s variable costs in 2018 (10% in 2017). ¹ Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. Excluding joint operations. Our targets Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. Sustainability ² Excluding heat used for electricity generation. Energy efficiency high on the agenda Adopting the SDGs 3 1 PJ = 1015 joules. Stora Enso continued to enhance energy efficiency throughout the Group’s operations in 2018. Six sawmills received ISO 50001 energy Human rights management certification during the year: Imavere, Näpi, Launkalne, Amsterdam, Murow, and Hylte. All Stora Enso’s sawmills are now certified to ISO 50001. Our Beihai Mill also received ISO 50001 energy Social agenda Electricity consumption1 management certification in 2018. Employees and wider workforce 15 1.35 We are committed to the voluntary Energy Intensive Industries Agreement managed by Finnish Forest Industries (FFI), which We always assess the opportunities to use fuels from biomass residual streams. Community 14 1.30 aims at a national 4% energy use reduction among its signatories Business ethics 13 1.25 between 2017 and 2020, and a 3.5% reduction (cumulative, in MWh) during 2021–2025. electricity consumption and 0.6% of our annual heat consumption. 12 1.20 We also participate in national groups that share industry best The projects are estimated to eliminate over 16 000 tonnes of annual Environmental agenda 11 1.15 practices on energy efficiency in Finland, and promote energy direct fossil CO2 emissions. efficiency at our most energy intensive mills. Materials, water, and energy 10 1.10 We actively seek ways to optimise fuel use and increase the Emissions to air 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Trend 14−18 Carbon dioxide proportion of biomass in our energy production. The plan to install Our atmospheric emissions primarily result from the combustion of TWh 12.2 12.1 12.3 12.4 12.3 0.8% a new steam turbine with a closed-loop cooling system and additional fuels used to generate energy. These emissions include carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use MWh/tonne 1.22 1.19 1.17 1.18 1.17 -4.1% biomass storage at our Maxau Mill in Germany is a significant step (CO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and fine particles. towards this goal. The investment contributes to Stora Enso’s When not properly managed, CO2 contributes to global warming ¹ Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. carbon neutral roadmap and science-based targets through a higher while SO2 and NOx emissions affect air quality and cause acid rain and Economic agenda proportion of biomass and greater efficiency, which is expected to soil acidification. We work to reduce our air emissions by using more Customers result in savings of over 50 000 tonnes of CO2 emissions every year. renewable energy, improving energy efficiency, and using advanced In 2018, we also invested in a new turbine at Hylte Mill in technologies such as scrubbers and boiler process control systems. Suppliers Sweden. The turbine will improve the mill’s energy efficiency and In 2018, Stora Enso completed the EUR 14 million investment Investors electricity self-sufficiency. at Imatra Mills to replace and modernise its odorous gas treatment system including a new boiler. The new boiler went into operation Stora Enso’s energy efficiency fund in 2017 and is estimated to reduce the boiler’s NOx and SO2 emissions Data and assurance Stora Enso’s central energy efficiency investment fund is another by 10%. Air quality in the surrounding residential areas has improved important part of our work. In 2018, this fund amounted to and measurements have shown that the number of hours with traces Reporting scope EUR 10 million (EUR 10 million in 2017) and was earmarked for energy of malodorous gases in the air has been reduced. Data by production unit efficiency investment projects at our mills. The fund had financed 55 (28) In 2018, Stora Enso’s Group-wide SO2 emissions amounted projects by year-end, including LED lighting projects at 14 units, the to 2 900 tonnes (3 030 tonnes in 2017), NOx emissions totalled Auditor’s assurance report In 2018, EUR 10 million were Ostrołeka power plant controlling project, and a new energy-efficient 10 840 tonnes (10 920 tonnes), and emissions of fine particles Governance method of producing mechanical pulp at our Anjala Mill. When fully amounted to 1 740 tonnes (2 190 tonnes). GRI Index earmarked for energy efficiency implemented, the projects financed in 2018 are estimated to generate annual energy savings of at least 259 GWh (73 GWh electricity and investment projects at our mills. Electricity from Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), where Stora Enso is a minority shareholder, 1 186 GWh heat). These figures are equivalent to 0.6% of our annual is considered purchased electricity in the energy consumption figures. 40 Efficient use of materials in circular bioeconomy1 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2018 Wood Fossil fuels External biomass Water 35.1 million m³ 29.5 PJ energy 589 million m³, 20.4 PJ of which 96% is returned back Purchased Purchased pulp Pigments, fillers, to the local electricity 2 and paper for starch, and other Sustainability 7.7 TWh recycling chemicals environment Market pulp Paper Containerboard Consumer board 2.8 million tonnes 2.5 million tonnes 1.4 million tonnes 4.7 million tonnes 1.3 million tonnes 2.9 million tonnes Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Wood products Other products 3 Employees and wider workforce 6 million m³ Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Bark and harvesting Economic agenda residuals for energy Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Externally delivered Residuals for Reporting scope electricity/heat/ beneficial use Lignin Biocomposites Data by production unit steam 1.7 million tonnes 1.2 TWh Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding joint operations. The illustration shows the key materials used in our processes, together with our production figures as reported in our environmental reporting system. For a comprehensive illustration on how we create value see our Strategy 2018. 2 Electricity from PVO included in purchased electricity. 3 Other products include mainly pellets, wood chips, tall oil and turpentine. 41 Environmental incidents in 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2018 During 2018, Stora Enso continued to develop the procedures for effective Group-wide reporting and management of environmental incidents at our production units. The list below gives details of environmental incidents involving a non-compliance with environmental legislation or permit, or a significant stakeholder concern related to environmental performance. Unit Incident Corrective actions Anjala/Ingerois mill integrate The mill’s daily COD limits during March and annual Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and The mechanical malfunction was repaired, and the wastewater treatment process was phosphorus effluent limits were exceeded. This was due to a mechanical malfunction in optimized. The recovery of the bio-sludge and activated sludge process took a few months Sustainability the bio-sludge thickener and increased bio-sludge content in the wastewater treatment plant. The authorities were regularly informed and there was no environmental impact in the to complete. Process performance was improved by using an online database control system utilising predictive analytics and simulation. receiving waters. Governance Heinola Fluting Mill The mill’s monthly limits for effluent containing COD, biological oxygen demand (BOD) and Actions were taken to decrease the load into the treatment plant to speed up and support its Strategy, governance, and stakeholders phosphorus were exceeded in May during the start-up of the mill and wastewater treatment recovery. plant after a longer than normal investment shutdown. There was no environmental impact in Our targets the receiving water. Sustainability Adopting the SDGs The mill’s annual limit for diffuse sulphur dioxide (SO2) was exceeded. This was due to Corrective actions were taken related to new alarm limits set in the factory system. Investigation malfunctioning recovery plant absorption tower equipment. of the case was initiated. Human rights Enocell Mill The mill’s monthly limit for effluent containing phosphorus was exceeded in July and August Corrective actions were taken related to sludge dewatering and chemicals were added to due to a combination of phosphorus in the incoming effluent during the summer and improper precipitate phosphorus. Social agenda operation of the sludge treatment. The environmental impact was not significant. Employees and wider workforce Skutskär Mill Pitch oil from the pulp production process was accidentally discharged to clean water effluent Troubleshooting and cleaning measures were started immediately upon detection. in the port basin during October. During start-up after a maintenance stop the preheater for The removal of pitch oil from the port basin and the sea, beaches and islands in the bay of Community pitch oil to the lime kilns broke due to high pressure in the preheater. The environmental permit Gävle outside the mill was finalised during November. Preventive actions have been taken and was not breached as effluent was kept within the permit limit for suspended solids. Part of the procedures were reviewed to make sure the incident will not happen again. Business ethics oil leaked from the port basin to the Baltic sea where small amounts landed in shores and island in Gävle archipelago. Pitch oil is not toxic or dangerous to the environment, but it is sticky in texture and can cause problems for sea life. Environmental agenda Sunila Mill The dust emission permit limit was exceeded at one recovery boiler in April and November. Rebuild of existing equipment will be made in spring 2019. Option for additional rebuild or installation of new equipment may be planned for the 2020 maintenance stop. Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 42 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Annual Report 2018 Carbon dioxide Our CO2e emissions were We combat global warming with renewable materials, resource and energy efficient production processes, and sustainable forest management. 18% lower than the 2010 base-year level Sustainability Opportunities and challenges Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Contributing to a low-carbon economy Global warming is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Our targets Sustainability Stora Enso and the forest industry have an opportunity not only to Adopting the SDGs contribute, but to pioneer the transition to a fossil-free, sustainable world. As a leading renewable materials company with access to Human rights carbon neutral biomass, we are in a unique position to combat global warming. The use of renewable materials enables us to contribute towards a low-carbon economy. Trees in sustainably managed forests Social agenda absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere and together with Employees and wider workforce wood-based products act as carbon storage. Our products help our customers and society at large to reduce CO2 emissions by providing Community low-carbon alternatives to solutions based on fossil fuels and other Business ethics non-renewable materials. The first truly global climate agreement was approved at the Paris Climate Conference (COP21) in 2015 and entered into force Environmental agenda in November 2016. Ahead of COP21, Stora Enso signed a pledge to combat global warming with science-based reduction targets for Materials, water, and energy greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In December 2017, we became the Carbon dioxide first forest products company to have their climate targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. Our ambitious targets, which Financials Forests, plantations, and land use address significant emissions throughout our value chain, were announced in early January 2018 and are well below the 2°C limit set by the Paris Agreement. Economic agenda The Science Based Targets initiative is a collaboration between Customers CDP, World Resources Institute (WRI), the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). It is also Suppliers one of the commitments of the We Mean Business Coalition to drive Investors ambitious corporate climate actions. Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Growing trees in sustainably Governance GRI Index managed forests absorb CO2 from the atmosphere. 43 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released The number of free emission allowances will be reduced gradually in Our policies Annual Report 2018 a special report in 2018. The report states that the Paris Agreement is not the next trading period. This has already led to increased emissions enough to keep global average temperatures well below 2°C and close allowance costs during 2018. Comprehensive carbon strategy to 1.5°C. Due to the IPCC report, target setting criteria for SBTs will most In late 2018, the European Commission presented its strategy Agreed in 2016, our carbon strategy states that it is our firm intention likely change. When launched in 2019 by the SBT Initiative, we will review for a carbon neutral EU by 2050. The strategy relies on the circular to drive down our fossil fuel use, so that we get as close to zero as our approved science-based targets to assess what more we can do. economy, natural carbon sinks, and lifestyle changes and suggests possible within a decade using technically and commercially feasible The EU’s Emissions Trading System (ETS) is the largest mandatory emission cuts from all main sectors including power generation, means. Relevant policies guiding and steering our efforts to combat international system for trading greenhouse gas emission allowances, industry, transport, buildings, construction, and agriculture. As an global warming include our: and a major element of the EU’s efforts to combat global warming. overall ambition level, it states that by 2050, the EU should achieve • Policy for Energy and Carbon Sustainability The ETS grants “carbon leakage” status to industries where it net zero greenhouse gas emissions, with an unchanged milestone • Environmental Guidelines – a more comprehensive overview of is considered that costs related to climate policies might cause of a 40% reduction by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. The role our policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. businesses to transfer production to countries outside the EU with of a competitive EU industry is considered a key enabler in the • Supplier Code of Conduct and Practical Guide for Suppliers Governance less demanding requirements. The EU forest industry currently has strategy, and it specifically refers to reaping the full benefits of the – guides us on how CO2 emissions can be reduced in our Strategy, governance, and stakeholders carbon leakage status for the period 2015–2019. It will continue bioeconomy. The strategy will be discussed during 2019 and should supply chain. to enjoy this status for the recently agreed 2021–2030 period. be adopted in early 2020. Our targets How we work Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Scenario-driven work For over a decade, we have been actively reducing the energy intensity of our operations – and in many places also our dependency on fossil fuels. We measure our progress to reduce greenhouse gas Social agenda (GHG) emissions as a key performance indicator (KPI). Stora Enso’s Employees and wider workforce science-based target is to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations by 31% per tonne of pulp, paper and board Community produced by 2030 compared with the 2010 base-year. We report on Business ethics our progress in our Sustainability report and quarterly Interim Reports. Our science-based targets have been informed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) well below Environmental agenda 2 °C scenario and the Sectoral Decarbonisation Approach, which is a method for setting corporate emission reduction targets in line Materials, water, and energy with climate science. A key tool in the scenario assessment and Carbon dioxide the establishment of reduction targets was the Stora Enso Carbon Neutrality Roadmap, which guides our long and short-term fossil Financials Forests, plantations, and land use CO2 reduction actions. Read more about our actions in the Progress section of this chapter. Economic agenda Improving our energy efficiency Customers Greenhouse gases emitted by our operations include carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide – with carbon dioxide being by far the most Suppliers significant. The most effective ways to reduce our direct fossil CO2 Investors emissions are to further improve our energy efficiency, and to continue to increase our use of biomass fuels. Significant investments in recent years, particularly in multi-fuel boilers, have achieved large reductions Data and assurance in our fossil CO2 intensity. Reporting scope Evaluating risks and opportunities Data by production unit A proactive approach to decreasing our dependency on fossil fuels and reducing our direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions creates Auditor’s assurance report new business opportunities and helps us to manage costs and risks. Governance Stora Enso evaluates the risks and opportunities related to global warming through its annual Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) GRI Index process, which forms an integral part of the Group’s management Our science-based targets have been informed by the Intergovernmental Panel on the Climate Change (IPCC) to keep global average temperatures well below 2°C. approach (for more details see our Financials 2018). We routinely 44 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy calculate the financial impacts of potential cost increases in relation to Statements of Support by Accounting for Sustainability (A4S). In 2018, All our units report quarterly on carbon emissions for Scopes 1 and 2. Annual Report 2018 emission allowances, including the impacts of possible increases in Stora Enso’s CFO signed an A4S Statement of Support to promote A Group-level estimate for Scope 3 emissions is updated biannually. energy prices. Our production units systematically work to meet their better disclosure of climate risks and opportunities. Our carbon footprint accounting is based on guidelines provided environmental regulatory requirements and to improve their energy by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Resource Institute efficiency. Their work is supported by international third-party-certified Detailed carbon reporting (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development systems such as the environmental management standard ISO 14001 We publicly report on our greenhouse gas emissions in (WBCSD). In 2018, we continued to have the reporting of our direct and the energy management standard ISO 50001. For unit-specific three categories: and indirect CO2e emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) externally assured to information on certification, see page 69. • Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions from operations a Reasonable Level – as one of the few companies in the world to do The Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related we directly own or control, including on-site energy generation so. For more details, see page 72. Sustainability Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommends a framework for disclosing facilities and our own processes, power boilers, lime kilns and climate related risks and opportunities that goes beyond current on-site vehicles (Scope 1). External recognition and partnerships practices. The TCFD recommendations respond to a growing demand • CO2e emissions related to the electricity and heat we purchase to combat global warming Governance for improved financial disclosures from companies in relation to climate externally for use in our operations (Scope 2). In November 2018, Stora Enso was top-ranked in greenhouse gas Strategy, governance, and stakeholders risks. In addition to investors and regulators, leading companies are • Estimated CO2e emissions from other indirect sources along our management for the second time in a row. The Transition Pathway also communicating their support for the recommendations through value chain (Scope 3). Initiative (TPI) is an asset owner-led initiative supported by Grantham Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Stora Enso’s GHG performance1 and scenarios for forest industry2 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in relation to production Social agenda Million tonnes kg/tonne Employees and wider workforce 7.0 700 Community 6.0 600 Business ethics 5.0 500 Environmental agenda 4.0 400 Materials, water, and energy 3.0 300 Carbon dioxide 2.0 200 Financials Forests, plantations, and land use 1.0 100 A wooden home grows back Economic agenda When you think of a wooden house, what do you see? Many of 0.0 0 Customers us will imagine a small wooden cabin, or possibly a quaint old 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 house in the countryside, undisturbed by the modern world. Suppliers But a wooden home has many faces. Scope 1 + 2, million tonnes Performance baseline 2 °C scenario Well below 2 °C scenario Investors “Concrete, steel, and bricks represent between 8–15% CO 2e kg/tonne CO 2e kg/tonne SBT projectory kg/tonnes of global greenhouse gas emissions so when we can replace or compliment non-renewable construction materials with Target renewable wood, we are combatting global warming,” says Scope 1+ 2 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 4 20174 5 2018 4 2030 Data and assurance Mathieu Robert, Head of Building Solutions business at Million tonnes 6.52 5.78 4.86 3.85 4.42 3.72 3.62 3.75 3.63 3.27 3.21 3.31 3.41 Reporting scope Stora Enso. “Wooden homes store carbon for decades, or kg/tonne 494 448 407 391 396 341 334 354 361 321 308 313 324 273 Data by production unit even centuries. Wood is recyclable like many other materials, 1 Covering direct and indirect emissions as fossil CO2 equivalents (scope 1 and 2) 4 Adversely affected by the coal-based energy consumption at our Beihai Mill in China. but recyclability is no longer enough – wood is the only major from board, pulp, paper, and corrugated production units. Excluding joint operations. 5 Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. Auditor’s assurance report construction material that is also renewable.” Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. Governance 2 GHG reduction pathways for 2°C scenario and well below 2°C scenarios based on * Asset owner-led initiative supported by Grantham Research Institute and London information from the Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI)* including scenarios data from the School of Economics. Energy Technology Perspectives report by the International Energy Agency. GRI Index Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability 3 CO2e emissions data from our operations (scope 1+2) have been verified at reasonable SBT= Science-based target assurance level since 2015 and calculated according to the GHG protocol and GHG Scope 2 guidance. 45 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Research Institute and London School of Economics. It evaluates Annual Report 2018 and tracks the quality of a company’s management of greenhouse gas emissions and of risks and opportunities related to the lowcarbon transition. It also evaluates how a company’s future carbon performance would compare to the international targets and national pledges made as part of the Paris Agreement. In its assessment of how 18 of the largest paper producers globally are preparing for the transition to a low-carbon economy, TPI top-ranked Stora Enso in both management quality and carbon performance. Stora Enso was Sustainability the only company that both ranked on the highest possible level in management quality and had an emissions reduction target set until 2030, aligned with keeping the global temperature rise below 2°C. Governance Stora Enso was top-rated in combatting global warming by the Strategy, governance, and stakeholders international non-profit organisation CDP. Stora Enso was included on CDP’s new 2018 Climate A List, which identifies the global companies Our targets Sustainability that are taking leadership in climate action. Adopting the SDGs Stora Enso endorses the Corporate Leaders Group (CLG) policy statement on net-zero strategies. The CLG brings together European Human rights business leaders to accelerate progress towards a low-carbon, sustainable economy. Stora Enso is a member of the We Mean Business coalition. Social agenda The coalition brings together non-profit organisations, businesses, Employees and wider workforce and investors who recognise that transitioning to a low-carbon economy is the only way to secure sustainable economic growth. Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers “The world should be seeking to half greenhouse Suppliers gas emissions in little more than a decade and Investors reach net zero around 2050. Stora Enso has demonstrated that it is committed to acting on Data and assurance this challenge – setting science-based targets and showing real commitments to action. They Reporting scope are also looking at what such a comprehensive Data by production unit change to our economy means for them and their Auditor’s assurance report business in the long-term.” Governance Eliot Whittington GRI Index Director The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership Wooden buildings store carbon for decades, or even centuries. 46 In 2018, 80% of the total Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Annual Report 2018 CO2 emissions from our own operations were carbon neutral. Sustainability Governance Investing in a low-carbon future Strategy, governance, and stakeholders We strive to increase the proportion of biomass in our internal energy generation. In line with our policy to give preference to energy from Our targets Sustainability low-fossil carbon sources, Stora Enso announced plans to invest Adopting the SDGs EUR 25 million to boost green energy generation at Maxau Mill. For more information, see page 39. Human rights In 2018, Stora Enso and energy company Gasum signed a contract to build a biogas plant at our Nymölla Mill in Sweden. The plant, built and operated by Gasum, will turn sludge from the mill’s wastewater Social agenda treatment plant into renewable energy. The expected Liquefied Biogas Employees and wider workforce production of the plant is 75-90 GWh per year, which is equivalent to 20 000 tonnes of avoided fossil CO2 emissions per year when Community replacing conventional diesel in transportation. Business ethics Another important part of our work is our central energy efficiency investment fund. When fully implemented, the projects financed in 2018 are estimated to eliminate over 16 000 tonnes of annual fossil Environmental agenda direct CO2 emissions. For more information, see page 39. Materials, water, and energy Investigating non-fossil fuel alternatives for Beihai Mill Carbon dioxide At our Beihai Mill in Guangxi province, China, coal is currently the only feasible energy source for an industrial project of its scale in the region, Financials Forests, plantations, and land use The CO 2 emissions generated during the transportation of our raw materials and products are mainly produced by external logistics service providers. as there are inadequate sustainable supply chains for non-fossil fuels at present. We continue to investigate long-term options to gradually move away from coal to biomass and other non-fossil fuels. The power boiler Economic agenda at Beihai Mill is technically able to use a variety of fuel mixes, and in 2018 Customers modest amounts of wastewater sludge, forest residuals and other side streams from our production processes were used. The medium-term Suppliers objective is to annually replace 10 000 tonnes of coal with these steps. Investors Progress The total direct and indirect CO2e emissions from Stora Enso’s For more information about our coal sourcing, see page 63. board, pulp, and paper mills amounted to 3.41 million tonnes in 2018 Our science-based targets (3.31 million tonnes in 2017). Carbon neutral emissions Data and assurance In 2018, our CO2e emissions per saleable tonne of board, pulp, and Fourteen of Stora Enso’s mills use production process residuals Carbon neutral CO2 emissions are fossil-free emissions generated paper were 18% lower than the 2010 benchmark level (21% lower in to generate renewable energy and distribute it to local district heating during the combustion of biomass-based fuels sourced from Reporting scope 2017). The full-year performance declined three percentage points from systems (approximately 80%) and industrial partners (approximately sustainably managed forests1.These emissions are carbon neutral Data by production unit 2017, mainly due to the increased use of peat at two Finnish mills and 20%). In most cases the heat supplied from our production units as the forests are regenerated and the new generation of trees a higher fossil content in the generation of the purchased electricity directly reduces the local use of oil and other fossil fuels. In 2018, absorb CO2 while growing. When forests are sustainably managed, Auditor’s assurance report in Finland and Poland. In absolute terms, our direct and indirect CO2e a total of 3.3 PJ of heat was sold to these district heating systems this cycle can continue indefinitely. Stora Enso’s operations utilise Governance emissions were 23% lower than in 2010. Direct CO2e emissions per unit serving twelve communities (3.3 PJ in 2017). Using this amount of renewable biomass-based fuels to a large extent, which means that of sales production were 7% lower than in 2010. The CO2e emissions renewable energy instead of light fuel oil for heating for example the proportion of carbon neutral CO2 emissions in our total emissions GRI Index resulting from the generation of purchased electricity and heat during resulted in estimated emission reductions amounting to 0.24 million is high. In 2018, 80% (80%) of the total CO2 emissions from our own 2018 were 37% lower than in 2010 per unit of sales production. tonnes of fossil CO2 (0.25 million tonnes). operations were carbon neutral. 47 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Greenhouse gas emissions in relation to production¹ Annual Report 2018 Million tonnes kg/tonne 7.0 490 6.0 430 5.0 370 4.0 310 Sustainability 3.0 250 2.0 190 Governance 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172 2018 Trend 06−18 Million tonnes 6.52 5.78 4.86 3.85 4.42 3.72 3.62 3.75 3.63 3.27 3.21 3.31 3.41 -48% Strategy, governance, and stakeholders kg/tonne 494 448 407 391 396 341 334 354 361 321 308 313 324 -34% Our targets Covering direct and indirect emissions as fossil CO2 equivalents (scope 1 and 2) from board, pulp, paper and corrugated production units. Sustainability ¹ Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. Adopting the SDGs ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Our carbon footprint accounts for 20% of all our Scope 3 CO2 emissions. One example of Environmental agenda Direct emissions from our operations account for 22% (20% in 2017) good practice is our “Right Method” system to pre-plan logging roads, of our carbon footprint, while emissions related to the electricity and which reduces damage to the soil and fuel consumption by about Materials, water, and energy heat we purchase for use in our operations account for 9% (10%) of 10%, according to studies made by our wood supply organisation Carbon dioxide our total carbon emissions. According to our estimates, 69% (70%) in Sweden. Sea transport accounts for approximately 89% of all our of the emissions in our carbon footprint are generated elsewhere product transportation by weight and distance, while road and rail Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Stora Enso’s carbon footprint 2014–20181 2 along our value chain. The majority of our emissions are generated transportation account for 9% and 2% respectively. in the sourcing and manufacturing of our raw materials and services Our commitment to science-based targets includes engagement Fossil CO2 equivalent (million tonnes)3 (30% of the total Scope 3 emissions); in the further processing of targets for Scope 3. To reduce emissions in the value chain, Trend Economic agenda our products by customers (42%); and in the transportation of raw Stora Enso commits to having 70% of its non-fibre raw material 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 14–18 materials to our mills and our final products to our customers (20%). suppliers and downstream transportation suppliers in terms of spend Scope 1: Direct Customers emissions from our To identify potential for further reducing our emissions in Scopes 1, 2, set their own greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets by 2025, operations. 2.40 2.24 2.40 2.34 2.49 4% Suppliers and 3, we strengthened our internal steering processes in accordance towards the aim of adopting science-based GHG reduction targets Scope 2: Emissions Investors with the actions agreed in our science-based targets. We continued by 2030. from purchased energy to implement methodologies for calculating the quantities of carbon In 2018, we began using sustainability criteria in the tendering consumed in our sequestered in forests and plantations owned and managed by phase of our sourcing process and collecting data on supplier operations.3 1.41 1.19 0.97 1.10 1.06 -25% Stora Enso and our associate companies. We also continued our work performance. Suppliers now need to respond to a set of questions Scope 3: Emissions Data and assurance from other sources with external experts to identify a credible methodology to calculate about their financial stability, CO2 emissions, and accident rates. along our value chain.4 6.88 7.26 7.65 7.97 7.89 15% Reporting scope the positive substitution effect our renewable products have when These criteria are part of every tender, regardless of previous contracts Total 10.69 10.69 11.02 11.41 11.44 7% Data by production unit compared to fossil CO2 intensive alternatives. with the same supplier. For more information, see page 61. In addition, we will educate 100% of our customer-facing staff on ¹ Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding joint operations. Auditor’s assurance report Value chain emissions the advantages of setting science-based targets by 2020. In 2018, ² Historical figures recalculated due to accuracy improvements. Governance 3 The CO2 factors we use for purchased energy (scope 2) largely follow the market-based The CO2 emissions generated during the transportation of our raw we created e-learning material to progress this target. methodology, which means that almost all our units apply CO2 factors provided by their materials and products, which are the most significant environmental energy suppliers. When applying currently available location-based factors our scope 2 GRI Index impacts associated with our logistical operations, are mainly emissions for 2018 are 1.30 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. 4 Historical scope 3 emissions recalculated bi-annually against the most recent produced by external logistics service providers. Transportation 1 Recommendations on Biomass Carbon Neutrality, WBCSD 2015. methodology in order to ensure comparability. 48 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso’s carbon footprint1 Indirect emissions 9% Sustainability Governance Our direct emissions Indirect emissions 22% Strategy, governance, and stakeholders along the value chain Electricity and heat purchased 69% Our targets Sustainability for our operations Adopting the SDGs Human rights On-site electricity and heat production Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Production of fuels Environmental agenda Harvesting Materials, water, and energy Processing of products Carbon dioxide by our customers Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Production of purchased materials and services: Transportation and distribution of Economic agenda pulp, recycled paper, and our products to customers globally board, pigments, fillers Customers Suppliers Investors Transportation of purchased raw materials and fuels Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Scope 1: Direct emissions from our operations. Scope 2: Emissions from purchased energy consumed in our operations. Scope 3: Emissions from other sources along our value chain. Governance 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units, a total of 11.44 million tonnes of fossil CO2 equivalent (11.41 million tonnes in 2017). Excluding joint operations. GRI Index 49 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Annual Report 2018 Forests, plantations, Forest certification coverage for owned and managed lands was and land use Sustainability Sustainable forest and plantation management is essential for securing the long-term availability of wood – our most important renewable raw material. Forests have an important role to play in 96% Governance the transition to a fossil-free world. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Opportunities and challenges Our targets Combatting global warming with forestry Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Forests and plantations are an increasingly important part of the wider global sustainable development agenda, particularly in relation Human rights to combatting global warming. As a renewable natural resource, wood represents a favourable alternative to fossil-based materials. Growing trees absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere, Social agenda and together with wood-based products act as carbon storage. Employees and wider workforce Sustainable forest management ensures that new generations of trees replace those that are logged. The growing trees absorb more carbon Community from the atmosphere than is released, increasing the role of forests Business ethics as carbon storage. The role of Land Use, Land Use Change and Forestry (LULUCF) in combatting global warming has been broadly recognised. Environmental agenda For Stora Enso, it is essential that any regional or national policy fully utilises the potential of sustainable renewable materials and supports Materials, water, and energy the transition towards a bio-based circular economy. Carbon dioxide Global warming entails physical challenges and opportunities in relation to forests and plantations, due to changing patterns of Financials Forests, plantations, and land use temperature, wind, and rainfall, which can all be expected to impact our operational environment. Well-managed forests and plantations can make entire ecosystems more resilient to negative impacts, and Economic agenda even benefit from the positive effects. Customers Global challenges such as population growth, increasing demand for agricultural land, and the widening gap between the supply Suppliers and demand for wood, all require us to use natural resources even Investors more efficiently, and to produce more raw materials from less land. At the same time, major global trends such as eco-awareness and the growing middle class drive the world’s demand for renewable Data and assurance materials. Because the need to conserve our remaining natural ecosystems is also increasing, we must find new ways to integrate Reporting scope competing land uses. Simultaneously, the trend for more forestData by production unit owners to be based in cities away from their landholdings brings new challenges in relation to wood procurement, as forest owners have Auditor’s assurance report less connection to day-to-day operations. Governance GRI Index 50 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Our policies Annual Report 2018 Carbon circulates endlessly between the atmosphere, growing trees and wood-based products Committed to sustainable wood and fibre sourcing Stora Enso’s policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land Management covers the entire cycle of forest and tree plantation management. The policy requires sustainable forest management through responsible sourcing and land use – to safeguard the health and ecological functions of ecosystems and to help conserve CO2 biodiversity, soil and water resources. To achieve this, we maintain Sustainability an open dialogue with our stakeholders. Other relevant policies that promote sustainable forestry include our: Governance • Environmental Guidelines – a more comprehensive overview of Strategy, governance, and stakeholders our policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. • The Stora Enso Code – our Code of Conduct. Our targets Sustainability • Supplier Code of Conduct – our demands on suppliers. Adopting the SDGs How we work Human rights Ensuring the sustainability of fibre Stora Enso’s approach to responsible forest and tree plantation Social agenda management takes into account the economic, social, and Employees and wider workforce environmental aspects of sustainability. Compliance with national legislation and regulatory obligations is only the starting point for Community our work. We actively support and implement voluntary forest Business ethics conservation and restoration measures on lands owned, leased, and managed by Stora Enso, and in other areas where we purchase wood. Stora Enso continued its cooperation with World Wildlife Fund Environmental agenda for Nature (WWF) in several countries in 2018. Initiatives included Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Forests have a central role in the carbon cycle. Young forests absorb carbon when they grow and old forests release it as they decay. Carbon is stored Financials Forests, plantations, and land use in forest products until they decay or are burned at the end of their life when the carbon dioxide is released back into the atmosphere. Growing forests reabsorb carbon from the air. Economic agenda Customers “The New Generation Plantations (NGP) the New Generation Plantations (NGP) platform, which focuses on a platform for multi-stakeholder discussion and collaboration on Suppliers platform is a place to learn about better the institutional and technological aspects of responsible plantation the most pressing local and global issues facing forests and people. management. Stora Enso is also cooperating with WWF Finland to During the year, we also transparently disclosed our strategies and Investors plantation management through real world promote the conservation and sustainable use of forests. This work performance related to tackling deforestation to CDP Forests (score of A-). experiences, and influence others to follow good includes promoting alternative harvesting practices among private In 2018, Stora Enso and the Forest Stewardship Council examples. The NGP brings together leading forest owners. (FSC) signed an international partnership agreement establishing Data and assurance We are active members in numerous local and global forestry a long-term strategic collaboration to develop and promote plantation companies and some government associations, networks, and programmes. Stora Enso has been sustainable forestry. Stora Enso promotes all main forest certification Reporting scope agencies that manage and regulate plantations. a member of the Forest Solutions Group (FSG) of the World Business systems and is committed to the responsible sourcing of wood and Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) since the late 1990s. fibre from only sustainably managed forests and tree plantations. Data by production unit Stora Enso is one of the NGP founding members During 2018, we actively participated in finalising its strategic review Auditor’s assurance report and has provided good practice examples in and initial implementation of the new programme to make FSG Sustainability in our forestry operations Governance the study tours in Brazil, Uruguay and Laos.” a global engagement platform on sustainable forestry and forest To cover all aspects of sustainability in our forest and plantation products. In 2018, Stora Enso’s EVP Sustainability was appointed operations, we apply the same comprehensive wood procurement GRI Index Luis Neves Silva the new FSG Co-Chair for a period of two years. We also continued process in all our operating regions. Our Wood Supply organisation Lead, New Generation Plantations WWF to support and participate in The Forests Dialogue (TFD), which is consists of regional units that source wood for Stora Enso mills. 51 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Key elements in this work include knowledge sharing, personnel Annual Report 2018 rotation, contractor support, centralised coordination of innovation A harvesting method better for the soil projects and the use of digitalisation. Our wood procurement process The wet and mild winter of 2017–2018 in Scandinavia was covers the entire management cycle in forests and plantations, challenging for the forest industry, making a method developed by including: Stora Enso, named “Rätt Metod” (Right method) in Swedish, very • Forest and plantation planning useful – both in Finland and Sweden. • Silvicultural operations (everyday forest and plantation “Basically, our method is about making thorough pre-studies management) of the ground to find the most durable spots within a harvesting • Wood harvesting area where the wood can be transported without damaging the Sustainability • Regeneration of forests and plantations soil and water streams. In the future, global warming will increase • Monitoring each stage in the process, for example through audits the need for harvesting on soft ground,” says Vegard Haanaes, and self-assessments. Development Manager at Wood Supply Sweden. Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders In 2018, the total amount of wood (including roundwood, wood chips, and sawdust) delivered to our mills was 38.7 million m3 (solid under Our targets Sustainability bark) (37.5 million m3 in 2017). Adopting the SDGs Human rights Long-term forestry planning Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability As trees take many years or decades to mature, long-term forestry planning is essential. This involves ecological landscape plans and biodiversity assessments to identify, conserve, and restore Social agenda vital ecosystems and ecological features. In 2018, 89% (88%) of Employees and wider workforce Stora Enso’s wood came from managed semi-natural forests in Community Europe, most of which are privately owned. Forest planning involves finding ways to optimise wood production and conservation. We work our commercial plantations to ensure all aspects of sustainability are taken into consideration. Stora Enso never establishes plantations in In 2018, 89% of our wood Business ethics together with forest owners to identify sensitive forest areas in need of protection. Our experts are trained to identify such areas and we natural forests, protected areas, or water-sensitive locations. We only use land with low biodiversity value, such as former pastureland. came from managed semiregularly consult the authorities on these matters. Stora Enso’s employees and forestry contractors are given on-the-job natural forests in Europe. Environmental agenda training in ecological management, and we regularly monitor the Responsible forestry impacts of our operations on biodiversity, soil, and water resources. Materials, water, and energy In 2018, 11% of Stora Enso’s wood came from tree plantations As we recognise that our plantations are an integral part of local Carbon dioxide (12%). When establishing new plantations, we use internationally land use, we evaluate and define sustainable land use practices and the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. In addition, approved principles such as the Food and Agriculture Organisation’s specifically for each location. After determining the scope of expected our Supplier Code of Conduct complements these tools by imposing Financials Forests, plantations, and land use (FAO) Voluntary Guidelines on Planted Forests, and we also certify impacts and possible remedies, we decide whether or not to proceed strict contractual requirements on our suppliers. We work actively with a proposed project. Stora Enso subsequently remains in constant with our stakeholders to promote sustainable forest management and dialogue with stakeholders and strives to ensure that land contracts the wider use of certification systems. As certification programmes Economic agenda are legitimate and fair. cover all three aspects of sustainability (environmental, social, and Customers Wood procurement by region¹ economic), they are an important indicator of responsible forestry. 38.7 million m³ Protecting biodiversity in forestry operations For this reason, we follow our progress with a key performance Suppliers Stora Enso closely monitors the management of the forests and indicator measuring the proportion of land in wood production and Investors Finland 13.5 (35%) plantations from which it sources wood. Wood harvesting is planned harvesting owned and managed by Stora Enso that is covered by Sweden 9.5 (25%) to suit the particular characteristics of each harvesting site, making forest certification schemes. use of appropriate harvesting methods and technologies. Harvesting We regularly audit our suppliers and work together with respected Central Europe 5.7 (15%) Data and assurance volumes are aligned with the long-term carrying capacity of particular local institutions to ensure everything is done according to the Russia 3.1 (8%) forests and plantations. standards set by certification schemes and our own policies. Reporting scope Uruguay² 2.1 (5%) All roundwood, chips, sawdust, and externally purchased Baltic countries 2.5 (6%) pulp supplied to our mills come from sustainable sources. We use Preparing and adapting forestry Data by production unit Brazil2 1.9 (5%) a range of tools to ensure this, and to guarantee the sustainability to changing weather patterns Auditor’s assurance report China 0.3 (1%) of each part of the forest management cycle. These tools include Global warming is increasing the occurrence of extreme weather Governance forest certification and third-party traceability systems such as the events in the areas in which we operate. We use long-term planning ¹ Total amounts of wood (roundwood, chips and sawdust) procured within these regions Forest Stewardship Council’s (FSC) Chain of Custody/Controlled to ensure our forestry operations are preparing and adapting to GRI Index for delivery to our mills (million m³, solid under bark). Wood scheme, the Chain of Custody/Due Diligence System of the the changing climatic conditions. Stora Enso evaluates risks and 2 Figures for Brazil and Uruguay include 50% of the wood procurement of our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), opportunities related to global warming through the annual Enterprise 52 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Risk Management (ERM) process, which forms an integral part In Brazil, our joint operation Veracel goes beyond regeneration Annual Report 2018 of the Group’s management approach (for more details see our by conserving and restoring areas of natural Atlantic Rainforest. Financials 2018). All Veracel’s tree plantations were established on degraded pasture In the summer of 2018, a long drought caused a number of forest lands, and no rainforest has been converted into plantations. When fires in Sweden. We adapted our operations to the prevailing weather Veracel’s plantations were established in 1991, less than 7% of the conditions, observed the greatest caution, and supported the rescue original Atlantic rainforest was left in the region following extensive services. Our personnel have significant expertise in fire safety issues logging and clearing for cattle ranching between the 1960s and that we offered to fire-fighting activities, such as the management of 1980s. Since the plantations were established, Veracel has worked major controlled burns in collaboration with government agencies. systematically to protect and restore local biodiversity. Sustainability In 2018, Stora Enso and the Swedish Meteorological and Approximately half of Veracel’s 213 500 hectares of land are Hydrological Institute (SMHI) began an eighteen-month cooperation dedicated to rainforest preservation and restoration. Veracel aims project. SMHI’s data is combined with forest data in a digital service to restore approximately 400 hectares of rainforest habitat every Governance that can be used to plan harvesting activities. The service is based year. A total of 7 217 hectares of forest has been restored between Strategy, governance, and stakeholders on the forest industry’s need to reduce soil damage and to pursue 1994 and the end of 2018. This work is part of a regional restoration more efficient and sustainable forestry. The digital service can provide programme that helps connect the remaining areas of valuable Our targets Sustainability valuable soil condition forecasts. natural habitat to each other with forest corridors that enable wildlife Adopting the SDGs to move more freely from one area to another. Veracel’s significant Human rights Forest regeneration contribution to the conservation of natural Atlantic rainforest and its We always ensure that the forests and plantations where we rich biodiversity has been recognised by both the Brazilian authorities harvest wood are duly regenerated. This is often done through and international stakeholders. active planting or sowing, although in many areas active regeneration is The Veracel Station visitor centre, established in an area of preserved Social agenda complemented by natural seed dispersal from nearby forests, by leaving rainforest habitat, conducts research, conserves native and endangered Employees and wider workforce seed trees standing in the harvesting area, or by coppicing. Whatever the ecosystems, and raises environmental awareness among visitors. methods used, we always ensure the forest will regenerate. Community Tree breeding Business ethics Stora Enso is continuously working towards the long-term goal of improving the productivity and quality of the eucalyptus trees grown in our plantations, so as to sustainably enhance wood production Environmental agenda per unit of land. Tree breeding primarily targets increased biomass Forests have important recreational value as a location for activities such as production (i.e. volume and density) and cellulose yield. Other hiking, mushroom foraging, and hunting. Materials, water, and energy targets may include improved rooting or resistance to frost, drought, Carbon dioxide pests, or diseases, depending on local conditions and the species in question. We test and apply modern scientific tools for tree that is covered by forest certification schemes. Our target is to Financials Forests, plantations, and land use improvement and the management of genetic diversity. This may maintain the high level of 96%. In 2018, coverage amounted to 96% involve selecting “elite trees” or conducting marker-assisted breeding (97% in 20171). The KPI was reviewed in 2018, and as of January and genetic engineering. 2018, the scope excludes forest management units whose primary Economic agenda Our genetic engineering activities are in the research and purpose is not wood production and harvesting, such as test and Customers development phase. As with traditional clone improvements, it will pilot sites. take many years to develop genetically engineered clones. During The proportion of third-party certified wood in our total wood Suppliers 2018, we continued the process to establish field trials in areas supply was 76% in 2018. As of 2018, the share of certified wood Investors totalling less than 30 hectares in Brazil. These trials will fully comply excludes externally delivered certified wood. This decreased the with the relevant national regulations. Stora Enso will not carry out certified share compared to previous years. any trials considered by the authorities to be unsafe or otherwise not In Russia, we continued to work with WWF Russia during 2018. Data and assurance permitted. Currently we have no plans to plant genetically engineered During the year, Stora Enso and WWF Russia organised training for all trees in any of our commercial plantations. forestry certification group members in Karelia. The total area covered Reporting scope by group certifications in Russia was 1 312 500 hectares (1 336 000 Data by production unit Progress hectares in 2017). Our Russian subsidiaries have been FSC-certified since 2006, and the lands leased by Stora Enso in Russia are included Auditor’s assurance report Wood from sustainable sources in the total certified area. For details about lands leased and managed Governance Globally, Stora Enso owns or leases lands covering a total area of by Stora Enso in Russia, see the table on page 54. We also continued 933 000 hectares. We follow our progress on responsible forestry to actively promote economically viable and ecologically responsible GRI Index with a key performance indicator measuring the proportion of land in The Veracel Station rainforest research and conservation centre celebrated twenty years of operation in 2018. wood production and harvesting owned and managed by Stora Enso 1 Recalculated according to the reviewed definition. 53 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy forestry throughout Russia during 2018 through cooperation with Annual Report 2018 the Boreal Forest Platform (BFP), a stakeholder forum organised by WWF Russia. In Finland, Stora Enso offers FSC forest certification services for private forest owners. In 2018, the number of members of Stora Enso Wood Supply Finland’s FSC group grew from around 20 to 135 private forest owners, which is equivalent to an increase in forest area from around 4 000 hectares to more than 30 000 hectares. Since 2011, Veracel has promoted group certification among its Sustainability tree farmers in Brazil. In 2014, Aspex, an association representing certified tree farms, took over the management of the certification process, using certificates granted by both FSC and Cerflor (PEFC). Governance By the end of 2018, dual forest certificates had been obtained by Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 73 farmers (74 at the end of 2017) for areas totalling 38 054 hectares (37 831), including 15 992 hectares (15 895) planted with eucalyptus. Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights We work actively with our stakeholders to promote Social agenda sustainable forest and Employees and wider workforce plantation management. Community Business ethics Stakeholder concerns and dialogues Stora Enso recognises that the areas where we operate are of value Environmental agenda to different stakeholders. We have therefore adopted an integrated approach to land use around our plantations. This includes applied Materials, water, and energy innovative land use models in Laos, Uruguay, and Brazil to benefit Carbon dioxide local farmers and communities as well the company. For details of these integrated land use practices, see pages 24–26. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use In 2018, sustainable forestry particularly in the northern hemisphere was of stakeholder interest, with environmental NGOs We always ensure that the forests and plantations where we harvest wood are duly regenerated. widely calling for forests to be better protected. Economic agenda In our stakeholder communications during the year, we stressed Customers our commitment to forest certification, wood traceability, and open stakeholder dialogues, and that we always ensure that all the wood How can we harvest trees and still Suppliers we use comes from sustainably managed sources. We believe that protect biodiversity? Investors the most sustainable way to protect high conservation value is “The big challenge for modern forestry is to maintain biodiversity through national and regional multi-stakeholder processes. During for future generations,” says Göran Ericsson, Professor in Wildlife the year, Stora Enso engaged in continuous dialogues with NGOs and Ecology at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, in our Data and assurance other stakeholders. We also encouraged our business partners and video. “If we lose biodiversity, we might have very few options NGOs to participate in such engagements. remaining if we are challenged with a crisis with global warming.” Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index Watch the video storaenso.com/biodiversity 54 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Forests, plantations and lands owned by Stora Enso¹ as of 31 December 2018 Annual Report 2018 Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Montes del Plata plantations and lands, Uruguay 190 279 ha, of which 103 847 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 190 279 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Remnants of native ecosystems, such as (joint operation with Arauco) grasslands and riparian forests, are protected within the company’s lands. Veracel plantations and lands, Bahía, Brazil 213 594 ha, of which 75 865 ha planted for CERFLOR (PEFC) for 186 158 ha; Dominated by pasturelands cleared from Atlantic rainforest between the 1960s and 1980s. (joint operation with Suzano) pulp production FSC for 186 158 ha 112 746 ha of Veracel’s lands are protected, including a 6 063 ha Private Natural Heritage Reserve. These protected areas mostly consist of native forest remnants at different stages of regeneration. Sustainability Wood Supply, Estonia 137 ha, of which 124 ha planted No protected areas within this area. Governance ¹ Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. In addition to the forest and plantation areas listed above, Stora Enso owns: 49% of Bergvik Skog, which owns 2.3 million hectares of land in Sweden; and 41% of Tornator, which owns 0.6 million hectares of forestland in Finland, 60 000 hectares in Estonia, and 12 000 hectares in Romania. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Forests and plantations leased and managed by Stora Enso¹ as of 31 December 2018 Human rights Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Social agenda Wood Supply, Russia 369 464 ha FSC group certificate In Russia, protected areas are generally excluded from lease agreements. Areas amounting to 2 266 ha are protected as natural monuments including genetic pine reserves and watercourses. Employees and wider workforce Community Plantations and lands, Guangxi, China 83 270 ha, of which 77 326 ha planted Chinese Forest Certification Mosaic landscape including agricultural crop fields, forest plantations and settlements. Council certificate (PEFC) for No native ecosystems are found in the leased lands. Areas totalling around 1 300 ha are Business ethics 83 270 ha; FSC for 83 270 ha protected (including 184 ha of public benefit forest), consisting of steep slopes, buffer zones and other important areas for watershed protection. Montes del Plata 61 406 ha, of which 48 666 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 54 409 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Protected and sensitive areas are not included Environmental agenda in lease agreements. Materials, water, and energy Veracel 11 050 ha, of which 4 212 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 11 050 ha 5 404 ha of leased lands are protected. They mostly consist of native forest remnants at Carbon dioxide different stages of regeneration. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Trial plantations, Laos 3 805 ha, of which 3 113 ha planted FSC for 3 113 ha The plantations are located within a mosaic of intensive shifting cultivation lands and traditionally protected remnants of native forests with variable degree of human influence. One plantation area is located close to a National Biodiversity Conservation Area. The majority of the total area is covered by agroforestry production schemes. Economic agenda ¹ Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 55 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda Strategy Annual Report 2018 Economic Sustainability agenda Governance We help customers be sustainable, choose Strategy, governance, and stakeholders like-minded partners, and reward investors Our targets sustainably. Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Customers 56 Suppliers 60 Social agenda Investors 64 Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 56 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda – Customers Strategy Customers 25 Annual Report 2018 As the renewable materials company, Stora Enso develops and produces solutions based on wood for a range of industries and applications worldwide. of our production units were registered in Sedex Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Opportunities and challenges Our targets Demand for sustainable solutions Sustainability Adopting the SDGs In many countries around the world, the global middle class is on average growing at a pace greater than the world population, which Human rights is leading to an increased demand for lifestyles that can seriously burden the planet’s resources. At the same time, consumer awareness of limited natural resources, the environmental impacts of products, Social agenda and social responsibility is growing, which places pressure on Employees and wider workforce brand owners to pay more attention to product and supply chain responsibility. Combined with policies, regulations and economic Community incentives, these megatrends are also driving our customers to use Business ethics renewable raw materials and to increase the recycling of products and materials. In the long term, we believe societies will increasingly choose Environmental agenda to replace fossil-based materials with renewable alternatives. Stora Enso’s various wood and fibre-based products, including Materials, water, and energy bio-based chemicals and biocomposites, are well-positioned to Carbon dioxide respond to this new market demand. The European Commission (EC) has adopted legislative proposals Financials Forests, plantations, and land use on waste reduction within its Circular Economy Package, as well as strategies on plastics and the bioeconomy. These are designed to protect the environment from plastic pollution, underline the role of Economic agenda bio-based innovation, and enhance recycling and reuse initiatives, Customers whilst promoting economic growth. The objective of the first-ever European Strategy for Plastics in a Circular Economy, adopted in Suppliers January 2018, is to transform the way plastic products are designed, Investors used, produced, and recycled in the EU. In May 2018, the EC proposed new EU-wide rules to target the 10 most common singleuse plastic products that litter Europe’s beaches and seas, as well as Data and assurance lost and abandoned fishing gear. Together these items account for 70% of all marine litter. Reporting scope The objectives of these ambitions provide business opportunities Data by production unit for Stora Enso, such as the development of more sustainable bio-based alternatives that can replace fossil-based plastics. Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 57 We actively work with our Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda – Customers Strategy Annual Report 2018 customers to decrease the environmental impact of our products. Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce @storaenso October 16 Community Business ethics 30% of all food produced globally goes to waste. Something needs to be done. Learn more about how good packaging can help, in the Renewable Future podcast. #WorldFoodDay bit.ly/2IXQ9qs Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy With tailored renewable packaging we can extend product shelf-life and help reduce food waste. Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Our policies pulp grades, wood and fibre-based products for construction, Prioritising product safety Economic agenda biocomposites, energy pellets, paper products made from virgin Stora Enso’s products covered by specific safety regulations Customers A single set of values and recycled fibre, and lignin, which can be used to replace fossiland demands include food contact materials, materials for toys, The Stora Enso Code – the Stora Enso Code of Conduct, which based phenols. Stora Enso is also researching new uses for lignin, packaging for pharmaceuticals, and construction materials. Our Suppliers constitutes a single set of values for all our employees and explains including formaldehyde-free binders, carbon fibre and energy in-house product safety and quality control systems cover product Investors our approach to ethical business practices, human and labour rights, storage applications. Our products are made from wood and wood development, raw material sourcing, and the manufacturing and as well as environmental values. These values are applied wherever fibre, which are renewable and recyclable raw materials. Stora Enso delivery of products. We demand that our suppliers comply with our we operate. promotes and participates in successful recycling schemes, product safety requirements. Data and assurance particularly for paper and board. We also sell and reuse a variety of Our units producing sensitive packaging materials follow Good How we work valuable by-products and residuals from our production processes. Manufacturing Practices, a set of widely recognised guidelines Reporting scope For more information, see page 34. incorporated into EU regulations. All our Consumer Board mills Data by production unit Focus on customers and innovation We actively work with our customers to improve material efficiency and most of our Packaging Solutions mills are additionally certified At Stora Enso, we are strengthening our expertise in renewable and decrease the environmental impact of our products and related according to recognised hygiene management standards. Food Auditor’s assurance report materials and products with high sustainability performance to production processes. We also systematically measure customer safety compliance for essential raw materials is also verified with our Governance meet the needs of our current and future customers. Our business satisfaction. suppliers prior to any purchasing decision. We provide our customers is organised into five divisions, each with their own focus areas and We foresee many possibilities for bio-based chemicals, bio-barriers, with information on product hygiene and safety aspects through GRI Index products that cater to a broad range of customers. Our product lignin, and biocomposites to meet industry and consumer demands for compliance declarations. portfolio includes various boards for packaging and printing, several more sustainable solutions that can replace fossil-based materials. 58 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda – Customers Strategy We follow legislation designed to protect our employees’ health, Annual Report 2018 public health, and the environment. These include the EU’s REACH, Biocidal Products, the Classification, Labelling, and Packaging Regulation, as well as relevant food contact legislation and demands concerning food safety. When producing food contact materials, we only use chemicals that have been specifically approved for this purpose, after verifying their safety and legal compliance. Many of our wood products are CE-marked to guarantee that they comply with the relevant EU legislation. Our divisions have Product Safety Networks Sustainability in place, and all our mills work to ensure that their products meet the relevant product safety requirements. The ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, and FDA product safety certificates issued to many of our units further Governance ensure that we apply a systematic approach to food safety issues. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders In addition, ISO 9001 certified quality management systems help our units to identify and meet customer requirements, and systematically Our targets Sustainability improve product quality. Adopting the SDGs Human rights Certified sustainability in product stewardship In 2018, Stora Enso’s Wood Products division continued to be a member of the stakeholder committee of the Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP) certification system. The SBP certification system Social agenda enables verification of the legal and sustainable sources of wood Employees and wider workforce as well as energy and carbon data throughout the biomass supply chain. Our sawmills producing pellets as by-products also work with Community ENplus™ certification, which includes criteria for product quality, Business ethics wood origin, and greenhouse gas emissions. For unit-specific details of our sustainability certificates, see page 69. Environmental agenda Life cycle assessments and ecolabels Stora Enso’s experts collect product-specific life cycle inventory Materials, water, and energy (LCI) data, which is typically used in life cycle assessments (LCAs) Carbon dioxide conducted by our own experts, our customers, or brand owners. The environmental performance of our paper and board products Financials Forests, plantations, and land use is reported in line with the voluntary Paper Profile initiative. Paper Profiles have been calculated for all our paper and containerboard products, and all main paperboard products. Economic agenda More than 90% of our Paper division’s own brands are covered Customers by one or more recognised ecolabels, including the EU Ecolabel, the Nordic Ecolabel, and the German Blue Angel (Blauer Engel). Suppliers Many of our graphical board brands are also available as EU Ecolabel Investors certified. Ecolabel criteria cover the entire life cycle of a product, from the extraction of raw materials through to production, product use, and disposal. Ecolabels are voluntary tools created to help customers Data and assurance and consumers identify products and services with environmental excellence compared with other similar products. Reporting scope During 2018, our Packaging Solutions division focused on Data by production unit a deeper understanding of LCA impacts through selected product specific deep dives, for example the EcoFishBox™. This more Auditor’s assurance report detailed information has been valuable in interaction with customers Governance to truly understand the benefits of renewable packing solutions. Many Stora Enso products are sold as FSC or PEFC-certified, GRI Index which validates that they have been produced using wood from responsibly managed sources, and that the entire journey of the In 2018, Stora Enso joined H&M and IKEA in the TreeToTextile initiative which aims to develop new textile fibres in a sustainable way at attractive cost levels. 59 More than 90% of our paper Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda – Customers Strategy raw material – from forest to store shelf – has been verified by a third Annual Report 2018 party. For more information about our responsible forestry and forest certification work, see pages 49–54. brands are covered by ecolabels. Third-party verified Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) offer transparent information about the footprint of a product throughout its life cycle. Most Stora Enso’s wood products, such as Classic Sawn Timber and Cross Laminated Timber (CLT) have an EPD in place. EPDs are used by our customers to help optimise environmental performance using whole building LCA and to achieve Sustainability green building certification. In 2018, Stora Enso developed the capability to help our customers perform whole building LCAs. Governance Progress Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Continuous customer engagement Frankfurt and support ACE’s role as the industry’s voice towards Our targets Sustainability Customer needs are a key element in developing our products, EU policy makers. It will also closely collaborate with national Adopting the SDGs services, and processes. We identify these needs by collecting carton industry associations, member company initiatives and other systematic feedback from our customers and by exchanging stakeholders. Human rights expertise with them on various sustainability topics. When it comes Our Consumer Board division also works with the Paper Cup to new products, such as lignin and biocomposites, we collaborate Alliance, where Stora Enso is actively involved with many of our closely with customers to create applications that meet their needs customers and brand owners to facilitate recycling of these products Social agenda throughout the value chain. For example, our Biomaterials division is in the UK. Employees and wider workforce collaborating with the textile industry to create a more sustainable and traceable value chain for clothing products. Partnering with the food industry to combat food waste Community Biocomposite granule production began at our Hylte Mill in To help reduce food loss and waste globally, Stora Enso joined Food Business ethics Sweden in 2018. Consisting of wood fibres and synthetic polymers, Reform for Sustainability and Health (FReSH), an initiative by the these granules significantly reduce the amount of fossil-based raw World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and materials in plastic products. The DuraSense™ product family is EAT, which is the science-based global platform for food system Environmental agenda suitable for a wide range of applications from consumer goods transformation. With business solutions that are aligned with to industrial applications including furniture, pallets, hand tools, science-based targets, FReSH aims to create healthy, enjoyable food Materials, water, and energy automotive parts, beauty and lifestyle products, toys and items such for all, produced responsibly within planetary boundaries, by 2030. Carbon dioxide as kitchen utensils and bottle caps. Significant environmental benefits Renewable packaging plays a significant role in this value chain. can be achieved through taking customer insights onboard early in With safe and intelligent packaging, we can for example guarantee Financials Forests, plantations, and land use the product innovation process. In 2018, the Husqvarna Group named food safety, extend the shelf-life of products, or design right-sized Stora Enso its most innovative supplier. Together, the companies packaging to help cut food waste in smaller households. created a cone shaped box for chainsaws that has enabled Economic agenda Husqvarna to save on transportation costs and significantly reduce Sharing information as a responsible supplier Customers CO2 emissions in its logistics chain. By the end of 2018, 25 (26 in 2017) of Stora Enso’s production units We provide training and support for customers on sustainability were registered in the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). Suppliers How to consume in an environmentally friendly way topics. In 2018, Stora Enso conducted four Paper & Print Academy Sedex gives us a platform to share information with customers on Investors Consumers want to make the right environmental choices training sessions with over 60 participants from customer our compliance with the Ethical Trading Initiative’s base code and when they go shopping but how exactly do you go about it? companies. The sessions enable participants to follow the entire other key sustainability topics throughout the supply chain. Sedex How should we be thinking about the packages our purchases supply chain – from forest management and harvesting to the final makes it easy for suppliers to share sustainability information Data and assurance arrive in? paper product. They encourage discussions about certificates, with multiple customers in an agreed format and level of detail, “One helpful guideline is to avoid unnecessary packaging ecolabels, on-product labelling, and efficient ways to print and reducing the need for individual systems and queries. We update Reporting scope and buy products and packaging you can reuse or recycle. convert certified paper. the sustainability information regularly in the Sedex platform. When Data by production unit Another aspect to keep in mind is to prefer renewable our units are audited through Sedex Member Ethical Data Audits materials”, says Tiina Pursula, Director of Sustainability, Enhancing paper cup recycling processes in Europe (SMETA), they make the summary audit reports visible to customers Auditor’s assurance report Consumer Board division, Stora Enso. Our Consumer Board division continues to support the Alliance in the platform. Governance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (ACE). In 2018, ACE Stora Enso is also a member of the ethical supplier rating system launched a dedicated platform across Europe to drive the industry’s Ecovadis. In January 2019, we obtained a score of 82/100 and were GRI Index Listen to the podcast at storaenso.com/en/inspiration-centre engagement in beverage carton recycling, including the non-paper included in the top 1% of industry supplier performers, achieving the components of packages. The new platform will be based in highest recognition level, Gold. 60 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Suppliers Strategy Suppliers 95% Annual Report 2018 In addition to wood and fibre, Stora Enso sources other raw materials, products, and services from over 20 000 suppliers of supplier spend was covered globally. We have strict sustainability requirements for all of them. by our Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Opportunities and challenges Our targets Driving change in our supply chains Sustainability Adopting the SDGs As a global business with an extensive worldwide supplier base, Stora Enso can use its purchasing power to drive its suppliers to make Human rights their operations more sustainable. This helps create a larger pool of more sustainable suppliers globally. On the other hand, developing a comprehensive understanding of a supplier’s sustainability Social agenda performance remains a challenge, even with very strict sourcing Employees and wider workforce processes in place. Although Stora Enso works in a variety of regulatory environments, Community we consistently respond to the demands of our stakeholders Business ethics concerning transparency and the sustainability performance of our suppliers. Similarly, we are looking for ways to address the growing stakeholder demand for less plastic when sourcing materials. Environmental agenda Digitalisation brings new opportunities to increase supply chain transparency. Imposing sustainability requirements on our direct Materials, water, and energy suppliers encourages them to develop their capacity to meet such Carbon dioxide new demands and improve their overall performance. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report In 2018, we began using sustainability criteria in every Governance GRI Index tender, for both new and existing suppliers. 61 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Suppliers Strategy Our policies Annual Report 2018 Our process for responsible sourcing Strong guidance for responsible sourcing Risk assessments and audits can be conducted prior to The Stora Enso Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) is the cornerstone pre-qualification and at any stage of the supplier contract. of our approach to responsible sourcing. The code is a legally binding document that imposes supplier sustainability requirements on human and labour rights, occupational health and safety, environmental commitments, and responsible business practices. It applies to all our sourcing categories globally. Sustainability Risk Several other Stora Enso policies and documents also support assessment responsible sourcing, including our: Governance • Sourcing Policy – our statement on the sourcing framework and Strategy, governance, and stakeholders objectives at Stora Enso. • Sourcing Guideline – defines how sourcing should be executed, Our targets Pre-qualification Sustainability managed, and controlled. for new suppliers* Adopting the SDGs • Practical Instructions for Stora Enso Suppliers – detailed guidance and examples on the topics included in the SCoC. Human rights • Comprehensive internal guidance for our Sourcing and Logistics Specify business need Tender Contract personnel to help them address challenges related to sustainability. • Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land Management – Social agenda includes standards that apply to our wood and fibre suppliers. Sustainability • Environmental Guidelines – guidance on how to reduce our criteria in tenders Employees and wider workforce environmental impact through sourcing. Community • Human Rights Policy, Energy and Carbon Policy, Occupational Business ethics Health and Safety Policy – include commitments that apply to our suppliers. CAP follow-up Audit and and supplier corrective action Environmental agenda How we work development plan (CAP) Materials, water, and energy Supporting supplier sustainability Carbon dioxide Materials and products sourced by Stora Enso include wood and fibre-based materials such as pulp and Paper for Recycling Financials Forests, plantations, and land use * Not all pre-qualified suppliers enter our sourcing process. (PfR), chemicals, fillers, energy, fuels, and spare parts, as well as We purchase materials such as pulp, chemicals, and fillers to make the best out of our raw material, wood. maintenance, logistics, and IT services. In 2018, purchases of materials, goods, and services represented 50% of our total variable Economic agenda cost (49% in 2017) while fibre procurement accounted for 50% (51%). Customers For Stora Enso, responsible sourcing means drawing on our deep commitment to sustainability and proactively driving change in our a questionnaire, submit confirmation of their compliance with our or thorough reviews help us better understand the operations, Suppliers supply chains. We address the concerns of key stakeholders, comply SCoC, and complete our safety management online training. Our opportunities, and challenges of a supply chain related to a specific Investors with regulatory frameworks, adhere to best practices, and manage suppliers are also asked to provide information about their own topic or category. They also serve the information needs of our supply risks. These principles are put into practice every day by our suppliers, including sub-suppliers operating in high-risk countries. customers. In addition, we conduct on-site visits and focused employees working with sourcing. In 2018, we began using sustainability criteria in the tendering audits to monitor and improve supplier sustainability performance. Data and assurance Sourcing is a centrally led function at Stora Enso, serving the entire phase of our sourcing process and collecting data on supplier Focused audits are conducted based on risk assessments or Group and enabling clear and transparent decision-making. Sourcing performance. Suppliers now need to respond to a set of questions concerns raised by our stakeholders. Reporting scope initiatives are reviewed and resolved by dedicated committees that about their financial stability, accident rates, and carbon dioxide (CO2) Stora Enso’s supplier sustainability risk mapping tool, created in Data by production unit meet when the sourcing need is specified, during the tendering emissions, which contributes to our ambitious science-based targets. collaboration with an international non-profit organisation, supports process, and when a contract is drafted. These criteria are part of every tender, regardless of previous contracts our purchasers in making risk assessments. This tool was updated in Auditor’s assurance report All suppliers wishing to do business with Stora Enso must first with the same supplier. 2018 to provide a more detailed risk assessment of sub-categories Governance pre-qualify, during tendering, or at the latest before a contract such as the different energy forms under the sourcing category is drafted. Instead of using our own supplier numbering, we use Risk mapping and auditing for energy. Based on a pre-evaluation of a supplier’s social and GRI Index D-U-N-S® numbering, which is a globally recognised system for In addition to enforcing our SCoC, we help our suppliers improve environmental risk profile, they may be selected for a third-party identifying companies. To pre-qualify, suppliers must complete their sustainability performance. Our topic-based “deep dives” sustainability audit, conducted together with our purchaser. 62 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Suppliers Strategy Supplier non-conformances Annual Report 2018 Any suspected SCoC non-conformances brought to our attention Buying with care through our many grievance channels are investigated and followed Ensuring that all our over 20 000 suppliers are committed to up. Similarly, any non-conformances identified during audits are sustainability is a challenge like no other, but by supporting them followed up with supplier meetings where the findings are discussed, in this process we can help bring about powerful change. Every and corrective action plans devised. Suppliers must sign up to day this ambitious task is driven by our employees in charge these plans, and our purchasers follow up on their implementation. of purchasing. If a supplier does not take the necessary corrective actions, new “It’s vital that you know the product or service you’re buying,” discussions are held to examine the reasons, and at a higher says Markus Koskinen, Procurement Manager in charge of Sustainability management level if necessary. In cases when a supplier is not willing domestic land transports from our mills in northern Finland. “Not to improve their performance, the relationship is terminated. only is it important to understand things like pricing and product quality, but a purchaser must also know what can be expected of Governance Contractors the supplier – regarding human rights, for example.” Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Some of our suppliers are contractors hired for long-term work, such as forest and plantation management, and others on a shorter-term Our targets Sustainability basis, for example in large-scale investment or mill maintenance Adopting the SDGs projects. Our SCoC and sourcing process applies to all contractors. While contractors are primarily responsible for their own employees, Human rights we strive to ensure that everyone working on our premises is treated fairly and receives adequate safety training. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Social agenda Pulp procurement Employees and wider workforce Most of the pulp used in Stora Enso’s operations is produced internally at our mills. For quality and logistical reasons, a small Community proportion of the pulp for our paper and board production is Business ethics purchased from external suppliers. As with wood procurement, we ensure that all the pulp we purchase is sustainably sourced by applying third-party-verified traceability systems and forest Environmental agenda certification systems, and by complying with the relevant regulations. For more information about our approach to sustainable wood Materials, water, and energy procurement, see page 50. Progress screening our active suppliers using the updated tool, we identified 239 Carbon dioxide high-risk suppliers. By the end of 2018, about 7% of high-risk suppliers Paper for Recycling New sustainability criteria in tenders were audited. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Stora Enso sources paper for recycling (PfR) from local authorities Stora Enso’s key performance indicator (KPI) for responsible sourcing In 2018, we also began efforts to automate the collection of supplier and waste management companies. For more details of our PfR use, measures the proportion of our total supplier spend covered by our sustainability performance data, starting with their carbon footprints. see page 35. SCoC, including all categories and regions. By the end of 2018, 95% The goal is to use search robotics and artificial intelligence to access Economic agenda of Stora Enso’s total spend on materials, goods, and services was CO2 data in publicly available supplier reporting. In our initial screening, Customers covered (95% at the end of 2017), which meets our target to maintain slightly over 200 out of our approximately 1 300 top suppliers by spend the level of 95%. Joint operations, intellectual property rights (IPR), had publicly reported their CO2 data. Suppliers leasing fees, financial trading, government fees such as customs, and Safety Trail is a safety capacity building e-learning tool for existing Investors wood purchases from private individual forest owners are not included suppliers and a mandatory element in the pre-qualification process for Breakdown of raw material and service costs in our total supplier spend. potential suppliers. At least one management-level employee of the % of our total variable costs In 2018, we began using sustainability criteria in the tender phase supplier must complete the training and commit to sharing it within Data and assurance of each sourcing process and by year-end, they were included in the their organisation. Our target for 2018 was to cover 75% of our total Fibre1 50% majority of tenders. These criteria will help us make more balanced supplier spend, and this target was achieved with a coverage of 80% Reporting scope Logistics and commissions 16% sourcing decisions and create incentives for our suppliers to invest by year end. Data by production unit Chemicals and fillers 14% in sustainability reporting. Supplier responses to our inquiries show In 2018, we improved our systematic analysis of supplier data to Energy 10% that many do not collect this data or are not familiar with it. On the identify suppliers with a statistically higher accident rate than average, Auditor’s assurance report other hand, many have also indicated they will begin measuring the made possible by our Group-wide reporting platform that provides Governance Production services and materials 10% requested data. more data than was previously available. We discussed the results with We updated our risk assessment tool in 2018 to provide a the relevant suppliers and will follow up on their safety performance. GRI Index more detailed risk assessment of sub-categories, conducted by For more information about Stora Enso’s approach to occupational 1 Wood, Paper for Recycling and purchased pulp internal experts, and to have more of a focus on human rights. After safety, see page 18. 63 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Suppliers Strategy Annual Report 2018 “Integrating human rights into supply chain management is a daunting task. Stora Enso is taking a strategic and pragmatic approach, Sustainability but I encourage them to continuously look for ways to improve their work.” Governance Peter Nestor Director, Human Rights Strategy, governance, and stakeholders BSR Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics criteria. Many coal suppliers in the Chinese market are not familiar Environmental agenda with detailed sustainability requirements such as our Supplier Code of Conduct, which makes the search for the ideal supplier Materials, water, and energy challenging. However, after several attempts, we made progress in Carbon dioxide 2018 in pre-qualifying alternative coal mines with potentially better sustainability performance than our current supplier. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Sourcing sugar industry by-products in the USA Stora Enso’s demonstration plant in Raceland, Louisiana, USA, Economic agenda Focused supplier audits are conducted based on risk assessments or concerns raised by our stakeholders. validates extraction and separation technologies by converting Customers cellulosic biomass into highly refined xylose sugars. The first batches of xylose were produced in 2018. For feedstock, the demonstration Suppliers plant purchases bagasse, a residual from the sugar-making process, Investors Continued focus on risk-based supplier audits Sourcing developments in China and the USA from a nearby sugar mill. In 2018, Stora Enso’s third-party supplier audits continued to focus on Due to the seasonal nature of the work and the shortage of suppliers with heightened sustainability risk, as identified by our risk Coal sourcing for Beihai Mill in China available local workers, the sugar industry in Louisiana is dependent Data and assurance assessment tool. Other focus areas were the chemical value chain, In southern China, coal is currently the only feasible energy source on seasonal foreign migrant workers for harvesting, transporting, energy sourcing, and people-intensive sourcing categories such as for an industrial facility as large as Stora Enso’s Beihai Mill. However, and sugar-making during a compressed 100-day period of Reporting scope service providers and land logistics. as part of our long-term planning, we are investigating opportunities production. Since there is no federal legislation in the United Data by production unit During 2018, we conducted a total of 52 third-party supplier audits to use more renewable energy – for more information, see page 46. States, nor state legislation in Louisiana to directly limit maximum (26 in 2017). These audits revealed non-conformances particularly In 2018, we continued to look for more sustainable alternatives to coal. working hours, Stora Enso has been monitoring labour rights in its Auditor’s assurance report related to working hours, basic worker rights, and emergency Following a thorough mineral supply chain audit in China, a rare bagasse supply chain for several years to ensure that working hour Governance preparedness. Several non-conformances were also related to missing opportunity in the country, we continued to follow up on corrective schedules do not have adverse impacts on worker health and safety. documentation and policies. No supplier relationships needed to be actions in 2018. Unfortunately, not enough improvement was made In 2018, we continued to monitor and support our bagasse supplier GRI Index terminated in 2018 (none in 2017). 23 supplier visits were conducted by our current supplier and we continued to look for alternative in adopting our SCoC requirements, while continuously pushing using the purchaser checklist template introduced in 2017. coal suppliers with the aim to identify a supplier that best fulfils our for improvements. 64 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Investors Strategy Annual Report 2018 Investors ESG was discussed in We aim to keep investors informed about our progress and future direction with consistent and transparent communications and reporting. 7% of investor meetings Sustainability Opportunities and challenges Governance Sustainability changing the investment industry Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Investors are increasingly recognising the importance of corporate sustainability in their investment decision-making by exploring ways Our targets Sustainability to integrate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance Adopting the SDGs into their investment strategies. In addition to the growing interest in sustainability aspects, investors perceive sustainability as Human rights a valuable growth driver for companies and sustainability reporting as an important tool in identifying investment opportunities that can generate long-term shareholder value. Hence, companies are Social agenda encouraged to aim for more sustainable operations. Simultaneously, Employees and wider workforce investors expect financial rewards from their investments. At Stora Enso, we believe that long-term financial success results Community from truly sustainable operations. Stora Enso’s Investor Relations Business ethics work is guided by several laws and regulations, including the EU’s Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), the Finnish Securities Markets Act, Nasdaq rules in Helsinki and Stockholm, and the standards of the Environmental agenda Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority. Materials, water, and energy Our policies Carbon dioxide Guiding our Investor Relations Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Company policies and guidelines related to Stora Enso’s Investor Relations include our: • Disclosure Policy – a set of rules covering all our communications Economic agenda with investors and other stakeholders. Encompasses insider Customers guidelines, closed periods, communications governance, and communications procedures. Suppliers • The Stora Enso Code – the Stora Enso Code of Conduct, applied Investors to all our operations around the world, including Investor Relations. Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Stora Enso has the long-term aim to secure funding partners Governance GRI Index that have sustainability as a fundamental part of their agenda. 65 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Investors Strategy How we work Annual Report 2018 Sustainability as a key metric Many investors today are committed to integrating ESG factors into their investments. Aspects of sustainability, such as global warming and sustainable forest management, are important to Stora Enso’s investors. Our main shareholders are long-term investors that place high value on sustainable business practices and continuously monitor and evaluate our performance. For more information on Sustainability how we create value with a sustainable business model, see our Strategy 2018. For details of Stora Enso’s ownership distribution see our Financials 2018. Governance Timely and transparent communication with investors is a top Strategy, governance, and stakeholders priority for Stora Enso. We actively maintain open dialogue with our investors on ESG matters through face-to-face meetings, conference Our targets Sustainability calls, seminars, and webcasts. We also regularly share updated Adopting the SDGs information on our sustainability performance with our investors in our Interim and Annual Reports, stakeholder letters, web updates, and Human rights investor newsletters. We regularly participate in sustainability events of Not just talk: the role of business interest to investors. For more information about our investor relations, in combatting global warming see storaenso.com/investors. “Things do not get done unless they are measured,” says our Social agenda Stora Enso’s Sustainable Finance strategy is an integrated part CFO Seppo Parvi. “It’s important to make sure that climate Employees and wider workforce of our overall strategy. Stora Enso should have access to sufficient efforts are not talk only, but that they become a part of the and competitively priced funding at any time to be able to pursue company’s daily work. Setting targets and reporting on them Community its strategy and achieve its targets. In order to accomplish this, are proof of our progress. Making targets public also creates Business ethics our emphasis is on debt capital markets funding. In the long-term, pressure to reach those targets, to stay on track – or to publicly Stora Enso’s aim is to secure funding partners that have sustainability explain why they were not reached.” as a fundamental part of their agenda. We aim at contributing to Environmental agenda a scenario where the sustainability of business is a key metric for credit risk assessment. We aim to influence and develop the financial markets Materials, water, and energy to ensure that sustainability becomes an integral part of decisions and Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Investors are increasingly recognising the importance of corporate sustainability Carbon dioxide credit evaluation. in their decision-making. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Progress Green funding at Stora Enso Customers In 2018, Stora Enso launched a Green Bond Framework as part of ESG topics embedded in investor relations activities its Sustainable Finance approach. The ambition is to offer a type of Suppliers In 2018, ESG topics were discussed in 7% of all Stora Enso investor loan that supports sustainability-focused fixed-income investors, Investors activities. More than 60 external participants, representing 9% of and to report the direct environmental impacts of some investments all participants, joined these discussions in one-to-one meetings, and business activities. Stora Enso strives to build confidence and conference calls, a group meeting, and a webinar. The focus was on a track record with fixed-income investors by being informative Data and assurance Stora Enso’s sustainability strategy and activities. and transparent. In December 2017, Stora Enso signed a Revolving @storaenso October 24 During the year, we also continued our strategy to enhance Credit Facility (RCF) loan where part of the pricing is based on Reporting scope the availability of ESG information to investors, and to prioritise Stora Enso’s ability to reduce greenhouse gas emissions per tonne Reasonable assurance for data & externally Stora Enso’s participation in questionnaires and assessments for the of pulp, paper, and board produced, in accordance with the Science Data by production unit verified targets can contribute to better financing ESG index and ratings schemes that are most material for our investors. Based Targets initiative. Auditor’s assurance report decisions. Stora Enso’s ability to deliver on its In September 2018, Stora Enso’s CFO signed an A4S Statement The Green Bond Framework is aligned with the 2017 version of the Governance #ScienceBasedTargets has been tied to the pricing of of Support to promote improved disclosure of climate risks and Green Bond Principles (GBP) published by the International Capital a revolving credit facility. @MorrinNoel #CMsingapore18 opportunities. The Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force Markets Association (ICMA). To confirm such alignment, Stora Enso GRI Index @wbcsd on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommends commissioned Sustainalytics as an external reviewer to provide a framework for disclosing climate related risks and opportunities a third-party opinion on the framework. that goes beyond current practices. 66 ESG indices and other external recognition in 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Economic agenda – External recognition Strategy Annual Report 2018 Euronext Vigeo OMX GES Sustainability Finland index Sustainability Reporting Awards Finland Stora Enso is listed in the Euronext Stora Enso is included in the NASDAQ Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report Vigeo World, Europe, and Eurozone 120 OMX and GES Investment Service’s OMX 2017 was ranked best by the media indices as one of the 120 most advanced GES Sustainability Finland index. in a competition organised by seven companies in terms of environmental, not-for-profit organisations representing Sustainability social, and governance performance. various sectors of society. The report was STOXX ESG indices short-listed among the 10 best reports in Stora Enso is included in several the overall competition. Governance FTSE4Good Index STOXX ESG indices. These indices Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Stora Enso is included in the FTSE4Good rate leading global companies Index Series. These indices measure according to environmental, social, ReportWatch Our targets Sustainability the performance of companies that and governance criteria. Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report 2017, Adopting the SDGs meet globally recognised corporate part of our Annual Report, was included in responsibility standards. ReportWatch’s Best Practices in Annual Human rights Ethibel Sustainability Reporting. In 2018, Forum Ethibel included ECPI Ethical Indices Stora Enso in the Ethibel PIONEER Social agenda Stora Enso is included in the ECPI Investment Register which indicates that WBCSD Employees and wider workforce EMU Ethical Equity index, which the company can be qualified as a sector Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report 2017 covers environmental, social, leader in terms of Corporate Social was included in the top ten sustainability Community and governance criteria. Responsibility (CSR). Stora Enso is also reports globally according to the 2018 Business ethics listed in the Ethibel Sustainability Index Reporting matters publication by the Excellence Europe. World Business Council for Sustainable ISS-oekom Research Development (WBCSD). Environmental agenda Stora Enso is classified as “Prime” by ISS-oekom Research’s environmental, Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI) Materials, water, and energy social, and governance rating In 2018, Stora Enso was top-ranked Sustainable Brand Index Carbon dioxide methodology. In 2018, Stora Enso also in greenhouse gas management and SUSTAINABLE BRAND INDEX B2B Stora Enso was ranked “Industry Leader received the best possible Environmental performance by the TPI. An asset owner2018” in the Sustainable Brand Index™ Financials Forests, plantations, and land use & Social quality score by the Institutional led and asset manager-supported global B2B, which is the largest brand study on Shareholder Services (ISS). initiative, the TPI assesses companies’ sustainability in the Nordics. preparedness for transition to a low Economic agenda carbon economy, supporting efforts to Customers MSCI address climate change. Equileap Stora Enso is included in several of Stora Enso was ranked number 12 globally Suppliers MSCI’s ESG indices. and the best performing Finnish company Investors CDP in gender balance and gender equality CDP has included Stora Enso on its new by Equileap, an organisation set up to Ecovadis 2018 Climate A List, which identifies accelerate progress toward gender equality Data and assurance Stora Enso was included in the top 1% the global companies that are taking at work. (industry suppliers) of the Ecovadis ethical leadership in climate action. Reporting scope supplier rating system, and achieved the Data by production unit highest recognition level (Gold). Most sustainable company 2018 In November 2018 Stora Enso was ranked Auditor’s assurance report as the most sustainable listed company Governance in Sweden by Dagens Industri, Aktuell Hållbarhet, and Lund University School GRI Index of Economics and Management. 67 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Data and assurance Strategy Annual Report 2018 Data and Sustainability assurance Governance Sustainability 2018 is assured by an Strategy, governance, and stakeholders independent third-party assurance Our targets provider with a level of limited assurance. Sustainability Adopting the SDGs A level of Reasonable Assurance has been Human rights provided for our direct and indirect fossil CO2e emissions. Social agenda Reporting scope 68 Employees and wider workforce Community Data by production unit 69 Business ethics Auditor’s assurance report 72 Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 68 Reporting scope Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Reporting scope Strategy supply company in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil was completed during Annual Report 2018 the second quarter. For more information on the Group’s acquisitions and disposals, see note 4 in Financials 2018. Our principle in our environmental and energy reporting is At Stora Enso, we regularly review the priorities that new production units are included in the reporting after in our Sustainability Agenda and ensure that production has started. In 2018, our Packaging Solutions division inaugurated a new corrugated packaging unit in Wujin, our reporting duly addresses them. When China, and our Wood Products division started the production defining the materiality of issues impacting our of biocomposites in Hylte, Sweden. Both new units are included Sustainability sustainable business model, we consider the in the reporting. In our environmental and energy reporting, divestments and expectations of our major internal and external closures are managed according to the international Greenhouse Governance stakeholders. For more information on our Gas Protocol. This means that figures for historical performance are recalculated following the removal of divested units from the Strategy, governance, and stakeholders approach to materiality, see page 7. baseline when necessary. However, closed units are maintained in Our targets Sustainability the environment and energy target and trend calculation baselines Adopting the SDGs as per the internationally accepted rules. Human rights Data boundaries In accordance with the GRI Standards Unless otherwise stated, the Group’s consolidated performance Our reporting is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: data expressed in this report covers the parent company, Stora Enso Core option. This means that our reporting covers all the General Social agenda Oyj, and all companies in which we hold over 50% of voting rights Disclosures, as well as the Topic-specific Standards we deem Employees and wider workforce directly or indirectly. The consolidated figures and reporting on human material. Our GRI Content Index lists our disclosures with reference rights, occupational safety, community, and forests, plantations, to the GRI Standards, and refers to the locations (supported by Community and land use also include the 50% owned joint operations Veracel URL links) where these issues are addressed in our reporting. Business ethics in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay, due to their materiality The location references are complemented in the index with to the Group’s sustainability impacts and stakeholder interest. additional information, such as explanations on reasons for Otherwise the consolidated figures do not include equity-accounted omissions as necessary. Environmental agenda investments where Stora Enso’s ownership is between 20% and 50%, Impacts that make sustainability topics relevant to us may or companies in which our ownership share is less than 20%. occur outside Stora Enso, or they may only be material for some of Materials, water, and energy Consolidated environmental and energy data covers our our operations or locations. When our reporting on a sustainability Carbon dioxide production units. Stora Enso’s sawmills and converting facilities are disclosure only concerns specific units, geographical regions or other excluded from water, energy, and certain CO2 indicators that are data collection boundaries, based on the identified materiality, this is Financials Forests, plantations, and land use normalised per tonne of sales production unless otherwise specified specified in connection with the respective disclosure. in the respective footnotes. This is due to the lower materiality of sawmills and converting facilities in the Group’s related performance External assurance Economic agenda and different metric for sales production (cubic metre and square This report has been verified by an independent third-party Customers metre, respectively), compared with board, pulp and paper assurance provider in accordance with the voluntary external assurance mills (tonnes). practices followed in sustainability reporting. The assurance report Suppliers Human Resources (HR) data is derived from separately collected appears on page 72. PwC has provided a limited level of assurance Investors statistics. Unlike in our financial reporting, consolidated HR data in covering the entire contents of this report, based on an assessment of this Sustainability report excludes employees of our 50% owned joint materiality and risk. For the fourth year running, a level of reasonable operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. The HR data presented assurance has been provided for Stora Enso’s reporting on direct and Data and assurance covers our permanent and temporary employees as of 31 December indirect fossil CO2e emissions (Scopes 1 and 2). 2018 and are expressed as a headcount (rounded to the nearest 10). Reporting scope Certain administrative functions and sales offices are not included in The UN Global Compact Data by production unit the Group’s consolidated occupational health and safety (OHS) data Stora Enso supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global due to data availability and lower occupational safety risk compared Compact, an initiative set up in 2000 to encourage businesses Auditor’s assurance report to production units. worldwide to embed responsibility into their operations. We respect Governance and promote these principles throughout our operations, and report Significant changes in scope during 2018 on our progress in this report. We annually upload our Communication GRI Index During 2018, there were no significant organisational changes on Progress to the UN Global Compact website as a public record of affecting our sustainability reporting. The divestment of the wood our commitment. 69 Data by production unit Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Data by production unit Strategy Annual Report 2018 This table presents unit-specific information on environmental performance, production, certificates and numbers of employees. Joint operations are excluded. FDA Sustainability Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions ISO 14001 ISO 22000 FSSC 22000 ISO 50001 OHSAS 18001 FSC® CoC PEFCTM CoC Governance ISO 9001 Process Carbon neutral Process Number of Production Recovered waste to Hazardous NOx as Direct Indirect CO2, on-site CO2, biomass water Strategy, governance, and stakeholders employeesa) capacityb) Products fibrec) landfill wasted) SO2e) NO2 CO2f) CO2f) transportationf) fuelsf) COD AOX Phosphorus Nitrogen discharges Our targets Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Sustainability Belgium Adopting the SDGs Langerbrugge 338 555 4 x x x x x x x 11 239 58 2 303 123 512 22 626 1 433 482 312 1 112 0.7 3.5 11.5 6 865 Human rights China Beihai 418 470 1 x x x x x x x 255 14 214 224 467 372 77 898 1 049 37 863 183 0.8 13.4 4 293 Dawang 222 140 4 x x x x x 1 118 252 2 45 1.4 968 Dongguan 1 196 30* 3 x x x x 5 5 517 6 14 0.0 0.6 Social agenda Jiashan 399 20* 3 x x x x 3 1 558 9 0.0 0.0 0.0 6 Qian´an 1 901 25* 3 x x x x 6 8 667 68 1 Employees and wider workforce Wujing) 225 5* 3 1 135 Community Estonia Tallinn 35 18* 3 x x x x 10 81 790 24 1 Business ethics Finlandh) Anjala/Ingerois 569 435/280 4 1 x x xi) x x x x 89 5 277 94 508 114 680 1 497 158 788 4 377 6.9 176.3 10 120 Enocell 263 490 2 x x x x x x 6 945 57 87 912 55 137 -1 471 158 1 449 845 8 340 54.6 3.9 55.7 21 460 Environmental agenda Heinola Fluting 175 300 1 x x x x x x x 1 024 170 608 319 132 950 9 596 160 181 916 1 260 2.4 35.3 1 294 Imatra 1 318 1 200 1 2 x x x x x x x x x 484 325 106 2 158 193 938 66 271 1 566 2 178 384 19 596 94.0 15.0 200.0 62 111 Materials, water, and energy Kristiinankaupunki 51 20* 3 x x x x x x 192 80 7 1 Lahti 283 130* 3 x x x x x x 343 5 488 198 6 0.0 0.3 27 Carbon dioxide Oulu 762 1 080 4 2 x x x x x x 13 290 383 1 029 262 707 30 185 2 901 1 117 530 7 580 39.3 9.8 75.0 17 741 Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Sunila 232 375 2 5 x x x x x x 4 870 154 103 669 27 304 5 300 439 807 955 4 825 30.0 5.5 14.9 12 921 Varkaus 307 390 1 x x x x x x x x 2 570 168 95 566 63 011 16 872 323 748 327 1 685 3.2 58.0 14 932 Veitsiluoto 536 790 4 x x x x x x 460 29 316 997 201 255 43 436 296 1 069 672 8 559 24.3 6.0 134.0 10 211 Germany Economic agenda Maxau 426 530 4 x x x x x x x 5 425 1 290 99 854 141 090 3 324 029 1 717 0.4 3.5 12.6 5 584 Sachsen 251 310 4 2 x x x x x x x 2 3 148 169 671 2 159 836 34 736 709 0.4 0.4 13.3 3 657 Customers Latvia Suppliers Riga 159 105* 3 x x x x x 72 2 2 594 190 15 Lithuania Investors Kaunas 54 20* 3 x x x x 3 274 61 3 Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 70 FDA Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Data by production unit Strategy Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions Annual Report 2018 ISO 14001 ISO 22000 FSSC 22000 ISO 50001 OHSAS 18001 FSC® CoC PEFCTM CoC ISO 9001 Process Carbon neutral Process Number of Production Recovered waste to Hazardous NOx as Direct Indirect CO2, on-site CO2, biomass water employeesa) capacityb) Products fibrec) landfill wasted) SO2e) NO2 CO2f) CO2f) transportationf) fuelsf) COD AOX Phosphorus Nitrogen discharges Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Poland Łódz 267 135* 3 x x x x x x 1 3 3 062 9 466 Mosina 104 20* 3 x x x x x x 63 441 1 818 31 1 Sustainability Ostrołeka Corrugatedj) 256 145* 3 x x x x x x x 27 111 342 309 067 201 044 1 782 426 471 918 5.6 18.3 8 750 j) Ostrołeka Containerboardj) 999 723 1 4 x x x x x 2 12 448 111 Tychy 161 135* 3 x x x x x x 5 2 761 5 296 163 13 Governance Russia Arzamas 168 100* 3 x x x x 16 9 1 5 3 602 14 179 81 9 0.0 0.4 29 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Balabanovo 342 165* 3 x x x x 84 5 1 2 4 675 21 359 108 12 0.1 0.4 28 Our targets Lukhovitsy 135 100* 3 x x x x 61 3 2 2 546 13 975 113 3 0.0 0.1 20 Sustainability Sweden Adopting the SDGs Falu Rödfärg k) 6 x x 8 309 1 480 Fors 573 455 1 x x x x x x x 160 5 104 87 616 265 252 1 671 0.5 1.7 27.9 4 204 Human rights Hylte 420l) 480 4 x x x x x x x 27 980 51 122 4 451 156 1 027 252 258 907 1.4 2.0 19.7 5 514 Jönköping 180 100* 3 x x x 33 200 498 42 10 Kvarnsveden 473 550 4 x x x x x x 155 15 105 27 227 274 12 216 133 1 924 0.5 2.1 46.5 7 901 Social agenda Nymölla 575 485 4 2 x x x x x x 158 509 486 -496 54 1 664 754 394 11 581 0.5 8.4 73.5 29 100 Skene 145 100* 3 x x x 1 20 39 15 Employees and wider workforce Skoghall 734 875 1 2 x x x x x x x x 6 355 1 513 133 498 50 121 137 1 695 936 458 8 599 14.6 9.9 94.5 25 564 Community Skoghall (Forshaga) 106 120 1 x x x x x x x x x 4 2 223 4 309 Skutskär 394 540 2 x x x x x x 10 179 742 136 27 1 586 1 613 010 4 798 38.5 19.5 96.7 19 460 Business ethics Vikingstad 66 75* 3 x x x 1 1 014 46 1 23 Total board, pulp, paper, 11 573 m) 62 371 12 725 2 876 10 305 2 303 004 950 887 20 607 13 055 331 90 430 299.7 110.3 1 180.3 272 840 converted products Environmental agenda Total, wood products n) Wood products unitsn) o) o) o) o) o) o) o) o) o) 6 243 803 25 536 3 861 106 428 16 530 505 511 Materials, water, and energy Grand Total Carbon dioxide All units 68 615 13 528 2 901 10 841 2 306 864 1 057 315 37 137 13 560 843 90 430 299.7 110.3 1 180.3 272 840 Financials Forests, plantations, and land use a) At year-end. h) Also includes those employees of our maintenance company Efora Oy that are Products: b) Production capacities of integrated board, pulp, and paper mills only include paper located on site. 1 board and packaging paper and board production capacities. i) Only covers board production at Ingerois. 2 market pulp c) Mills using recovered fibre as raw material (fully or partly). j) Water discharges reported together from both Ostrołeka units. 3 converted products (e.g. cores, corrugated board) Economic agenda d) Reported on the basis of country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. e) Total sulphur is reported as sulphur dioxide (SO2) equilevant, but includes all k) Does not have its own personnel but hires personnel from Stora Enso AB. l) Number of biocomposite production line employees is included. See separate table 4 paper 5 lignin sulphurous compounds. for Wood Products units for biocomposite production data. 6 red paint pigment Customers f) All CO2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and m) Excluding total corrugated board capacity 1 428 million m2. Scope 2 Guidance. n) Production capacities for sawn timber 5 197 000 m3 and for wood pellets 369 000 t. The figure 0 (zero) in the table signifies that such discharges, emissions, or waste did Suppliers g) Wujin Mill began operation in June 2018. o) See separate table for Wood Products units. not occur or they were below the Group’s reporting threshold. Where cells are left blank, this signifies that the parameter is considered as not relevant for that unit. Investors Up-to-date certificate information can be found at storaenso.com/certificates * million m2 Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 71 Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Data by production unit Strategy Capacities Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions Annual Report 2018 Process Carbon neutral Number of Sawn Further Wood ISO ISO ISO OHSAS FSC® PEFCTM waste to Hazardous NOx as Direct Indirect CO2, on-site CO2 biomass employeesa) products processed CLT pellets LVL Biocomposite 9001 14001 50001 18001 CoC CoC SBP landfill wasteb) SO2c) NO2 CO2d) CO2d) transportationd) fuelsd) Unit 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 t 1 000 m3 1 000 t t t t t t t t t Wood products units Austria Bad St. Leonhard 248 350 105 80 x x x x x x 47 4 1 Brand 207 440 260 x x x x x x 32 1 Ybbs 394 610 440 90 x x x x x x 56 1 Sustainability Czech Republic Planá 243 370 220 x x x x x x 513 28 1.3 54 1 964 28 006 Ždírec 277 550 220 75 x x x x x x 3 702 35 0.7 159 2 192 126 337 Governance Estonia Imavere 326 340 160 100 x x x x x x x 46 77 5.4 54 49 363 1 834 59 111 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Näpi 92 47 160 14 x x x x x x 21 11 0.6 6 27 12 644 340 7 339 Finland Our targets Sustainability Honkalahti 116 310 70 x x x x x x 2 27 67 3 541 678 38 893 Adopting the SDGs Kitee 98 260 110 25 x x x x x x 10 15 0.3 17 2 536 478 37 707 Uimaharju 68 240 20 x x x x x x 38 2 862 745 1 479 Human rights Varkaus 120 150 10 70 x x x x x x 33 67 6 154 677 Veitsiluotoe) 55 200 x x x x x x 9.0 20 5 560 615 Germany Social agenda Pfarrkirchen 102 145 x x x x x x 20 2.0 14 260 6 245 Latvia Employees and wider workforce Launkalne 133 190 20 x x x x x x 534 4 31 538 1 736 2 25 060 Lithuania Community Alytus 236 200 x x x x x x 28 1.9 15 2 626 1 165 28 089 90 Business ethics The Netherlands Amsterdam 42 80 x x x x x x 16 1 13 1 005 1 Poland Murow 278 250 210 x x x x x x 275 2.7 15 1 15 570 Environmental agenda Russia Impilahti 112 140 10 20 x x x x x x 9 4 458 1 185 19 467 Materials, water, and energy Nebolchi 176 180 45 40 x x x x x x x 1 369 0.5 47 8 295 1 146 27 695 Carbon dioxide Sweden Ala 161 370 95 x x x x x x 60 0.7 63 10 1 852 84 513 Financials 50 Forests, plantations, and land use Gruvön 178 52 x x x x x x 9 3 216 5 573 1 391 Hylte 10 15 x x x x x x 67 Wood products units total 5 197 2 477 170 369 70 15 6 243 803 25.0 536 3 861 106 428 16 530 505 511 Economic agenda a) At year-end. Customers b) Reporting is based on country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. c) Total sulphur is reported as sulphur dioxide (SO2) equilevant, but includes all sulphurous compounds. Suppliers d) All CO2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Scope 2 Guidance. e) Sawing capacity reported with the Paper divison. Investors Certificate documents can be found at storaenso.com/certificates Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 72 Auditor’s Stora Enso 2018: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Assurance report Strategy We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and the Group We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient Annual Report 2018 Leadership Team of Stora Enso Oyj (hereafter Stora Enso) to and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. assurance report provide limited assurance on Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report The conclusion based on our limited assurance procedures does 2018 as a whole, and reasonable assurance on Stora Enso’s direct not comprise the same level of assurance as the conclusion of our and indirect (scopes 1+2) fossil CO2 emissions as disclosed in reasonable assurance procedures. Since this assurance engagement the Sustainability Report. is combined, our conclusions regarding the reasonable assurance and To the Annual General Meeting of Stora Enso Oyj the limited assurance procedures are presented separately below. Responsibilities of the Board and Management The Board of Directors and Group Leadership Team of Stora Enso Oyj Our independence and quality control Sustainability are responsible for preparing the Sustainability Report in accordance We have complied with the independence and other ethical with the Reporting Criteria as set out in the Company’s reporting requirements of the “Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants” instructions, including the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, Governance of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, Strategy, governance, and stakeholders for CO2 emissions. This responsibility includes the internal control professional competence and due care, confidentiality and relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from professional behaviour. Our targets Sustainability material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. PricewaterhouseCoopers applies International Standard on Adopting the SDGs Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system Human rights Responsibilities of the Auditor of quality control including documented policies and procedures Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Report based on the procedures we have performed and the standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. evidence we have obtained. Our assignment is limited to the Social agenda historical information that is presented and thus does not include Conclusions Employees and wider workforce future-oriented information. We do not accept, or assume Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, responsibility to anyone else, except to Stora Enso for our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Community for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, Business ethics We conducted the assurance engagement in accordance with in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) In our opinion, Stora Enso’s direct and indirect (scopes 1+2) 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of fossil CO2 emissions which have been subject to our reasonable Environmental agenda Historical Financial Information”, to provide limited assurance on assurance procedures have, in all material respects, been prepared the Sustainability Report as a whole, and in accordance with ISAE in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Materials, water, and energy 3410, “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, Carbon dioxide to provide reasonable assurance on direct and indirect (scopes 1+2) fossil CO2 emissions as disclosed in the Sustainability Report. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use These standards require that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain the appropriate level of assurance that the information examined is free from material misstatement. Economic agenda A reasonable assurance engagement includes examining, on Helsinki, 13 February 2019 Customers a test basis, evidence supporting the selected information in the PricewaterhouseCoopers Sustainability Report. We have evaluated the effectiveness of Suppliers internal controls and the processes for collecting and consolidating Investors CO2 emissions data, and performed testing on a sample basis to evaluate whether the CO2 emissions are reported according to the Reporting Criteria. Data and assurance A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, Samuli Perälä primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Authorized Public Accountant Reporting scope Sustainability Report, reviewing documentation, and applying Data by production unit analytical and other limited assurance procedures based on the auditor’s judgement. In addition, we have performed site visits Auditor’s assurance report to Beihai (China), Imavere (Estonia), and Varkaus (Finland) to Governance review compliance with reporting policies, assess the reliability of local reporting process, and test data collected for sustainability Fredrik Ljungdahl GRI Index reporting purposes on a sample basis. Sustainability Reporting Specialist Strategy Annual Report 2018 Financials Financials includes the report Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 of the Board of Directors and the financial statements, as well as Stora Enso in capital markets and our tax footprint. Sustainability Financials Governance Strategy Annual Report 2018 Dividend proposal per share Operational ROCE EUR 0.50 15.5% Contents Stora Enso in 2018...........................................................................2 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements......................25 Note 27 Derivatives.......................................................................65 Note 1 Accounting principles.....................................................25 Note 28 Cumulative translation adjustment Report of the Board of Directors...................................................3 Note 2 Critical accounting estimates and judgement................28 and equity hedging..........................................................68 Sustainability Stora Enso introduction.....................................................................3 Note 3 Segment information.......................................................29 Note 29 Commitments and contingencies...................................69 Markets and deliveries.......................................................................3 Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals.............................................32 Note 30 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations.....................71 Operational key figures, items affecting comparability Note 5 Other operating income and expense............................33 Note 31 Related party transactions..............................................73 and other non-IFRS measures..........................................................3 Note 6 Personnel expenses........................................................34 Note 32 Earnings per share and equity per share........................73 Financial results – Group...................................................................4 Financial results – Segments.............................................................6 Note 7 Board and executive remuneration.................................35 Investments and capital expenditure................................................7 Note 8 Net financial items...........................................................37 Extract from the parent company Innovation, research and development.............................................8 Note 9 Income taxes...................................................................37 Stora Enso Oyj financial statements.......................................... 74 Non-financial information..................................................................9 Note 10 Depreciation, amortisation and The Board of Directors’ Proposal impairment charges........................................................38 Risks and risk management............................................................10 for the distribution of dividend....................................................76 Note 11 Intangible assets and property, Legal proceedings...........................................................................16 plant and equipment....................................................... 41 Auditor’s report..............................................................................77 Share capital....................................................................................16 Note 12 Biological assets.............................................................43 Outlook and short-term risks........................................................... 18 Stora Enso in capital markets......................................................80 Note 13 Equity accounted investments........................................44 Events after the balance sheet date................................................ 18 Shares and shareholders.................................................................80 Note 14 Equity instruments...........................................................46 Proposal for the distribution of dividend......................................... 18 Debt investors..................................................................................85 Financials Note 15 Other non-current assets................................................47 Annual General Meeting.................................................................. 18 Note 16 Inventories.......................................................................47 Non-IFRS measures........................................................................ 18 Stora Enso as a taxpayer..............................................................86 Note 17 Operative receivables.....................................................48 Calculation of key figures.................................................................19 Note 18 Shareholders’ equity.......................................................49 Capacities by mill in 2019.............................................................88 Note 19 Non-controlling interests................................................49 Information for shareholders......................................................91 Consolidated financial statements.............................................20 Note 20 Post-employment benefits.............................................. 51 Consolidated income statement.....................................................20 Note 21 Employee variable compensation Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.......................20 and equity incentive schemes.........................................54 Consolidated statement of financial position.................................21 Note 22 Other provisions..............................................................54 Consolidated cash flow statement..................................................22 Note 23 Operative liabilities..........................................................56 Consolidated cash flow statement, Note 24 Financial risk management.............................................56 Supplemental cash flow information...............................................23 Note 25 Fair values........................................................................60 Unaudited Statement of changes in equity.......................................................24 Note 26 Debt.................................................................................63 Limited assurance Governance In this report: This publication consists of both audited and unaudited contents. The audited parts include the consolidated financial statements, the notes to the financial statements, and the Board of Directors’ proposal for the distribution of dividend. The unaudited parts – such as the Stora Enso in 2018, the Report of the Board of Directors, Extract from the parent company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements, Stora Enso in capital markets, and Stora Enso as a taxpayer – are marked with a symbol on the top of the page. The contents of Stora Enso as a taxpayer have been assured by an independent third-party assurance provider with a level of Limited Assurance. The official audited financial statements in Finnish and an unofficial Swedish translation can be found on the company’s website storaenso.com/download-centre Unaudited 2 Stora Enso in 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso in 2018 Strategy Annual Report 2018 Why to invest in Stora Enso Key figures 2018 2017 Change Target Part of the bioeconomy, Stora Enso is a leading provider of renewable solutions in Financials packaging, biomaterials, wooden constructions, and paper globally. We believe Sales, EUR million 10 486 10 045 4.4% that everything that is made from fossil-based materials today can be made from a Operational EBITDA, EUR million 1 878 1 587 18.3% tree tomorrow. Stora Enso is well-positioned for profitable growth: we estimate our Stora Enso in 2018 annual sales to increase by 4–6%, excluding Paper and have a target of above 13% Operational EBIT, EUR million 1 325 1 004 0.32 for operational return on capital employed (ROCE) for the Group. We have a strong Operational EBIT margin 12.6% 10.0% Report of the cash flow generation and we aim to maintain the capex at the targeted level, at or Operating profit (IFRS), EUR million 1 390 904 53.7% Board of Directors Sustainability below depreciation and depletion over the business cycle. Stora Enso is well within the targeted levels of debt to equity (less than 60%) and net debt to operational Net profit for the period, EUR million 988 614 61.0% Consolidated financial EBITDA (below 2.0x). Stora Enso has a dividend policy to distribute 50% of earnings Net interest-bearing liabilities, EUR million 2 092 2 253 -7.1% statements per share (EPS) over the cycle. Operational ROCE, % 15.5% 11.9% >13% Notes to the Consolidated EPS (basic), EUR 1.28 1 62.5% financial statements Stora Enso shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki Oy (STEAV, STERV) and Net debt/last 12 months’ operational EBITDA ratio 1.1 1.4 <2.0 Nasdaq Stockholm AB (STE A, STE R). In addition, the shares are traded in Net debt/equity ratio 0.31 0.38 <0.60 Extract from the parent the USA as ADRs (SEOAY). Fixed costs to sales, % 23.6% 25.1% <20% company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution Sales 2018 Ownership distribution, % of shares held Share price performance and volumes Helsinki, Stora Enso R of dividend Consumer Board 25% Solidium Oy 10.7% 1 Number of shares, Share price Packaging Solutions 13% FAM AB2 10.2% million (EUR) Auditor’s report Financials Biomaterials 16% Social Insurance Institution 125 20 Wood Products 15% of Finland (KELA) 3.1% 100 16 Stora Enso in capital markets Paper 29% Finnish institutions (excl. 75 12 Other and eliminations 2% Solidium and KELA) 11.6% 50 8 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Swedish institutions 25 4 (excl. FAM) 4.9% 0 0 Finnish private Capacities by mill in 2019 shareholders 4.2% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Volume Swedish private Information for shareholders Operational EBIT 2018 shareholders 3.1% Monthly average share price ADR holders 2.0% Consumer Board 17% Under nominee names Packaging Solutions 18% (non-Finnish/non-Swedish Biomaterials 32% shareholders) 50.2% Wood Products 13% Paper 18% 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish state. 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. Other and eliminations 2% Governance Unaudited 3 Report of the Board of Directors Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors Strategy Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso introduction Global market pulp capacity rose around 4.7%, equivalent to Estimated consumption of board, pulp, sawn softwood, and Part of the bioeconomy, Stora Enso (the Group or the Company) 3.1 million tonnes in 2018. Hardwood capacity increased by 5.7% paper in 2018 is a leading global provider of renewable solutions in packaging, or 2.1 million tonnes. Major increases took place in Asia and Latin North Asia and Financials biomaterials, wooden constructions and papers. Our customers America. Softwood capacity expansion accounted 3.5% equivalent Tonnes, million Europe America Oceania include packaging manufacturers, brand owners, paper and board to 1 million tonnes mainly in Europe. The overall demand-capacity Consumer board 11.2 9.2 26.9 producers, publishers, retailers, printing houses, converters, and balance stood at 88%, 4 percent points down from 2017. Containerboard 33.5 32.1 80.9 Stora Enso in 2018 joinery and construction companies. Softwood sawn demand remained good in 2018, but with some Corrugated board (billion m2)1 10.5 n/a 75.2 Our fibre-based materials are renewable and recyclable. Our solutions slowdown in Europe towards the year-end. Market demand in the Chemical market pulp Report of the 18.3 7.6 32.2 offer low-carbon alternatives to products based on fossil fuels and other USA was also good, driving prices to historically high levels during Sawn softwood (million m3) 96.5 99.5 n/a Board of Directors Sustainability non-renewable materials. We believe that everything that is made from the summer months. Overall market demand was favourable in Newsprint 5.5 2.7 9.9 fossil-based materials today can be made from a tree tomorrow. most markets, but overall uncertainty in global economy was visible Consolidated financial We make every effort to use 100% of a tree for our products as well in the latter part of the year. The Australian sawn wood market Uncoated magazine paper 3.1 1.3 0.2 statements as for producing bioenergy. In production, we are driving down the remained active with increased prices, and market was struggling Coated magazine paper 4.6 2.3 3.1 use of fossil fuels and pushing towards carbon neutrality as much as with undersupply for most of the year. Japanese housing market was Coated fine paper 4.7 3.5 10.8 Notes to the Consolidated it is technically and commercially feasible. We practice and promote somewhat below the 2017 level and the market remained overstocked Uncoated fine paper 7.3 7.5 20.6 sustainable forestry, and work to ensure that more trees are planted in some products. There was a slight increase in European sawn financial statements 1 European focus markets (Baltics, FI, PL, RU, SE) and China. than are harvested. softwood production, driven by growing consumption in sub region Source: Pöyry, ICCA, RISI, Numera, Euro-Graph, PPPC, Stora Enso, UNECE Stora Enso has some 26 000 employees. Our sales in 2018 and increasing overseas exports. Extract from the parent were EUR 10.5 billion, with an operational EBIT of EUR 1.3 billion. Structural erosion of paper demand continued in Europe and The Group’s consumer board deliveries totalled 2 914 000 tonnes, company Stora Enso Oyj Stora Enso shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki Oy (STEAV, STERV) North America during 2018. European paper demand was 6% weaker which is 98 000 tonnes or 3.5% higher compared to a year ago. financial statements and Nasdaq Stockholm AB (STE A, STE R). than in 2017. However, European supply and demand was balanced This was mainly due to increased volumes in Europe. External especially in newsprint and uncoated magazine paper grades as result containerboard deliveries decreased by 38 000 tonnes or 3.8%, from The Board of Directors’ Markets and deliveries of substantial capacity closures. In North America demand declined 1 023 000 tonnes to 985 000 tonnes, mainly due to the investment Proposal for the distribution Demand for cartonboard increased by 2% in Western Europe and by 4% compared to 2017. In Asia demand declined 2%. Global paper shutdown at Heinola fluting mill during 2018. Corrugated board of dividend continued to grow strongly in Eastern Europe, reaching almost 5% consumption was 4% lower than 2017. However, variation between deliveries decreased slightly to 1 059 000 m2. Market pulp deliveries growth in 2018. Demand for cartonboard in North America decreased paper grades was wide. Global demand for uncoated fine paper was decreased by 118 000 tonnes or 5.5% to 2 017 000 tonnes, due to Auditor’s report slightly by 1% and demand in Asia Pacific declined 2% after a long stable, whereas newsprint declined by 8%. challenges in Nordic wood sourcing in the beginning of the year, Financials period of strong demand growth. This was due to a 5% market decline and lower deliveries from Montes del Plata pulp mill. Wood products Stora Enso in capital markets in China. Deliveries and production deliveries remained unchanged at 5 095 000 m3. Paper deliveries Containerboard demand was healthy in 2018. However, the annual Change % totalled 4 591 000 tonnes, down 122 000 tonnes or 2.6% from 2017, average growth rate decreased slightly towards the end of the year due to 2018 2017 2018–2017 negatively impacted by the shutdown of the paper machine 8 at Stora Enso as a taxpayer global economic uncertainties related to e.g. trade dispute among other Consumer board deliveries, Kvarnsveden Mill. factors. Demand growth of corrugated board was strong; the annual 1 000 tonnes 2 914 2 816 3.5% Capacities by mill in 2019 average growth rate in our European focus countries was almost 3%. Consumer board production, Operational key figures, items affecting World chemical market pulp demand slowed down from previous 1 000 tonnes 2 922 2 871 1.8% comparability and other non-IFRS measures Information for shareholders year and rose approximately 1.2% during 2018. Softwood pulp Containerboard external deliveries, The list of Stora Enso’s non-IFRS measures and the calculation of 1 000 tonnes 985 1 023 -3.8% demand contracted by 2.5%, and hardwood pulp demand grew by our key figures are presented at the end of the Report of the Board of Containerboard production, 3.7% compared to 2017. Global demand increased in Europe and 1 000 tonnes 1 320 1 333 -1.0% Directors. See also the chapter Non-IFRS measures at the end of this China and was stable or declined in other regions. The global increase Corrugated packaging deliveries, report. in supply was again concentrated on the hardwood pulp segment. million m2 1 059 1 103 -4.0% Strong market and record high price levels were supported by Market pulp external deliveries, numerous unexpected disruptions in the supply side over the year, 1 000 tonnes 2 017 2 135 -5.5% especially in the softwood pulp sector. New capacity and substitution Wood product deliveries, 1 000 m3 5 095 5 097 0.0% Governance from softwood to hardwood pulp kept the hardwood pulp demand Paper deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 4 591 4 713 -2.6% strong. High inventories and weakness in the Chinese paper and board Paper production, 1 000 tonnes 4 633 4 672 -0.8% sector started to contract pulp demand in the latter part of the year. 4 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Financial results – Group Strategy Financial results – Group EUR 28 million, due to cumulative currency translation adjustment being Segment share of operative assets, Annual Report 2018 Sales at EUR 10 486 (10 045) million were 4.4% higher than a year released from equity through P&L at closing in Q2 2018. The negative operative liabilities and operating capital earlier, mainly due to higher sales prices and active mix management impact on income taxes relates to a provision because of an ongoing Year Ended 31 December in all divisions. The impact of the foreign exchange rate movements dispute in Sweden concerning interest deductions for years 2013–2016. Operative Operative Operating on sales was EUR 149 million negative. Sales excluding the paper The IFRS operating profit was EUR 1 390 (904) million. Assets Liabilities Capital business increased by 4.1%. EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Operational EBIT at EUR 1 325 (1 004) million increased 32.0% or Segment share of operational EBIT, IAC, fair valuations Consumer Board 2 486 2 477 535 537 1 951 1 940 EUR 321 million and represents a margin of 12.6% (10.0%). and non-operational items and operating profit/loss Packaging Solutions 1 138 1 100 215 223 923 877 Year Ended 31 December Financials Sales and operational EBIT IAC, Fair Biomaterials 2 722 2 578 260 253 2 462 2 325 Valuations Wood Products 866 789 245 238 621 551 EUR million % and NonPaper 1 588 1 561 792 811 796 750 Stora Enso in 2018 12 000 12 Operational Operational Operating Other and 10 000 10 EBIT items Profit/Loss eliminations 2 668 2 339 466 389 2 202 1 950 8 000 8 Report of the EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total 11 468 10 844 2 513 2 451 8 955 8 393 6 000 6 Board of Directors Consumer Board 231 285 -1 -32 230 253 Sustainability 4 000 4 Packaging Solutions 245 170 -1 -4 244 166 2 000 2 Consolidated financial 0 0 Biomaterials 427 264 -3 -10 425 254 Key figures statements 2015 2016 2017 2018 Wood Products 165 111 -1 -9 164 102 2018 2017 2016 Sales Paper 234 128 0 -22 234 106 Sales, EUR million 10 486 10 045 9 802 Notes to the Consolidated Operational EBIT, % Other 23 46 71 -23 93 23 Operational EBIT, EUR million 1 325 1 004 884 financial statements Total 1 325 1 004 65 -100 1 390 904 Operational EBIT margin 12.6% 10.0% 9.0% Net financial items -180 -162 Improved sales prices and active mix management in all divisions Operating profit (IFRS), EUR million 1 390 904 783 Extract from the parent Profit before Tax 1 210 742 increased operational EBIT by EUR 795 million. Variable costs were Operating margin (IFRS) 13.3% 9.0% 8.0% company Stora Enso Oyj EUR 387 million higher, especially wood costs as well as higher Income tax expense -221 -128 Return on equity (ROE) 15.5% 10.3% 7.2% financial statements pulp, chemical, and transportation costs. Fixed costs increased Net Profit 988 614 Operational ROCE 15.5% 11.9% 10.2% EUR 55 million, mainly due to higher personnel and maintenance Operational EBIT comprises the operating profit excluding IAC and fair valuations of Debt/equity ratio 0.31 0.38 0.47 The Board of Directors’ costs. The net foreign exchange impact decreased operational EBIT the segments and Stora Enso’s share of the operating profit excluding IAC and fair EPS (basic), EUR 1.28 0.79 0.59 valuations of its equity accounted investments (EAI). Proposal for the distribution by EUR 34 million and the operational result from equity accounted IAC = Items affecting comparability. These are exceptional transactions that are not EPS excluding IAC, EUR 1.29 0.89 0.65 of dividend investments was EUR 8 million lower. The positive impact from lower related to recurring business operations. The most common IAC’s are capital gains and losses relating to disposal of fixed assets, impairments or impairment reversals, disposal Dividend and distribution per share1, depreciation was EUR 20 million. EUR 0.50 0.41 0.37 gains and losses relating to group companies, environmental provisions, provisions for Auditor’s report The share of the operational results of equity accounted Financials planned restructurings, other provisions and penalties. Items affecting comparability are Payout ratio, excluding IAC 38.8% 46.1% 56.9% investments amounted to EUR 81 (89) million, with the main normally disclosed individually if they exceed one cent per share. Fair valuations and non-operational items include equity incentive schemes and related Payout ratio (IFRS) 39.1% 51.9% 62.7% Stora Enso in capital markets contributions from Bergvik Skog and Tornator. hedges, CO2 emission rights, valuations of biological assets and the Group’s share of tax Dividend and distribution yield, The IFRS operating profit includes a negative net effect of fair and net financial items of EAI. (R share) 5.0% 3.1% 3.6% valuations of EUR 6 (negative 7) million from the accounting of Stora Enso as a taxpayer Price/earnings (R share), share-based compensation and CO2 emission rights. In addition, the excluding IAC 7.82 14.90 15.70 IFRS operating profit includes a negative net effect of EUR 2 (negative Items affecting comparability, fair valuations Equity per share, EUR 8.51 7.62 7.36 Capacities by mill in 2019 6) million from IAS 41 forest valuation from subsidiaries and joint and non-operational items Market capitalisation 31 Dec, operations and also a positive net effect of EUR 53 (negative 3) million Year Ended 31 December EUR million 8 123 10 422 8 085 Information for shareholders from Stora Enso’s share of net financial items, taxes and IAS 41 forest EUR million 2018 2017 Closing price 31 Dec, A/R share, EUR 11.05/10.09 13.20/13.22 10.40/10.21 valuations of equity accounted investments. The positive impact Average price, A/R share, EUR 16.36/14.61 11.93/11.54 8.50/7.88 Impairments and impairment reversals of came mainly from an increase in fair valuation of forests of the Nordic intangible asset and property, plant and Number of shares 31 Dec (thousands) 788 620 788 620 788 620 equity accounted investment Bergvik. equipment and biological assets 0 -8 Trading volume A shares (thousands) 3 068 6 768 1 254 Fixed asset impairments amounted to EUR 1 (27) million. Restructuring costs excluding fixed asset impairments 0 -14 % of total number of A shares 1.7% 3.8% 0.7% The Group recorded items affecting comparability (IAC) with a positive impact of EUR 20 (negative 84) million on its IFRS operating profit and Disposals 20 -28 Trading volume R shares (thousands) 610 300 571 717 765 122 a negative impact of EUR 27 (positive 11) million on income taxes. The Other 0 -34 % of total number of R shares 99.7% 93.4% 125.0% Governance IAC’s relate to Stora Enso’s share of the disposal gain of EUR 47 million Items affecting comparability 20 -84 Average number of shares, basic (thousands) 788 620 788 620 788 620 from associated company Bergvik Skog’s Latvian subsidiary and the Fair valuations and non-operational items 45 -16 Average number of shares, diluted divestment of the wood supply company in Rosário do Sul, Brazil to Copa Total 65 -100 (thousands) 789 883 790 024 789 888 Florestal III FIP Multiestrategia. The latter transaction resulted in a loss of 1 See the Board of Directors’ proposal for dividend distribution. 5 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Financial results – Group Strategy Net financial expenses at EUR 180 (162) million were EUR 18 million Breakdown of Capital Employed Change highlighting Stora Enso’s improved cash flow generation and Annual Report 2018 higher than a year ago. The increase was mainly due to the net foreign strengthened balance sheet. In the fourth quarter of 2018, Moody’s EUR million Capital Employed exchange loss of EUR 33 (gain of EUR 34) million coming from the Investors Service also assigned Stora Enso Oyj an investment grade 31 December 2017 8 308 revaluation of foreign currency net debt and related foreign-currency credit rating by upgrading the long-term issuer rating from Ba1 to hedges in subsidiaries and joint operations. Net interest expenses at Capital expenditure less depreciation 59 Baa3 with stable outlook. EUR 129 million decreased by EUR 10 million mainly due to reduced Impairments and reversal of impairments -1 During 2018 Stora Enso also launched a Green Bond Framework average debt levels and lower bank fee amortisation. Other net Fair valuation of biological assets -2 as part of its Sustainable Finance approach. The ambition is to offer a financial expenses at EUR 18 million were EUR 39 million lower than Costs related to growth of biological assets -66 loan-format to support sustainability-focused fixed income investors a year ago mainly due to the absence of bond repurchases related Available-for-sale: operative (mainly PVO) 104 and to report the direct environmental impacts of some investments Financials financial expenses that were recorded in 2017. Equity accounted investments 186 and business activities. The net tax charge totalled EUR 221 (128) million, equivalent to Net liabilities in defined benefit plans -27 Stora Enso has EUR 600 million committed revolving credit facility that an effective tax rate of 18.3% (17.3%), as described in more detail in Operative working capital and other was fully undrawn at the year-end. Additionally, Stora Enso has access to Stora Enso in 2018 Note 9 Income taxes, of the Consolidated Financial Statements. interest-free items, net 384 various long-term sources of funding up to EUR 1 000 (900) million. The loss attributable to non-controlling interests was EUR 24 (11) Net tax liabilities -54 The debt/equity ratio at 31 December 2018 was 0.31 (0.38). The Report of the million, leaving a profit of EUR 1 013 (625) million attributable to ratio of net debt to the last 12 months’ operational EBITDA was 1.1, Translation difference -81 Board of Directors Sustainability Company shareholders. compared to the ratio of 1.4 at the end of the previous year. Other changes 14 Earnings per share excluding items affecting comparability were 31 December 2018 8 824 Consolidated financial EUR 1.29 (0.89) and including items affecting comparability EUR 1.28 Debt/equity ratio statements (0.79). Operational return on capital employed was 15.5% (11.9%). 0.70 Financing 0.60 Notes to the Consolidated Cash flow from operations was EUR 1 365 (1 492) million and cash flow Operational ROCE after investing activities was EUR 811 (825) million. Working capital 0.50 financial statements % 0.40 increased by EUR 428 (decreased 37) million, inventories increased by 0.30 16 EUR 267 million and short-term receivables by EUR 179 million having a Extract from the parent 14 0.20 negative impact into working capital. Payments related to the previously 0.10 company Stora Enso Oyj 12 announced provisions were EUR 19 million. 10 0 financial statements 2015 2016 2017 2018 8 Operative Cash Flow Debt/equity ratio 6 The Board of Directors’ Target <0.6 2015 2016 2017 2018 EUR million 2018 2017 Proposal for the distribution Operational ROCE, % Operational EBITDA 1 878 1 587 of dividend Target >13% IAC on operational EBITDA 20 -76 The fair valuation of cash flow hedges and equity investments fair Other adjustments -104 -56 valued through other comprehensive income in accordance with IFRS Auditor’s report Financials The Group capital employed was EUR 8 824 million on 31 December Change in working capital -428 37 9 increased equity by EUR 75 (increase EUR 69) million mainly due Stora Enso in capital markets 2018, an increase of EUR 516 million on a year earlier. Cash Flow from Operations 1 365 1 492 to higher fair valuation of Group’s shareholding in Pohjolan Voima Oy Cash spent on fixed and biological assets -525 -658 and net gains from outstanding commodity hedges recorded in other Acquisitions of equity accounted investments -29 -9 comprehensive income partly offset by net loss from outstanding Stora Enso as a taxpayer Cash Flow after Investing Activities 811 825 foreign-currency cash flow hedges. At the end of the year, the ratings for Stora Enso’s rated bonds Capacities by mill in 2019 were as follows: At the end of the period, net interest-bearing liabilities of the Group Information for shareholders were EUR 2 092 (2 253) million. Cash and cash equivalents net of bank Rating agency Long/short-term rating Valid from overdrafts amounted to EUR 1 128 (603) million. Fitch Ratings BBB(stable) 8 August 2018 During the third quarter of 2018, Fitch Ratings assigned Stora Enso Moody’s Baa3 (stable) / P-3 1 November 2018 Oyj an investment grade credit rating of BBBwith stable outlook Governance 6 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Financial results – Segments Strategy Financial results – Segments Packaging Solutions division Biomaterials division Annual Report 2018 The Packaging Solutions division provides fibre-based board The Biomaterials division offers a wide variety of pulp grades to Consumer Board division materials and corrugated packaging products and services that are meet the demands of paper, board, tissue, textile and hygiene The ambition of the Consumer Board division is to be the global designed for a wide array of applications. Our renewable high-end product producers. We are maximising the business potential of the leader in high-quality virgin fibre cartonboard. We aim to be the packaging solutions serve leading converters, brand owners and by-products extracted in our processes, such as tall oil and turpentine preferred partner of customers and brand owners in premium end-use retailers – including those in e-commerce that are looking to optimise from biomass. Based on our strong innovation approach, all fractions packaging and graphical segments. Our wide board and barrier performance, drive innovation and improve their sustainability. of biomass, like sugars and lignin, hold substantial potential for use in coating selection is suitable for consumer packaging for liquid, food, various applications. pharmaceutical and luxury goods. Financials EUR million Sales 2018 1 344 2017 1 255 EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 Operational EBITDA 313 240 Sales 1 635 1 483 Stora Enso in 2018 Sales 2 622 2 516 Operational EBITDA margin 23.3% 19.1% Operational EBITDA 550 409 Operational EBITDA 423 477 Operational EBIT 245 170 Operational EBITDA margin 33.6% 27.6% Report of the Operational EBITDA margin 16.1% 19.0% Operational EBIT margin 18.2% 13.5% Operational EBIT 427 264 Board of Directors Operational EBIT 231 285 Sustainability Operational ROOC 27.2% 19.6% Operational EBIT margin 26.1% 17.8% Operational EBIT margin 8.8% 11.3% Cash flow from operations 272 249 Operational ROOC 17.9% 10.5% Consolidated financial Operational ROOC 11.9% 14.6% Cash flow after investing activities 172 156 Cash flow from operations 438 404 statements Cash flow from operations 339 458 Board deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 985 1 023 Cash flow after investing activities 327 271 Cash flow after investing activities 177 218 Board production, 1 000 tonnes 1 320 1 333 Pulp deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 2 432 2 597 Notes to the Consolidated Board deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 2 914 2 816 Corrugated packaging deliveries, million m2 1 059 1 103 financial statements Board production, 1 000 tonnes 2 922 2 871 Corrugated packaging production, million m2 1 048 1 102 Biomaterials division sales were EUR 1 635 (1 483) million, up 10% due to significantly higher pulp sales prices in all grades. Delivery Extract from the parent Consumer Board division sales at EUR 2 622 (2 516) million grew Packaging Solutions division sales were EUR 1 344 (1 255) million, all volumes were lower, and currencies had a negative impact to sales. company Stora Enso Oyj over 4%. Sales volumes increased driven by strong operational time high annual sales and up 7% compared to 2017. The increase Operational EBIT at EUR 427 (264) million was 62% up from financial statements performance. Average price per ton improved, due to price increases was driven by higher sales prices in all businesses and sales mix previous year, due to significantly higher sales prices in all grades. and favourable sales mix development. Currency impact on sales was improvements, which were partly offset by lower volumes and Operational EBIT was negatively impacted by higher wood, chemical The Board of Directors’ negative EUR 22 million. currency impact. and energy costs. Fixed costs were higher due to higher maintenance Proposal for the distribution Operational EBIT at EUR 231 (285) million decreased 19%, due to Operational EBIT at EUR 245 (170) million was also all time high costs. Foreign exchange rates had a negative impact on operational of dividend significantly higher raw material prices for wood, pulp, and chemicals. and 44% up from the previous year, due to significantly higher sales EBIT. This could not be fully compensated through sales price increases prices. Operational EBIT was negatively impacted by higher raw Auditor’s report as most of the Consumer Board contracts are long-term. Fixed costs material costs in Europe, lower volumes due to investment shut down Financials decreased as a result of cost saving actions and the weakening of the at Heinola Mill, and higher fixed costs in China Packaging. Sales and operational ROOC Swedish crown. Biomaterials Stora Enso in capital markets EUR million % Sales and operational ROOC 2 000 20 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Sales and operational ROOC Packaging Solutions 1 500 15 Consumer Board EUR million % 1 000 10 Capacities by mill in 2019 EUR million % 1 400 35 500 5 3 000 30 1 200 30 0 0 Information for shareholders 2 500 25 1 000 25 2015 2016 2017 2018 2 000 20 800 20 Sales 1 500 15 600 15 Operational ROOC, % 1 000 10 400 10 Operational ROOC target >15% 500 5 200 5 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sales Sales Governance Operational ROOC, % Operational ROOC, % Operational ROOC target >20% Operational ROOC target >20% 7 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Investments and capital expenditure Strategy Wood Products division Paper division Other Annual Report 2018 The Wood Products division is a leading provider of innovative woodStora Enso is the second largest paper producer in Europe with an The segment Other includes the Nordic forest equity-accounted based solutions. The product range covers all areas of construction, established customer base and a wide product portfolio for print and investments, Stora Enso’s shareholding in the energy company including massive wooden elements and wooden components. It also office use. Customers benefit from Stora Enso’s broad selection of Pohjolan Voima, operations supplying wood to the Nordic and Baltic includes a variety of sawn timber goods and pellets for sustainable papers made from recycled and virgin fibre as well as our valuable mills, plantations not connected to any mill site, and Group shared heating. The emerging product range of Biocomposites addresses industry experience, know-how and customer support. services and administration. the opportunities to replace plastics in consumer goods and creates potential in various demanding exterior applications in a costEUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 competitive way. Financials Sales Operational EBITDA 3 066 345 2 920 239 Sales Operational EBITDA 3 425 48 2 490 75 EUR million 2018 2017 Operational EBITDA margin 11.3% 8.2% Operational EBITDA margin 1.4% 3.0% Stora Enso in 2018 Sales 1 622 1 669 Operational EBIT 234 128 Operational EBIT 23 46 Operational EBITDA 199 147 Operational EBIT margin 7.6% 4.4% Operational EBIT margin 0.7% 1.8% Report of the Operational EBITDA margin 12.3% 8.8% Operational ROOC 30.2% 14.8% Cash flow from operations -52 -30 Board of Directors Operational EBIT 165 111 Sustainability Cash flow from operations 222 259 Cash flow after investing activities -119 -70 Operational EBIT margin 10.2% 6.7% Cash flow after investing activities 175 160 Consolidated financial Operational ROOC 28.1% 20.5% Cash flow after investing activities to sales 5.7% 5.5% Sales of the Segment Other at EUR 3 425 (2 490) million was up statements Cash flow from operations 147 152 Paper deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 4 591 4 713 from previous year mainly due to higher wood prices, the transfer of Cash flow after investing activities 80 90 the Baltic wood supply operations from Wood Products division to Paper production, 1 000 tonnes 4 633 4 672 Notes to the Consolidated Deliveries, 1 000 m3 4 932 4 926 Segment Other in Q2 2017 and the reclassification of transport and freight sales from other operating income into sales line. financial statements Paper division sales were EUR 3 066 (2 920) million, up 5% due to price Operational EBIT at EUR 23 (46) million was down from previous Wood Products division sales were EUR 1 622 (1 669) million. increases in local currencies. Foreign exchange had EUR 43 million year mainly due to lower results from the equity accounted Extract from the parent Comparable sales grew 5% excluding the Puumerkki divestment in negative impact on sales. Volumes were lower, mainly due to the closure investments and higher operational costs in our wood harvesting company Stora Enso Oyj November 2017 and the transfer of the Baltic wood supply operations of the paper machine 8 at Kvarnsveden Mill in Sweden in June 2017, operations. financial statements to Segment Other in the second quarter of 2017. The growth was and lower demand for wood-free coated papers (WFC). Also, Nymölla mainly due to higher sales prices and the ramp-ups of the Varkaus Mill in Southern Sweden was able to produce only half of its capacity for Investments and capital expenditure The Board of Directors’ laminated veneer lumber (LVL) mill in Finland and the modernisation 11 weeks during Q4 due to water shortage. Additions to fixed and biological assets including internal costs Proposal for the distribution and expansion of the Murów sawmill in Poland. Operational EBIT at EUR 234 (128) million was 83% up from 2017 capitalised in 2018 totalled EUR 574 (640) million. The total amount of dividend Operational EBIT at EUR 165 (111) million was all time high and due to higher sales prices which more than offset higher wood, pulp, includes additions in biological assets of EUR 83 (80) million. 49% up from previous year. Higher sales prices and higher volumes chemical and transportation costs and lower volumes. During the first quarter of 2018, the EUR 19 million investment Auditor’s report had a positive impact. The impact of higher wood costs in Nordics, consolidating corrugated packaging manufacturing in Finland was Financials Baltics and Russia was more than offset by lower wood costs in completed according to the plan. At Skutskär Mill in Sweden, the Central Europe. Logistics and fixed costs were higher than previous Sales and cash flow after EUR 16 million investment to improve the environmental performance Stora Enso in capital markets year. investing activities to sales1 by reducing the sulphur emissions was completed. Production of Paper biocomposite granules started at Hylte Mill in Sweden, following the Stora Enso as a taxpayer EUR million % EUR 12 million investment. Sales and operational ROOC 5 000 10 During the second quarter of 2018, Stora Enso completed the Capacities by mill in 2019 Wood Products 4 000 8 EUR 28 million investment at its Heinola Fluting Mill in Finland EUR million % 3 000 6 improving quality and increasing production capacity of the Information for shareholders 3 000 30 2 000 4 AvantFlute SC (semi-chemical fluting) products. Production started as 2 500 25 1 000 2 planned at the new fluff pulp line at Skutskär Mill in Sweden following 2 000 20 0 0 the EUR 26 million investment. 1 500 15 2015 2016 2017 2018 The investment to a new cross laminated timber (CLT) unit 1 000 10 Sales at the Gruvön sawmill in Sweden is proceeding as planned. The 500 5 Cash flow after investing activities to sales, % commercial production is scheduled to begin during Q1/2019. The 0 0 Cash flow after investing activities to sales target >7% investment at Imatra Mills to enhance the availability of the chemi2015 2016 2017 2018 thermomechanical pulp (CTMP) is proceeding as planned. The project Governance 1 The Paper division’s financial target is cash flow after investing Sales activities to sales (non-IFRS), because the division’s goal is to is scheduled to be completed during Q1/2019. The investment to Operational ROOC, % generate cash flow for the Group so that it can transform into a renewable materials growth company. increase the dissolving pulp production capacity at Enocell Mill Operational ROOC target >20% is proceeding as planned and the investment is scheduled to be completed during the second half of 2019. 8 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Innovation, research and development Strategy In June 2018, Stora Enso announced a feasibility study and an 1.4 million hectares, of which 1.15 million hectares is productive forest holds patents in biodegradable materials, and 20tree.ai technology is Annual Report 2018 environmental impact assessment (EIA) for a possible investment land. Stora Enso’s 49.8% share of the productive forest land in Bergvik used for forest valuation based on satellite images. at Oulu Mill. The feasibility study and the EIA evaluate a potential totalled 0.9 million hectares at end of December 2018. The transaction To trigger innovation processes, we will need ideas, which we conversion of the Oulu paper mill into packaging board production. is estimated to increase Stora Enso’s balance sheet by approximately will receive from customers, suppliers, various stakeholders and The EIA was finalised in December 2018. Currently, Oulu Mill has a EUR 1.0 billion. Bergvik Skog’s Swedish forest assets are owned by our own employees. WeNovate, our group-wide tool for collecting production capacity of 360 000 tonnes of chemical softwood pulp and its subsidiaries Bergvik Väst AB and Bergvik Öst AB, representing and evaluating ideas from the Stora Enso divisions and functions, 1 080 000 tonnes of woodfree coated papers on two paper machines. approximately 83% and 17% of these assets respectively. As a result was successfully launched in 2017. It has changed our ideation and The potential investment would include a new chemi-thermomechanical of this transaction, Stora Enso will transform its current ownership of innovation culture by engaging an increasing number of employees pulp (CTMP) plant, a brown-based cartonboard line with a capacity 49.8% in Bergvik Skog, to a direct holding of 69.8% of the value of the into the activity. In 2018, we ran 25 campaigns and have 7 idea Financials of 450 000 t/a and a kraftliner line with a capacity of 400 000 t/a. The forest assets in Bergvik Väst. channels open. In total over 850 ideas were collected, growing potential conversion of Oulu Mill would enable Stora Enso to further from 175 in 2017. The most suitable ideas enter state-gate based improve its position in the growing consumer board and packaging Innovation, research and development innovation processes of the divisions and functions. Stora Enso in 2018 solutions businesses and take a major step in its transformation. The Stora Enso’s expenditure on innovation, research and development in Stora Enso has established funds to be used in an agile manner for other option is to continue the current fine paper production. 2018 was EUR 149 (142) million, which was equivalent to 1.4% (1.4%) capital expenditure in novel projects, which have potential business Report of the In July 2018, Stora Enso announced investment of EUR 13 million of sales. In 2018, Stora Enso expanded the definition to include also cases. The Innovation Fund is an allocation for new pilot scale Board of Directors Sustainability to increase the sawmilling and planing capacity at Launkalne sawmill innovation costs and the figure for 2017 has been adjusted accordingly. opportunities and new business models. The digitalisation fund is in Latvia. The start-up is expected to take place in phases during Transformation towards the renewable materials continues. We an allocation for piloting new digital tools and models. Applications Consolidated financial Q2–Q3/2019. believe that everything made with fossil-based materials today can be for these resources will be approved in the company’s Investment statements Also in July, Stora Enso announced investment of EUR 25 million made from a tree tomorrow. Working Group. We have also allocated an agility reserve to cover to boost green energy generation at Maxau Paper Mill. The project is In 2018, The Wood Products division commenced operations at operational expenses related to cross-divisional projects in 2019. With Notes to the Consolidated scheduled to be completed in 2020. Stora Enso wants to secure the longthe Hylte mill for biocomposite production and are currently ramping this we aim for increased number of good innovation projects. term profitable energy production in Maxau Mill by increased electricity up the operations and sales of DuraSenseTM by Stora Enso. The Stora Enso employs close to 400 people in the following R&D financial statements generation and higher efficiency. The new 57 MW extraction-condensing Biomaterials division launched LineoTM by Stora Enso for our lignincenters: turbine complements the existing Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plant based products and Consumer Board division have moved to pilot • Research Centre and Pulp Competence Centre in Imatra (Finland) Extract from the parent which started up in 2010. The investment will reduce the energy cost and stage of Microfibrillated Cellulose (MFC) films. • Research Centre and Pulp Competence Centre in Karlstad company Stora Enso Oyj secure long term cost competitiveness of the paper mill. ECO™ by Stora Enso technology enables the RFID tags to be (Sweden) financial statements In October 2018, Stora Enso announced investment of produced on a 100% fibre-based paper label, unlike traditional plastic • The Innovation Centre for biomaterials in Sickla, Stockholm EUR 9 million to upgrade and expand the corrugated packaging plant tags, resulting in a lower carbon footprint for sustainability conscious (Sweden) The Board of Directors’ in Riga, Latvia. The project is expected to be completed in 2019. B2B and B2C companies. The ECO tag can be recycled in an • The Innovation Centre for packaging in Helsinki (Finland) Proposal for the distribution Also in October, Stora Enso announced investment of EUR 7 environmentally friendly way together with paper and board materials. • Support Centre in Mönchengladbach (Germany) of dividend million in building a Competence Centre for biocomposites in Hylte Moreover, it offers high conductivity at a lower cost compared with • Biocomposite Competence Centre in Hylte (Sweden) mill, Sweden. The investment covers also the installation of new graphene or silver printed antennas. The ECO technology is available • Intelligent Packaging Center in Tampere (Finland) Auditor’s report machinery for the milling of large fibres for biocomposites. Production for use in multiple ongoing projects across multiple sectors. • Virdia demonstration plant in Louisiana and Research Centre in Financials is scheduled to start by the end of 2019. Stora Enso defines innovation as the process of translating ideas Virginia (United States) Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso and the energy company Gasum announced plan to into new value. Research and Development work is a basic element in build a biogas plant at Stora Enso’s Nymölla paper mill in Sweden. the process. Supporting Stora Enso’s innovation strategy, we have several The plant, built and operated by Gasum will turn the mill’s wastewater The company focuses on five renewable material R&D themes: cooperation projects with research organisations and academic Stora Enso as a taxpayer effluent into renewable energy. The total investment for Stora Enso is Forestry & Biomass, Bio-based chemistry, Material Science and institutions. The aim is to build a clearer understanding of how our approximately EUR 5 million. Design, process solutions, and wood as a construction material. needs and the universities’ capabilities can meet, first and foremost Capacities by mill in 2019 In December, Stora Enso announced a EUR 22 million investment Additionally, we focus on Digitalisation, where the focus areas have in the research sphere surrounding Stora Enso research themes and at Skoghall Mill in Sweden in an expansion of the existing water been Robotic Process Automation (RPA), machine learning, smart the long-term research needs in the divisions. The second target is to Information for shareholders treatment plant. operations, transparent supply chain, digital customer experience and widen the contact network. Thirdly, we aim to identify topics where Also in December, Stora Enso announced that it will acquire a 25% Intelligent Packaging. we have special interest regarding the universities’ bachelor, master share in TreeToTextile AB, a joint venture between H&M group, Inter The strong effort to reduce the use of and replace fossil-based and PhD programmes, also for recruiting talents to mills and research/ IKEA group and innovator Lars Stigsson, with the aim of developing new plastics has positively impacted the attractiveness of new fibre based innovation centres. textile fibres in a sustainable way at attractive cost levels. Stora Enso will solutions to our customers. These applications include materials for Our collaboration partners include Aalto University in Finland, and also support the industrialisation of TreeToTextile’s production process new packaging board grades especially targeting to replace single use Chalmers University of Technology in Sweden, the Royal Institute by setting up a demonstration plant at one of its Nordic facilities. The plastics and plastic packaging. For long-term success, Stora Enso of Technology, VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, SweTree four partners have an equally big stake in TreeToTextile. collaborates with academia and research institutes; for fast results, Technologies Ltd, and Wallenberg Wood Science Center R&D. Governance Stora Enso is in a process of restructuring its ownership in Bergvik we work together with startups. Good examples are Sulapac, where Stora Enso is a member of national, European and trade associations Skog AB, a Swedish forest holding company. The transaction is the cooperation originates in Stora Enso Accelerator programme and focused on the bioeconomy and forest agendas including Confederation planned to be completed during the first half of 2019. Following the 20tree.ai, where cooperation with the startup shows results of joint of European Paper Industries (CEPI), Forest Technology Platform (FTP), transaction, Stora Enso’s forest holdings in Sweden will increase to efforts with the Combient Foundry Venture Client Program. Sulapac and the Swedish and Finnish Forest Industry Federations. Stora Enso 9 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Non-financial information Strategy is also a member in the EU’s Biobased Industries Consortium (BIC) and employees in their everyday work. These documents are available at On January 2018 Stora Enso signed a Global Framework Annual Report 2018 the Bio-Based Industries Initiative Joint Undertaking, a new partnership storaenso.com/sustainability. Agreement with the three global unions IndustriALL Global Union, within the EU Horizon 2020 research programme. More information on Stora Enso’s approach to sustainability is UNI Global Union and the Building and Wood Worker’s International Intellectual property is an increasingly important tool to support published in Sustainability 2018. as another step towards creating working environments where all our Stora Enso’s strategy and to differentiate from our competitors. employees are treated with respect and in a fair manner. During 2018 Stora Enso continued to strengthen its patent portfolio, Environmental matters From the beginning of 2018, Stora Enso changed the main key with 56 priority founding patent applications filed and over 324 Forests, plantations, and land use performance indicator (KPI) for measuring safety performance from patents granted worldwide. The Group IP has within the Group the Key policy: Wood and fibre sourcing, and land management policy the Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate to the Total Recordable Incident responsibility for handling IP matters, including e.g. patentability/ Progress on responsible forestry is followed with a key performance (TRI) rate. The TRI rate gives a more comprehensive picture of safety Financials trademark/design opinions, assessments, preparations, filings indicator (KPI) measuring the proportion of land in wood production performance as it also includes less-severe accidents. and maintaining of IP rights as well as for investigations, opinions, and harvesting owned and managed by Stora Enso that is covered by In 2018, our TRI rate decreased to 6.12 (7.4). Compared to 2017, a oppositions and appeals of external parties IP rights. In addition, forest certification schemes. Our target is to maintain the high level 18% reduction was achieved on the TRI-rate. Stora Enso in 2018 work with IP Landscaping is crucial before starting R&D projects also of 96%. In 2018, coverage amounted to 96% (97% in 20171). As of Stora Enso’s KPI for leadership, the Leadership Index, measures as part of the Stora Enso stage gate process. Landscaping can also January 2018, the scope excludes forest management units, whose employee perceptions of their managers. The index is calculated based Report of the reveal potential candidates for licensing, cross licensing, possible primary purpose is not wood production and harvesting. These areas on our annual employee survey. Our target was to achieve an index of Board of Directors Sustainability Joint Development Agreements etc. Group IP takes active part include, for example, test and pilot sites. At year-end Stora Enso 80/100 by 2018. The Leadership Index in 2018 improved to 83 (81). together with Legal Services in drafting various IP related agreements. owned or managed lands with a total area of 933 000 hectares. Employee-related information including the personnel strategy Consolidated financial Furthermore, before launching new products the Freedom to Operate In 2018, the total amount of wood (including roundwood, wood is discussed in more detail in the Group’s Sustainability 2018 and statements (FTO) needs to be established. The Group IP strategy has been chips, and sawdust) delivered to our mills was 38.7 million m3 (solid Strategy 2018, published during week 7. adopted by the CEO supported by the Group IP Steering Team. under bark) (37.5 million m3 in 2017). The proportion of third-party Remuneration to the Board of Directors and key management is Notes to the Consolidated certified wood in the Group’s total wood supply was 76%. As of 2018 described in Note 7 of the Consolidated financial statements. financial statements Non-financial information the share of certified wood excludes externally delivered certified wood. Requirements of non-financial information reporting according to the This decreased the certified share compared to the previous years. Suppliers Finnish Accounting Act are reported below. The scope of the reporting Key policy: Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) Extract from the parent includes those non-financial topics that are identified as the Group’s Carbon dioxide Stora Enso’s key performance indicator (KPI) for responsible sourcing company Stora Enso Oyj key risks. Key policy: Energy and carbon policy measures the proportion of our total supplier spend covered by our financial statements Risks and policy principles related to these topics are additionally Stora Enso’s science-based target (KPI) is to reduce greenhouse gas SCoC, including all categories and regions. By the end of 2018, 95% described on pages 10–16. In addition, respect for human rights is emissions from our operations by 31% per tonne of pulp, paper and of Stora Enso’s total spend on materials, goods, and services was The Board of Directors’ explicitly covered below from the risk perspective. board produced by 2030 compared with the 2010 base-year. In 2018, duly covered (95% at the end of 2017), which meets our target to Proposal for the distribution our CO2e emissions per saleable tonne of board, pulp, and paper were maintain the high level of 95%. of dividend Business model 18% lower than the 2010 benchmark level (21% lower in 2017). The Replacing the use of fossil-based resources with renewable raw performance declined three percentage points from 2017, mainly due Community Auditor’s report materials is the foundation for a sustainable bioeconomy. Stora Enso’s to the increased use of peat at two Finnish mills and a higher fossil Key policies: Guidelines for Social Responsibility, Human Rights Financials products contribute to a low-carbon circular economy, in which materials content in the generation of the purchased electricity in Finland and Policy Stora Enso in capital markets are reused and recycled, while waste is minimised, to maximise Poland. Guangxi, China environmental, social, and financial added value. Stora Enso’s business Stora Enso leases 82 217 hectares of land in Guangxi province China, model description is in the beginning of the Report of Board of Directors Social and employee matters of which 29 265 hectares (29 581 hectares in 2017), corresponding Stora Enso as a taxpayer and value creation model is presented in Strategy 2018 on page 10. Employees and wider workforce to 36% (36%) of the total area, is social land leased from village Key policies: Minimum HR requirements, Health and Safety policy collectives, individual households, and local forest farms. Capacities by mill in 2019 Sustainability On 31 December 2018, there were 26 100 (25 700) employees in Sustainability is a key element of Stora Enso’s corporate governance, the Group. The average number of employees in 2018 was 26 100, Bahia, Brazil Information for shareholders promoted by the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Group which was approximately 100 lower than the average number in 2017. In Bahia, Brazil, work continued on a Sustainable Settlement Initiative Leadership Team (GLT). The CEO carries the ultimate responsibility The numbers include 50% of the employees at Veracel in Brazil and launched in 2012 to provide farming land and educational support for the successful implementation of the sustainability strategy. Work Montes del Plata in Uruguay. for local families in the landless people’s social movements. In 2018, on sustainability is led by the Executive Vice President, Sustainability, Personnel expenses totalled EUR 1 330 (1 331) million or 12.7% of Veracel signed a new agreement with the social landless movements who reports directly to the CEO. The Board of Directors’ Sustainability sales. Wages and salaries were EUR 1 000 (999) million, pension costs to complement the earlier agreed Sustainable Settlement Initiative. In and Ethics Committee oversees the implementation of Stora Enso’s EUR 170 (166) million and other employer costs amounted to EUR 153 the new agreement Veracel sells 3 300 hectares of previously occupied Sustainability Strategy and Ethics and Compliance Strategy. The (158) million. lands to the movements and related associations, and the movements Committee met four times in 2018. At the end of 2018, the Group’s top three countries in respect to will leave from Veracel’s lands corresponding to 800 hectares. In Governance Stora Enso’s Sustainability Policy describes our overall approach the number of employees were Finland, China and Sweden. 26% addition, Veracel donates 225 hectares. After this new agreement, 468 and governance model. At the same time, our Code of Conduct and (26%) of employees were women. other policies, guidelines, and statements on specific sustainability Personnel turnover in 2018 was 15.0% (14.6%). Illness-related 1 Recalculated according to the reviewed definition. topics all further elaborate our approach, while also guiding our absenteeism amounted to 3.0% (3.1%) of total theoretical working hours. 2 Recalculated due to additional data after the Q4/2018 Interim Report. 10 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy hectares of productive land owned by Veracel remained occupied by finalised by end of the year 2018, proven misconduct leading to acceptable level of risk is. The Board has established the Financial Annual Report 2018 social landless movements not involved in the Sustainable Settlement disciplinary actions, legal actions and/or process improvements was and Audit Committee to provide support to the Board in relation to Initiative or in the new agreement. Veracel will continue to seek identified in 20 (14) of the completed investigations, while 18 (22) further the monitoring of the adequacy of the risk management process repossessions of remaining occupied areas through legal processes. complaints were found to be valid without involving misconduct. within Stora Enso, and specifically regarding the management and Previously Veracel has voluntarily reserved 16 500 hectares to support Based on our assessments two of the proven misconduct cases can reporting of financial risks. The Sustainability and Ethics Committee the Sustainable Settlement Initiative. At the end of 2018, the total land be considered relating to corruption and/or fraud. Both cases resulted is responsible for overseeing the company’s sustainability and ethical area owned by Veracel was 213 500 hectares, of which 76 000 hectares in employee dismissal or disciplinary process and in one of the cases business conduct, its’ strive to be a responsible corporate citizen, and are planted with eucalyptus for pulp production. the business relationship with an external party was terminated. its contribution to sustainable development. The company’s Code of Conduct index monitors and evaluates The head of Enterprise Risk Management, reporting to the CFO, Financials Respect for human rights employees’ perceptions of Stora Enso’s work on topics covered by is responsible for the design, development and monitoring of the Key policy: Human Rights policy the Stora Enso Code (Code of Conduct) and it is based on the annual top-down implementation of the Group risk management framework. Stora Enso’s human rights commitment covers all our operations, employee survey results. In 2018, this index improved to 85 (83 in Each division head, together with their respective management teams, Stora Enso in 2018 including our employees, contractors, suppliers, and neighbouring 2017). Our goal is to maintain this positive trend. are responsible for process execution and cascading the framework communities. In addition to our commitment to the UN Guiding and guidelines further down in the organisation. The Internal Audit Report of the Principles on Business and Human Rights, Stora Enso respects and Environmental investments and liabilities unit evaluates the effectiveness and efficiency of the Stora Enso risk Board of Directors Sustainability follows the legal reporting requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act In 2018 Stora Enso’s environmental investments amounted to management process. and we continue to monitor the development of similar legislation in EUR 46 (65) million. These investments were mainly to improve the Consolidated financial other countries. Human rights are integrated into our Sustainability quality of air and water, to enhance resource efficiency and energy Risk management process statements Agenda, which is aligned with the ten principles of the UN Global self-sufficiency, and to minimise the risk of accidental spills. In connection with the annual strategy process, business divisions Compact, including its principles on human rights. Stora Enso’s environmental costs in 2018 excluding interest and and group service and support functions conduct a holistic baseline Notes to the Consolidated Human rights risks and impacts shall be taken into account including depreciation totalled EUR 184 (170) million. These costs risk assessment, linked to their key objectives. Specific guidance throughout our operations, including investment decisions related to include taxes, fees, refunds, permit-related costs, and repair and regarding the risk management process is outlined in the enterprise financial statements mergers, acquisitions, and divestments. Our investment guidelines maintenance costs, as well as waste water treatment chemicals and risk management instructions, distributed with the annual strategy stipulate that environmental and social risks and impacts, including those certain other materials. guidelines. Extract from the parent related to human rights, must be duly identified, assessed, and addressed Provisions for environmental remediation amounted to Business entities and functions identify the sources of risk, company Stora Enso Oyj prior to any investments in projects with business-critical risks. EUR 99 (108) million at 31 December 2018, details of which are in events including changes in circumstances and their causes and financial statements In 2018, we completed the defining of our human rights priorities with Note 22, Other Provisions, of the Consolidated financial statements. their potential consequences. Stora Enso’s risk model outlines the support from BSR, an international expert organisation. To reflect this, we There are currently no active or pending legal claims concerning overall risk universe which is used to support holistic risk identification The Board of Directors’ updated and published our Human Rights Statement as a Human Rights environmental issues that could have a material adverse effect on and risk consolidation, while also providing taxonomy as well as Proposal for the distribution Policy and confirmed eight group-wide highest priority human rights: Stora Enso’s financial position. Cash costs related to environmental consistency tin risk terminology. Risk appetite is determined across of dividend • Health and safety remediation measures amounted to EUR 8 (11) million. main risk categories on the business division level. • Fair employment conditions Risk analysis involves developing an understanding of the risk to Auditor’s report • Forced labour Risks and risk management provide an input for risk evaluation. The purpose of risk evaluation Financials • Freedom of association is to determine the risk priorities and to support decision making to Stora Enso in capital markets • Non-discrimination and non-harassment Our approach to risk management determine which risks require treatment/actions. Risks are assessed • Land and natural resource rights acquisition and management Risk is an integral component of business, and it is characterised by in terms of their impact and likelihood of occurrence while the • Grievance mechanisms both threats and opportunities. Stora Enso is committed to ensuring effectiveness of existing risk reduction is factored in to define the Stora Enso as a taxpayer • Children’s rights (relevant to the forestry sector). that systematic, holistic and proactive management of risks and residual risk level. Pre-defined impact scales consider financial, people opportunities is a core capability and an integral part of all Group and reputational impacts, on both a quantitative and qualitative basis. Capacities by mill in 2019 While we respect and consider all human rights important, our activities, and that a risk aware corporate culture is fostered in all Risk treatment involves selecting one or more risk management identified highest priority human rights will be the primary focus of our decision making. Through consistent application of dynamic risk option, such as avoidance, reduction, sharing or retention. Information for shareholders future work. This includes our updated due diligence and monitoring analysis, we manage risk in order to enhance opportunities and Additional risk mitigation actions are determined for risks which programme, which will be finalised and implemented in 2019. We also reduce threats to thus achieve our competitive advantage. exceed the perceived risk tolerance incorporating the assignment of aim to develop a new consolidated key performance indicator (KPI) responsibility, schedule and timetable of the risk treatment actions. for our human rights work during 2019 to monitor compliance with our Risk governance Following the annual baseline assessment, prioritised and eight highest priority human rights. Stora Enso defines risk as the effect of uncertainty on our ability to emerging risks, as well as the corresponding risk mitigation and meet organisational values, objectives and goals. The Group Risk and business continuity plans related to those risks, are reviewed in Anti-corruption and bribery matters Internal Control Policy, which is approved by the Board of Directors, divisional business review meetings on a quarterly basis. Key policies: Business practice policy, sets out the overall approach to governance and the management Despite the measures taken to manage risks and mitigate the impact Governance the Stora Enso Code (Code of Conduct) of risks in accordance with the COSO (Committee of Sponsoring of risks, and while some of the risks remain beyond the direct control of As to Business Ethics, in 2018, a total of 68 reports received through Organizations) framework and in line with the ISO 31000 standard. the management, there can be no absolute assurance that risks, if they Stora Enso’s various grievance channels were identified as potential The Board retains the ultimate responsibility for the overall risk occur, will not have a materially adverse effect on Stora Enso’s business, non-compliance cases (61 in 2017). Based on the investigations management process and for determining what an appropriate and financial condition, operating profit or ability to meet financial obligations. 11 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy Main risk factors Annual Report 2018 Risk map Key risks in 2018 Risk* Risk Time Change Level of possible 5 10 15 20 25 classification span vs 2017 management influence Very high Major impact – high likelihood A Global warming E/S LT 4 8 12 16 20 Financials High M L E D B C Macroeconomy, geopolitics and currency rates Sourcing E/S/F I/S/O ST/LT ST/LT B A C J Moderate impact – high likelihood Stora Enso in 2018 3 6 I 9 12 15 Likelihood K F D Regulatory changes E/S/C ST/LT Medium G E Report of the H Information technology and security I/O ST Board of Directors Major impact – medium likelihood Sustainability 2 4 6 P 8 10 O F Ethics and compliance M/C ST Low N Consolidated financial G People and capabilities I/O ST/LT statements 1 2 3 4 5 H Strategic investments M/C ST/LT Very low Moderate impact – medium likelihood Notes to the Consolidated I Community relations and social responsibility I/O/C ST financial statements J Competition and market demand E/S ST/LT Incidental Minor Moderate Major Extreme Extract from the parent K Product safety M/O/C ST Impact – annualised Group EBITDA impact / share price impact / reputational impact company Stora Enso Oyj Minor impact – high likelihood financial statements L Occupational health and safety I/O ST M Physical assets I/O ST/LT The Board of Directors’ Major impact – low likelihood Proposal for the distribution N Digitalisation I/S ST/LT of dividend O Forest and land use I/O/C ST/LT P Auditor’s report Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures M/I/O/C ST Financials * Residual risk = risk remaining after risk treatment Stora Enso in capital markets Symbols Change vs 2017 Stora Enso as a taxpayer M = Mandatory obligations Increased E = External factors Decreased I = Internal capabilities Stable Capacities by mill in 2019 S = Strategic O = Operational Level of possible C = Compliance management influence Information for shareholders F = Financial market and reporting ST = Short-term LT = Long-term Low High Governance 12 Risk management process Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy Stora Enso is exposed to several financial market risks that the Annual Report 2018 Group is responsible for managing under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The objective is to achieve cost-effective funding Establish the Context in Group companies and manage financial risks using financial instruments to reduce earnings volatility. The main exposures for the Group besides currency risk are interest rate risk, funding risk, commodity price risk and credit risk. Risk Assessment Financial risks are discussed in detail in Note 24, Financial risk management, of the Consolidated financial statements. Financials Identify Risks Policy principles and mitigation measures Monitor and Communicate The Group has a diversified portfolio of businesses which mitigates Stora Enso in 2018 Review Analyse Risks and Consult exposure to any one country or product segment. We monitor the external environment continuously and our planning assumptions Report of the take account of important nearto medium-term and long-term Board of Directors Sustainability Evaluate Risks drivers related to key macro-economic factors. We closely monitor the Board-approved risk appetite compliance for specific financial Consolidated financial metrics and actively manage cash flow and liquidity. We hedge statements 50% of the highly probable 12-month net foreign exchange flows in main currency pairs. Currency translation risk is reduced by funding Treat Risks Notes to the Consolidated assets, whenever economically possible, in the same currency as the asset. The divisions regularly monitor their order flows and other financial statements leading indicators, where available, so that they may respond quickly to deterioration in trading conditions. In the event of a significant Extract from the parent economic downturn, the Group would identify and implement cost company Stora Enso Oyj Strategic risks guidelines. Agroforestry concepts have been introduced to integrate reduction measures to offset the impact on margins from deterioration financial statements the different land use forms and to mitigate the competition for land in sales. Global warming and the effects of increasing food prices. The Board of Directors’ Changes in precipitation patterns, drought, typhoons and severe frost Related opportunities Proposal for the distribution periods in the subtropics could cause damage to operations and tree Related opportunities • A diverse business portfolio and geographical presence, of dividend plantations. Increases in average temperatures could lead to changes • With regards to global warming, we believe that the opportunities competitive strength and resilient balance sheet reduce the in the tree species composition of forests. Milder winters could impact outweigh risks in near term. Group’s risk exposures Auditor’s report harvesting and transport of wood in northern regions and the related • Products based on renewable materials with a low carbon footprint • Strategic opportunities in changing currency and macroeconomic Financials costs. Additional demand for biomass fuels and agricultural land may help customers and society at large to reduce CO2 emissions by environment. Stora Enso in capital markets limit the availability of land for fibre production, affecting the price of providing an alternative to solutions based on fossil fuels or other biomass. The increasing global demand for water may in the longnon-renewable materials. Strategic investments term impact the Group’s operations through our supply chains. Stora Enso’s business strategy is to transform itself from a traditional Stora Enso as a taxpayer Macroeconomic, geopolitical, and currency rate risks paper and board producer to a customer-focused renewable materials Policy principles and mitigation measures Stora Enso operates in more than 30 countries and is affected by growth company. The success of this transformation depends on Capacities by mill in 2019 Stora Enso is committed to contributing and mitigating the effects the global economy. Changes in broad economic conditions, sharp the Group’s ability to understand the needs of the customer and find of climate change by actively seeking opportunities to reduce market corrections, increasing volatility in foreign exchange rates the best way to serve them with the right offering and with the right Information for shareholders the Group’s carbon footprint. Risks related to climate change are and chronic fiscal imbalances could have negative and material production asset portfolio. Failure to complete strategic projects managed via activities related to finding clean, affordable and safe impact on the Group’s profit, cash flows and financial position. A in accordance with the agreed schedule, budget or specifications energy sources for production and transportation, and reducing prolonged global recession may materially and adversely affect can have serious impacts on our financial performance. Significant, energy consumption. Additional measures include energy efficiency Stora Enso’s performance and financial condition. A recession may unforeseen changes in costs or an inability to sell the envisaged initiatives, the use of carbon-neutral biomass fuels, maximising also materially affect the Group’s customers, suppliers and other volumes or achieve planned price levels may prevent us from the utilisation of combined heat and power, and sequestration of parties with whom it does business. Exchange rate fluctuations may achieving our business goals. carbon dioxide in forests and products. Diligent plantation planning have a material impact on the reported results through transaction is ensured to avoid frost sensitive areas and non-controversial tree and translation risk impact. Policy principles and mitigation measures Governance breeding and R&D programmes are applied to increase tolerance of A significant and sustained economic downturn, or any similar Risks are mitigated through profound and detailed pre-feasibility extreme temperatures. Stora Enso maintains a diversity of forest types event, could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s operational and feasibility studies which are prepared for each large investment. and structures and enforces diversification in wood sourcing. Wood performance and financial condition. The Group’s reported results and Group investment guidelines stipulate the process, governance, harvesting in soft soils involves the implementation of best practices reported net assets may fluctuate as the exchange rates change. risk management and monitoring procedures for strategic projects. 13 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) are conducted aspects of business and operating models, reshaping how companies Operational risks Annual Report 2018 for all new projects that could cause significant adverse effects in local and functions generate value. Therefore, digitalisation also involves communities. Post completion audits are carried out for all significant potentially disruptive forces. Moreover, customers, regulators and Sourcing and logistics investments. other stakeholders expect companies to understand what data they Violation of Supplier Code of Conduct could result in contractual, have or could have, what risks it poses, and to have plans to manage financial and reputational damages and loss of sales if Stora Enso Related opportunities it well. were to be blacklisted by customers. Similarly poor occupational • Replacing fossil-based materials by innovating and developing new Business process erosion, failure to take advantage of the safety performance of subcontractors can be a risk to our reputation. products and services based on wood and other renewable materials. upside that technology offers or inability to harvest related Increasing input costs or availability of materials, goods and services synergies could significantly impair Stora Enso’s competitiveness in may adversely affect Stora Enso’s profitability. Securing access Financials Competition and market demand the market place. to reliable low-cost supplies and proactively managing costs and Continued competition and supply and demand imbalances in the raw productivity are of key importance. Reliance on outside suppliers for material, energy and products market may have an impact on profitability. Policy principles and mitigation measures natural gas, oil and coal, and for peat and nearly half of the electricity Stora Enso in 2018 The paper, pulp, packaging and wood products industries are mature, Stora Enso has an extensive digitalisation programme with the consumed, leaves the Group susceptible to changes in energy market capital intensive and highly competitive. Stora Enso’s principal aim to develop a competitive advantage by making full use of prices and disturbances in the supply chain. Report of the competitors include a number of large international forest products the opportunities to drive revenue growth and internal efficiency. The following table shows Stora Enso’s major cost items. Board of Directors Sustainability companies and numerous regional and more specialised competitors. Stora Enso has established a programme with external partners to Customer demand for products is influenced by the general economic search for technological development initiatives with a clear business Composition of costs in 2018 Consolidated financial conditions and inventory levels, and affects product price levels. Product purpose. With experimental and fast prototyping, these projects Operative Costs % of Costs % of Sales statements prices, which tend to be cyclical in this industry, are affected by capacity will help to identify and further develop initiatives that will speed up Logistics and commissions 11% 10% utilisation, which decreases in times of economic slowdowns. Changes Stora Enso’s digital maturity by exploring new technologies and Notes to the Consolidated in prices differ between products and geographic regions. capabilities. The following table shows the operating profit sensitivity to a +/Manufacturing costs financial statements Fibre 34% 30% 10% change in either price or volume for different segments based on Related opportunities figures for 2018. • Opportunities related to digitalisation clearly exceed related risks Chemicals and fillers 10% 9% Extract from the parent • New technologies offer significant potential for higher level of Energy 7% 6% company Stora Enso Oyj Operating Profit: Impact of Changes +/10%, EUR million process optimisation and automatisation, new business models Material 7% 6% financial statements and enhanced value propositions for customers and consumers. Personnel 14% 13% Segments Price Volume Consumer Board 251 84 Other 12% 10% The Board of Directors’ Mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures Packaging Solutions 129 59 Depreciation 5% 5% Proposal for the distribution Failure to achieve the expected benefits from any acquisition or value Biomaterials 162 85 Total costs and sales 100% 88% of dividend from assets or businesses sold can have serious financial impacts. Wood Products 160 44 Total operative costs and sales in The Group could find itself liable for past acts or omissions of the EUR million 9 241 10 486 Auditor’s report Paper 283 75 acquired business, without any adequate right of redress. Failure to Financials achieve expected values from the sales of assets or deliveries beyond Equity accounted investments (EAI), Stora Enso in capital markets Policy principles and mitigation measures the expected receipt of funds may also impact the Group’s financial operational 81 The ability to respond to changes in product demand and consumer position. In connection with an acquisition, past practices with targets Operational EBIT 1 325 preferences and to develop new products on a competitive and related to e.g. pollution, competition law compliance or corruption Stora Enso as a taxpayer economic basis calls for innovation, continuous capacity management could result in additional costs for Stora Enso and cause reputational and structural development. The risks related to factors such as damage. Divestments may involve additional costs due to historical In many areas Stora Enso is dependent on suppliers and their ability to Capacities by mill in 2019 demand, price, competition and customers are regularly monitored and unaccounted liabilities. Business restructuring may also involve deliver a product or a service at the right time and of the right quality. by each division and unit as a routine part of business management. reputational impacts. The most important products are fibre, chemicals and energy, and Information for shareholders These risks are also continuously monitored and evaluated on a Group machinery and equipment in capital investment projects. The most level to gain a perspective of the Group’s total asset portfolio and Policy principles and mitigation measures important services are transport and various outsourced business overall long-term profitability potential. Rigorous M&A guidelines, including due diligence procedures are support services. For some of these inputs, the limited number of applied to the evaluation and execution of all acquisitions that require suppliers is a risk. Related opportunities the approval of the Board of Directors. Structured governance and • Our expertise in wood and other biomass is focused on responding policies such as the policy for responsible rightsizing, are followed Policy principles and mitigation measures to customer and consumer demand in a changing world. when making restructuring decisions. Input cost volatility is closely monitored on the business unit, divisional and Group level. The Group applies consistent long-term Governance Digitalisation Related opportunities energy risk management. The price and supply risks are mitigated The digital transformation of businesses continues to alter the ways • A strong balance sheet and cash flow enable value enhancing through increased own generation, shareholding in competitive power in which organisations operate. Digital capabilities penetrate all M&A, when the timing and opportunity are right. assets such as PVO/TVO, physical long-term contracts and financial 14 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy derivatives. The Group hedges price risks in raw material and endhave been implemented to strengthen the protection of confidential organisations (NGOs) could disrupt our operations and adversely Annual Report 2018 product markets, and supports the development of financial hedging information and to facilitate compliance with international regulations. affect the Group’s reputation. The Group operates in certain countries, markets. The Group uses a wide range of suppliers and monitors Specific measures include a thorough RfP process in supplier where land and resource ownership rights remain unclear and where them to avoid situations that might jeopardise continued production, selection for business-critical services, supplier audits, annual related disputes may arise. business transactions or development projects. controls and audit, data centres located in low-risk areas, backup Potential impacts include reputational impacts and negative media Suppliers and subcontractors must also comply with Stora Enso’s connections for critical services, disaster recovery plans, targeted coverage, harm to communities and rights holders, disruption of sustainability requirements as they are part of Stora Enso’s value scanning and investigation activities, encryption of communication, operations, and loss of the licence to operate. chain, and their weak sustainability performance could harm information and devices, remote management of security on devices Stora Enso and its reputation. Stora Enso’s sustainability requirements and information security awareness training. Policy principles and mitigation measures Financials for suppliers and audit schemes cover its raw materials, and other Stora Enso strives to identify and minimise risks related to social goods and services procured. Suppliers are assessed for risks Related opportunities issues in good time, in order to guide decision-making in its related to their environmental, social and business practices through Efficient operations, performance optimisation, innovative product investment processes as well as in its ongoing operations. Tools such Stora Enso in 2018 self-assessment questionnaires and supplier audits. Findings from offerings, and new customer services through digitisation and as sustainability risk assessment, human rights due diligence and such assessments are continuously followed up and progressive sophisticated IT systems. Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA) help ensure Report of the blacklisting procedures are applied as necessary. that no unsustainable projects are initiated and all related risks and Board of Directors Sustainability Environmental and social responsibility in wood procurement and People and capabilities opportunities are fully understood in all operations. These tools also forest management is a prime requirement of stakeholders. Failing to Recruiting, retaining and developing a competent workforce and enable project plans and operating practices to be adapted to suit Consolidated financial ensure that the origin of wood used by the Group is acceptable could managing key talent throughout Stora Enso’s global organisation are local circumstances. Furthermore, dialogue with NGOs is a part of the statements have serious consequences in the markets. Stora Enso manages this risk crucial to success. Competition for personnel is intense and the Group Group’s stakeholder engagement. More information on community through its policies of sustainable sourcing of wood and fibre, and land may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. engagement is presented in Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report. Notes to the Consolidated management, which set the basic requirements for all Stora Enso wood A significant portion of Stora Enso employees are members of labour procurement operations. Traceability systems are used to document that unions and there is a risk that the Group may face labour market Related opportunities financial statements all wood and fibre come from legal and acceptable sources. disruptions especially in a time of restructuring and redundancies due • Ensuring that the communities around our operations thrive to divestments and mill closures. economically, socially, and environmentally is crucial for the Extract from the parent Related opportunities The loss of key employees, the Group’s inability to attract new or success and sustainability of Stora Enso. company Stora Enso Oyj • Add value and bring innovation to our business globally by building adequately trained employees, or a delay in hiring key personnel could • Clear business benefits to Stora Enso through a strong focus on financial statements strong and measurable relationships with the best suppliers. seriously harm the Group’s business and impede the Group and its social responsibility, as customers, business partners, investors • Enforce harmonised sourcing processes to increase capabilities, business divisions from reaching their strategic objectives. Labour and potential employees become more and more attracted to The Board of Directors’ increase tender quality to reduce cost, and develop sustainable market disruptions and strikes could have adverse material effects on socially responsible companies. Proposal for the distribution suppliers to reduce risk. the business, financial conditions and profitability. of dividend Product safety Information technology and security Policy principles and mitigation measures Some of our products are used to package liquids and food consumer Auditor’s report The Group is dependent on IT systems for both internal and external Stora Enso manages the risks and loss of key talents through a products, so any defects could affect health or packaging functions Financials communications and for the day-to-day management of its operations. combination of different actions. Some of the activities aim at and result in costly product recalls. Wood products are incorporated Stora Enso in capital markets The Group’s information systems, personnel and facilities are subject to providing a better overview of the workforce of the whole Group, into buildings, and this may involve product liability resulting from cyber security risk. Failure to capitalise on digitalisation and cognitive making the Stora Enso employer brand better known both internally failures in structural design, product selection or installation. Failure technologies could impair Stora Enso’s competitiveness. Other IT and externally, globalising some of the remuneration practices and to ensure product safety could result in product recalls involving Stora Enso as a taxpayer related risks relate to the potential unavailability of IT services due to intensifying the efforts to identify and develop talents. Finally, the significant costs including compensation for indirect costs of human error in operations, damaged hardware in data rooms and data Group actively focuses on talent and management assessments, customers, and reputational damage. Capacities by mill in 2019 centres, network connection issues and the failure of suppliers to follow including succession planning for key positions. The majority of service level agreements. employees are represented by labour unions under several collective Policy principles and mitigation measures Information for shareholders Accidental disclosure of confidential information due to a failure agreements in different countries where Stora Enso operates, thus The mills producing food and drink contact products have established to follow information handling guidelines or due to an accident or relations with unions are of high importance to manage labour certified hygiene management systems based on risk and hazard criminal act may result in financial damage, penalties, disrupted or disruption risks. analysis. To ensure the safety of its products, Stora Enso actively delayed launch of new lines of business or ventures, loss of customer participates in CEPI (Confederation of European Paper Industry) and market confidence, loss of research secrets and other business Related opportunities working groups on chemical and product safety. In addition, all critical information. Further risks involve the loss of backup media and • Skilled and dedicated employees are essential for success. Stora Enso mills have certified ISO quality management systems. violation of data privacy regulations. • Engaged high performing people enable the Furthermore, contractual liability limitation and insurance protection are used to limit the risk exposure to Stora Enso. Governance Policy principles and mitigation measures Community relations and social responsibility The management of risks is actively pursued in the Information Risk Social risks may harm existing operations and the execution of Related opportunities Management System and best practice change management and investments, especially in growth markets. Failure to successfully • Differentiation and value creation through superior product quality project methodologies are applied. A number of security controls manage relationships with local communities and non-governmental and the highest level of product conformity. 15 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy Occupational health and safety are the result of inherent design deficiencies, mode of operation Related opportunities Annual Report 2018 Failure to maintain high levels of safety management can result or operating practices. In Stora Enso the significant asset risks lie • Regulatory changes involve market growth potential for sustainable in harm to the Group’s employees or contractors, and also to predominantly in integrated (but also non-integrated) pulp and related products. Resource efficiency, the circular economy and renewability communities near our operations and the environment. Impacts in energy production. are increasingly important sources of competitive advantage. addition to physical injury, health effects and environmental damage could include liability to employees or third parties, impairment of the Policy principles and mitigation measures Ethics and compliance Group’s reputation, or inability to attract and retain skilled employees. Protecting production assets and business results is a high priority for Stora Enso operates in a highly regulated business area and is thereby Government authorities could additionally enforce the closure of our Stora Enso to achieve the target of avoiding any unplanned production exposed to risks related to breach of applicable laws and regulations operations on a temporary basis. stoppages. This is achieved through structured methods of identifying, (e.g. capital markets regulation, company and tax laws, customs Financials Personnel security can never be compromised and thus measuring and controlling different types of risk and exposure. regulation and safety regulation) and breaches of group policies such as Stora Enso must be aware of potential safety risks and provide Divisional risk specialists manage this process together with insurance the Stora Enso Code, Supplier Code of Conduct and Business Practice adequate guidelines to people for managing risks related to, for companies and other loss prevention specialists. Each year a number Policy regarding fraud, anti-trust, corruption, conflict of interests and Stora Enso in 2018 example, travel, work and living in countries with security or crime of technical risk inspections are carried out at production units. Risk other misconduct. Stora Enso may face high compliance and remediation concerns. Focusing on the security of key personnel is also important improvement programmes and cost-benefit analyses of proposed costs under environmental laws and regulations. See also Information Report of the from a business continuity perspective. investments are managed via internal reporting and risk assessment systems and information security. Potential impacts include prosecution, Board of Directors Sustainability tools. Internal and external property loss prevention guidelines, fire fines, penalties, and contractual, financial and reputational damage. Policy principles and mitigation measures loss control assessments, key machinery risk assessments and Consolidated financial Stora Enso measures its performance in health and safety through specific loss prevention programmes are also utilised. Policy principles and mitigation measures statements lag indicators on accidents and near-misses, and lead indicators on Planned stoppages for maintenance and other work are Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance Programme, including safety observations. The target in safety is to achieve zero accidents, important to keep machinery in good order. Preventive maintenance policy setting, value promotion, training and knowledge sharing Notes to the Consolidated but demanding milestones have also been set for accident and programmes and spare part criticality analyses are utilized to secure and grievance mechanisms are kept continuously up to date and incident rates. Stora Enso has adopted a common model for safety the high availability and efficiency of key machinery. Striking a balance developed. Other compliance mechanisms include Stora Enso financial statements management, establishing a set of safety tools that all units must between accepting risks and avoiding, treating or sharing risks is a Group’s internal control system and Internal Audit assurance, implement in their operations. Implementation of the tools is followed high priority. the Supplier Code of Conduct in supplier contracts, supplier risk Extract from the parent up and reported internally on a quarterly basis, and support is offered assessments, supplier trainings, supplier audits and black-listing company Stora Enso Oyj to units through training, coaching and the sharing of best-practice. Related opportunities procedures. In response to capital markets regulations, Stora Enso’s financial statements The main responsibility for identifying and managing safety risks • Optimised maintenance and well controlled loss prevention Disclosure Policy emphasises the importance of transparency, remains with the units. At the mill level, safety and health risks are programmes credibility, responsibility, proactivity and interaction. The Board of Directors’ assessed jointly, in co-operation with the occupational health service • Potential for competitive advantage through improved productivity Environmental risks are minimised through environmental Proposal for the distribution providers. Global health and safety risks are monitored and assessed and overall efficiency management systems and environmental due diligence for of dividend by the Group’s Occupational Health and Safety unit. acquisitions and divestments, and indemnification agreements Stora Enso carries out constant monitoring of risks related to the Compliance risks where effective and appropriate remediation projects are required. Auditor’s report security and safety of the personnel, including health issues, and Special remediation projects related to discontinued activities and mill Financials information available on the Intranet is delivered directly to travelling Regulatory changes closures are executed based on risk assessments. Stora Enso in capital markets employees. An external service provider takes care of action in The Group’s businesses may be affected by political or regulatory medical or security crises, under guidance from Stora Enso’s crisis developments in any of the countries and jurisdictions in which the Related opportunities management team. Group operates, including changes to fiscal, tax, environmental or • Focusing on wider ethical topics rather than mere compliance with Stora Enso as a taxpayer other regulatory regimes. Potential impacts include higher costs and regulations will lead to successful business, foster accountability Related opportunities capex to meet new environmental requirements, expropriation of and enhance corporate reputation. Capacities by mill in 2019 • Leading health and safety performance strengthens the brand as assets, imposition of royalties or other taxes targeted at our industry, an employer. and requirements for local ownership or beneficiation. In particular, the Forest and land use Information for shareholders • Improved engagement, efficiency and productivity. EU energy and carbon policies may impact upon the availability and Wood is our most important raw material. Adverse changes in growing price of wood fibre. Additionally, political instability may result in civil conditions and natural hazards, caused by climate change, for Physical assets unrest, nullification of existing agreements, harvesting permits or land example, could result in significant financial loss to Stora Enso. Failure The physical assets that comprise the installed capacity of the leases. Unpredicted changes in forest certification schemes could to meet stakeholder expectations or to ensure the chain of custody production facilities have inherent risks or the potential for failure, limit the availability of certified raw materials. and economically, socially and environmentally sustainable forest and and also involve the potential for off-specification operation that land management practices throughout our wood procurement and could result in poor product quality, lower output or increased Policy principles and mitigation measures plantation operations could also result in significant reputational and production costs. In addition to the inherent risks of catastrophic • Active monitoring of regulatory and political developments in the financial loss to Stora Enso. Furthermore, global challenges such as Governance failure, the management must also consider the relative importance, countries where the Group operates population growth, increasing demand for agricultural land, and the e.g. criticality, of each asset on the plant’s ability to meet delivery • Participation in policy development mainly through industry widening gap between the supply and demand for wood, all require us commitments and the business plan. In some instances the risks associations to use natural resources even more efficiently. 16 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Legal proceedings Strategy Policy principles and mitigation measures plantations and a possible fine of BRL 20 (EUR 5) million. Veracel Västmanland, Sweden, in 2014. The claimed amount is approximately Annual Report 2018 Our Policy for Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land Management, disputes the decision and has filed an appeal against it. Veracel SEK 300 (EUR 30) million. Stora Enso denies liability. So far the robust traceability systems and our active promotion of forest operates in full compliance with all Brazilian laws and has obtained all Environmental Court and thereafter the Environmental Court of Appeal certification all help to ensure that no wood or fibre from unacceptable the necessary environmental and operating licences for its industrial has found that the Environmental code is not applicable on damage sources enters our supply chain. In addition, when sourcing logging and forestry activities from the relevant authorities. In November 2008, caused by fire. residues and other forest biomass for energy use, we follow the a Federal Court suspended the effects of the decision. No provisions specific guidelines developed for the harvesting of forest energy, have been recorded in Veracel’s or Stora Enso’s accounts for the Company fine which include strict environmental considerations. reforestation or the possible fine. In January 2018, a Swedish prosecutor filed a lawsuit against In June 2017, Veracel received a tax infringement note referring Stora Enso and its supplier, due to the forest fire in Västmanland, Financials Related opportunities to year 2012 with a total amount of BRL 224 (EUR 50) million Sweden in 2014, claiming a company fine of SEK 5 million each. Both As trees absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere and – including interest and fines. The dispute is limited to fiscal year 2012 Stora Enso and the supplier have disputed the claim. together with wood-based products – act as carbon sinks, wood from for which the tax authority applied another transfer pricing method Stora Enso in 2018 sustainably managed forests represents a carbon neutral, renewable due to a different interpretation of a transition rule. Veracel acts in Share capital alternative to many non-renewable materials. If forests and plantations full compliance with Brazilian transfer pricing law and has filed an Stora Enso Oyj’s shares are divided into A and R shares. The A and R Report of the are managed sustainably, new generations of trees will replace administrative defense against the tax note in July 2017. In June shares entitle holders to the same dividend but different voting rights. Board of Directors Sustainability those that are logged, sequestering more CO2 from the atmosphere. 2018 Veracel received a positive decision from Federal Revenue Each A share and each ten R shares carry one vote at a shareholders’ Well-managed forests can make entire ecosystems more resilient to Judgement, which has been confirmed by the Administrative Council meeting. However, each shareholder has at least one vote. Consolidated financial negative impacts, and benefit from positive ones. For Fiscal Resources in January 2019. The total exposure at year end During 2018, a total of 79 648 A-shares converted into R-shares statements is BRL 241 (EUR 54) million considering interest until 31 December were recorded in the Finnish Trade Register. On 31 December 2018, Corporate governance in Stora Enso 2018. Stora Enso’s share of the exposure is BRL 120 (EUR 27) million. Stora Enso had 176 312 672 A shares and 612 307 315 R shares in Notes to the Consolidated Stora Enso complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code No provisions have been recorded in Veracel’s or Stora Enso’s issue. The company did not hold its own shares. The total number issued by the Securities Market Association (the “Code”). The Code accounts for this tax dispute. of Stora Enso shares in issue was 788 619 987 and the total number financial statements is available at cgfinland.fi. Stora Enso also complies with the Swedish votes at least 237 543 403. Corporate Governance Code (“Swedish Code”), with the exception Legal proceedings in Finland The Board of Directors is not currently authorised to issue, acquire Extract from the parent of the deviations listed in Appendix 1 of the Corporate Governance Roundwood claim or dispose of shares in the Company. company Stora Enso Oyj Report. The deviations are due to differences between the Swedish In December 2009, the Finnish Market Court fined Stora Enso for financial statements and Finnish legislation, governance code rules and practices, competition law infringements in the market for roundwood in Finland and in these cases Stora Enso follows the practice in its domicile. from 1997 to 2004. Stora Enso did not appeal against the ruling. In The Board of Directors’ The Swedish Code is issued by the Swedish Corporate Governance March 2011, Metsähallitus of Finland initiated legal proceedings Proposal for the distribution Board and is available at corporategovernanceboard.se. against Stora Enso, UPM and Metsäliitto claiming compensation of dividend for damage allegedly suffered due to the competition infringement. Legal proceedings In its judgement rendered in June 2016, the Helsinki District Court Auditor’s report dismissed Metsähallitus’ claim for damages against Stora Enso, Financials Contingent liabilities UPM and Metsäliitto. Metsähallitus appealed against the District Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso has undertaken significant restructuring actions in recent Court’s judgment to the Helsinki Court of Appeal, which rendered its years which have included the divestment of companies, sale of judgement in the matter in May 2018. In its judgement, the Court of assets and mill closures. These transactions include a risk of possible Appeal dismissed Metsähallitus’ appeal and upheld the District Court’s Stora Enso as a taxpayer environmental or other obligations the existence of which would be judgement. The total amount of Metsähallitus’ claim jointly and severally confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more against Stora Enso, UPM and Metsäliitto in the Court of Appeal was Capacities by mill in 2019 uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group. approximately EUR 125 million and the secondary claim against Stora Enso is party to legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary Stora Enso was approximately EUR 68 million. Metsähallitus applied for Information for shareholders course of business and which primarily involve claims arising out of a leave of appeal from the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court decided commercial law. The management does not consider that liabilities on 29 January 2019 that the application to appeal is denied. This related to such proceedings before insurance recoveries, if any, are likely concludes the case without Stora Enso having any payment obligation to be material to the Group’s financial condition or results of operations. towards Metsähallitus. Further the entire round woodclaim case can be now considered closed without any material financial effects on Legal proceedings in Latin America Stora Enso. The quarterly reporting will discontinue. Veracel On 11 July 2008, Stora Enso announced that a federal judge in Brazil Legal proceedings in Sweden Governance had issued a decision claiming that the permits issued by the State Insurance claim of Bahia for the operations of Stora Enso’s joint operations company In July and August 2016, six Swedish insurance companies filed Veracel were not valid. The judge also ordered Veracel to take certain lawsuits in the Environmental Court and the District Court of Falun actions, including reforestation with native trees on part of Veracel’s against Stora Enso, due to damage caused by the forest fire in 17 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Share capital Strategy Major shareholders as of 31 December 2018 Ownership distribution as at 31 December 2018 Annual Report 2018 By voting power A shares R shares % of shares % of votes % of shares % of votes 1 Solidium Oy1 62 655 036 21 792 540 10.7% 27.3% Solidium Oy1 10.7% 27.3% 2 FAM AB2 63 123 386 17 000 000 10.2% 27.3% FAM AB2 10.2% 27.3% 3 Social Insurance Institution of Finland 23 825 086 973 982 3.1% 10.1% Social Insurance Institution of Finland (KELA) 3.1% 10.1% 4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8 513 018 1 140 874 1.2% 3.6% Finnish institutions (excl. Solidium and KELA) 11.6% 8.6% 5 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3 352 286 17 778 548 2.7% 2.2% Swedish institutions (excl. FAM) 4.9% 4.6% 6 MP-Bolagen i Vetlanda AB, (Werner von Seydlitz dödsbo) 4 818 000 1 390 000 0.8% 2.1% Finnish private shareholders 4.2% 2.5% Financials 7 Erik Johan Ljungberg's Education Foundation 1 780 540 2 336 224 0.5% 0.8% Swedish private shareholders 3.1% 2.2% 8 Swedbank Robur Funds 0 10 674 443 1.4% 0.4% ADR holders 2.0% 0.7% 9 Bergslaget's Healthcare Foundation 626 269 1 609 483 0.3% 0.3% Under nominee names Stora Enso in 2018 (non-Finnish/non-Swedish shareholders) 50.2% 16.7% 10 The State Pension Fund 0 7 200 000 0.9% 0.3% Total 100.0% 100.0% Report of the 11 Nordea Investment Funds 0 5 913 015 0.7% 0.2% 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish State. Board of Directors 12 Keva (Local Government Pension Institution) 0 5 251 101 0.7% 0.2% Sustainability 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. 13 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 0 4 680 000 0.6% 0.2% Consolidated financial 14 Unionen (Swedish trade union) 0 3 477 750 0.4% 0.1% statements 15 SEB Investment Management 0 3 157 906 0.4% 0.1% Total 168 693 621 104 375 866 36.1%3 75.9%3 Notes to the Consolidated Nominee-registered shares 74 382 979 473 956 786 69.5%3, 4 51.3%3, 4 financial statements 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish State. 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. 3 As some of the shareholdings on the list are nominee registered, the percentage figures do not add up to 100%. Extract from the parent 4 According to Euroclear Finland. company Stora Enso Oyj The list has been compiled by the Company on the basis of shareholder information obtained from Euroclear Finland, Euroclear Sweden and a database managed by Citibank, financial statements N.A (Citi). This information includes only directly registered holdings, thus certain holdings (which may be substantial) of shares held in nominee or brokerage accounts cannot be included. The list is therefore incomplete. The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution Share distribution as at 31 December 2018 of dividend By size of holding, A share Shareholders % Shares % 1–100 4 740 49.57% 220 209 0.13% Auditor’s report Financials 101–1 000 4 185 43.76% 1 511 244 0.86% 1 001–10 000 605 6.33% 1 396 829 0.79% Stora Enso in capital markets 10 001–100 000 27 0.28% 513 702 0.29% Stora Enso as a taxpayer 100 001–1 000 000 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 1 000 001– 6 0.06% 172 670 688 97.93% Capacities by mill in 2019 Total 9 563 100.00% 176 312 672 100.00% Information for shareholders By size of holding, R share Shareholders % Shares % 1–100 10 889 27.61% 624 069 0.10% 101–1 000 21 563 54.67% 9 141 510 1.49% 1 001–10 000 6 367 16.14% 16 998 021 2.78% 10 001–100 000 519 1.32% 14 249 726 2.33% 100 001–1 000 000 79 0.20% 23 597 005 3.85% 1 000 001 – 23 0.06% 547 696 984 89.45% Governance Total 39 440 100.00% 612 307 315 100.00% According to Euroclear Finland. 18 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Outlook and short-term risks Strategy Outlook and short-term risks of approximately EUR 62 million on operational EBIT for the next 12 (IAC) and fair valuations from the segments and Stora Enso’s share Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso introduces new way of giving annual outlook and quarterly months. of the operating profit of equity accounted investments (EAI), also guidance. The Group starts to guide absolute range for quarterly A decrease of energy, wood, pulp or chemical and filler prices excluding items affecting comparability and fair valuations. operational EBIT, instead of comparing quarterly sales and operational would have the opposite impact. Items affecting comparability are exceptional transactions that EBIT to the previous quarter qualitatively. Foreign exchange rates sensitivity analysis for the next twelve are not related to recurring business operations. The most common Stora Enso’s year 2019 is expected to be largely in line with 2018, months: the direct effect on operational EBIT of a 10% strengthening IAC are capital gains and losses relating to disposal of fixed assets, provided that the current trading conditions do not significantly in the value of the US dollar, Swedish krona and British pound impairments or impairment reversals, disposals gains and losses change. Demand growth is expected to continue for Stora Enso’s against the euro would be approximately positive EUR 184 million, relating to Group companies, environmental provisions, provisions for other businesses except for European Paper, for which demand is negative EUR 99 million and positive EUR 38 million annual impact, planned restructurings, other provisions and penalties. Items affecting Financials forecast to continue to decline in 2019. Group’s sales are expected respectively. Weakening of the currencies would have the opposite comparability are normally disclosed individually if they exceed one to be higher and costs are forecast to increase in 2019 compared impact. These numbers are before the effect of hedges and assuming cent per share. to 2018. Stora Enso will implement measures to mitigate these cost no changes occur other than a single currency exchange rate Fair valuations and non-operational items include equity incentive Stora Enso in 2018 increases and the increased uncertainties with the profit protection movement. schemes and related hedges, CO2 emission rights, valuations of programme. The Group incurs annual unhedged net costs worth approximately biological assets and the Group’s share of income tax and net financial Report of the Stora Enso publishes the quarterly guidances in its interim reports. EUR 120 million in Brazilian real (BRL) in its operations in Brazil and items of EAI. Board of Directors Sustainability Increasing competition, and supply and demand imbalances in approximately EUR 110 million in Chinese Renminbi (CNY) in its Cash flow from operations (non-IFRS) is a group specific way to the paper, pulp, packaging, wood products and roundwood markets operations in China. For these flows, a 10% strengthening in the value present operative cash flow without hedging result from OCI and Consolidated financial may affect Stora Enso’s market share and profitability. Changes in the of a foreign currency would have a EUR 12 million and EUR 11 million starting from operational EBITDA instead of operating profit. statements global economic and political environment, sharp market corrections, negative impact on operational EBIT, respectively. Cash flow after investing activities (non-IFRS) is calculated as increasing volatility in foreign exchange rates and deteriorating follows: cash flow from operations (non-IFRS) excluding cash spent Notes to the Consolidated economic conditions in the main markets could all affect Stora Enso’s Events after the balance sheet date on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and biological profits, cash flows and financial position. On 29 January the Supreme Court denied the Finnish Metsähallitus’ assets and acquisitions of EAIs. financial statements With reference to current geopolitical circumstances, there is application to appeal in the roundwood claim case. The full list of the non-IFRS measures is presented at the end of an increasing risk of an escalation in protectionist measures to the On 1 February Stora Enso announced a profit protection this report. Extract from the parent extent that global trade could materially shrink. This would have programme to strengthen competitiveness. The intention is to achieve company Stora Enso Oyj major knock-on effects for inflation, business sentiment, consumer annual cost reduction of EUR 120 million as well as reduction of financial statements sentiment and ultimately global economic growth. capital expenditure by about EUR 50 million compared to the earlier Furthermore, as the global economy is moving into a new phase forecast. The Board of Directors’ where the main central banks will begin to reduce or reverse their Proposal for the distribution lenient monetary policy positions, such developments may give rise Proposal for the distribution of dividend of dividend to significant uncertainty and negatively affect Stora Enso’s business The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that a dividend of conditions. EUR 0.50 per share be distributed for the year 2018. Auditor’s report Other risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, The dividend would be paid to shareholders who on the record Financials general industry conditions, such as changes in the cost or availability date of the dividend payment, 18 March 2019, are recorded in the Stora Enso in capital markets of raw materials, energy and transportation costs, unanticipated shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy or in the expenditures related to the cost of compliance with existing and new separate register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden environmental and other governmental regulations and to actual or AB for Euroclear Sweden registered shares. Dividends payable to Stora Enso as a taxpayer potential litigation, material disruption at one of our manufacturing Euroclear Sweden registered shares will be forwarded by Euroclear facilities, risks inherent in conducting business through joint ventures, Sweden AB and paid in Swedish crowns. Dividends payable to ADR Capacities by mill in 2019 and other factors that can be found in Stora Enso’s press releases and holders will be forwarded by Citibank N.A. and paid in US dollars. disclosures. The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that the dividend be Information for shareholders Energy sensitivity analysis: the direct effect of a 10% increase in paid on or about 25 March 2019. electricity, heat, oil and other fossil fuel market prices would have a negative impact of approximately EUR 12 million on operational EBIT Annual General Meeting for the next 12 months, after the effect of hedges. Stora Enso Oyj’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held on Wood sensitivity analysis: the direct effect of a 10% increase Thursday 14 March 2019 at 4.00 p.m. Finnish time at Finlandia Hall, in wood prices would have a negative impact of approximately Mannerheimintie 13 e, Helsinki, Finland. EUR 203 million on operational EBIT for the next 12 months. Pulp sensitivity analysis: the direct effect of a 10% increase in Non-IFRS measures Governance pulp market prices would have a positive impact of approximately The Group’s key non-IFRS performance metric is operational EBIT, EUR 130 million on operational EBIT for the next 12 months. which is used to evaluate the performance of its operating segments Chemical and filler sensitivity analysis: the direct effect of a 10% and to steer allocation of resources to them. Operational EBIT increase in chemical and filler prices would have a negative impact comprises the operating profit excluding items affecting comparability 19 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Calculation of key figures Strategy Calculation of key figures Annual Report 2018 Operational return on capital employed, Annualised operational EBIT List of non-IFRS measures 100 x operational ROCE (%) Capital employed1, 2 Operational EBITDA Operational EBITDA margin Operational EBIT Operational return on operating capital, Annualised operational EBIT Operational EBIT margin 100 x operational ROOC (%) Operating capital1, 2 Capital expenditure Capital employed Operational ROCE Net profit/loss for the period Earnings per share (EPS), excl. IAC Financials Return on equity, ROE (%) 100 x Total equity 2 Operational ROOC Net debt/last 12 months’ operational EBITDA ratio Cash flow from operations Stora Enso in 2018 Net interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities – interest-bearing assets Cash flow after investing activities Report of the Net interest-bearing liabilities Net debt/equity ratio Board of Directors Equity3 Sustainability Consolidated financial Net profit/loss for the period3 Earnings per share (EPS) statements Average number of shares Notes to the Consolidated Dividend distribution / share Payout ratio, excl. IAC, % 100 x financial statements EPS excl. IAC Extract from the parent Dividend distribution / share Dividend and distribution yield, % 100 x company Stora Enso Oyj Closing price of share financial statements Closing price of share Price/earnings ratio (P/E), excl. IAC The Board of Directors’ EPS excl. IAC Proposal for the distribution of dividend Operating profit/loss excluding items affecting comparability (IAC) and fair valuations of the segments and Stora Enso’s Operational EBIT share of operating profit/loss excluding IAC and fair Auditor’s report Financials valuations of its equity accounted investments (EAI) Stora Enso in capital markets Operating profit/loss excluding operational decrease in the value of biological assets, fixed asset depreciation and Stora Enso as a taxpayer Operational EBITDA impairment, IACs and fair valuations. The definition includes the respective items of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and equity accounted investments. Capacities by mill in 2019 Net debt/last 12 months’ Net interest-bearing liabilities Information for shareholders operational EBITDA ratio LTM operational EBITDA Maintenance, personnel and other administrative type of Fixed costs costs, excluding IAC and fair valuations Last 12 months (LTM) 12 months prior to the end of reporting period Governance Total recordable incident rate = number of incidents per one TRI million hours worked 1 Capital employed = Operating capital – Net tax liabilities 2 Average for the financial period 3 Attributable to owners of the Parent 20 Consolidated financial statements Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Consolidated income statement Strategy Annual Report 2018 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Financials Year Ended 31 December Year Ended 31 December EUR million Note 2018 2017 EUR million Note 2018 2017 Sales 3 10 486 10 045 Net profit for the year 988 614 Stora Enso in 2018 Other operating income 5 92 147 Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) Report of the Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 125 28 Board of Directors Sustainability Materials and services -6 157 -5 945 Items that will Not be Reclassified to Profit and Loss Freight and sales commissions -932 -968 Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 14 97 0 Consolidated financial Personnel expenses 6 -1 330 -1 331 Actuarial losses/gains on defined benefit plans 20 -24 61 statements Other operating expenses 5 -526 -551 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 9 5 -10 78 51 Notes to the Consolidated Share of results of equity accounted investments 13 181 66 financial statements Change in net value of biological assets 12 -68 -72 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 10 -479 -515 Items that may be Reclassified Subsequently to Profit and Loss Extract from the parent Operating Profit 3 1 390 904 Share of OCI of equity accounted investments that may be reclassified 27 4 5 Currency translation movements on equity net investments (CTA) 28 -36 -288 company Stora Enso Oyj Financial income 8 27 38 Financial expense 8 -207 -200 Currency translation movements on non-controlling interests 19 0 -3 financial statements Profit before Tax 1 210 742 Net investment hedges 28 -14 40 The Board of Directors’ Income tax 9 -221 -128 Cash flow hedges 27 -24 32 Net Profit for the Year 988 614 Cost of hedging time value of options 27 -2 0 Proposal for the distribution Non-controlling interests' share of cash flow hedges 19 -2 0 of dividend Attributable to: Available-for-sale investments 14 0 39 Auditor’s report Owners of the Parent 18 1 013 625 Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified 9 7 -10 Financials Non-controlling Interests 19 -24 -11 -68 -185 Stora Enso in capital markets Net Profit for the Year 988 614 Total Comprehensive Income 999 480 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Earnings per Share Basic and diluted earnings per share, EUR 32 1.28 0.79 Attributable to: Capacities by mill in 2019 Owners of the Parent 1 025 494 Non-controlling interests 19 -27 -14 Information for shareholders Total Comprehensive Income 999 480 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. Governance 21 Consolidated statement of financial position Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Consolidated statement of financial position Strategy Annual Report 2018 As at 31 December As at 31 December EUR million Note 2018 2017 EUR million Note 2018 2017 Assets Equity and Liabilities Financials Goodwill O 11 243 237 Share capital 18 1 342 1 342 Other intangible assets O 11 254 229 Share premium 77 77 Property, plant and equipment O 11 5 234 5 310 Fair value reserve 27 290 210 Stora Enso in 2018 11 5 731 5 776 Cumulative translation adjustment 28 -335 -288 Report of the Biological assets O 12 457 448 Invested non-restricted equity fund 633 633 Emission rights O 26 12 Retained earnings 3 694 3 409 Board of Directors Sustainability Equity accounted investments O 13 1 729 1 600 Net profit for the year 1 013 625 Consolidated financial Listed securities I 14 13 21 Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent 6 714 6 008 statements Unlisted securities O 14 422 318 Non-controlling Interests 19 18 47 Non-current loan receivables I 25 54 55 Total Equity 6 732 6 055 Notes to the Consolidated Deferred tax assets T 9 120 154 Post-employment benefit provisions O 20 401 377 financial statements Other non-current assets O 15 48 50 Other provisions O 22 101 111 Non-current Assets 8 601 8 434 Deferred tax liabilities T 9 168 166 Extract from the parent Non-current debt I 26 2 265 2 046 company Stora Enso Oyj Inventories O 16 1 567 1 321 Other non-current operative liabilities O 23 34 52 financial statements Tax receivables T 9 9 9 Non-current Liabilities 2 970 2 752 Operative receivables O 17 1 487 1 319 The Board of Directors’ Interest-bearing receivables I 25 55 80 Current portion of non-current debt I 26 403 370 Proposal for the distribution Cash and cash equivalents I 1 130 607 Interest-bearing liabilities I 26 675 596 of dividend Current Assets 4 248 3 336 Bank overdrafts I 26 1 4 Other provisions O 22 16 23 Auditor’s report Total Assets 12 849 11 770 Financials Other operative liabilities O 23 1 960 1 888 Tax liabilities T 9 92 82 Stora Enso in capital markets Current Liabilities 3 147 2 963 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Total Liabilities 6 117 5 715 Capacities by mill in 2019 Total Equity and Liabilities 12 849 11 770 Items designated “O” comprise Operating Capital, items designated “I” comprise Interest-bearing Net Liabilities, items designated “T” Information for shareholders comprise Net Tax Liabilities. The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. Governance 22 Consolidated cash flow statement Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Consolidated cash flow statement Strategy Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December Year Ended 31 December EUR million Note 2018 2017 EUR million Note 2018 2017 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Cash Flow from Financing Activities Net profit for the year 988 614 Proceeds from issue of new long-term debt 26 578 425 Repayment of long-term debt 26 -358 -1 034 Financials Adjustments and reversal of non-cash items: Change in short-term borrowings 26 39 76 Taxes 9 221 128 Dividends paid -323 -292 Depreciation and impairment charges 10 479 515 Buy-out of interest in subsidiaries from non-controlling interests 19 -2 0 Stora Enso in 2018 Change in value of biological assets 12 68 72 Equity injections from, less dividends to, non-controlling interests 19 -2 -1 Report of the Change in fair value of share awards and TRS 2 10 Purchase of own shares -5 -3 Share of results of equity accounted investments 13 -181 -66 Net Cash Used in Financing Activities -73 -829 Board of Directors Sustainability Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets and investments 5 20 7 Consolidated financial Net financial items 8 180 162 Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents 521 -323 statements Other adjustments -9 -7 Translation adjustment 4 -23 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 13 24 20 Net Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 603 949 Notes to the Consolidated Interest received 3 3 Net Cash and Cash Equivalents at Year End 1 128 603 financial statements Interest paid -116 -143 Other financial items, net -9 -53 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Year End1 1 130 607 Extract from the parent Income taxes paid 9 -152 -97 Bank Overdrafts at Year End -1 -4 company Stora Enso Oyj Change in net working capital, net of businesses acquired or sold -428 37 Net Cash and Cash Equivalents at Year End 1 128 603 financial statements Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 1 092 1 202 1 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash-in-hand, deposits held at call with banks and other liquid investments with original maturity of less than three months. Bank overdrafts are included in current liabilities. The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. The Board of Directors’ Cash Flow from Investing Activities Proposal for the distribution Acquisition of subsidiary shares and business operations, net of disposed cash 4 -4 0 of dividend Acquisition of shares in equity accounted investments 13 -29 -9 Acquisition of unlisted securities 14 -3 -8 Auditor’s report Financials Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary shares and business operations, net of disposed cash 4 42 -4 Stora Enso in capital markets Proceeds from disposal of shares in equity accounted investments 13 3 5 Proceeds from disposal of unlisted securities 14 1 0 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 11 9 45 Capacities by mill in 2019 Income taxes paid on disposal of property 0 -15 Capital expenditure 3, 11 -442 -578 Information for shareholders Investment in biological assets 12 -83 -80 Proceeds from/payment of non-current receivables, net 8 -52 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities -497 -696 Governance 23 Consolidated cash flow statement Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Consolidated cash flow statement Strategy Annual Report 2018 Supplemental cash flow information Year Ended 31 December EUR million Note 2018 2017 Financials Change in Net Working Capital consists of: Change in inventories -267 -25 Change in interest-free receivables: Stora Enso in 2018 Current -183 -137 Non-current -1 1 Report of the Change in interest-free liabilities: Board of Directors Sustainability Current 36 200 Consolidated financial Non-current -13 -2 Change in Net Working Capital, Net of Businesses Acquired or Sold -428 37 statements Notes to the Consolidated Cash and Cash Equivalents consist of: financial statements Cash on hand and at banks 801 592 Cash equivalents 328 15 Extract from the parent Cash and Cash Equivalents 1 130 607 company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Non-Cash Investing Activities Total capital expenditure 491 560 The Board of Directors’ Amounts paid -442 -578 Proposal for the distribution Non-Cash Part of Additions to Intangible Assets and Property, Plant and Equipment 49 -18 of dividend Cash Flow on Acquisitions of Subsidiaries and Business Operations Auditor’s report Financials Purchase consideration on acquisitions, cash part 4 5 0 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies, net of bank overdraft 4 -1 0 Stora Enso in capital markets Net Cash Flow on Acquisition 4 0 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Cash Flow on Disposals of Subsidiaries and Business Operations Capacities by mill in 2019 Cash part of the consideration 4 44 0 Cash and cash equivalents in divested companies 4 -2 -7 Information for shareholders Net Cash Flow from Disposal 42 -7 Non-cash part of the consideration 0 1 Total Consideration, net of Cash and Cash Equivalents in Divested Companies 42 -6 Cash Received Regarding Previous year disposals 0 3 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. Governance 24 Statement of changes in equity Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Statement of changes in equity Strategy Annual Report 2018 Fair Valuation Reserve Share Premium Invested Step CTA Attributable and NonAcquisition Equity Available OCI of Equity and Net to Owners NonShare Reserve Restricted Treasury Revaluation instruments for Sale Cash Flow Accounted Investment Retained of the controlling Financials EUR million Balance at 31 December 2016 Capital 1 342 Fund Equity Fund 77 633 Shares 0 Surplus 4 through OCI 0 Investments 162 Hedges -11 Investments -19 Hedges -32 Earnings 3 650 Parent Interests 5 806 62 Total 5 868 Profit/loss for the year 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 625 625 -11 614 Stora Enso in 2018 OCI before tax 0 0 0 0 0 0 39 32 5 -248 61 -111 -3 -114 Income tax relating to components of OCI 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 -6 -8 -10 -20 -20 Report of the Total Comprehensive Income 0 0 0 0 0 0 43 26 5 -256 676 494 -14 480 Board of Directors Sustainability Dividend 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 -292 -292 -1 -293 Purchase of treasury shares 0 0 0 -3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 -3 -3 Consolidated financial Share-based payments 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 statements Balance at 31 December 2017 1 342 77 633 0 4 0 205 15 -14 -288 4 034 6 008 47 6 055 Adoption of IFRS 2 and IFRS 91 205 -205 8 8 8 Notes to the Consolidated Balance at 1 January 2018 1 342 77 633 0 4 205 0 15 -14 -288 4 042 6 016 47 6 063 financial statements Profit/loss for the year 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 013 1 013 -24 988 OCI before tax 0 0 0 0 0 97 0 -26 4 -50 -24 0 -2 -2 Extract from the parent Income tax relating to components of OCI 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 5 0 3 4 13 0 13 company Stora Enso Oyj Total Comprehensive Income 0 0 0 0 0 98 0 -22 4 -47 993 1 026 -27 999 financial statements Dividend 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 -323 -323 -2 -326 Acquisitions and disposals 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 -2 -2 The Board of Directors’ NCI buy-out 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 -2 -2 2 0 Proposal for the distribution Purchase of treasury shares 0 0 0 -5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 -5 0 -5 of dividend Share-based payments 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 -3 2 0 2 Balance at 31 December 2018 1 342 77 633 0 4 304 0 -7 -11 -335 4 706 6 714 18 6 732 Auditor’s report Financials 1 See Basis of Preparation relating to new and amended standards applied to annual periods beginning in January 2018. Stora Enso in capital markets CTA = Cumulative Translation Adjustment, NCI = Non-controlling Interests, OCI = Other Comprehensive Income, EAI = Equity Accounted Investments Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2019 Information for shareholders Governance 25 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Strategy Annual Report 2018 Note 1 Accounting principles loss model. At the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group has updated negative pre-tax transition adjustment to the opening balance of its impairment methodology to be in line with IFRS 9. For trade retained earnings for 2018. Principal activities receivables, simplified approach has been implemented and loss The Group has evaluated its financial assets and liabilities based Stora Enso Oyj (“the Company”) is a Finnish public limited liability allowances are recognised based on expected lifetime credit on the new classification and measurement criteria under IFRS 9. Financials company organised under the laws of the Republic of Finland and with losses. For receivables measured at amortised cost or fair value Stora Enso has categorised its financial assets to be measured at its registered address at Kanavaranta 1, 00160 Helsinki. Its shares are through other comprehensive income, general approach has been amortised cost, at fair value through other comprehensive income currently listed on Nasdaq Helsinki and Stockholm. The operations of implemented with the loss allowance being recognised based on and at fair value through Income statement. For financial liabilities, the Stora Enso in 2018 Stora Enso Oyj and its subsidiaries (together “Stora Enso” or “the Group”) 12-month expected credit losses if there has not been a significant classification is based on amortised cost and fair value through income are organised into the following divisions: Consumer Board, Packaging increase in credit risk since the initial recognition. As a result of the statement categories. On the date of initial application, 1 January 2018, Report of the Solutions, Biomaterials, Wood Products, Paper and the segment Other. new impairment methodology, the Group recognised EUR 3 million the financial assets and liabilities of the Group were as follows: Board of Directors Sustainability Segment Other includes the Nordic forest equity accounted investments, Stora Enso’s shareholding in Pohjolan Voima, operations supplying wood Classification changes of financial instruments Consolidated financial to the Nordic and Baltic mills, plantations not connected to any mill site Measurement category Carrying amount statements and group shared services and administration. The Group’s main market Classification under IAS 39 Classification under IFRS 9 Original New Difference is Europe, with an expanding presence in Asia and South America. Non-current financial assets Notes to the Consolidated The Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Available-for-sale financial Fair value through other comprehensive Directors on 31 January 2019. financial statements Listed securities assets income (FVTOCI) 21 21 0 Fair value through Other comprehensive Basis of preparation Available-for-sale financial income (FVTOCI) and Fair value through Extract from the parent Unlisted securities assets Income Statement (FVTPL) 318 318 0 The Consolidated Financial Statements of Stora Enso Oyj have company Stora Enso Oyj been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Loans and receivables Non-current loan receivables (amortised cost) Amortised cost 55 55 0 financial statements Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union, including Current financial assets International Accounting Standards (IAS) and interpretations issued Loans and receivables Amortised cost and Fair value through The Board of Directors’ by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). The Consolidated Trade and other operative receivables (amortised cost) Other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) 965 962 -3 Proposal for the distribution Financial Statements of Stora Enso Oyj have been prepared according Loans and receivables of dividend to the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting Interest-bearing receivables (amortised cost) Amortised cost 15 15 0 policies. The detailed accounting principles are explained in the Fair value through other related notes with a few exceptions where the accounting principles comprehensive income Fair value through Other comprehensive Auditor’s report Financials Derivatives (under hedge accounting) (FVTOCI) income (FVTOCI) 49 49 0 are presented in this note. The Consolidated financial statements are Fair value through Income Fair value through Income Statement Stora Enso in capital markets presented in euros, which is the parent company’s functional currency. Derivatives (not under hedge accounting) Statement (FVTPL) (FVTPL) 16 16 0 All figures in this Annual Report have been rounded to the nearest Loans and receivables million, unless otherwise stated. Therefore, figures in this report Cash and cash equivalents (amortised cost) Amortised cost 607 607 0 Stora Enso as a taxpayer may not add up precisely to the totals presented and may vary from Total financial assets 2 046 2 043 -3 previously published financial information. Capacities by mill in 2019 Non-current financial liabilities New and amended standards and Non-current debt Amortised cost Amortised cost 2 046 2 046 0 Information for shareholders interpretations adopted in 2018 Current financial liabilities The Group has applied the following amendments which are effective Current portion of non-current debt Amortised cost Amortised cost 370 370 0 from 1 January 2018: Interest-bearing liabilities Amortised cost Amortised cost 560 560 0 Fair value through other • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The Group has adopted IFRS comprehensive income Fair value through other comprehensive 9 Financial Instruments standard effective from 1 January 2018. Derivatives (under hedge accounting) (FVTOCI) income (FVTOCI) 32 32 0 The standard replaced IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition Fair value through Income Fair value through Income Statement Derivatives (not under hedge accounting) Statement (FVTPL) (FVTPL) 4 4 0 and Measurement. The standard includes revised requirements Governance Bank overdrafts Amortised cost Amortised cost 4 4 0 for recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, Fair value through Income Fair value through Income Statement impairment and general hedge accounting. Contingent consideration Statement (FVTPL) (FVTPL) 20 20 0 The new impairment model for financial assets requires Trade and other operative payables Amortised cost Amortised cost 1 576 1 576 0 recognition of loss allowances based on the expected credit Total financial liabilities 4 612 4 612 0 26 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 1 Strategy The Group has elected to classify its equity investments in employee’s tax obligation from the total number of equity instruments Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of the Annual Report 2018 Pohjolan Voima shares and certain listed shares held by the Group, that otherwise would have been issued to the employee upon vesting of joint arrangement, which exists only when decisions on relevant earlier classified as available-for-sale investments (AFS) under IAS the share-based payment. According to the IFRS 2 amendments, such activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. 39, at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) under transactions are to be classified in their entirety as equity-settled shareJoint operations are joint arrangements whereby the partners IFRS 9. The gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value based payment transactions, even though the tax obligation is paid in who have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, of equity investments under FVTOCI are not recycled to the Income cash on behalf of the employee. Resulting from the application of the and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. A joint Statement upon impairment or disposal, with only dividend income amendments, the Group recognised EUR 9 million positive transition venture is a joint arrangement whereby the partners who have joint being recognised in the Income Statement. adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for 2018. control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint Under IFRS 9 the changes in the time value of currency options arrangement. Financials used as hedges of foreign currency sales will be recognised in other • Other amended IFRS standards and interpretations are not The Group has two joint operations: Veracel and Montes del Plata. comprehensive income to the extent that they relate to the hedged items, relevant to the Group. In relation to its interest in joint operations, as a joint operator, the and will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in the same period or Group recognises assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses using the Stora Enso in 2018 periods during which the expected future cash flows will affect the profit Consolidation principles line-by-line method. or loss. The change will reduce income statement volatility compared The Consolidated financial statements include the parent company, • Veracel is a jointly (50%/50%) owned company of Stora Enso and Report of the to IAS 39. The outstanding option time value as at the date of adoption Stora Enso Oyj, and all companies controlled by the Group. Control is Fibria located in Brazil. The pulp mill produces 1.2 million tonnes of Board of Directors Sustainability amounted to EUR 1 million negative and was recognised as a transition defined as when the Group: bleached eucalyptus hard wood pulp per year and both owners are adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for 2018. • has power over the investee, entitled to half of the mill’s output. The eucalyptus is sourced mostly Consolidated financial Figures in the comparison periods have not been restated. • is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement from the company’s own forestry plantations. The mill commenced statements with the investee; and production in May 2005 and the group’s share of the pulp shipments • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The Group • has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. are sent primarily to Stora Enso mills in Europe and China. Notes to the Consolidated has adopted IFRS 15 standard and related clarifications effective • Montes del Plata is a jointly (50%/50%) owned company of from 1 January 2018. The standard replaced IAS 18 Revenue and If facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to the three Stora Enso and Arauco located in Uruguay. The Montes del financial statements IAS 11 Construction Contracts standards and related interpretations. elements of control listed above the Group reassess whether or not Plata Pulp Mill’s annual capacity is 1.4 million tonnes of bleached The new standard specifies how and when revenue is recognised. it controls an investee. Acquired companies are accounted for under eucalyptus hard wood pulp and Stora Enso’s part, 700 000 tonnes, is Extract from the parent The standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised the purchase method whereby they are included in the consolidated sold entirely as market pulp. The eucalyptus is sourced mostly from company Stora Enso Oyj when control of a good or service transfers to a customer. The Group financial statements from the date the control over the subsidiary is the company’s own forestry plantations. The mill started in June 2014. financial statements has reviewed its performance obligations, main customer contracts obtained, whereas, conversely, divestments are included up to the date for each division and evaluated the impact of IFRS 15 based on the when the control is lost. The principal subsidiaries and joint operations Revenue recognition The Board of Directors’ amount and timing of revenue recognition. are listed in Note 30 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations. Sales comprise products, raw materials and services less indirect Proposal for the distribution In conclusion, the adoption of IFRS 15 has no significant impact All intercompany transactions, receivables, liabilities and sales tax and discounts, and are adjusted for exchange differences of dividend on the substance of the principles applied by the Group to the amount unrealised profits, as well as intragroup profit distributions, are on sales in foreign currencies. Sales are recognised after Stora Enso and timing of revenue recognition. The revenue recognition principles eliminated. Accounting policies for subsidiaries, joint arrangements has transferred the control of goods and services to a customer and Auditor’s report and delivery terms applied by the Group remain generally unaltered. and all equity accounted investments are adjusted where necessary the Group retains neither a continuing right to dispose of the goods, Financials The Group has adopted the modified retrospective application to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by Stora Enso. Nonnor effective control of those goods; usually, this means that sales are Stora Enso in capital markets of IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018, without adjusting prior reporting controlling interests are presented as a separate component of equity. recorded upon the delivery of goods to customers in accordance with periods. The new guidance is applied only to contracts that are Associated companies over which Stora Enso exercises the agreed terms of delivery. not completed at the adoption date. No adjustment to the opening significant influence are accounted for using the equity method, Stora Enso’s terms of delivery are based on Incoterms 2010, which Stora Enso as a taxpayer balance of retained earnings has been made as there are no changes which involves recognising the Group’s share of the equity accounted are the official rules for the interpretation of trade terms as issued by in the timing of the revenue recognition. As from 1 January 2018 investment profit or loss for the year less any impaired goodwill in the the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). The main categories of Capacities by mill in 2019 non-significant amounts of transport and freight sales and silviculture consolidated income statement. These companies are undertakings the terms covering Group sales are: services previously presented under other operating income have in which the Group has significant influence, but which it does not • “D” terms, under which the group is obliged to deliver the goods to Information for shareholders been reclassified to the sales line in the consolidated income control. Significant influence means the power to participate in the the buyer at the agreed place in the manner specified in the chosen statement. In 2018 the amount of these items was EUR 56 million. The financial and operating policy decisions of the company without rule, in which case the Point of Sale is the moment of delivery to previous year’s figures have not been restated due to immateriality. control or joint control over those policies. The most significant of the buyer. such companies are listed in Note 13 Equity accounted investments. • “C” terms, whereby the Group arranges and pays for the external • Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of The Group’s interest in an associated company is carried in the carriage and certain other costs, though the Group ceases to be Share-based Payment Transactions effective from 1 January 2018 were consolidated statement of financial position at an amount that reflects responsible for the goods once they have been handed over to the adopted prospectively without restatement of comparative periods. Tax its share of the net assets of the associate together with any remaining carrier in accordance with the relevant term. The Point of Sale is laws or regulations may require the Group to withhold an amount for goodwill upon acquisition. When the Group share of losses exceeds thus the handing over of the goods to the carrier contracted by the Governance an employee’s tax obligation associated with a share-based payment the carrying amount of an investment, the carrying amount is reduced seller for the carriage to the agreed destination. and transfer that amount, normally in cash, to the tax authority on to zero and any recognition of further losses ceases unless the Group • “F” terms, being where the buyer arranges and pays for the the employee’s behalf. To fulfil this obligation, the Group withholds is obliged to satisfy obligations of the investee that it has guaranteed carriage, thus the Point of Sale is the handing over of the goods to the number of equity instruments equal to the monetary value of the or which it is otherwise committed to. the carrier contracted by the buyer at the agreed point. 27 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 1 Strategy Where local rules may result in invoices being raised in advance of the Future standard changes endorsed Undiscounted operating lease commitments at the end of 2018 Annual Report 2018 above, the effect of this revenue advancement is quantified, and an by the EU but not yet effective in 2018 are EUR 731 million. In accordance with the current assessment of adjustment is made for it.Stora Enso’s sales mainly comprise sales • IFRS 16 Leases. This standard replaces the current guidance the impact of implementing IFRS 16 indicates that a lease liability in of products and the revenue is typically recognised at a point in time in IAS 17 and related interpretations and is a significant change the range of EUR 500-550 million will be recognised. It is expected when Stora Enso transfers control of these products to a customer. in accounting by lessees in particular. IFRS 16 requires lessees to that operating profit (IFRS) / operational EBIT will somewhat increase Revenues from services are recognised over time once the service has recognize a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a since the interest component of leasing payments will be presented in been performed. More detailed information regarding Stora Enso’s right-of-use (ROU) asset for virtually all lease contracts. In accordance financial expenses. Operational EBITDA will also increase, since both principal activities from which the Group generates its revenue IFRS 16, at inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a depreciation and interest expenses will be presented below EBITDA. and disaggregation of revenue is presented in Note 3 Segment contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if Impact on EPS is not expected to be material. Operating cash flow will Financials information. the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset increase and financing cash flow will decrease since most of the lease for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Amendment in payments are shown in financing cash flow, with no additional impact Shipping and handling costs lease definition have no material effect to the Group. to total cash flow. Stora Enso in 2018 When Stora Enso is responsible for arranging transport for its sales, Stora Enso will adopt IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, using the In addition certain land use contracts, amounting to EUR 76 such costs are not billed separately but are included in revenue in the modified retrospective approach and therefore the comparative million, before IFRS 16 transition accounted as intangible assets will Report of the value of the goods billed to customers; the shipping costs incurred are information will not be restated and continues to be reported under be classified on transition to IFRS 16 as leases. All the liabilities related Board of Directors Sustainability shown in materials and services. IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. Effect of initial application of IFRS 16 is recognised to the arrangements have already been settled in previous periods and in balance sheet at 1 January 2019. At transition, lease liabilities are therefore there is no effect on the lease liability or income statement. Consolidated financial Foreign currency transactions measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, statements Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of discounted at the Group’s incremental borrowing rates. ROU assets • Other amended IFRS standards and interpretations are not exchange prevailing at the transaction date, but at the end of the are measured an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by relevant to the Group. Notes to the Consolidated month foreign-currency-denominated receivables and liabilities are the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments. The Group financial statements translated using the month-end exchange rate. Foreign exchange allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component Future standard changes not yet effective differences for operating items are recorded in the appropriate and will separate non-lease components if these are identifiable. and not yet endorsed by the EU in 2018 income statement account in the operating profit, and, for financial ROU assets are initially measured at cost, which comprises the • Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and Extract from the parent assets and liabilities, they are entered in the financial items of the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted mainly for lease payments Joint Ventures. These amendments clarify that an entity should company Stora Enso Oyj consolidated income statement, except when deferred in equity made at or before the commencement date. The ROU assets are apply IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to long-term interests in an financial statements as qualifying net investment hedges. Translation differences on subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the associate or joint venture that form part of the net investment in non-monetary financial assets, such as equities classified at fair commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the the associate or joint venture but to which the equity method is The Board of Directors’ value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI), are included ROU asset or the end of the lease term. In addition, the ROU asset is not applied. The effective date for these amendments is 1 January Proposal for the distribution in equity. adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. 2019. The amendment does not have a significant effect on the of dividend Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of Group’s financial statement. Foreign currency translations the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, • Amendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Auditor’s report The Group operates internationally and is thus exposed to currency discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rates. The lease Settlement. The amendments clarify the accounting when a plan Financials risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations on the value of its liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs. The amendments Stora Enso in capital markets net investment in non-euro area foreign subsidiaries and equity method. Lease liabilities are remeasured mainly when there is a require a company to use the updated assumptions from this accounted investments. The Income Statements of subsidiaries change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or remeasurement to determine current service cost and net interest with functional and presentational currencies other than the euro rate, or if there is a change in the Group’s assessment whether it will for the remainder of the reporting period after the change to the Stora Enso as a taxpayer are translated into the Group reporting currency using the average exercise an extension option. When lease liability is remeasured, a plan. Until now, IAS 19 did not specify how to determine these exchange rates for the year, whereas the statements of financial corresponding adjustment is generally made to the carrying amount of expenses for the period after the change to the plan. The effective Capacities by mill in 2019 position of these subsidiaries are translated using the exchange the ROU asset. date for these amendments is 1 January 2019. The amendments rates at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising from the The Group has elected not to recognise ROU assets and lease are not expected to be material for the Group. Information for shareholders retranslation of net investments in foreign entities that are nonliabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 months • Amendments to IFRS 3 Business combinations. The amendments euro foreign subsidiaries, joint arrangements or equity accounted or less and leases of low value assets. The Group has also applied will help companies determine whether an acquisition made is of a investments, and of financial instruments that are designated as the exemption not to recognise contracts which are ending in 2019. business or a group of assets. The amended definition emphasises and are hedges of such investments, are recorded directly in the The Group has defined low value asset exemption to include leases that the output of a business is to provide goods and services to shareholders’ equity in the cumulative translation adjustment in which the underlying asset is not material to Stora Enso. The customers, whereas the previous definition focused on returns in (CTA), as shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive assessment of whether the underlying asset is material and is within the form of dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits to income and Note 28 Cumulative translation adjustments and equity the scope or excluded from the recognition requirements of IFRS 16 is investors and others. The effective date for these amendments hedging. The cumulative translation differences of divestments and based on the concept of materiality in the Conceptual Framework and is 1 January 2019. The amendments are not expected to have Governance liquidations are combined with their gain or loss on disposal. The IAS 1. Leases of low value assets are mainly including IT and office material effect for the Group. CTA is also recycled in the consolidated income statement upon equipment, certain vehicles and machinery and other low value items. • Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in the repayment of share capital, return of investment and any partial The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these IFRS Standards. The revised Conceptual Framework includes: disposal of a business unit. leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. a new chapter on measurement; guidance on reporting financial 28 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 2 Strategy performance; improved definitions and guidance—in particular the sensitive to the discount rate as well as the expected future cash more detail in Notes 14 Equity instruments and 24 Financial risk Annual Report 2018 definition of a liability; and clarifications in important areas, such as flows. The key assumptions used in the impairment testing, including management. the roles of stewardship, prudence and measurement uncertainty sensitivity analysis, are explained further in Note 10 Depreciation, in financial reporting. The effective date for these amendments amortisation and impairment charges. Income taxes is 1 January 2020. The amendments are not expected to have Tax assets and liabilities are reviewed on a periodic basis and material effect for the Group. Goodwill balances are adjusted appropriately. Management considers that • Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of Material. Goodwill is tested per Cash Generating Unit (CGU) or by group of adequate provision has been made for future tax consequences Amendments will clarify the definition of material and to align the CGUs at least on an annual basis and any impairment is measured based on the current facts, circumstances and tax law. However, definition used in the Conceptual Framework and the standards using the discounted cash flow valuation method. This method uses should any tax positions be challenged and not prevail, different Financials themselves. The effective date for these amendments is 1 January future projections of cash flows from each of the reporting units in outcomes could result and have a significant impact on the amounts 2020. The Group is assessing the impact of these amendments. a CGU or group of CGUs and includes, among other estimates, reported in the consolidated financial statements. • IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts: This standard replaces IFRS 4, projections of future product pricing, production levels, product Stora Enso in 2018 which currently permits a wide variety of practices in accounting costs, market supply and demand, projected maintenance capital Post-retirement benefits for insurance contracts. The effective date for these amendments expenditures and an assumption of the weighted average cost The determination of the Group pension obligation and expense is Report of the is 1 January 2021. The standard is not relevant for the Group. of capital. A pre-tax discount rate used for the net present value subject to the selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries in Board of Directors Sustainability • Other published standard changes or interpretations are not calculation of projected cash flows reflects the weighted average cost calculating such amounts, including, among others, the discount rate, expected to have a significant effect on the Group’s consolidated of capital. the annual rate of increase in future compensation levels and estimated Consolidated financial financial statements or disclosures. The Group has evaluated the most sensitive estimates which when lifespans. Amounts charged in the Income statement are determined statements changed could have a material effect on the fair value of the assets or by independent actuaries, however, where actual results differ from the goodwill and therefore could lead to an impairment. These estimates initial estimates, together with the effect of any change in assumptions Notes to the Consolidated Note 2 Critical accounting are expected sales prices of the products, expected operating costs or other factors, these differences are recorded directly in equity, as financial statements estimates and judgements and discount rate. The key assumptions used in the impairment disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income. See Note 20 testing, including sensitivity analysis, are explained further in Note 10 Post-employment benefits for detailed information on the assumptions Use of estimates Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges. used in the pension liability calculations. Extract from the parent The preparation of consolidated financial statements conforming to company Stora Enso Oyj IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that Control assessment of joint operations and associates Biological assets financial statements affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, as well as the Note 1 Accounting principles describes Veracel and Montes del The Group has biological assets in equity accounted investment disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial Plata as joint operations. In both companies Stora Enso’s ownership companies, joint operation companies and in subsidiaries. Biological The Board of Directors’ statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses is 50%. The interpretations as joint operations are based on assets, in the form of standing trees, are accounted for under IAS 41, Proposal for the distribution during the period. The estimates are based on historical experience and shareholders’ agreements which give Stora Enso rights to a share which requires that the assets are measured at fair value less the costs of dividend various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, though of the returns and make the Group liable indirectly for the liabilities, to sell them. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows actual results and timing could differ from the estimates. Management as our ability to pay for the pulp is used to finance the debts. Joint from continuous operations based on sustainable forest management Auditor’s report believes that the accounting policies below represent those matters operations are consolidated with the proportionate line-by-line plans taking into account the growth potential of one cycle. These Financials requiring the exercise of judgement where a different opinion could method. discounted cash flows require estimates of growth, harvest, sales Stora Enso in capital markets result in the greatest changes to reported results. The forest holding companies Bergvik Skog Ab and Tornator price and costs, and changes in these premises are included in the Oyj are equity accounted investments. Stora Enso does not control consolidated income statement, for directly owned interests and Stora Enso as a taxpayer Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment the companies alone or jointly with other parties and thus retains for joint operations, on the line for change in Net Value of Biological For material intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in an its significant minority interest as equity accounted investments. assets. For those assets shown in the Consolidated statement acquisition, an external advisor makes a fair valuation of the acquired Equity accounted investments are accounted for using the equity of financial position of equity accounted investments, changes Capacities by mill in 2019 intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and assists method. These companies are presented in Note 13 Equity accounted are included on the line for Share of results of equity accounted in determining their remaining useful lives. Management believes investments. investments. It is therefore important that the Group’s, joint operation Information for shareholders that the assigned values and useful lives, as well as the underlying companies’ and the equity accounted investments’ management assumptions, are reasonable, though different assumptions and Fair value of financial instruments makes appropriate estimates of future price levels and trends for sales assigned lives could have a significant impact on the reported Where the fair value of financial assets and liabilities cannot be and costs, and undertakes regular surveys of the forest to establish amounts. derived directly from publicly quoted market prices, other valuation the volumes of wood available for cutting and their current growth The carrying amounts of Intangible assets and property, plant and techniques such as discounted cash flow models, transaction rates. See Note 12 Biological assets for more detailed information. equipment are reviewed at each reporting date or whenever events multiples, the Black and Scholes model and the Gordon model are or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of employed. The key judgements include future cash flows, credit risk, Environmental provisions an asset may be impaired. The recoverable amount of an asset is volatility and changes in assumptions about these factors which could The Group has made provisions for known environmental liabilities Governance estimated as the higher of fair value less the cost of disposal and affect the reported fair value of the financial instruments. Investments where legal or constructive obligation exists, based on management’s the value in use, with an impairment charge recognised whenever in debt and equity instruments of unlisted entities, such as Pohjolan best estimate of the remediation costs. There is some uncertainty the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. The value in Voima Oy (PVO), represent a significant portion of the group’s assets regarding the timing and amount of these costs and therefore the final use is calculated using a discounted cash flow model which is most and require significant management judgement, as explained in liability could differ significantly from the original estimate. 29 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 3 Strategy Note 3 Segment information Sales by segment Annual Report 2018 External Internal Total External Internal Total Stora Enso’s reportable segments are formed by five divisions, Consumer Board, Packaging Solutions, Biomaterials, Wood Products, Paper and segment Other. EUR million 2018 2017 The activities of the reportable segments are: Consumer Board 2 608 14 2 622 2 501 15 2 516 Packaging Solutions 1 318 26 1 344 1 230 25 1 255 Consumer Board Biomaterials 1 233 402 1 635 1 096 387 1 483 The ambition of the Consumer Board division is to be the global leader in high-quality virgin fibre Wood Products 1 497 125 1 622 1 573 96 1 669 cartonboard. We aim to be the preferred partner of customers and brand owners in premium end-use Paper 3 004 62 3 066 2 857 63 2 920 Financials packaging and graphical segments. Our wide board and barrier coating selection is suitable for consumer Other 826 2 599 3 425 788 1 702 2 490 packaging for liquid, food, pharmaceutical and luxury goods. Elimination of internal sales -3 228 -3 228 0 -2 288 -2 288 Stora Enso in 2018 Packaging Solutions Total 10 486 0 10 486 10 045 0 10 045 The Packaging Solutions division provides fibre-based board materials and corrugated packaging Report of the products and services that are designed for a wide array of applications. Our renewable high-end Disaggregation of revenue Board of Directors Sustainability packaging solutions serve leading converters, brand owners and retailers including those in e-commerce that are looking to optimise performance, drive innovation and improve their sustainability. EUR million 2018 2017 Consolidated financial Product sales 10 346 9 957 statements Biomaterials Service sales 140 88 The Biomaterials division offers a variety of pulp grades to meet the demands of paper, board, tissue, textile Total 10 486 10 045 Notes to the Consolidated and hygiene product producers. We are maximising the business potential of the by-products extracted in our processes, such as tall oil and turpentine from biomass. Based on our strong innovation approach, all financial statements fractions of biomass, like sugars and lignin, hold potential for use in various applications. Product and Service sales by segment Extract from the parent EUR million 2018 2017 Wood Products company Stora Enso Oyj The Wood Products division is a leading provider of innovative wood-based solutions. The product Consumer board Product sales 2 611 2 505 financial statements range covers all areas of construction, including massive wood elements and wood components. It also Service sales 11 11 includes a variety of sawn timber goods and pellets for sustainable heating. The emerging product range of Packaging solutions Product sales 1 340 1 251 The Board of Directors’ biocomposites addresses the opportunities to replace plastics in consumer goods and creates potential in Service sales 4 4 Proposal for the distribution various demanding exterior applications in a cost-competitive way. Biomaterials Product sales 1 610 1 453 of dividend Service sales 25 30 Paper Wood Products Product sales 1 619 1 667 Auditor’s report Stora Enso is the second largest paper producer in Europe with an established customer base and a wide Financials Service sales 3 2 product portfolio for print and office use. Customers benefit from Stora Enso’s broad selection of papers Paper Product sales 3 043 2 910 Stora Enso in capital markets made from recycled and virgin fibre as well as our valuable industry experience, know-how and customer Service sales 23 10 support. Other Product sales 2 430 2 240 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Service sales 995 250 Other The segment Other includes the Nordic forest equity-accounted investments, Stora Enso’s shareholding in Inter-segment sales Product sales -2 307 -2 069 Capacities by mill in 2019 the energy company Pohjolan Voima, operations supplying wood to the Nordic and Baltic mills, plantations Service sales -922 -219 not connected to any mill site, and Group shared services and administration. Total 10 486 10 045 Information for shareholders Governance 30 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 3 Strategy Segment share of operating profit/loss Goodwill by segment Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December Year Ended 31 December Operating Profit/Loss Goodwill Impairment EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Consumer Board 230 253 Consumer Board 0 0 0 0 Packaging Solutions 244 166 Packaging Solutions 19 19 0 0 Biomaterials 425 254 Biomaterials 34 28 0 0 Financials Wood Products Paper 164 234 102 106 Wood Products Paper 107 83 107 83 0 0 0 0 Other 93 23 Other 0 0 0 0 Stora Enso in 2018 Total 1 390 904 Total 243 237 0 0 Net financial items -180 -162 Report of the Profit before Tax 1 210 742 Board of Directors Average personnel Sustainability Income tax expense -221 -128 Net Profit 988 614 Year Ended 31 December Consolidated financial Segment 2018 2017 statements Consumer Board 4 156 4 168 Intangible asset and property, plant and equipment (PPE), depreciations, impairments Packaging Solutions 7 750 7 901 Notes to the Consolidated and reversals, disposal gains and losses and capital expenditure by segment Biomaterials 1 731 1 768 financial statements Year Ended 31 December Wood Products 4 038 4 031 Depreciations/ Paper 4 957 5 022 Extract from the parent Impairments/Reversals/ Intangible Assets and PPE Disposal gains and losses Capital Expenditure Other 3 435 3 316 company Stora Enso Oyj Total 26 067 26 206 EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 financial statements Consumer Board 1 557 1 611 154 160 128 187 Location Packaging Solutions 799 783 67 68 102 92 The Board of Directors’ Austria 970 939 Biomaterials 1 857 1 825 94 109 89 90 Proposal for the distribution Baltic States 1 270 1 211 Wood Products 454 429 34 35 65 58 of dividend Belgium 525 525 Paper 901 951 111 114 68 101 Czech Republic 929 875 Other 163 177 19 29 39 32 Auditor’s report Financials Finland 6 596 6 675 Total 5 731 5 776 479 515 491 560 France 34 42 Stora Enso in capital markets Germany 990 1 063 Poland 2 103 2 033 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Russia 1 108 1 088 Capital expenditure by segment Capital expenditure by location Spain 15 16 Capacities by mill in 2019 Sweden 5 168 5 127 Finland 47% Consumer Board Sweden 29% Other Europe 222 216 Information for shareholders Packaging Solutions Other Europe 14% Total Europe 19 930 19 810 Biomaterials Other countries 10% Brazil 431 421 Wood Products China (incl. Hong Kong) 5 092 5 341 Paper India 0 0 Other USA 89 96 Total Uruguay 317 327 EUR million 0 200 400 600 Other countries 208 211 Governance 2018 Total 26 067 26 206 2017 Year-End Personnel 26 129 25 657 31 North America Europe Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 3 Strategy External sales by destination and origin 4% 73% Annual Report 2018 Sales by Destination Sales by Origin Balance of Trade EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Austria 295 278 408 375 113 97 2018 Sales by destination 2018 Sales by destination Baltic States 258 243 316 273 58 30 Belgium Czech Republic 140 149 144 151 259 262 265 257 119 113 121 106 88% 2018 Sales by origin Denmark 133 134 21 26 -112 -108 Financials Finland 583 699 3 511 3 634 2 928 2 935 France 506 465 16 14 -490 -451 Stora Enso in 2018 Germany 1 385 1 282 461 455 -924 -827 Italy 400 343 0 0 -400 -343 Report of the Netherlands 282 261 0 0 -282 -261 Board of Directors Poland 552 528 579 492 27 -36 Sustainability Russia 300 300 222 209 -78 -91 Consolidated financial Spain 282 284 0 0 -282 -284 statements Sweden 1 003 965 3 037 2 733 2 034 1 768 UK 491 456 15 15 -476 -441 Notes to the Consolidated Other Europe 903 879 83 91 -820 -788 financial statements Total Europe 7 662 7 412 9 190 8 839 1 528 1 427 Australia / New Extract from the parent Zealand 192 156 2 18 -190 -138 company Stora Enso Oyj Brazil 70 62 360 300 290 238 China (incl. Hong financial statements Kong) 932 918 498 478 -434 -440 Japan 285 303 0 0 -285 -303 The Board of Directors’ Middle East 261 238 0 0 -261 -238 Proposal for the distribution Uruguay 23 28 424 399 401 371 of dividend USA 236 236 12 7 -224 -229 Other countries 825 692 0 4 -825 -688 Auditor’s report Financials Total 10 486 10 045 10 486 10 045 0 0 South America Asia Pacific 2% 18% Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso as a taxpayer 2018 Sales by destination 2018 Sales by destination Capacities by mill in 2019 Information for shareholders 7% 2018 Sales by origin 5% 2018 Sales by origin Governance 32 Intangible asset and property, plant and equipment (PPE), capital expenditure Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 4 Strategy Total assets, capital employed and shareholders' equity by location Annual Report 2018 and depreciations, impairments and reversals, disposal gains and losses by location As at 31 December Year Ended 31 December Total Assets Capital Employed Shareholders' Equity Depreciations/ EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Impairments/Reversals/ Intangible Assets and PPE Disposal gains and losses Capital Expenditure Austria 169 171 96 99 132 106 EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Baltic States 121 106 108 87 140 169 Austria 104 107 6 6 5 5 Belgium 235 256 143 167 188 188 Baltic States 47 42 6 6 11 3 Financials Czech Republic Finland 148 4 347 158 3 552 121 2 623 132 2 279 135 1 454 125 1 281 Belgium 183 202 25 25 6 5 Czech Republic 111 115 4 5 2 3 Germany 362 369 15 21 117 63 Finland 1 364 1 320 183 178 230 279 Stora Enso in 2018 Poland 585 588 435 455 360 306 Germany 273 296 26 28 9 10 Russia 161 174 104 94 104 141 Report of the Poland 406 423 28 33 24 20 Sweden 2 958 2 743 1 992 1 795 1 913 1 372 Board of Directors Russia 64 67 6 8 13 14 Sustainability Other Europe 111 112 77 64 236 221 Sweden 815 787 88 103 142 150 Total Europe 9 197 8 229 5 714 5 193 4 779 3 972 Consolidated financial Brazil 377 455 353 433 314 391 Other Europe 3 4 2 0 0 1 statements China Total Europe 3 370 3 363 374 392 442 490 (incl. Hong Kong) 1 433 1 326 1 082 1 100 269 400 Brazil 185 248 20 30 6 13 Notes to the Consolidated Uruguay 1 609 1 556 1 543 1 473 1 214 1 106 China (incl. Hong Kong) 790 823 49 49 23 38 financial statements USA 147 138 115 105 112 118 Uruguay 1 268 1 227 33 40 19 13 Other countries 86 66 17 4 26 21 USA 117 113 3 3 1 5 Extract from the parent Total 12 849 11 770 8 824 8 308 6 714 6 008 Other countries 1 2 0 1 0 1 company Stora Enso Oyj Total capital employed represents operating capital less net tax liabilities Total 5 731 5 776 479 515 491 560 financial statements Reconciliation of operating capital to total asset The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution As at 31 December of dividend EUR million 2018 2017 Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals Operating Capital 8 955 8 393 Auditor’s report Financials Operative liabilities 2 512 2 451 Interest-bearing receivables 1 252 763 Accounting principles Stora Enso in capital markets Tax receivables 129 163 Acquired companies are accounted for under the purchase method whereby they are included in the Total Assets 12 849 11 770 Consolidated financial statements from the date the control over the subsidiary is obtained, whereas, Stora Enso as a taxpayer Operating capital (“O” items) is designated thus on the Balance Sheet and represents the sum of Intangible Asset and Property, Plant conversely, divestments are included up to the date when the control is lost. and Equipment, biological assets, emission rights, unlisted shares, other non-current assets, inventories, current operative receivables Capacities by mill in 2019 and liabilities, provisions and other non-current operative liabilities. Acquisition of group companies Information for shareholders In December 2018 Stora Enso bought out non-controlling interests in VLAR Papier NV. Stora Enso previously owned 65% of the company and with the purchase, Group’s ownership has increased to 100%. The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. In October 2018 Stora Enso has increased its ownership up to 100% in the Sweden-based company Cellutech AB. The company specialises in the development of new materials and applications based on cellulose, micro-fibrillated cellulose and other wood-based components. Stora Enso previously owned 22% of the shares. Cellutech is included in Biomaterials division. The transaction did not have a material financial impact on the Group. Governance Stora Enso has not acquired any companies or business operations in 2017. 33 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 5 Strategy Disposal of group companies and business operations Note 5 Other operating income and expense Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2018 2017 Accounting principles Net Assets Sold Cash and cash equivalents 2 7 Research and development Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 38 3 Research costs are expensed as incurred in other operating expenses in the Consolidated Income Working capital -2 1 Statement. Development costs are also expensed as incurred unless it is probable that future economic Interest-bearing assets and liabilities 0 -1 benefits will flow to the Group, in which case they are capitalised as intangible assets and depreciated Financials Non-controlling interest -1 0 over the period of the income streams. Net Assets in Divested Companies and Businesses 38 10 Government grants Stora Enso in 2018 Total Disposal Consideration 44 1 Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the CTA release -27 0 carrying value of the asset, while the net cost are capitalised. Other government grants are recognised Report of the Transaction costs -1 0 as income on a systematic basis over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs which Board of Directors Total Net Gain/loss -22 -9 Sustainability they were intended to compensate. Consolidated financial Attributable to the owners of the parent -22 -9 Emission rights and trading statements Attributable to the non-controlling interest holders 0 0 The Group’s participation in the European Emissions Trading Scheme, in which it has been allocated allowances to emit a fixed tonnage of carbon dioxide over a fixed period of time, gives rise to an Notes to the Consolidated intangible asset for the allowances, a government grant and a liability for the obligation to deliver In December 2018 Stora Enso divested 100% of the shares of its Swedish subsidiary June Emballage AB allowances equal to the emissions that have been made during the compliance period. Emission financial statements to its current management. June Emballage is a manufacturer specialized in small-batch custom-made allowances recorded as intangible assets are recognised when the Group is able to exercise control and transport packaging in corrugated board and was part of the Packaging Solutions division. The transaction are measured at level 1 fair value at the date of initial recognition. If the market value for the emission Extract from the parent did not have a material impact on the Group. allowances falls significantly below the carrying amount, and the decrease is considered permanent. company Stora Enso Oyj On 8 August 2018, Stora Enso disposed the shares in Dongguan E-creative Industrial Co. Ltd to At that point an impairment charge is booked for allowances which the Group will not use internally. financial statements Dongguan An Shen Investment Co. Ltd. Stora Enso previously had 51% ownership of the company. The liability to deliver allowances is recognised based on actual emissions; this liability will be settled The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. using allowances on hand and measured at the carrying amount of those allowances, with any excess The Board of Directors’ On 28 March 2018, Stora Enso signed an agreement do divest of its entire 100% shareholding in the emissions measured at the market value of the allowances at the period end. Proposal for the distribution wood supply company in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil to Copa Florestal III FIP Multiestrategia. The final In the Consolidated Income Statement, the Group will expense emissions made at the fair value of the of dividend consideration for the divestment of the shares was EUR 30 million. In 2017 the Group recorded writedowns rights at their grant date, under materials and services, together with purchased emission rights at their in fixed assets amounting to EUR 5 million in order to reduce the value of the net assets disposed to the purchase price. Such costs will be offset under other operating income by the income from the original Auditor’s report consideration. The disposal was completed in the second quarter of 2018. The transaction resulted in a grant of the rights used at their fair value at the grant date, together with income from the release or sale of Financials loss of EUR 28 million, due to cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) released from equity through profit surplus rights. The Consolidated Income Statement will thus be neutral in respect of all rights consumed Stora Enso in capital markets and loss at closing. Rio Grande do Sul was part of the segment Other. that were within the original grant. Any net effect represents the costs of purchasing additional rights to In November 2017, Stora Enso signed an agreement to divest its sheeting centre business in Baienfurt, cover excess emissions, or the sale of unused rights in the case that the realised emissions are below the Germany to Pyroll. The sheeting centre operations started in April 2009 and was 100% owned by allowances received free of charge or the impairment of allowances are not required for internal use. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Stora Enso. The transaction was completed in beginning of January 2018. The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. Green certificates Capacities by mill in 2019 On 1 November 2017, Stora Enso sold 100% of its shares in the Finnish Puumerkki Oy and the Estonian Stora Enso is part of the local green energy production system which entitles selected mills in Sweden, Puumerkki AS to Mimir Invest AB, a global investment firm. Puumerkki is a specialised wholesaler of Belgium and Poland to receive green certificates based on megawatt hours of green energy produced. Information for shareholders wooden building materials. The transaction resulted in a loss of EUR 8 million. The divestment supports Green certificates represent the environmental value of renewable energy generated. The certificates can be Stora Enso’s Wood Products division in focusing on its growth strategy and further building on the strength traded separately from the energy produced. Several countries use green certificates as a mean to make the of its premium portfolio of products and services. support of green electricity generation closer to a market economy instead of more bureaucratic investment On 5 July 2017, Stora Enso signed an agreement to divest the business and assets of its Swedish support and feed-in tariffs. The certificates are typically received free of charge and they can be traded in the subsidiary Stora Enso Re-board AB, a producer of rigid paperboard for expositions and displays, to Culas local market to offset part of the production costs. Green certificates are often sold to electricity distributors AB. The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. which have a quota obligation to buy a certain percentage of their electricity from renewable sources. Green On 24 March 2017, Stora Enso disposed of the shares of the real estate company Sunilan Kesäniemi certificates are evidencing that the electricity has been produced from sustainable sources. Oy. The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. All certificates received are recognized at grant date market value only in the Balance Sheet. Governance On 2 January 2017, Stora Enso divested its Finnish subsidiary Formeca Oy, a provider of highCertificates are posted to prepaid costs and accrued income and a corresponding liability is entered quality machines for automated packaging lines, to Amitec Oy, a specialised engineering and machine into accrued liabilities and deferred income. As such the fluctuation in market prices does not have construction company based in Finland. The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. impact on the Income statement. The income is recognised only when the certificate is sold. 34 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 6 Strategy Other Operating Income and expense Note 6 Personnel expenses Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2018 2017 Personnel expenses Other Operating Income Year Ended 31 December Emission rights granted and disposal gains 32 13 EUR million 2018 2017 Sale of Green Certificates 32 18 Wages and salaries 1 000 999 Capital gains on sale of Intangible Assets and Property, Plant and Pensions (see below) 170 166 Equipment 4 4 Share-based remuneration (Note 21) 7 10 Financials Dividend and gain on sale of unlisted shares 0 3 Total return swaps 0 -2 Insurance compensation 4 25 Other statutory employer costs 134 136 Rent and other1 14 76 Stora Enso in 2018 Other voluntary costs 19 22 Government grants 6 8 Total 1 330 1 331 Total 92 147 Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Other Operating Expenses include Pensions Consolidated financial Rents paid 96 98 Year Ended 31 December Research and development 104 85 statements EUR million 2018 2017 Credit losses, net of reversals 8 -7 Defined benefit plans 10 13 Notes to the Consolidated CTA release 28 0 Defined contribution plans 160 153 financial statements Total 170 166 Materials and Services include Extract from the parent Emissions rights to be delivered and disposal losses 23 10 The average number of employees in 2018 amounted to 26 067 compared with 26 206 in 2017. Pension company Stora Enso Oyj 1 As from 1 January 2018, transport and freight sales and silviculture services in Finland previously presented under other operating costs are discussed further in Note 20 Post-employment benefits. income are presented in sales. In 2018 total sales of excess freight capacity amounted to EUR 51 (EUR 66) million. The previous financial statements periods have not been restated due to immateriality. In 2018, the expense of the share-based remuneration was EUR 7 (EUR 10) million. The expense of share-based remuneration net of Total Return Swaps (TRS) in 2018 amounted to EUR 7 (EUR 8) million. The Board of Directors’ The Group has recorded an Other Operating Income of EUR 32 (EUR 13) million related to Emissions. Income of EUR 0 (EUR 2) million was recorded in respect to TRS. Proposal for the distribution Under Material and Services an expense of EUR 23 (EUR 10) million has been booked related to the cost of Share-based remuneration comprising of share awards and related hedges are described in more detail of dividend CO2 emissions from production. Actual realised profits amounted to EUR 8 (EUR 3) million on the disposal in Note 21 Employee variable compensation and equity incentive schemes. of surplus rights and EUR 3 (EUR 2) million is the value of excess emission rights held at the year end. Remuneration of the Group Leadership Team and Board are described in Note 7 Board and executive Auditor’s report The Group also generates income from its renewable power generation in Belgium, Sweden and remuneration. Financials Poland. The power is produced from biomass, so the Group is entitled to Green Certificates for onward Stora Enso in capital markets sale to electricity retailers for fulfilling their renewable power quota obligations. The income from the sale of green certificates amounted to EUR 32 (EUR 18) million. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Auditor's fees and services Capacities by mill in 2019 Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2018 2017 Information for shareholders Audit fees 4 4 Audit-related 0 0 Tax fees 0 0 Other fees 1 1 Total 5 5 In 2018, PwC was selected as the principal auditor of the group. Aggregate fees for professional services rendered to the Group principal auditor PwC amounted to EUR 5 (EUR 5) million. Audit fees relate to the Governance auditing of the annual financial statements or ancillary services normally provided in connection with statutory and regulatory filings. Audit-related fees are incurred for assurance and associated services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or for the review of the financial statements. 35 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 7 Strategy Note 7 Board and executive remuneration Board share interests at 31 December 2018 Annual Report 2018 Shares held1 Board and committee remuneration A R Year Ended 31 December Board Members at 31 December 2018 2018 2017 Jorma Eloranta, Chairman 1 150 18 381 EUR thousand Value of Committee Hans Stråberg, Vice Chairman 37 490 (before taxes) Cash shares Total Total Memberships Anne Brunila 20 121 Board Members at 31 Elisabeth Fleuriot 21 151 Financials December 2018 Remuneration, Hock Goh 25 904 Jorma Eloranta, Nomination2,3, Financial Christiane Kuehne 5 712 Chairman 130 70 200 194 and Audit Stora Enso in 2018 Antti Mäkinen 2 137 Hans Stråberg, Vice Remuneration, Richard Nilsson 18 254 Chairman 68 41 109 106 Nomination2,3 Report of the Anne Brunila 54 29 82 80 Sustainability and Ethics Göran Sandberg 4 212 Board of Directors Total Shares Held 1 150 153 362 Sustainability Elisabeth Fleuriot 49 29 78 76 Remuneration Hock Goh 49 29 78 76 Sustainability and Ethics 1 Board members’ related parties hold no Stora Enso shares. Consolidated financial Christiane Kuehne 58 29 86 84 Financial and Audit statements Antti Mäkinen 58 29 86 0 Financial and Audit The following Board members also served in 2018 Richard Nilsson 64 29 93 90 Financial and Audit Notes to the Consolidated Shares Held Göran Sandberg 49 29 78 76 Sustainability and Ethics when Board Effective Date of financial statements Former Board members Membership Board Membership Mikael Mäkinen Ended Ending Extract from the parent (until 28 March 2018) 84 Mikael Mäkinen 31 060 28 March 2018 company Stora Enso Oyj Total Remuneration as financial statements Directors1 578 313 891 866 1 40% of the Board remuneration in 2018 was paid in Stora Enso R shares purchased from the market and distributed as follows: to Group Leadership Team (GLT) remuneration and share interests The Board of Directors’ Chairman 4 221 R shares, Vice Chairman 2 484 R shares, and members 1 737 R shares each. The Company has no formal policy requirements for the Board members to retain shares received as remuneration. The table below includes the remuneration paid to GLT members during the year, including the shares Proposal for the distribution 2 Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) have established a Shareholders’ Nomination Board to exist until otherwise vested in that year. The company recommends and expects the CEO and GLT members to hold Stora Enso decided. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board according to its Charter as approved by the AGM comprises of four members: the shares at a value corresponding to at least one annual base salary. Stora Enso shares received as of dividend Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, as well as two members appointed by the two largest shareholders (one each) as of 31 August each year. remuneration are therefore recommended not to be sold until this level has been reached. Auditor’s report 3 Marcus Wallenberg appointed by FAM AB is Chairman of the Nomination Board. Harri Sailas is the member of the Shareholders’ The aggregate cost of remuneration for GLT in 2018 amounted to EUR 12.2 (EUR 11.1) million. The total Financials Nomination Board appointed by Solidium Oy. Jorma Eloranta and Hans Stråberg were appointed as members of the Shareholders’ number of GLT members was twelve (twelve) at year end in 2018. Nomination Board in their roles as Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. Stora Enso in capital markets In accordance with their respective pension arrangements, GLT members may retire at sixty-five years of age with pensions consistent with local practices in their respective home countries. Contracts of Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) have established a Shareholders’ Nomination Board employment provide for six months’ notice prior to termination with severance compensation of twelve Stora Enso as a taxpayer to exist until otherwise decided and to annually prepare proposals for the AGM’s approval concerning months basic salary if the termination is at the Company’s request. the number of members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman, Vice Chairman and other members of The outcome of the financial targets relating to the Short term incentive programmes for the Capacities by mill in 2019 the Board as well as the remuneration for the Chairman,Vice Chairman and members of the Board and its performance year 2017, and Long term incentive programmes for the performance years 2015 to 2017 committees. were reviewed and confirmed by the Remuneration Committee in the ordinary February meeting, and Information for shareholders approved by the Board of Directors in February. Note 21 Employee variable compensation and equity incentive schemes includes details of incentive schemes and share opportunity programmes for the management and staff of Stora Enso. Governance 36 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 7 Strategy Group Leadership Team remuneration Chief Executive Officer – Karl-Henrik Sundström Annual Report 2018 The CEO has been employed by Stora Enso since 1 August 2012 and assumed the position as CEO on Year Ended 31 December 1 August 2014. He has a notice period of six months with a severance payment of twelve months salary 2018 2017 on termination by the company but with no contractual payments on any change of control. The CEO’s EUR thousand CEO Others1 GLT Total CEO Others GLT Total benefits include pension provisions. The CEO’s pension plan consists of a collectively agreed pension plan Remuneration in Sweden (ITP2) and a defined contribution (DC) top up pension plan. Contributions to the DC plan in the Annual salary 905 3 589 4 494 913 3 583 4 496 20-30 interval Income Base Amounts (IBA; one IBA was 62 500 SEK in 2018) is 23%, contributions above Local housing (actual costs) 0 22 22 0 70 70 30 IBA are 35% for the salary the CEO had prior to assuming this position and 39% of the salary increase amount received when assuming the position as CEO. The retirement age is sixty-five years. Financials Other benefits Termination benefits 20 0 385 0 405 0 20 0 610 531 630 531 Short Term Incentive (STI) programme for CEO Short Term Incentive programme 611 1 089 1 700 532 643 1 175 In 2018, the CEO is entitled to an STI programme decided by the Board each year giving a maximum of Stora Enso in 2018 75% of the annual fixed salary. The STI for 2017 and 2018 was 70% based on financial measures and 30% Long Term Incentive programme1 845 2 431 3 276 549 1 403 1 952 on Individual Key Targets. Report of the 2 381 7 516 9 897 2 014 6 840 8 854 Board of Directors Sustainability Pension Costs Long Term Incentive (LTI) programmes for CEO The CEO participates in 2016, 2017 and 2018 share based LTI programmes. The programmes have three Mandatory plans 66 1 296 1 362 69 1 029 1 098 Consolidated financial year targets and vest in only one portion after three years. Three quarters (75%) of the opportunity in the Stora Enso voluntary plans2 478 447 925 555 544 1 099 statements 544 1 743 2 287 624 1 573 2 197 2016-2017 programmes is in Performance Shares, where shares will vest in accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. One quarter Total Compensation 2 925 9 259 12 184 2 638 8 413 11 051 (25%) of the opportunity is in Restricted Shares, for which vesting is only subject to continued employment. Notes to the Consolidated The 2018 amounts relate to the vesting of programme started in 2015 and ended on 31 December 2017. The 2017 amounts relate to In the 2018 programme, the CEO was granted all (100%) of the opportunity in Performance Shares. financial statements 1 the vesting of programme started in 2014 and ended on 31 December 2016. The CEO has the potential to receive a value corresponding to a maximum of 65 762 shares before 2 The CEO participates in the Swedish Executive Pension Plan where pension accruals are unfunded for all participants, the liability is taxes under the 2018 LTI programme. The grant value of EUR 958 481 is based on the share price at the Extract from the parent calculated and insured in accordance with Swedish legislation. The unfunded liability for the CEO amounts to EUR 2 483 thousand. grant date and assuming maximum vesting level during the three-year vesting period is achieved. During company Stora Enso Oyj the year, the 2015 programme vested in one portion after three years, dependent on Economic Value financial statements Executives other than CEO Added (EVA) for the Stora Enso Group. The actual gross number of shares settled amounted to 59 522 Short Term Incentive (STI) programmes for management with a cash value of EUR 867 533 before taxes based on the share price EUR 14.58 on the 1 March 2018 The Board of Directors’ In 2018, GLT members have STI programmes with up to a maximum of 50% or 60% of their annual fixed settlement date. Total number of shares actually transferred was lower because a portion of shares Proposal for the distribution salary, payable the year after the performance period. 70% of the STI for 2017 and 2018 was based on corresponding to the tax obligation was withheld to cover the income tax. of dividend financial measures and 30% on Individual Key Targets. Group Leadership Team share interests Auditor’s report Long Term Incentive (LTI) programmes for management Performance Restricted Financials Since 2014 the LTI programmes have had three-year targets and vest in one portion only after three years, Share Opportunity Share Opportunity and the absolute maximum vesting level is 100% of the number of shares granted. Three quarters (75%) of Executives in Office at the Year End R Shares Held 1 2018–20202 2018–20202 Stora Enso in capital markets the opportunity under the 2015-2017 programmes is in Performance Shares, where the shares are vested Johanna Hagelberg 11 258 45 339 9 899 in accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Kati ter Horst 30 318 71 660 15 763 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Board of Directors. One quarter (25%) of the opportunity under the 2015-2017 programmes is in Restricted Malin Bendz 17 422 33 686 6 289 Shares, for which vesting is only subject to continued employment. Ulrika Lilja 21 534 39 681 8 693 Capacities by mill in 2019 The 2018 LTI programme was changed to Performance shares only for GLT members. Annica Bresky 0 49 401 8 397 Under the 2018 LTI programme, GLT members (in GLT at year end) can potentially receive a value Information for shareholders corresponding to 211 410 shares before taxes, assuming the maximum vesting level during the three-year Per Lyrvall3 53 245 57 330 12 601 Markus Mannström 32 350 40 803 7 057 vesting period (2018-2020) is achieved. Total number of shares actually transferred will be lower because a portion of shares corresponding to the tax obligation will be withheld to cover the income tax. Noel Morrin 26 588 48 665 11 095 The fair value of employee services received in exchange for share-based compensation payments is Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen 11 308 77 367 17 145 accounted for in a manner that is consistent with the method of settlement and is either cash or equity settled as Seppo Parvi 25 585 57 429 12 497 described in more detail in Note 21. For the equity settled part, it is possible that the actual cash cost does not Karl-Henrik Sundström4 143 505 185 912 40 050 agree with the accounting charges because the share price is not updated at the time of the vesting. The figures in Jari Suominen 31 553 54 349 11 995 the Group Leadership Team Remuneration table refer to individuals who were executives at the time of settlement. Total, Serving Officers5 404 666 761 622 161 481 Governance During the year, the 2015 programme vested in one portion after three years, dependent on Economic 1 None of the GLT members holds A shares. Value Added (EVA) for the Stora Enso Group. The number of shares settled on executives (GLT members 2 Potential shares to GLT members listed here are gross of taxes at settlement date) from previous Restricted Share programmes and Performance Share programmes 3 Spouse holds 1 257 of the shares amounted to 168 179 with a cash value of EUR 2 451 209 before taxes based on the share price of 4 41 700 of the shares are held by a related party (Alma Patria AB). 5 The Company recommends and expects GLT members to hold Stora Enso shares at a value corresponding to at least one annual EUR 14.58 on the 1 March 2018 settlement date. base salary. Stora Enso shares received as remuneration are therefore recommended not to be sold until this level has been reached. 37 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 8 Strategy Note 8 Net financial items Note 9 Income taxes Annual Report 2018 Accounting principles Accounting principles Net financial items comprise of net interest expenses, foreign exchange gains and losses and other The Group income tax expense/benefit includes taxes of group companies based on taxable profit/loss financial income and expenses mainly arising from interest-bearing assets and liabilities. for the period, together with tax adjustments for previous periods and the change in deferred income taxes. Deferred income taxes are provided using the liability method, as measured with enacted, or Financials Financial income and expense substantially enacted, tax rates, to reflect the net tax effects of all temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities. No deferred tax is recognised for the initial Year Ended 31 December recognition of goodwill and the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a Stora Enso in 2018 EUR million 2018 2017 business combination and at the time of the transaction it affects neither accounting profit nor taxable Net Financial Expense in the Income Statement profit. Deferred tax assets reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. The deferred Report of the Financial income 27 38 tax assets, whether arising from temporary differences or from tax losses, are recognised only to the Board of Directors Sustainability Financial expense -207 -200 extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be Total -180 -162 utilised. Consolidated financial statements Represented by Tax expense Interest expense Notes to the Consolidated Interest expense from borrowings measured at amortised cost -126 -140 Year Ended 31 December financial statements Net interest from interest rate derivatives measured at fair value EUR million 2018 2017 through OCI -6 -2 Current Tax -166 -123 Extract from the parent Interest expense on finance leases -1 -1 Deferred Tax -55 -5 company Stora Enso Oyj Interest income on loans and receivables measured at amortised cost 4 3 Total Tax -221 -128 financial statements Net interest on net defined benefit liabilities -6 -6 Foreign exchange gains and losses The Board of Directors’ Currency derivatives 22 24 Income tax rate reconciliation Proposal for the distribution Borrowings and deposits -55 10 Year Ended 31 December of dividend Other financial income 1 1 EUR million 2018 2017 Other financial expense Profit before tax 1 210 742 Auditor’s report Financials Bond buybacks 0 -29 Tax at statutory rates applicable to profits in the country concerned1 -247 -147 Financial fees -10 -22 Non-deductible expenses and tax exempt income2 13 6 Stora Enso in capital markets Fair valuation losses -3 0 Valuation of deferred tax assets -17 -22 Total -180 -162 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Taxes from prior years -23 -6 Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments are shown in Note 27 Derivatives. Changes in tax rates and tax laws 9 5 Capacities by mill in 2019 In 2018, the net interest expense on borrowings decreased due to lower average gross debt level and fee Impairment of goodwill 0 0 Profits from equity accounted investments 39 18 amortisations. There were no capitalised borrowing costs in 2018 (EUR nil). Costs on long-term debt issues Information for shareholders capitalised as part of non-current debt amounted to EUR 14 (EUR 17) million in the Statement of financial Other3 3 18 position. During the year EUR 5 (EUR 7) million was amortised through interest expense by using the Total Tax -221 -128 effective interest rate method. Effective Tax Rate 18.3% 17.3% Exchange gains and losses for currency derivatives mainly relate to non-hedge accounted instruments Statutory Tax Rate (blended) 20.4% 19.8% fair valued in the Income statement. 1 Includes a EUR 21 million impact from countries with tax holidays and tax benefits in 2018 and a EUR 9 million impact from tax In 2017 the Group recorded a net expense of EUR 29 million due to repurchases of bond notes with holidays and other tax benefits in 2017. 2 The tax value of non-deductible expenses of EUR 26 million has been netted against tax exempt income of EUR 39 million in 2018, the impact recorded under other financial expense. In addition, the Group recorded a net expense of and tax value of non-deductible expenses of EUR 17 million has been netted against tax exempt income of EUR 23 million in 2017. EUR 10 million under financial fees related to an early loan repayment in 2017. The transactions are Governance 3 The 2017 figure includes a EUR 19 million release of deferred tax liabilities in relation to subsidiary dividend distribution as the explained in more detail in Note 26 Debt. distribution is not probable within the foreseeable future. The amount reported under financial fees in the table above mainly relates to net financial fees for unused committed credit facilities, guarantees and rating agencies. The statutory tax rate is a weighted average of the statutory tax rates prevailing in jurisdictions where Stora Enso operates. 38 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 10 Strategy Change in deferred taxes in 2018 Tax losses Annual Report 2018 Value at Value at As at 31 December Value at Income Acquisitions/ Translation Value at Tax losses carried forward Recognised tax values Unrecognised tax values EUR million 1 Jan 2018 Statement OCI Disposals difference 31 Dec 2018 EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fixed assets -163 -14 0 0 2 -175 Expiry within five years 703 856 71 118 58 47 Financial instruments -7 0 6 0 0 -1 Expiry after five years 131 104 5 3 27 22 Untaxed reserves -15 -6 0 0 2 -19 No expiry 1 030 1 059 13 6 202 234 Pensions and provisions 46 13 4 0 -1 62 Tax losses and tax credits Total 1 864 2 019 89 127 287 303 Financials carried forward 127 -39 0 1 1 90 Other deferred taxes 0 -6 0 0 1 -5 Tax losses of EUR 332 (EUR 573) million relate to Finland. Total -12 -52 10 1 5 -48 Non-recognised deferred tax assets on deductible temporary differences amounted to EUR 39 (EUR 51) Stora Enso in 2018 million. There is no expiry date for these differences. Taxable temporary differences in respect of Equity hedges (CTA) -3 3 investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax Report of the Change in Deferred Tax -12 -55 13 1 5 -48 liabilities have not been recognised amounted to EUR 224 (EUR 214) million. Board of Directors Assets1 154 120 Sustainability Liabilities1 -166 -168 Consolidated financial 1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with IAS 12. statements Change in deferred taxes in 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Note 10 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges Value at Income Acquisitions/ Translation Value at financial statements EUR million 1 Jan 2017 Statement OCI Disposals difference 31 Dec 2017 Fixed assets -176 12 0 0 1 -163 Accounting principles Extract from the parent Financial instruments -5 0 -2 0 0 -7 company Stora Enso Oyj Untaxed reserves -30 13 0 0 2 -15 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges financial statements Pensions and provisions 46 10 -10 0 0 46 Depreciation or amortisation of an asset begins when it is available for use in the location and condition Tax losses and tax credits necessary for it to be operated in the manner intended by management. Depreciation or amortisation The Board of Directors’ carried forward 193 -64 0 0 -2 127 ceases when the asset is derecognised or classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5. Proposal for the distribution Other deferred taxes -17 16 0 0 1 0 Depreciation or amortisation does not cease when the asset becomes idle. Tangible and intangible of dividend Total 11 -13 -12 0 2 -12 assets are depreciated and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Useful lives are Equity hedges (CTA) 8 -8 0 0 0 reviewed periodically. If an asset is disposed of, proceeds exceeding the carrying value of the asset Auditor’s report up to its historical cost are netted against depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges. Only Financials Change in Deferred Tax 11 -5 -20 0 2 -12 Assets1 214 154 disposal proceeds exceeding the historical cost of an asset are presented as other operating income Stora Enso in capital markets (Note 5). If the asset’s book value is higher than the disposal proceeds, the difference is recognised as Liabilities1 -203 -166 an impairment in the period when a binding sales contract is signed. 1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with IAS 12. The carrying amounts of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each Stora Enso as a taxpayer reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment, whereas goodwill is tested The recognition of deferred tax assets is based on the Group’s estimations of future taxable profits available annually. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated as the higher of the fair value Capacities by mill in 2019 against which the group can utilise the benefits. less costs of disposal and the value in use, with an impairment loss being recognised whenever the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. Information for shareholders A previously recognised impairment loss on property, plant and equipment is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, however, not to an extent higher than the carrying amount that would have existed had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years. For goodwill, however, a recognised impairment loss is not reversed. Whilst intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are subject to impairment testing at the cash generating unit (CGU) level, goodwill is subject to impairment testing at the CGU level for groups of CGUs, which represents the lowest level within the group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Governance 39 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 10 Strategy Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges • For goodwill testing a four-year future period was used after which the perpetuity value was based on Annual Report 2018 zero growth rates, whereas for intangible assets, property, plant and equipment testing the period was Year Ended 31 December the remaining expected economic life of the assets. EUR million 2018 2017 Depreciation and Amortisation Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment impairment Intangible assets 23 18 The total impairment charges on other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in 2018 Buildings and structures 78 82 amounted to EUR 1 (EUR 27) million and resulted mainly from impairment testing. Plant and equipment 368 382 Newsprint Europe and Wood Free Uncoated CGU’s in Paper division were tested for fixed asset Other tangible assets 10 11 impairment reversal in 2018 and the testing did not result in reversal of previous impairments. These CGU’s Financials Total 479 493 in Paper division were not tested for fixed asset impairment or impairment reversal in 2017. Impairment and Disposal Gains/Losses Goodwill impairment testing Stora Enso in 2018 Goodwill 0 0 In 2018 or 2017 the Goodwill testing did not result in any impairments. Intangible assets 0 11 Report of the Land 0 5 Board of Directors Buildings and structures 0 0 Sustainability Plant and equipment 1 7 Consolidated financial Other tangible assets 0 4 statements Gain on sale of fixed assets -4 -2 Loss on sale of fixed assets 4 3 Notes to the Consolidated Total 1 28 financial statements Reversal of Impairment Intangible assets 0 -3 Extract from the parent Buildings and structures 0 0 company Stora Enso Oyj Plant and equipment 0 -3 financial statements Total 0 -6 Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment Charges 479 515 The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution of dividend Depreciation and amortisation The total depreciation and amortisation charge amounted to EUR 479 million and was EUR 14 million less Auditor’s report than in 2017. A breakdown of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges by divisions is set out in Financials Note 3 Segment information. Stora Enso in capital markets Disposal gains and losses There were no material disposal gains or losses relating to fixed assets in 2018 or 2017. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Impairment testing Capacities by mill in 2019 The recoverable amount for the cash generating units (CGUs) has been determined based on a value-inuse calculation using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors Information for shareholders and management. The pre-tax discount rates are calculated for each cash generating unit taking into account the tax and risk profile of the country in which the cash flow is generated. The table in the goodwill impairment testing section below sets out the pre-tax discount rates used for goodwill impairment testing, which are similar to those used in the impairment testing of other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Impairments were calculated using a value-in-use method for each CGU based on the following main assumptions: • Sales price estimates in accordance with internal and external specialist analysis Governance • Cash flows and discount rates were prepared in real terms • Current cost structure to remain unchanged 40 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 10 Strategy Groups of cash generating units containing goodwill Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December 2018 2017 Intangible Intangible Assets and Assets and Property, Plant Recoverable Property, Plant Recoverable Goodwill at and Equipment Amount at Year Impairment Pre-tax Goodwill at and Equipment Amount at Year Impairment Pre-tax EUR million Year End at Year End End Charge Discount Rate Year End at Year End End Charge Discount Rate Packaging Solutions Europe 19 721 2 726 0 8.2% 19 712 2 117 0 8.8% Financials Biomaterials Innovation and Nordic Operations 34 369 2 927 0 6.2% 28 348 1 916 0 6.1% Wood Products Central Europe 107 155 1 155 0 5.7% 107 159 937 0 5.4% Paper Newsprint and Book Paper 43 238 492 0 5.7% 43 245 528 0 5.4% Stora Enso in 2018 Paper Uncoated Magazine Paper 40 242 477 0 5.7% 40 263 492 0 5.4% Total 243 1 725 7 777 0 237 1 727 5 990 0 Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Segment impairments and impairment reversals, disposal gains and losses Consolidated financial Year Ended 31 December statements EUR million 2018 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Consumer Board 1 0 financial statements Packaging Solutions -1 3 Biomaterials 1 1 Extract from the parent Wood Products 0 0 company Stora Enso Oyj Paper 2 7 financial statements Other -1 11 Total (impairment/disposal loss +) / (reversal/disposal gain -) 1 22 The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution The calculation of value-in-use is highly sensitive to discount rates, sales prices and costs. The Sensitivity of dividend Analysis table below summarises what effect a 1% change in the discount rate, 1% decrease in sales prices and 1% increase in costs would have had on the recoverable amounts of the groups of CGUs Auditor’s report carrying the most of the group’s total goodwill. Financials Stora Enso in capital markets Goodwill testing sensitivity analysis, impact on recoverable amount Paper Paper Wood Products Newsprint and Uncoated Stora Enso as a taxpayer EUR million Central Europe Book Magazine Paper 1% increase in the discount rate -216 -61 -77 Capacities by mill in 2019 1% annual decrease in the sales price -150 -129 -91 1% annual increase in the costs -134 -122 -84 Information for shareholders Governance 41 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 11 Strategy Note 11 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Annual Report 2018 Property, plant and equipment acquired by group companies are stated at their historical cost, augmented where appropriate by asset retirement costs. Assets arising on the acquisition of a new Accounting principles subsidiary are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition. Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis, and adjusted for any impairment and disposal charges. The Consolidated statement of financial Computer software development costs position value represents the cost deducted by received grants and subsidies and less the accumulated The cost of development or acquisition of new software clearly associated with an identifiable and depreciation and any impairment charges. Interest costs on borrowings to finance the construction unique product that will be controlled by the group and has probable benefit exceeding its cost beyond of these assets are capitalised as part of the cost during the construction period the requirements are one year and is recognised as an intangible asset and will be amortised over the expected useful life of fulfilled. Financials the software between 3 to 10 years. Website costs are expensed as incurred. Land and water areas are not depreciated as these are deemed to have an indefinite life, but otherwise depreciation is based on the following expected useful lives: Goodwill Stora Enso in 2018 Goodwill represents future economic benefits arising from assets that are not capable of being Asset Class Depreciation Years Buildings, industrial 10–50 individually identified and separately recognised by the group on an acquisition. Goodwill is computed Report of the as the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the group’s share of the fair value of Buildings, office & residential 20–50 Board of Directors Groundwood mills 15–20 Sustainability net assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, and is allocated to those groups of cash generating units expected to benefit from the acquisition for the purpose of impairment testing. In Hydroelectric power 40 Consolidated financial compliance with IFRS 3, the cost of an acquisition is equal to the sum of the consideration transferred, Paper, board and pulp mills, main machines 20 statements the value of the non-controlling interest in the acquisition, and the fair value of the previously held interest Heavy machinery 10–20 in the acquired subsidiary. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of non-euro foreign entities is treated as an Converting factories 10–15 Notes to the Consolidated asset of the foreign entity denominated in the local currency and translated at the closing rate. Sawmills 10–15 Goodwill is not amortised but tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there financial statements Computers 3–5 is an indication of impairment. Gains and losses on the disposal of a group entity include any goodwill Vehicles 5 relating to the entity sold. Extract from the parent Office equipment 3–5 Goodwill arising from the acquisition of an equity accounted investment or joint arrangement company Stora Enso Oyj is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that Railway, harbours 20–25 financial statements investment. Any excess of the group’s share of the net fair value over the cost of the acquisition, after Forest roads 10–35 reassessment, is recognised immediately in the income statement. Roads, fields, bridges 15–20 The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution Intangible assets Ordinary maintenance and repair charges are written as expensed as incurred, but the costs of of dividend Intangible assets are stated at their historical cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their significant renewals and improvements are capitalised and depreciated over the remaining useful expected useful lives, which usually varies from 3 to 10 years and up to 20 years for patents. An lives of the related assets. Retirements, sales and disposals of property, plant and equipment are Auditor’s report adjustment is made for any impairment. Intangible items acquired must be recognised as assets recorded by deducting the cost and accumulated depreciation from the accounting records with any Financials separately from goodwill if they meet the definition of an asset, are either separable or arise from resulting terminal depreciation adjustments reflected in impairment charges in the Consolidated income Stora Enso in capital markets contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably. statement. Capital gains are shown in other operating income. Intangible assets recognised separately from goodwill in acquisitions consist of marketing Spare parts are accounted for as property, plant and equipment if they are major and used over more and customer-related or contract and technology-based intangible assets. Typical marketing and than one period, or if they are used only in connection with an item of property, plant and equipment. Stora Enso as a taxpayer customer-related assets include trademarks, trade names, service marks, collective marks, certification In all other cases, spare parts are carried as part of the inventory and recognised in profit or loss as marks, customer lists, order or production backlogs, customer contracts and the related customer consumed items. Capacities by mill in 2019 relationships. The contract and technology-based intangible assets are normally licensing and royalty agreements or patented technology and trade secrets such as confidential formulas, processes or Information for shareholders recipes. The fair value determination of customer contracts and related relationships is derived from expected retention rates and cash flow over the customers’ remaining estimated lifetime. The value of trademarks is derived from a discounted cash flow analysis using the relief from royalty method. Governance 42 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 11 Strategy Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December Year Ended 31 December Other Buildings Other Computer Intangible Assets in Land and and Plant and Tangible Assets in EUR million Software Assets Progress Goodwill Total EUR million Water Structures Equipment Assets Progress Total Acquisition Cost Acquisition Cost At 1 January 2017 228 175 0 1 193 1 596 At 1 January 2017 395 3 542 13 836 442 314 18 529 Translation difference -2 -9 0 -3 -14 Translation difference -33 -175 -421 -7 -30 -666 Reclassifications 0 5 97 1 -130 -27 Financials Reclassifications Additions 21 7 6 13 0 39 0 0 27 59 Reclassifications to biological assets 0 0 -1 0 0 -1 Disposals1 -5 -9 0 0 -14 Additions 1 20 190 3 287 501 Stora Enso in 2018 At 31 December 2017 249 176 39 1 190 1 654 Disposals1 -2 -43 -355 -11 0 -411 Translation difference -1 0 0 -1 -2 Report of the At 31 December 2017 361 3 349 13 346 428 441 17 925 Reclassifications 26 -1 -28 0 -3 Board of Directors Translation difference -1 -29 -201 -8 -1 -240 Sustainability Additions2 13 21 16 5 55 Reclassifications 0 43 207 2 -249 3 Disposals1 -62 -19 0 0 -81 Consolidated financial Reclassifications to biological At 31 December 2018 225 177 27 1 194 1 623 assets 0 -1 -2 0 0 -3 statements Additions 0 19 171 2 249 441 Accumulated Amortisation and Disposals1 -31 -46 -108 -4 0 -189 Notes to the Consolidated Impairment At 31 December 2018 329 3 335 13 413 420 440 17 937 financial statements At 1 January 2017 200 23 0 955 1 178 Translation difference -4 0 0 -2 -6 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Extract from the parent Disposals1 -5 -5 0 0 -10 At 1 January 2017 6 2 096 10 445 366 5 12 918 company Stora Enso Oyj Amortisation 10 8 0 0 18 Translation difference -1 -96 -293 -7 0 -397 financial statements Impairment 8 0 0 0 8 Disposals1 0 -42 -342 -10 0 -394 At 31 December 2017 209 26 0 953 1 188 Depreciation 0 82 382 11 0 475 The Board of Directors’ Translation difference -1 -1 0 -2 -4 Impairment 5 0 4 0 4 13 Proposal for the distribution Disposals1 -62 -19 0 0 -81 At 31 December 2017 10 2 040 10 196 360 9 12 615 of dividend Amortisation 12 11 0 0 23 Translation difference -1 -32 -177 -6 0 -216 At 31 December 2018 158 17 0 951 1 126 Disposals1 -5 -41 -103 -4 0 -153 Auditor’s report Financials Depreciation 0 77 368 11 0 456 Net Book Value at 31 December Stora Enso in capital markets 2018 67 160 27 243 497 Impairments and reversals 0 0 1 0 0 1 At 31 December 2018 4 2 044 10 285 361 9 12 703 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Net Book Value at 31 December 2017 40 150 39 237 466 Net Book Value at 31 December 2018 325 1 291 3 128 59 431 5 234 Capacities by mill in 2019 1 Company disposals are included in Disposals line. Company disposals are discussed in more detail in Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals. 2 Company acquisitions are included in Additions line. Company acquistitions are discussed in more detail in Note 4 Acquisitions and Net Book Value at 31 December Information for shareholders disposals. 2017 351 1 309 3 150 68 432 5 310 1 Company disposals are included in Disposals line. Company disposals are discussed in more detail in Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment additions Total capital expenditure for the year in Stora Enso Oyj and its subsidiaries amounted to EUR 491 (EUR 560) million. Details of ongoing projects and future plans are discussed in more detail in the Report of the Board of Directors. Governance 43 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 12 Strategy Note 12 Biological assets Biological assets Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December Accounting principles EUR million 2018 2017 Subsidiaries and Joint Operations The biological assets of Stora Enso consist of standing trees to be used as raw material in pulp and Fair Value at 1 January 448 489 mechanical wood production and as bio fuels. Translation differences -2 -51 IAS 41 Agriculture standard requires that biological assets are shown in the Consolidated Statement Change in fair value1 -2 -6 of financial position at fair value. Group forests are thus accounted for at level 3 of fair value less the Additions (cost based) 83 80 Financials estimated point-of-sale costs at harvest, there being a presumption that fair values can be measured for Harvesting1 -60 -57 these assets. Other operative changes1 -7 -9 The valuation of forest assets is based on discounted cash flow models whereby the fair value Stora Enso in 2018 of the biological assets is calculated using cash flows from continuous operations, that is, based on Other changes -7 0 sustainable forest management plans taking into account growth potential. The yearly harvest from Reclassification from Property, plant and equipment 2 2 Report of the the forecasted tree growth is multiplied by wood prices and the cost of silviculture and harvesting is Fair Value of biological assets at 31 December 457 448 Board of Directors Sustainability then deducted. The fair value of the biological assets are measured as the present value of the harvest from one growth cycle based on the productive forestland, taking into consideration environmental Equity accounted investments Consolidated financial restrictions and other reservations. Young standing timber less than two years old (less than three years Bergvik Skog Ab (49.79%) 2 262 2 326 statements in Montes del Plata) is considered to be an immature asset and is accounted at cost. At harvesting, Tornator Oyj (41%) 595 562 biological assets are transferred to inventory. Arauco Florestal Arapoti S.A. (20%) 14 18 Notes to the Consolidated Fair value is deemed to approximate the cost when little biological transformation has taken place or Fair value of biological assets of the impact of the transformation on the price is not expected to be material, which varies according to Associated companies at 31 December 2 871 2 906 financial statements the location and species of the assets. 1 Items are recorded in profit and loss lines. Stora Enso also ensures that the Group’s share of the valuation of forest holdings in equity Extract from the parent accounted investments and joint operations are consistent with Group accounting policies. company Stora Enso Oyj Valuation and standing stock of forest assets in main subsidiaries and joint operations financial statements As at 31 December 2018 The Group has biological assets in its own subsidiaries in China and Laos, as well as in joint operations in Fair value Standing The Board of Directors’ Brazil and Uruguay and in equity accounted investments in Finland, Sweden and Brazil. Fair value, per hectare, Productive stock, million Harvesting, Proposal for the distribution The value of biological assets disclosed in the group Consolidated statement of financial position MEUR EUR/ha forest land, ha m3 sub million m3 sub of dividend from subsidiary companies and from joint operations amounts to EUR 457 (EUR 448) million as shown Guangxi (100%) 166 2 147 77 300 6.4 1.1 below. The Group’s indirect share of biological assets held by equity accounted investments amounts to Veracel (50%) 75 1 715 43 700 2.9 1.7 Auditor’s report EUR 2 871 (EUR 2 906) million. Financials Montes del Plata (50%) 199 2 450 81 200 8.1 1.4 Stora Enso in capital markets Subsidiaries and joint operations: At the end of 2018, the fair value of the biological assets in Guangxi, China amounted to EUR 166 (EUR 168) Stora Enso as a taxpayer million. The biological assets included young standing timber with a value of EUR 29 (EUR 33) million. The decrease is driven by lower sales prices, which decreased by 4%. The discount rate of 8.7% (8.6%) Capacities by mill in 2019 used in the discounted cash flows (DCF) is determined using the weighted average cost of capital method. The productive land in Guangxi, China totals 77 thousand hectares with standing stock of 6.4 million m3 Information for shareholders solid under bark (sub). The annual harvesting is on average 1.1 million m3 sub. Veracel Celulose S.A. (Veracel), a 50% joint operation company in Brazil, had biological assets fair valued at EUR 150 (EUR 164) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was EUR 75 (EUR 82) million. The decrease is driven by foreign exchange movements, the local value increased by 3%. The biological assets included young standing timber with a value of EUR 33 (EUR 31) million. The discount rate of 8.3% (7.3%) used in the DCF is determined using the weighted average cost of capital method. Stora Enso’s share (50%) of the land area is 113 (113) thousand hectares. Stora Enso’s 50% share of the productive land in Veracel, Brazil totals 44 thousand hectares with share Governance of standing stock of 2.9 million m3 sub. The ownership share of annual harvesting is on average 1.7 million m3 sub. Montes del Plata (MdP), a 50% joint operation company in Uruguay, had biological assets with a fair value of EUR 398 (EUR 354) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was EUR 199 (EUR 177) million. 44 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 13 Strategy The biological assets included young standing timber with a value of EUR 55 (EUR 43) million. The discount Note 13 Equity accounted investments Annual Report 2018 rate of 8.0% (8.0%) used in the DCF is determined using the weighted average cost of capital method. Stora Enso’s share (50%) of the land area is 126 (123) thousand hectares. Stora Enso’s 50% share of the productive land in Montes del Plata, Uruguay totals 81 thousand Accounting principles hectares with share of standing stock of 8.1 million m3 sub. The ownership share of annual harvesting is on average 1.4 million m3 sub. Consolidation principles Associated companies over which Stora Enso exercises significant influence are accounted for using Sensitivities of significant assumptions of a +/10% movement the equity method, which involves recognising the Group’s share of the equity accounted investment profit or loss for the year in the Consolidated income statement. The Group’s interest in an associated Financials Guangxi Wood market prices +/-35 Growth rate +/-19 company is carried in the Consolidated statement of financial position at an amount that reflects its share of the net assets of the associate. Veracel +/-7 +/-7 The Group’s share of results in equity accounted investments is reported in operating profit to reflect Stora Enso in 2018 Montes del Plata +/-18 +/-18 the operational nature of these investments, especially those in wood supply. There is no material goodwill in the Statements of financial position for equity accounted investments. Report of the At 31 December 2018 biological assets by value were located in China 36% (38%), Brazil 16% (20%), Board of Directors Sustainability Uruguay 44% (39%) and other areas 4% (3%). The land area comes to 325 (363) thousand hectares of which 37% (31%) is leased and 2% (4%) is restricted. The harvested wood amounted to 4 (4) million m3. Principal equity accounted investments Consolidated financial The changes were mainly driven by disposal of Rio Grande do Sul. The MdP and Veracel amounts are taken As at 31 December statements into account in the ownership share and number of hectares. Proportion of ownership interest/voting rights Notes to the Consolidated Equity accounted investments: held % EUR million Domicile financial statements and principal The Group has three equity accounted investments holding biological assets: Reportable place of • Bergvik Skog Ab (Bergvik Skog), a 49.79% (49.28%) owned Swedish associated company, had Extract from the parent Company segment operations 2018 2017 2018 2017 biological assets with a fair value of EUR 4 543 (EUR 4 719) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was Bergvik Skog AB: company Stora Enso Oyj EUR 2 262 (EUR 2 326) million. The fair value change of Bergvik is mainly due to foreign exchange forest1 Other Sweden 49.79/36.70 49.28/36.70 1 400 1 287 financial statements movement. Wood sales margin had a slightly increasing effect on the fair value. Tornator Oyj: forest Other Finland 41 41 288 267 • Tornator Oyj (Tornator), a 41% owned Finnish associated company, had biological assets with a fair Arauco Florestal The Board of Directors’ value of EUR 1 451 (EUR 1 371) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was EUR 595 (EUR 562) million. Arapoti S.A.: Proposal for the distribution The increase in fair value is mainly due to increased harvesting volume and sales prices. Growing costs plantation Other Brazil 20 20 19 22 of dividend had a slight reducing impact on fair value. 1 707 1 576 • Arauco Florestal Arapoti S.A., the 20% owned Southern Brazilian associated company, had biological Others 23 24 Auditor’s report assets with a fair value of EUR 73 (EUR 90) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was EUR 14 (EUR 18) Carrying Value at 31 Financials million. December 1 729 1 600 Stora Enso in capital markets 1 The group’s shareholding in Bergvik Skog AB is 49.79%, however, the voting rights are limited to 36.7%. Valuation and standing stock of forest assets in main subsidiaries and joint operations Stora Enso as a taxpayer As at 31 December 2018 Group share of equity accounted investments income statements Fair value Productive Standing Capacities by mill in 2019 Fair value, per hectare, forest stock, million Harvesting, Year Ended 31 December MEUR EUR/ha land, ha m3 sub million m3 sub EUR million 2018 2017 Bergvik Skog AB (49.79%) 2 262 2 416 936 000 79.3 3.1 Information for shareholders Sales 249 279 Tornator Oyj (41.00%) 595 2 665 223 198 24.6 1.2 Net operating expenses -119 -210 IAS 41 valuation 90 33 Stora Enso’s 49.79% share of the productive forest land in Bergvik, Sweden totals 936 thousand hectares Operating Profit 220 102 with share of standing stock of 79.3 million m3 solid under bark (sub). The ownership share of annual Net financial items -37 -28 harvesting is on average 3.1 million m3 sub. Net Profit before Tax 183 74 Stora Enso’s 41% share of the productive forest land in Tornator totals 223 thousand hectares with Income tax -2 -8 share of standing stock of 24.6 million m3 sub. The ownership share of annual harvesting is on average 1.2 Governance Net Profit for the Year 181 66 million m3 sub. For information about the amount of wood delivered to Stora Enso mills and share of wood sourced from plantations, please see Stora Enso’s Sustainability report 2018, section Forests, plantations and land All of the above companies are accounted for using the equity method in the Consolidated financial use. statements. 45 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 13 Strategy The average number of personnel in the equity accounted investments was 1 727 in 2018, compared Tornator Oyj Annual Report 2018 with 1 698 in 2017. EUR million 2018 2017 A summary of the financial information in respect of the Group’s material associates, Bergvik Skog Current assets 34 32 AB and Tornator Oyj, is set out below. The Group’s share of these associated companies is reported under segment Other and covers the majority of the Group’s total share of results of equity accounted Non-current assets 1557 1478 investments. The summarised financial information below represents amounts shown in the associate’s financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. Current liabilities 376 121 Non-current liabilities 351 586 Bergvik Skog AB Tax liabilities 161 151 Financials EUR million 2018 2017 Current assets 152 57 Sales 113 102 Stora Enso in 2018 Non-current assets 4 705 4 969 Net profit for the year 79 78 Other comprehensive income 0 -1 Report of the Current liabilities 157 403 Total comprehensive income 79 77 Board of Directors Sustainability Non-current liabilities 971 991 Tax liabilities 955 1 034 Dividends received from the associate during the financial year 12 11 Consolidated financial statements Sales 245 243 Net assets of the associate 702 652 Net profit for the year 295 111 Proportion of the Group's ownership interest in Tornator Oyj 41.00% 41.00% Notes to the Consolidated Other comprehensive income 7 8 Carrying amount of the Group's interest in Tornator Oyj 288 267 financial statements Total comprehensive income 302 119 Stora Enso’s Finnish forest holdings were divested into an equity accounted investment, Tornator, in 2002. Extract from the parent Dividends received from the associate during the financial year 11 7 The Group’s current 41% ownership is valued at EUR 288 (EUR 267) million at the year-end for 2018. In company Stora Enso Oyj 2018, the Group’s share of Tornator’s net profit was EUR 32 (EUR 32) million, including a forest valuation financial statements Net assets of the associate 2 774 2 598 gain of EUR 13 (gain EUR 8) million. Proportion of the Group's ownership interest in Bergvik Skog AB 49.79% 49.28% The Board of Directors’ Goodwill 19 7 Proposal for the distribution Carrying amount of the Group's interest in Bergvik Skog AB 1 400 1 287 of dividend Auditor’s report In November 2018, Stora Enso announced that the shareholders of Bergvik Skog AB have signed a Financials binding agreement regarding restructuring of their ownership in Bergvik Skog. Currently, Bergvik Skog’s Stora Enso in capital markets Swedish forest assets are owned by its subsidiaries Bergvik Väst AB and Bergvik Öst AB, representing approximately 83% and 17% of these assets respectively. With this agreement, Stora Enso will transform its current ownership of 49.8% in Bergvik Skog, to a direct holding of 69.8% of the value of the forest Stora Enso as a taxpayer assets in Bergvik Väst. After the transaction, Stora Enso’s forest holdings in Sweden will increase to 1.4 million hectares, of which 1.15 million hectares is productive forest land. Stora Enso’s 49.8% share of Capacities by mill in 2019 the productive forest land in Bergvik totalled 0.9 million hectares at end of December 2018. The transaction is estimated to increase Stora Enso’s balance sheet by approximately EUR 1.0 billion. The restructuring Information for shareholders is planned to be completed during the first half of 2019. Bergvik Skog is currently reported as equity accounted investment. As a result of the restructuring, Stora Enso’s Swedish forest assets will be placed in a fully owned subsidiary and then consolidated line by line in Stora Enso’s results. Stora Enso’s shareholding in the company was valued at EUR 1 400 (EUR 1 287) million at the year-end in 2018. In 2018, the Group’s share of Bergvik Skog’s net profit was EUR 147 (EUR 55) million, including a forest valuation gain of EUR 80 (gain EUR 26) million. Governance 46 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 14 Strategy Aggregate information of equity accounted investments that are not individually materia Equity accounted investment transactions Annual Report 2018 As at 31 December Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 PPE1, goodwill and other intangible assets 21 28 Sales to equity accounted investments 53 53 Biological assets 14 18 Purchases from equity accounted investments 219 215 Operative receivables: Non-current 0 0 The Group engages in transactions with equity accounted investments such as sales and purchases of Current 16 16 wood. All agreements are negotiated at arm’s length and are conducted on terms that the Group considers Financials Inventories 1 1 customary in the industry and generally no less favourable than would be available from independent third Cash 8 7 parties. Total Assets 61 70 Total loans including interest receivable to equity accounted investments at the year-end 2018 Stora Enso in 2018 amounted to EUR 2 (EUR 3) million. Report of the Operative Liabilities: Board of Directors Non-current 2 4 Sustainability Current 11 12 Note 14 Equity instruments Consolidated financial Debt: statements Non-current 1 1 Current 0 0 Accounting principles Notes to the Consolidated Tax liabilities 4 7 The Group has elected to classify its equity investments in Pohjolan Voima shares and certain listed financial statements Total Liabilities 19 24 shares held by the Group, earlier classified as available-for-sale investments (AFS) under IAS 39, at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) under IFRS 9 by applying the irrevocable election Extract from the parent Net Equity in the Group Statement of Financial Position 42 46 for equity instruments under the standard. The gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value company Stora Enso Oyj of equity investments under FVTOCI are not recycled to the Income Statement upon impairment or financial statements Represented by disposal, only dividend income is recognised in the Income Statement. In addition, the Group also has Capital and Reserves 42 45 certain equity investments in unlisted shares that are classified as fair value through Income statement. The Board of Directors’ OCI 0 1 Proposal for the distribution Equity Accounting Value 42 46 of dividend Summary of values Equity Accounting Value for Bergvik Skog AB 1 400 1 287 Year Ended 31 December Auditor’s report Financials Equity Accounting Value for Tornator Oyj 288 267 EUR million 2018 2017 Total Equity Accounting Value 1 729 1 600 Acquisition cost at 1 January Stora Enso in capital markets 1 PPE = Property, Plant and Equipment Listed shares 4 4 Unlisted shares 126 121 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Equity accounted investment company balances Investments classified as equity instruments (previously available-for-sale) 130 125 Capacities by mill in 2019 As at 31 December OCI in opening balance 209 170 EUR million 2018 2017 Equity Instruments at 1 January 339 295 Information for shareholders Receivables from Equity Accounted Investments Translation difference -1 -1 Non-current loan receivables 2 3 Additions 3 8 Trade receivables 6 3 Change in fair values accounted for as OCI 97 39 Current loan receivables 0 0 Disposals -1 0 Income Statement gains and losses -2 -2 Liabilities due to Equity Accounted Investments Carrying Amount at 31 December 435 339 Trade payables 39 40 Governance 47 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 15 Strategy Unrealised gains and losses on listed and unlisted shares The valuation in 2018 amounted to EUR 415 (EUR 308) million against cost value of EUR 118 (EUR 116) Annual Report 2018 million, with the revaluation of EUR 297 (EUR 192) million being taken to other comprehensive income. Year Ended 31 December The change in PVO’s value is mainly caused by increase in electricity market prices. No deferred tax EUR million 2018 2017 is appropriate as under Finnish tax regulations holdings above 10% are exempt from tax on disposal Net unrealised holding gains (OCI) 306 209 proceeds. Cost 129 130 Fair Value 435 339 Principal equity instruments 31 December 2018 Net unrealised holding gains (OCI) 306 209 Financials Deferred tax -2 -4 EUR million Holding % Number of Shares Acquisition Cost Fair Value Net Unrealised Holding Gains Shown in Equity as OCI 304 205 Packages Ltd, Pakistan listed shares 5 396 650 4 13 Stora Enso in 2018 Total Listed Shares 4 13 Change in Net Unrealised Holding Gains Shown in Equity as OCI 98 43 Pohjolan Voima Oy unlisted shares 15.6 5 073 972 118 415 Report of the Others unlisted shares 7 7 Board of Directors PVO shares Total Unlisted Shares 125 422 Sustainability The Group holds a 15.6% (15.6%) interest in Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), a privately-owned group of Total Equity instruments at 31 December 2018 129 435 Consolidated financial companies in the energy sector that produces electricity and heat for its shareholders in Finland. Each Total Available-for-sale Investments at 31 statements subsidiary of the PVO group has its own class of shares that entitle the shareholder to the energy produced December 2017 130 339 in proportion to its ownership of that class of share. The shareholders then have an obligation to cover Notes to the Consolidated the costs of production, which are generally lower than market prices. The holding is fair valued quarterly using an average of two methods: the discounted cash flow model and trading multiples. The valuation is The difference of EUR 306 (EUR 209) million between the initial acquisition cost and reporting date fair financial statements categorised at level 3 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13, levels are explained in Note 25 Fair value of the equity instruments (previously available-for-sale investments) represents the OCI reserve as values. shown in the Statement of changes in equity. Extract from the parent The electricity prices in the model are based on Nordpool prices. Liquid future derivative prices are company Stora Enso Oyj used for the available years in the model and thereafter increased by an inflation factor. The historical financial statements financial statements provide the basis for the cost structure for each of the power assets, which are adjusted by the inflation factor in future years. The discount rate of 4.06% used in the DCF is determined Note 15 Other non-current assets The Board of Directors’ using the weighted average cost of capital method. The trading multiples are derived from a peer group Proposal for the distribution of European companies operating power assets similar to PVO’s. A +/5% change in the electricity price As at 31 December of dividend used in the DCF would change the valuation by EUR +54 million and EUR -41 million, respectively. A +/1% EUR million 2018 2017 absolute change in the discount rate would change the valuation by EUR -34 million and EUR +100 million, Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 18 Auditor’s report respectively. Financials Tax credit 16 17 As an outcome of the arbitration proceedings, a settlement agreement was signed during 2018 Other non-current operative assets 13 15 Stora Enso in capital markets between the plant owner Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO) and the plant supplier AREVA-Siemens Consortium Total 48 50 concerning the costs and losses caused by the delay of the Olkiluoto 3 project. As a result, the plant supplier agreed to compensate EUR 450 million to the plant owner TVO. The supplier is entitled to receive Stora Enso as a taxpayer an incentive payment, in a maximum amount of EUR 150 million, upon timely completion of the Olkiluoto 3 Capacities by mill in 2019 project. In November 2018 TVO announced that the regular electricity production will start in January 2020 Note 16 Inventories based on the updated start-up schedule. The arbitration proceeding outcome has been taken into account in the valuation. Stora Enso’s indirect share of the capacity of Olkiluoto 3 is approximately 8.9%, through its Information for shareholders PVO B2 shares. Accounting principles PVO shareholding at 31 December 2018 Inventories are reported at lower of cost and net realisable value with the cost determined by the first-in Asset Fair Value Fair Value first-out (FIFO) method or, alternatively, by the weighted average cost where it approximates FIFO. EUR million Share Series % Holding Category 2018 2017 The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw material, direct labour, depreciation, other PVO-Vesivoima Oy A 20.6 Hydro 166 155 direct costs and related production overheads but excludes interest expenses. Net realisable value is the Teollisuuden Voima Oyj B 15.7 Nuclear 243 148 estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and sale. Where market conditions result in the manufacturing costs of a product exceeding its net realisable Governance Nuclear under Teollisuuden Voima Oyj B2 14.8 construction 0 0 value, a valuation allowance is made. Valuation allowances are also made for old, slow moving and Other C,C2,V,M Various Various 6 5 obsolete finished goods and spare parts. Such valuation allowances are deducted from the carrying Total 415 308 value of the inventories in the consolidated statement of financial position. 48 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 17 Strategy As at 31 December Current operative receivables Annual Report 2018 EUR million 2018 2017 As at 31 December Materials and supplies 438 308 EUR million 2018 2017 Work in progress 98 81 Trade receivables gross carrying amount 1 172 993 Finished goods 752 649 Loss allowance -36 -28 Spare parts and consumables 298 279 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 96 119 Other inventories 17 15 Other receivables 254 235 Advance payments and cutting rights 83 97 Total 1 487 1 319 Financials Obsolescence allowance spare parts and consumables -98 -94 Obsolescence allowance finished goods -15 -10 Net realisable value allowance -5 -4 Age analysis of trade receivables Stora Enso in 2018 Total 1 567 1 321 As at 31 December Report of the EUR million 2018 2017 Board of Directors Not overdue 1 027 844 Sustainability EUR 4 872 (EUR 4 675) million of inventories have been expensed during the year, which are included in materials and supplies line and relate to materials. EUR 16 (EUR 15) million of inventory write-downs have Less than 30 days overdue 77 61 Consolidated financial been recognised as an expense. EUR 3 (EUR 18) million have been recognised as a reversal of previous 31 to 60 days overdue 7 41 statements write-downs. 61 to 90 days overdue 2 1 91 to 180 days overdue 4 2 Notes to the Consolidated Over 180 days overdue 55 44 financial statements Total 1 172 993 Note 17 Operative receivables Extract from the parent As at 31 December 2018, a gross amount of EUR 145 (EUR 149) million of trade receivables were overdue. company Stora Enso Oyj Accounting principles These relate to a number of countries and unrelated customers that have no recent history of default. At financial statements 31 December 2018 lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables amounted to EUR 36 million. At Trade receivables 31 December 2017 allowances related to overdue trade receivables calculated in accordance with IAS 39 The Board of Directors’ Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at their anticipated realisable totalled EUR 28 million. The age analysis of the loss allowance recognised is shown in the table below. Proposal for the distribution value with an estimate made for loss allowance on expected credit losses based on a forward-looking of dividend and objective review of all outstanding amounts at period end. Simplified approach under IFRS 9 Age analysis of loss allowance has been implemented for trade receivables and loss allowances are recognised based on expected As at 31 December Auditor’s report lifetime credit losses in the Consolidated income statement within other operating expenses. For nonFinancials defaulted receivables, expected credit losses are estimated based on externally generated customer EUR million 2018 2017 level probability of default data that is used in the forward-looking loss allowance calculation model. Not overdue and less than 90 days overdue 3 0 Stora Enso in capital markets The rebuttable presumption that default does not occur later than when a financial asset is 90 days More than 90 days overdue 33 28 past due has been applied in the calculation model and default is normally estimated to happen when Total 36 28 Stora Enso as a taxpayer trade receivables are at least 90 days overdue or there is otherwise objective evidence supporting the conclusion that default has occurred. Trade receivables are presented in current assets under Operative Capacities by mill in 2019 receivables in the Consolidated statement of financial position. Reconciliation of loss allowance Stora Enso uses factoring arrangements as one of the working capital management tools. Sold As at 31 December Information for shareholders trade receivables are derecognised once significant related risks and rewards of ownership have been EUR million 2018 2017 transferred to the buyer. Outstanding balances for trade receivables that were not yet sold at period end but qualify to be sold under factoring programs in the next period, are classified as trade receivables fair Opening balance at 1 January 28 51 valued through other comprehensive income in accordance with business model and contractual cash Adoption of IFRS 9 standard 3 0 flow characteristics tests under IFRS 9. Please refer to Note 25 Fair values for further details. Change in loss allowance booked through Income Statement 8 -7 Write-downs -3 -15 Other 0 -1 Governance Closing Balance at 31 December 36 28 The actual credit losses during 2018 amounted to EUR 3 (EUR 15) million. Loss allowances for trade receivables are estimated on an individual basis based on a forward-looking model where estimated 49 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 18 Strategy probabilities of default for customers are used in the model. If the Group has concerns regarding the Change in share capital and number of shares Annual Report 2018 financial status of a customer, an advance payment or an irrevocable letter of credit drawn from a bank is A shares R shares Total required. At the year end, the letters of credit awaiting maturity totalled EUR 62 (EUR 17) million. Please refer to Note 24 Financial risk management for details of customer credit risk management. At 1 January 2017 176 507 090 612 112 897 788 619 987 Stora Enso has entered into factoring agreements to sell trade receivables in order to accelerate Conversion of A shares to R shares 15 Feb -20 20 cash conversion. These agreements resulted in full derecognition of receivables of a nominal value of Conversion of A shares to R shares 15 May -750 750 EUR 240 (EUR 355) million by the end of the year. The continuing involvement of Stora Enso in the sold Conversion of A shares to R shares 15 Aug -40 000 40 000 receivables was estimated as being insignificant. Conversion of A shares to R shares 14 Sep -20 000 20 000 Conversion of A shares to R shares 16 Oct -34 000 34 000 Financials Conversion of A shares to R shares 14 Dec -20 000 20 000 At 31 December 2017 176 392 320 612 227 667 788 619 987 Note 18 Shareholders' equity Stora Enso in 2018 Conversion of A shares to R shares 16 Jan -40 710 40 710 Conversion of A shares to R shares 8 Feb -400 400 Report of the Accounting principles Conversion of A shares to R shares 16 Apr -10 418 10 418 Board of Directors Conversion of A shares to R shares 15 May -300 300 Sustainability Dividend and capital repayments Conversion of A shares to R shares 15 Jun -250 250 Consolidated financial Any dividend or capital repayment proposed by the Board is not deducted from distributable Conversion of A shares to R shares 16 Jul -13 070 13 070 statements shareholders’ equity until approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Conversion of A shares to R shares 14 Sep -125 125 Conversion of A shares to R shares 15 Oct -55 55 Notes to the Consolidated Conversion of A shares to R shares 14 Dec -14 320 14 320 At 31 December 2018 shareholders’ equity amounted to EUR 6 714 (EUR 6 008) million, compared to the financial statements At 31 December 2018 176 312 672 612 307 315 788 619 987 market capitalisation on Nasdaq Helsinki of EUR 8 123 (EUR 10 422) million. The market values of the shares were EUR 11.05 (EUR 13.20) for A shares and EUR 10.09 (EUR 13.22) for R shares. Extract from the parent Number of votes as at 31 December 2018 176 312 672 61 230 7311 237 543 403 The A shares entitle the holder to one vote per share, whereas R shares entitle the holder to one vote company Stora Enso Oyj per ten shares with a minimum of one vote, though the accountable par of both shares is the same. A financial statements shares may be converted into R shares at any time at the request of a shareholder. At 31 December 2018 Share Capital at 31 December 2018, EUR million 300 1 042 1 342 the company’s fully paid-up share capital as entered in the Finnish Trade Register was EUR 1 342 million The Board of Directors’ (EUR 1 342 million). The current accountable par of each issued share is EUR 1.70 (EUR 1.70). Share Capital at 31 December 2017, EUR million 300 1 042 1 342 Proposal for the distribution At 31 December 2018, Directors and Group Leadership Team members owned 1 150 (1 150) A shares 1 R share votes are calculated by dividing the number of R shares by 10. of dividend and 558 028 (458 526) R shares representing 0.02% of the total voting rights of the company. Full details of The issued shares by 4 March 2019 will represent the total shares eligible to vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Director and Executive interests are shown in Note 7 Board and executive remuneration. A full description Auditor’s report of company share award programmes is shown in Note 21 Employee variable compensation and equity Financials incentive schemes. However, none of these have any impact on the issued share capital. Stora Enso in capital markets Note 19 Non-controlling interests Stora Enso as a taxpayer Accounting principles Capacities by mill in 2019 Non-controlling interests are presented within the equity of the Group in the Consolidated statement of financial position. The proportionate shares of profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests Information for shareholders and to equity holders of the parent company are presented in the Consolidated income statement after the profit for the period. Transactions between non-controlling interests and Group shareholders are transactions within equity and are thus shown in the Statement of changes in equity. The measurement type of non-controlling interests is decided separately for each acquisition. Governance 50 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 19 Strategy Non-controlling interests Summarised financial information in respect of the subsidiaries that have material non-controlling Annual Report 2018 interests is set out below. Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2018 2017 Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group At 1 January 47 62 EUR million 2018 2017 Acquisitions -2 0 Assets 1 127 1 155 Disposals -1 0 NCI buy-out 2 0 Shareholders' equity attributable to the owners of the parent 18 131 Share of profit for the period -24 -11 Financials Share of other comprehensive income -2 -3 Non-controlling interests1 11 37 Total Equity 29 168 Dividends -2 -1 Stora Enso in 2018 At 31 December 18 47 Liabilities 1 097 987 Report of the Net loss for the year -128 -75 Principal non-controlling interests Board of Directors Sustainability As at 31 December Attributable to: Consolidated financial 2018 2018 2017 Owners of the parent -104 -61 statements Proportion of Ownership Non-controlling interests -24 -14 Principal Place of Interests Held by NonCompany Business controlling Interests, % EUR million Net Loss for the Year -128 -75 Notes to the Consolidated Stora Enso Pulp and Sweden and financial statements Paper Asia AB Group1 China See separate table below 11 37 Net cash outflow from operating activities -28 -61 Stora Enso Inpac Packaging Group China 10.00 8 10 Net cash outflow from investing activities -61 -81 Extract from the parent Stora Enso Huatai Paper Co Ltd China 40.00 -7 -5 Net cash inflow from financing activities 62 140 company Stora Enso Oyj Others 5 5 Net Cash Outflow/Inflow -27 -2 financial statements 18 47 1 No dividends were paid to non-controlling interests in 2018 or 2017. 1 Consist of non-controlling interests in Guangxi Integrated Project and Operations The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution of dividend Non-controlling interests in Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Auditor’s report Financials Principal Place of Direct-% Indirect-% Total-% of Direct-% Indirect-% Total-% of Stora Enso in capital markets Company Business of NCI of NCI NCI of NCI of NCI NCI Stora Enso Pulp and Sweden Stora Enso as a taxpayer Paper Asia AB and China 5.79 0.00 5.79 5.79 0.00 5.79 Guangxi Stora Enso Forestry Co Ltd China 5.00 5.50 10.50 5.00 5.50 10.50 Capacities by mill in 2019 Stora Enso (Guangxi) Packaging Company Ltd China 15.00 4.92 19.92 15.00 4.92 19.92 Information for shareholders Stora Enso (Guangxi) Forestry Company Ltd China 15.00 4.92 19.92 15.00 4.92 19.92 In 2018 non-controlling interest in Stora Enso decreased by EUR 29 million primarily due to negative result in Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group. Net loss in Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group was EUR 128 (EUR 75) million. Net result decreased by EUR 53 million compared to last year mainly due losses on revaluation of foreign currency debt and increased interest expenses. Governance 51 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 20 Strategy Note 20 Post-employment benefits Actuarial gains/losses recognised directly in equity Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December Accounting principles Total Operations EUR million 2018 2017 Employee benefits Actuarial gains/losses -24 61 The Group operates a number of defined benefit and contribution plans throughout the world, Deferred tax thereon 4 -10 the assets of which are generally held in separate trustee administered funds. Such pension and Total -20 51 post-retirement plans are generally funded by payments from employees and by the relevant group Financials companies, taking into account the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries. Employer contributions to the defined contribution pension plans are charged to the Consolidated income Group policy for funding deficits is intended to satisfy local statutory funding requirements for tax statement in the year they relate to. deductible contributions together with adjusting the discount factors used in the actuarial calculations Stora Enso in 2018 For defined benefit plans, accounting values are assessed using the projected unit credit method. for market rates. However, the emphasis of the Group is to provide defined contribution schemes for its Under this method, the cost of providing pensions is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement to post-employment benefits, thus all aspects of the provision and accounting for defined benefit schemes Report of the spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of qualified are evaluated. The net liability in the Group Statement of financial position reflects the actual deficits in the Board of Directors Sustainability actuaries who carry out a full valuation of the plan every year in all major pension countries. The pension defined benefit plans. Details of the pension arrangements, assets and investment policies in the Group’s obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates main operating countries are shown below. Consolidated financial of highly rated corporate bonds or government securities, as appropriate, that match the currency and statements expected duration of the related liability. Finland The Group immediately recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans The Group funds its Finnish pension obligations mainly through defined contribution schemes, the charge Notes to the Consolidated directly in equity, as disclosed in its Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Past service in the Income Statement being EUR 73 (EUR 72) million. By contrast, the remaining obligations covered costs are identified at the time of any amendments to the plans and are recognised immediately in by defined benefit schemes resulted in a charge of EUR 1 (EUR 1) million excluding finance costs. Pension financial statements the Consolidated income statement regardless of vesting requirements. In the group’s Consolidated cover since 2001 has been organised entirely through local insurance companies. The total defined benefit statement of financial position, the full liability for all plan deficits is recorded. obligation amounts to EUR 302 (EUR 318) million and the assets to EUR 278 (EUR 294) million, leaving a Extract from the parent net liability of EUR 25 (EUR 24) million. As state pensions in Finland provide by far the greatest proportion of company Stora Enso Oyj pensions, Group liabilities are proportionately much smaller than in comparable countries. financial statements The Group has established a number of pension and other benefit plans for its operations throughout Plan assets in Finland are managed by insurance companies. Details of the exact structure and the world, the cost amounted to EUR 170 (EUR 166) million in 2018, as shown in Note 6 Personnel investment strategy surrounding plan assets are not available to participating employers as the assets The Board of Directors’ expenses. The majority of the plans are defined contribution schemes and the charge amounted to actually belong to the insurance companies themselves. The assets are managed in accordance with EU Proposal for the distribution EUR 160 (EUR 154) million. regulations, and also national requirements, under which there is an obligation to pay guaranteed benefits of dividend In accordance with their respective pension arrangements, Group Leadership Team members may irrespective of market conditions. retire at 65 years of age with pensions consistent with local practices in their respective home countries. Auditor’s report The retirement age for other management teams in companies in the Stora Enso Group follows local law Germany Financials and practices, though some management team members have older agreements with the right to retire German pension costs amounted to EUR 8 (EUR 7) million, of which EUR 7 (EUR 6) million related to Stora Enso in capital markets earlier, between 60 and 65 years. The retirement age for other staff either follows national retirement ages or defined contribution schemes and EUR 1 (EUR 1) million to defined benefits excluding finance costs. is determined by local labour agreements. In the latter case, there may be certain pre-retirement liabilities The total defined benefit obligation is EUR 245 (EUR 258) million, nearly all of which is unfunded as total accruing to the company to cover the income of the early retirees between the age at which they ceased assets come to only EUR 7 (EUR 7) million. The net liability decreased from EUR 251 million to EUR 238 Stora Enso as a taxpayer working and the national retirement age. million. The decrease in net liability arose mainly from an increase in the discount rate and changes in Stora Enso’s total defined benefit obligations for current and former members of staff amount to experience. Defined benefit pension plans are mainly accounted for in the Statement of financial position Capacities by mill in 2019 EUR 1 115 (EUR 1 139) million, though assets of EUR 714 (EUR 762) million have been put aside in through book reserves with some minor plans using insurance companies or independent trustees. various pension schemes to cover these liabilities. The net funding position of the defined benefit plans is Retirement benefits are based on years worked and salaries received during the pensionable service and Information for shareholders shown in full in the Statement of Financial Position and amounted to EUR 401 million in 2018, an increase the commencement of pension payments are linked to the national pension scheme’s retirement age. of EUR 24 million on the previous year’s liability of EUR 377 million. This increase is mainly caused by Pensions are paid directly by the companies themselves to their former employees, the security for the the actuarial losses which result from the change in financial assumptions regarding present value of the pensioners is provided by the legal requirement that the book reserves held in the Statement of financial defined benefit obligations. Interest costs are entered under financial costs. The 2018 defined benefit position are insured up to certain limits. expense in the Income Statement amounts to EUR 16 million and the actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive income amount to EUR 24 million. The 2017 defined benefit expense in the Income Sweden Statement amounted to EUR 19 million and the actuarial gains recorded in other comprehensive income In Sweden, most blue-collar workers are covered by defined contribution schemes, the charge in the amounted to EUR 61 million. Income statement being EUR 56 (EUR 56) million, with defined benefit schemes covering mainly whiteGovernance collar staff. Total defined benefit obligations amounted to EUR 370 (EUR 352) million and the assets came to EUR 278 (EUR 298) million, leaving a net liability of EUR 92 million at the year end, compared with a net liability of EUR 54 million the year before. This increase in net liability arose from a decrease in the discount 52 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 20 Strategy rate and changes in financial assumptions and experience. Stora Enso has undertaken to pay all local legal Amounts Recognised on the Statement of Financial Position – Defined Benefit Plans Annual Report 2018 pension liabilities for the main ITP scheme to the foundation, thus the remaining liability relates to other As at 31 December small schemes. Total Defined Benefit Defined Benefit Pension Other Post-Employment The long-term investment return target for the foundation is a 3% real return after tax. Stora Enso’s Plans Plans Benefits Swedish pension fund conducts an annual asset/liability study to optimise its risk parameters. EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Present value of funded Other countries obligations 841 851 841 851 0 0 Total defined benefit obligations in the remaining countries amounted to EUR 198 (EUR 211) million and Present value of unfunded the assets to EUR 151 (EUR 163) million. The net liability came to EUR 46 (EUR 48) million. Obligations and obligations 274 288 249 264 25 24 Financials assets were material only in the United Kingdom, at EUR 132 (EUR 145) million and EUR 121 (EUR 129) Defined benefit million, respectively, leaving a net liability of EUR 11 (EUR 16) million at the end of 2018. The reduction in obligations (DBO) 1 115 1 139 1 090 1 115 25 24 net liability arose from changes in actuarial assumptions. Fair value of plan assets 714 762 714 762 0 0 Stora Enso in 2018 Net Liability in Defined Group Benefit Plans 401 377 376 353 25 24 Report of the Board of Directors Net defined benefit obligation reconciliation Sustainability Amounts Recognised in the Income Statement Year Ended 31 December Consolidated financial Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2018 2017 statements Total Defined Benefit Defined Benefit Pension Other Post-Employment Present Value of Defined Benefit Obligation Plans Plans Benefits Notes to the Consolidated Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 1 139 1 223 EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Translation difference -15 -17 financial statements Operating costs Interest on liabilities 21 20 Current service cost 11 13 10 12 1 1 Extract from the parent Current service cost 11 13 Past service cost -1 0 -1 0 0 0 company Stora Enso Oyj Past service cost -2 0 Finance cost Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from financial statements changes in demographic assumptions -3 -3 Net interest on net defined benefit liability 6 6 6 6 0 0 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from Cost recognised in The Board of Directors’ changes in financial assumptions 27 -10 Income Statement 16 19 15 18 1 1 Proposal for the distribution Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from experience adjustments 2 -24 of dividend Benefit payments -61 -63 Statement of Actuarial Gains and Losses Auditor’s report Net disposals/acquisitions -1 -1 Financials Year Ended 31 December Other -2 1 EUR million 2018 2017 Stora Enso in capital markets Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 1 115 1 139 Gain/loss on pension scheme assets 1 24 Fair Value of Plan Asset Gain/loss arising on pension scheme liabilities -25 37 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Fair value of plan asset at 1 January -762 -787 Total Gain/loss -24 61 Translation difference 13 13 Capacities by mill in 2019 Expected return on plan assets -15 -14 Actuarial gain/loss on plan assets -1 -24 Defined Benefit Plans: Country Assumptions Used in Calculating Benefit Obligations Information for shareholders Employer contributions 3 3 Year Ended 31 December Benefit payments 45 47 Other 3 0 Finland Germany Sweden Fair value of plan asset at 31 December -714 -762 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Discount rate % 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.5 2.3 2.5 Net Defined Benefit Obligation 401 377 Future salary increase % 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.9 2.7 Future pension increase % 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8 2.0 1.8 Governance Average current retirement age 64.0 64.0 63.0 63.0 65.0 65.0 Weighted average life expectancy 87.0 87.0 87.0 86.0 89.3 89.3 53 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 20 Strategy Sensitivity of the Defined Benefit Pension Obligation Defined Benefit Plan Summary by Country as at 31 December 2017 Annual Report 2018 Impact on Defined Benefit Obligation As at 31 December 2017 Change in assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption EUR million Finland Germany Sweden Other Total Discount rate 0.50% Decrease by 6.8% Increase by 7.6% Present value of funded obligations 318 18 331 184 851 Salary growth rate 0.50% Increase by 1.7% Decrease by 1.5% Present value of unfunded Pension growth rate 0.50% Increase by 5.7% Decrease by 5.3% obligations 0 240 21 27 288 Defined benefit obligations (DBO) 318 258 352 211 1 139 Increase by 1 year in assumption Decrease by 1 year in assumption Financials Life expectancy Increase by 3.6% Decrease by 3.6% Fair value of plan assets Net liability in the defined benefit 294 7 298 163 762 plans 24 251 54 48 377 Stora Enso in 2018 Interest rate risk: The obligations are assessed using market rates of high-quality corporate or government Net Liability in the Balance Sheet 24 251 54 48 377 bonds to discount the obligations and are therefore subject to any volatility in the movement of the market Report of the rate. The net interest income or expense recognised in profit and loss are also calculated using the market Represented by Board of Directors Defined benefit pension plans 24 251 54 24 353 Sustainability rate of interest. Mortality risk: In the event that members live longer than assumed, the obligations may be understated Other post-employment benefits 0 0 0 24 24 Consolidated financial originally and a deficit may emerge if funding has not adequately provided for the increased life expectancy. Net Liability in the Balance Sheet 24 251 54 48 377 statements Duration of Pension Plans Notes to the Consolidated Plan Assets Years Finland Sweden Germany UK financial statements At 31 December 2017 10.0 15.5 12.9 17.2 As at 31 December At 31 December 2018 10.0 16.0 12.6 15.8 2018 2017 Extract from the parent EUR million Value % Value % company Stora Enso Oyj Equity 237 33.2 261 34.2 financial statements Defined Benefit Plan Summary by Country as at 31 December 2018 Government bonds 49 6.8 40 5.3 As at 31 December 2018 Corporate bonds 199 27.9 211 27.7 The Board of Directors’ EUR million Finland Germany Sweden Other Total Debt 248 34.7 251 33.0 Proposal for the distribution Present value of funded Property 71 10.0 66 8.6 of dividend obligations 302 20 349 170 841 Cash 39 5.4 38 5.0 Present value of unfunded obligations 0 225 21 28 274 Others 119 16.7 146 19.2 Auditor’s report Financials Total Pension Fund Assets 714 100.0 762 100.0 Defined benefit obligations (DBO) 302 245 370 198 1 115 Plan assets do not include any real estate or other assets occupied by the group or the Company’s own financial instruments. The Stora Enso in capital markets Fair value of plan assets 278 7 278 151 714 breakdown of Finnish pension assets EUR 278 (294) million is not disclosed separately as actual asset allocations can only be Net liability in the defined benefit estimated based on known target values published by the insurance companies concerned. Stora Enso as a taxpayer plans 25 238 92 46 401 Net Liability in the Balance Sheet 25 238 92 46 401 The two main financial factors affecting group pension liabilities are changes in interest rates and inflation Capacities by mill in 2019 expectations, so the aim of asset investment allocations is to neutralise these effects and maximise returns. Represented by In 2019 contributions of EUR 21 million are expected to be paid. Information for shareholders In 2018 reimbursements of EUR 3 (EUR 3) million were paid. Defined benefit pension plans 25 238 92 21 376 Other post-employment benefits 25 25 Net Liability in the Balance Sheet 25 238 92 46 401 Governance 54 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 21 Strategy Note 21 Employee variable compensation Three quarters (75%) of the opportunity under the 2015 to 2017 programmes are in Performance Annual Report 2018 and equity incentive schemes Shares, where shares will vest in accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. The financial success metric is 3-year Economic Value Added (EVA) for the Stora Enso Group. One quarter (25%) of the opportunity under the programmes are in Accounting principles Restricted Shares, for which vesting is only subject to continued employment. This year, the 2018 LTI programme was changed for members of the GLT in the way that all (100%) Share awards of the opportunity was granted in Performance Shares. The financial success metrics in the 2018 The costs of all employee-related share-based payments are charged to the Consolidated Income Performance Share Plan are 3-year Economic Value Added (EVA) and Earnings Per Share (EPS) for Statement as personnel expenses over the vesting period. The share programmes may be hedged the Stora Enso Group. Others than the GLT were granted three quarters (75%) of the opportunity in Financials using Total Return Swaps (TRS) which are settled with cash payments, allowing the company to receive Performance Shares and one quarter (25%) of the opportunity in Restricted Shares, as in previous years. cash compensation to partially offset any change in the share price between the grant and settlement Outstanding restricted and performance share opportunities before taxes are shown in the table dates. Group TRS instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting and therefore periodic changes below. Total number of shares actually transferred will be less than below because a portion of shares Stora Enso in 2018 to their fair value are recorded in the Income statement in operative costs alongside the share-based corresponding to employees tax obligation will be withheld to cover the income tax. programme costs to which they relate. Report of the As a result of IFRS 2 amendment: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Share awards at 31 December 2018 Board of Directors Sustainability Transactions, effective from 1 January 2018, all share-based payment transactions are classified Estimated Delivery of Outstanding Restricted as equity-settled share awards. Please refer to the Note 1 Accounting principles for further details. and Performance Share Awards at Year End Consolidated financial The equity-settled share awards (net of tax), are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments Number of shares 2019 2020 2021 Total statements on the grant date, and are adjusted for the present value of expected dividends. The fair value of the 2016 programme 967 733 967 733 equity-settled share-based payments determined on the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis 2017 programme 1 091 559 1 091 559 Notes to the Consolidated over the vesting period, based on the estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a 2018 programme 856 377 856 377 corresponding increase in equity. financial statements Total 967 733 1 091 559 856 377 2 915 669 In 2017, prior the above mentioned change, the fair value of employee services received in exchange for share awards were accounted for in a manner that was consistent with the method of settlement. Extract from the parent The group withheld an amount from an employee’s compensation to satisfy the employee’s tax liability The costs of the Stora Enso Share-based Programmes are recognised as costs over the vesting period, company Stora Enso Oyj incurred as a result of the transaction. This was done by reducing the number of shares issued to the which is the period between the grant and vesting. The total impact of share-based programmes in financial statements employee. This tax-related amount was accounted for as a cash-settled share-based compensation. the Income statement amounted to an expense of EUR 7 (EUR 10) million, all related to restricted and The number of shares delivered to the employee was accounted for as an equity-settled transaction. performance share awards. There were no Total Return Swaps (TRS) in use at the end of 2018. The Board of Directors’ The resulting cash-settled liability related to the expected tax to be paid was remeasured at each reporting Proposal for the distribution date at its fair value using estimates of the number of share awards that were expected to be issued and of dividend the latest fair valuations by using the Stora Enso R share year-end closing price, adjusted for the present value of expected dividends, with all changes recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Note 22 Other provisions Auditor’s report Financials Stora Enso in capital markets Short Term Incentive (STI) programmes Accounting principles Salaries for senior management are negotiated individually. Stora Enso has incentive plans that take into account the performance, development and results of both business units and individual employees. This Provisions Stora Enso as a taxpayer performance-based variable compensation system is based on profitability as well as on attaining key Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of business targets. past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and Capacities by mill in 2019 Group Executives, as well as division and business unit management have STI programmes in which the a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions for dismantling, removal or payment is calculated as a percentage of the annual base salary with a maximum level ranging from 8% to site restoration are measured at management’s best estimate. The expenditure required to settle the Information for shareholders 75%. Non-management employees participate in an STI programme with a maximum incentive level of 7%. obligation is added to the carrying amount of the assets at acquisition date and depreciated over the All incentives are discretionary. These performance-based programmes cover most employees globally, useful life of the asset. Provisions are discounted back to their current net present value if the effect of where allowed by local practice and regulations. For the performance years 2017 and 2018, the annual the time value of money is material. incentive programmes were based on financial targets as well as individually set key targets. The financial success metrics in the STI programme are: Operational EBITDA and Operative Working Capital to sales. Environmental obligations Environmental expenditures resulting from the remediation of an existing condition caused by past Long Term Incentive (LTI) programmes operations, and which do not contribute to current or future revenues, are expensed as incurred. Since 2005, new share based programmes for executives have been launched every year. The 2015 Environmental liabilities are recorded when it is probable, based on current interpretations of Governance programme that vested in 2018 as well as the current outstanding programmes including the programme environmental laws and regulations, that a present obligation has arisen and the amount of such liability that was launched during 2018 have three year targets and vest in one portion after three years. can be reliably estimated. 55 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 22 Strategy Restructuring obligations • Skoghall Mill site contains ground pollutants that must be removed. The provision for this at year end Annual Report 2018 A restructuring provision is recognised in the period in which the Group becomes legally or amounted to EUR 15 (EUR 15) million. constructively committed to the plan. The relevant costs are those that are incremental to, or incurred • Hylte Mill and the Hylte Commune have a contract on the restoration and leakage water handling. This as a direct result of, the exit plan, or are the result of a continuing contractual obligation with no ongoing provision amounted to EUR 6 (EUR 7) million. economic benefit, or represent a penalty incurred to cancel the obligation. • Stora Enso Pulp AB has been removing mercury from the harbour basin at Skutskär for a number of years in co-operation with local authorities. In addition, the Company is obliged to upgrade an Other obligations old landfill previously used by the mill to comply with revised environmental regulations. At year end Other obligatory provisions are recognised regarding different legal or constructive obligations as Stora Enso Pulp AB had environmental provisions of EUR 4 (EUR 6) million. guarantees to customers, ongoing lawsuits, claims or similar. • Baienfurt Mill real estate in Germany was divested during 2010 and there is a remaining environmental Financials obligation related to landfills that were not disposed. This environmental provision amounted to EUR 5 (EUR 5) million. Other provisions Stora Enso in 2018 Restructuring provisions Other Total EUR million Environmental Restructuring Obligatory Provisions The Group has undergone major restructuring in recent years, from divestments to mill closures and Report of the Carrying Value at 1 January 2017 100 24 10 134 administrative cost-saving programmes. New restructuring provisions by divisions are: Consumer Board Board of Directors Sustainability Translation difference -2 -3 0 -5 EUR 1 million and Segment Other EUR 1 million. Company disposed The liability at the end of 2018 for restructuring provisions amounted to EUR 8 (EUR 17) million and Consolidated financial Charge in Income Statement covered the costs of closing down operations, demolition, clearance and redundancy costs for reducing statements New provisions 8 17 0 25 staff numbers. The total cash payments made during the year in respect of established restructuring provisions Increase in existing provisions 14 1 3 18 amounted to EUR 10 (EUR 20) million. Notes to the Consolidated Reversal of existing provisions -1 -2 0 -3 In February 2017 Stora Enso announced a plan to permanently shut down paper machine 8 at financial statements Payments -11 -20 -4 -35 Kvarnsveden Mill in Sweden with an annual capacity of 100 000 tonnes of uncoated magazine paper due Carrying Value at 31 December 2017 108 17 9 134 to structural weakening of magazine paper demand in Europe. The increase in provision amounted to Extract from the parent Translation difference -3 0 -1 -3 EUR 11 million. company Stora Enso Oyj Charge in Income Statement financial statements New provisions 3 2 1 6 Other obligatory provisions Increase in existing provisions 1 0 3 4 Other obligatory provisions amounted to EUR 10 million at 31 December 2018, which is an increase of The Board of Directors’ EUR 1 million compared with 31 December 2017. Reversal of existing provisions -3 -1 -1 -5 Proposal for the distribution Payments -7 -10 -2 -19 of dividend At 31 December 2018 99 8 10 117 Auditor’s report Financials Allocation between Current and Noncurrent Liabilities Stora Enso in capital markets Current liabilities: Payable within 12 months 7 5 4 16 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Non-current liabilities: Payable after 12 months 92 3 6 101 Total at 31 December 2018 99 8 10 117 Capacities by mill in 2019 Information for shareholders Environmental obligation Provisions for environmental remediation amounted to EUR 99 million at 31 December 2018, which was a net decrease of EUR 9 million compared with 31 December 2017, mainly due to payments and reversal of landfill coverage provision in Stora Enso Pulp AB. Details of the principal provisions are: • Following an agreement between Stora Enso and the City of Falun, the Group is obliged to purify runoff from the Kopparberg mine before releasing the water into the environment. The provision at year end amounted to EUR 39 (EUR 43) million. Governance • The total environmental provision in Finland amounted to EUR 24 (EUR 22) million. The largest provisions relate to the dismantling provision of EUR 13 (EUR 12) million for a closed operation at Oulu Mill and to the cleaning of aerated water basin at closed Kemijärvi Pulp Mill of EUR 5 (EUR 5) million. 56 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 23 Strategy Note 23 Operative liabilities the end of the year. In addition, all short-term loans maturing during the year are assumed to be rolled over Annual Report 2018 on maturity to year end using the new higher interest rate. Non-current operative liabilities A one percentage point parallel change up or down in interest rates would also result in fair valuation gains or losses of EUR 20 (EUR 13) million before taxes in cash flow hedge reserve in OCI regarding interest As at 31 December rate and cross-currency swaps under cash flow hedge accounting. Note 27 Derivatives summarises the EUR million 2018 2017 nominal and fair values of the outstanding interest rate derivative contracts. Post-employment benefit provisions 401 377 Other provisions 101 111 Foreign exchange risk transaction risk Share-based payments 2 11 The Group operates globally and is exposed to currency risk arising from exchange rate fluctuations against Financials Other payables 32 41 its reporting currency euro. The major currency transaction risk is the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the Group’s Income statement, which is the effect of currency rates on expected future cash flows. The Group Total 536 540 standard policy to mitigate the risk is to hedge 45–55% of the highly probable forecast cash flows in major Stora Enso in 2018 currencies for the next 12 months by using derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forwards Current operative liabilities and currency options. The Group may also hedge periods between 12 months and 36 months, or change the Report of the above mentioned hedging ratio for next 12 months upon discretion of the Group’s management. Board of Directors As at 31 December Sustainability The principal foreign exchange transaction exposure comprises both the geographical location of EUR million 2018 2017 Stora Enso production facilities and the sourcing of raw material and sales outside the euro area, mainly Consolidated financial Trade payables 1 382 1 337 denominated in Swedish crowns, US dollars and British pounds. statements Payroll and staff-related accruals 245 240 The table below presents the estimated net operative foreign currency exposures for the main currencies for the next 12 months and the related foreign-currency hedges in place as at 31 December, Accrued liabilities and deferred income 217 200 Notes to the Consolidated retranslated using year end exchange rates. The net operative receivables and payable exposures, Current portion of provisions 16 23 representing the balances as at 31 December, include foreign currency exposures generated by external financial statements Advances received 22 19 and intercompany transactions in line with the requirements of IFRS 7. However, in practice mainly external Other payables 94 92 exposures have been hedged through foreign currency hedges. A positive amount of exposure in the table Extract from the parent Total 1 976 1 911 below represents an estimated future inflow or receivable of a foreign currency amount. company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Operative foreign currency exposure As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 The Board of Directors’ Note 24 Financial risk management Proposal for the distribution EUR million SEK USD GBP BRL CZK CNY SEK USD GBP BRL CZK CNY Risk management principles and process Estimated annual net cash flow of dividend exposure -990 1 840 380 0 -190 0 -960 1 260 360 0 -180 0 Stora Enso is exposed to several financial market risks that the Group is responsible for managing under policies Cash flow hedges next 12 months1 630 -930 -190 0 90 0 510 -630 -180 0 60 0 Auditor’s report approved by the Board of Directors. The objective is to ensure cost-effective funding of Group companies and Financials manage financial risks effectively. The Stora Enso Group Financial Risk Policy governs all financial transactions Estimated Annual Net Cash Flow Exposure, Net of Hedges -360 910 190 0 -100 0 -450 630 180 0 -120 0 Stora Enso in capital markets in Stora Enso. This policy and any future amendments take effect once they are approved by the Board of Hedging Percentage as at 31 Directors and all policies covering the use of financial instruments must comply with it. Group’s joint operations December for Next 12 Months 64% 51% 50% 0% 47% 0% 53% 50% 50% 0% 33% 0% companies operate under their own financial risk policies, which may not be fully similar to Group’s policies. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Weighted-average hedged rate2 10.26 1.22 0.91 0.00 25.92 0.00 0 0 0 0 0 0 The major financial market risks are detailed below with the main exposures for the Group being interest rate risk, currency risk, funding risk and commodity price risk, especially for fibre, pulp and energy. Capacities by mill in 2019 Translation exposure in Income Statement3 -160 -180 10 -120 30 -110 -150 -190 10 -120 0 -90 Interest rate risk Information for shareholders The Group is exposed to interest rate risk that is the risk of fluctuating interest rates affecting interest Operative receivables and expense of the Group. Stora Enso is exposed to interest rate risk through loans and financial instruments, payables exposure 40 250 33 -24 -24 -13 56 175 27 -17 -28 -8 but also through leasing and other commercial agreements. The Group’s aim is to keep interest costs stable. Currency hedges 93 -209 -60 0 0 0 50 -138 -33 0 0 0 The Group’s aggregate duration should not exceed the average loan maturity, but should aim towards a Statement of Financial Position longer duration. A duration above the average loan maturity is approved by the Board of Directors. Exposure, Net of Hedges 133 41 -27 -24 -24 -13 106 37 -6 -17 -28 -8 The total Group’s floating rate net interest-bearing liability position, excluding cash and cash equivalents but including floating legs of interest rate swaps, amounts to some EUR 0.6 (EUR 0.7) billion. Estimated Annual Operative The average interest reset period for the Group’s net interest-bearing liabilities, including all interest rate Exposure, Net of Hedges -387 771 173 -144 -94 -123 -494 477 184 -137 -148 -98 Governance derivatives but excluding cash and cash equivalents, is some 4.9 (4.2) years. 1 In SEK there are also additional cash flow hedges for months 13-18 (19% of estimated exposure is hedged for the months) that are As of 31 December 2018, one percentage point parallel change up or down in interest rates would not included to the above table. impact annual net interest expenses by EUR 4 (EUR 5) million, assuming that the duration and the funding 2 The weighted-average exchange rate is calculated based on bought leg of option collar structure and forward contracts’ forward rate and therefore represents the weighted-average hedged rate based on the least favorable hedged rate from the Group’s point-of-view. structure of the Group remain constant throughout the year. This simulation calculates the interest effect of 3 Includes unhedged sales, costs and depreciation invoiced or expensed in the domestic currency of non-euro based entities, a 100 basis point parallel shift in interest rates on all floating rate instruments from their next reset date to retranslated using year end exchange rates. 57 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 24 Strategy The following table includes the estimated effect on annual operating profit of a strengthening in Financial foreign currency exposure and estimated currency effects in Income Statement Annual Report 2018 EUR versus SEK, USD, GBP, CZK and CNY by 5% and versus BRL by 10%, as reasonably possible As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 changes in rates, measured against year end closing rates. A corresponding decrease in the exchange rates would have an approximately equal opposite impact. A negative amount in the table reflects a EUR million SEK USD CNY PLN SEK USD CNY PLN potential net loss in the income statement or equity and, conversely, a positive amount reflects a potential Net debt excluding hedges 130 -213 602 112 420 -347 472 161 net gain. In practice, the actual foreign currency results may differ from the sensitivity analysis presented Currency hedges -187 -47 -283 -4 -530 -28 -86 0 below since the income statements of subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the euro are Net Financial Exposure -57 -260 319 108 -110 -375 386 161 translated into the Group reporting currency using the average exchange rates for the year, whereas the statements of financial position of such subsidiaries, including currency hedges, trade receivables and Currency change versus EUR -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% Financials payable, are translated using the exchange rates at the reporting date. Effect in the Income Statement 3 13 -16 -5 6 19 -19 -8 The calculation includes currency hedges and assumes that no changes other than a single currency exchange rate movement have taken place in the underlying risk exposure. The currency effects are based Stora Enso in 2018 on estimated operative foreign currency flows for the next twelve months, hedging levels at the year end and the assumption that the currency cash flow hedging levels, translation exposure in Income statement Foreign exchange risk translation risk Report of the and all other variables will remain constant during the next twelve months. Hedging instruments include Translation risk results from fluctuations in exchange rates affecting the value of Stora Enso’s net foreign Board of Directors Sustainability foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange options. Indirect currency effects with an impact currency denominated assets and liabilities. Translation risk is reduced by funding assets, whenever on prices and product flows, such as a product becoming cheaper to produce elsewhere, have not been economically possible, in the same currency as the asset. The Group may also enter into foreign exchange Consolidated financial considered in this calculation. forwards, foreign exchange options or foreign currency denominated loans to hedge its net investments in statements foreign entities. Estimated currency effects of strengthening of euro The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and foreign currency Notes to the Consolidated denominated equity instruments in the scope of IFRS 9 are translated into euros using exchange rates As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 prevailing on the reporting date, thus exposing consolidated group equity to fluctuations in currency rates. financial statements EUR million SEK USD GBP BRL CZK CNY SEK USD GBP BRL CZK CNY The resulting translation differences, along with other movements such as the translation rate difference Currency change versus EUR -5% -5% -5% -10% -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% -10% -5% -5% in the income statement, are recorded directly in shareholders’ equity. These cumulative differences Extract from the parent Effect on estimated annual materialise through the Income statement on the disposal, in whole or in part, of the foreign entity. The next company Stora Enso Oyj net cash flow and translation table shows the translation exposure on equity before and after hedges. exposure 58 -83 -20 12 8 6 56 -54 -19 12 9 5 financial statements Effect on hedging reserve before taxes as at year end1 -32 47 10 0 -5 0 -26 32 9 0 -3 0 Translation risk and hedges: 2018 The Board of Directors’ EBIT impact as at year end2 -7 -2 1 2 1 1 -5 -2 0 2 1 0 As at 31 December 2018 Proposal for the distribution Estimated Annual EBIT Impact3 19 -38 -9 14 4 7 25 -24 -10 14 7 5 Euro USD of dividend 1 The effect on hedging reserve (other comprehensive income) before taxes at year end is related to the fair value change in derivatives EUR million area area2 Sweden China Poland Brazil Other Total contracts qualifying as cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast cash flows. Translation Exposure on Equity 2 246 1 345 1 913 269 360 314 267 6 714 Auditor’s report Financials 2 The Operating Profit impact as at year end represents the estimated currency effect related to operative payables and receivables, and the net of hedges. 3 The estimated annual Operating Profit impact includes currency effects in respect of operative exposures in the Statement of Financial EUR/USD hedges1 306 -306 0 0 0 0 0 0 Stora Enso in capital markets Position, forecast cash flows and related hedges and translation exposure in Income Statement. Translation Exposure after Hedges 2 552 1 039 1 913 269 360 314 267 6 714 1 USD denominated bonds classified as hedges of investments in foreign assets. Stora Enso as a taxpayer 2 Includes the joint operation Montes del Plata in Uruguay, which has USD as its functional currency. The following table presents the financial foreign currency exposure and the related hedges in place as at 31 December for the main currencies. Net debt includes loan payables and related interest rate derivatives, Capacities by mill in 2019 net of loan receivables and cash and cash equivalents. The currency derivatives mainly hedge financial Translation risk and hedges: 2017 exposures in the statement of financial position and from time to time they also hedge forecast cash flows Information for shareholders not qualifying under hedge accounting. These forecast cash flows are not included in the below table. As at 31 December 2017 A negative amount of exposure in the table represents a net payable of a foreign currency amount. Euro USD EUR million area area2 Sweden China Poland Brazil Other Total Additionally, the table includes the estimated effect on the income statement of a strengthening in the EUR versus SEK, USD, CNY and PLN by 5% and versus BRL by 10%, as reasonably possible changes in Translation Exposure on Equity 2 011 1 242 1 372 400 306 391 286 6 008 rates, measured against year-end closing rates. A corresponding decrease in the exchange rates would have an approximately equal opposite impact. A negative amount in the table reflects a potential net loss EUR/USD hedges1 292 -292 0 0 0 0 0 0 in the Income statement and, conversely, a positive amount reflects a net potential gain. In practice, the Translation Exposure after Hedges 2 303 950 1 372 400 306 391 286 6 008 actual foreign currency results may differ from the sensitivity analysis below as the exposure amounts may Governance 1 USD denominated bonds classified as hedges of investments in foreign assets. change during the year. 2 Includes the joint operation Montes del Plata in Uruguay, which has USD as its functional currency. 58 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 24 Strategy The table below shows the effect on consolidated equity of a strengthening in the euro against the US Contractual maturity repayments of interest-bearing liabilities, settlement net: 2018 Annual Report 2018 dollar, Swedish crown, Chinese renminbi, Polish zloty and Brazilian real at 31 December. A corresponding EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024+ Total decrease in the exchange rates would have an approximately equal opposite impact. The calculation Bond loans 220 0 0 0 298 1 005 1 523 includes the effects of currency hedges of net investments in foreign entities and assumes that no changes take place other than a single currency exchange rate movement on 31 December each year. Loans from credit institutions 181 213 167 142 399 38 1 140 The exposures used in the calculations are the foreign currency denominated equity and the hedging Financial lease liabilities 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 levels at 31 December. The hedging instruments used may be foreign currency forward contracts, currency Other non-current liabilities 0 4 0 0 0 0 4 options and foreign currency denominated borrowings. Full details of actual CTA movements and hedging Non-current Debt including Current results are given in Note 28 Cumulative translation adjustment and equity hedging. Portion 401 217 167 142 697 1 044 2 668 Financials Less fair value adjustments to carrying amounts -2 0 0 0 1 7 6 Consolidated equity: currency effects of strengthening of euro before tax Estimated contractual finance charges 121 81 72 64 52 318 708 Stora Enso in 2018 As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 Contractual Repayments on NonBefore Before Current Debt 520 298 239 206 750 1 369 3 382 EUR million Hedges Hedges Net Impact Hedges Hedges Net Impact Short-term borrowings, carrying Report of the amounts 566 0 0 0 0 0 566 By 5% versus SEK -96 0 -96 -69 0 -69 Board of Directors Sustainability By 5% versus USD -67 15 -52 -62 15 -47 Gross-settled derivatives receipts 2 411 71 0 0 0 0 2 482 By 5% versus CNY -13 0 -13 -20 0 -20 Gross-settled derivatives payments -2 444 -70 0 0 0 0 -2 514 Consolidated financial By 5% versus PLN -18 0 -18 -15 0 -15 Net-settled derivative liabilities -22 -13 -11 -10 -7 0 -63 statements Trade payables 1 383 0 0 0 0 0 1 383 By 10% versus BRL -31 0 -31 -39 0 -39 Total Effect from Above -225 15 -210 -205 15 -190 Estimated contractual finance charges 14 0 0 0 0 0 14 Notes to the Consolidated Bank overdrafts 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 financial statements Total Contractual Repayments at 31 Liquidity and refinancing risk December 2018 2 429 286 228 196 743 1 369 5 251 Extract from the parent Funding risk arises from the difficulty of obtaining finance for operations at a given point in time. company Stora Enso Oyj Stora Enso’s funding policy states that the average maturity of outstanding loans and committed credit financial statements Contractual maturity repayments of interest-bearing liabilities, settlement net: 2017 facilities covering short-term borrowings should be at least four years. The policy further states that the group must have committed credit facilities to cover planned funding needs, the current portion of EUR million 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023+ Total The Board of Directors’ long-term debt, commercial paper borrowings and other uncommitted short-term loans. At 31 December Bond loans 137 221 0 0 0 994 1 352 Proposal for the distribution 2018 unused committed credit facilities were at EUR 600 (EUR 600) million. The EUR 600 million committed Loans from credit institutions 202 185 183 122 127 210 1 029 of dividend credit facility agreement with a syndicate of 13 banks matures in January 2023. The facility is used as a Financial lease liabilities 28 0 0 0 0 1 29 backup for general corporate purposes. In addition, Stora Enso has access to various long-term sources Other non-current liabilities 3 3 0 0 0 0 6 Auditor’s report of funding up to EUR 1 000 (EUR 950) million. These mainly relate to available funding sources from Finnish Financials Non-current Debt including Current pension funds. Portion 370 409 183 122 127 1 205 2 416 Stora Enso in capital markets Refinancing risk, or the risk that maturing debt is not refinanced in the markets, is mitigated by Less fair value adjustments to carrying Stora Enso’s target of maintaining an even maturity profile of outstanding debt. The table below shows amounts 3 7 4 3 3 8 28 Group’s contractual undiscounted interest-bearing financial liabilities, to be settled on a net cash basis, Estimated contractual finance charges 98 82 63 58 51 310 662 Stora Enso as a taxpayer classified under principal headings based on the remaining period to contractual maturity at the reporting Contractual Repayments on Nondate. Forward rates were used at the point of estimation for contractual finance charges. Current Debt 471 498 250 183 181 1 523 3 106 Capacities by mill in 2019 Short-term borrowings, carrying amounts 525 0 0 0 0 0 525 Information for shareholders Gross-settled derivatives receipts -1 982 -81 -2 063 Gross-settled derivatives payments 1 954 86 2 040 Net-settled derivative liabilities 28 2 1 1 0 0 32 Trade payables 1 337 0 0 0 0 0 1 337 Estimated contractual finance charges 16 0 0 0 0 0 16 Bank overdrafts 4 0 0 0 0 0 4 Total Contractual Repayments at 31 December 2017 2 353 505 251 184 181 1 523 4 997 Governance 59 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 24 Strategy Financial transactions counterparty credit risk In addition, in an effort to mitigate other commodity price risk exposures in relation to supply of wood, Annual Report 2018 Financial counterparty risk is Stora Enso’s exposure on financial contracts arising from a deterioration in the Group is a significant shareholder in major forest and wood supply companies in Finland and Sweden. counterparties’ financial health. Potential increase in prices for fibre in these countries would also increase profits from these group This risk is minimised by: interests, mainly being Bergvik Skog in Sweden and Tornator in Finland. • entering into transactions only with leading financial institutions and with industrial companies that have a good credit rating; Share price risk • investing in liquid cash funds only with financial institutions or companies that have a minimum rating The Group has certain investments in publicly traded securities. The market value of these equity of BBB-, with at least 50% of liquidity investments in funds with a minimum rating of A-, using Standard investments was EUR 13 (EUR 21) million at the year end. Market value changes in these investments are and Poor’s credit rating symbols; recorded, after taxes, directly under Shareholders’ Equity in the Equity instruments through OCI reserve. Financials • requiring parent company guarantees when dealing with any subsidiary of a rated company. Detailed discussion regarding the publicly traded securities can be found from Note 14 Equity instruments. The Group Financial Risk Policy defines the limits for accepted counterparty risk, based on the tenor of Capital risk management Stora Enso in 2018 financial contract and counterparty’s credit rating. Stora Enso’s debt structure is focused on capital markets, whereas banks are primarily used to provide At the year end in 2018, there were no significant concentrations of risk with respect to counterparties back-up facilities. Group objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the ability to continue as a Report of the of derivative contracts, with the highest counterparty exposure being at EUR 8 (EUR 5) million and credit going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well Board of Directors Sustainability rating of A+ (A+) using Standard and Poor’s credit rating symbols. as to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may, subject to shareholder approval as appropriate, vary the dividend paid to Consolidated financial Customer credit risk shareholders, buy its own shares on the financial markets, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares statements Customer credit risk is Stora Enso’s exposure to contracts arising from deterioration in the financial health or sell assets to reduce debt. Group strives to pay stable dividends linked to the long-term performance of customers. The Group uses various measures to reduce credit risks, including but not limited to letters of with the aim of distributing 50% of the net income over the cycle. Notes to the Consolidated credit, prepayments and bank guarantees. The Group has also obtained export guarantees, covering both As announced in 2018, the Group set new target levels for Net-debt to-Operational EBITDA and political and commercial risks, which are used in connection with individual customers outside the OECD Net-debt-to-Equity ratios. Going forward the Group monitors its capital on the basis of a target net debtfinancial statements area. Management considers that no significant concentration of credit risk with any individual customer, to-equity ratio of 0.60 or less (earlier 0.80 or less), and ensuring that Net-debt-to-Operational EBITDA ratio counterparty or geographical region exists for Stora Enso. The aging information of trade receivables and remains below 2.0 (earlier below 3.0), indicating a solid financial position, and financial flexibility. Extract from the parent related loss allowances are given in Note 17 Operative receivables. company Stora Enso Oyj Capital structure financial statements Commodity price risk As at 31 December The Board of Directors’ Outstanding commodity hedges EUR million 2018 2017 Proposal for the distribution Interest-bearing liabilities 3 344 3 016 As at 31 December 2018 of dividend Interest-bearing assets 1 252 763 Underlying amount of commodity Nominal amount Net debt 2 092 2 253 Auditor’s report EUR million hedged hedged Fair value Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent 6 714 6 008 Financials Coal hedges 58 500 tonnes 5 Operational EBITDA1 1 878 1 587 Stora Enso in capital markets Electricity hedges 2 088 000 MWh 67 35 Net debt to Equity Ratio 0.31 0.38 Oil hedges 65 700 barrels 15 -2 Net Debt to Operational EBITDA 1.10 1.42 Stora Enso as a taxpayer 1 Operational EBITDA definition is included in the “Non-IFRS measures” chapter in the Report of the Board of Directors. Group earnings are exposed to commodity and energy price volatility. Financial energy hedges are part Capacities by mill in 2019 of the total energy price risk management in the group, whilst other commodity risks are measured and Montes del Plata, a joint operation of Stora Enso, and the Group’s subsidiary Stora Enso (Guangxi) hedged if economically possible. A 10% movement in energy and raw material prices would result in a Packaging Company Ltd. have complied with financial covenants related to debt-to-assets ratio during the Information for shareholders EUR 13 (EUR 27) million change in the fair value of energy and raw material hedging contracts. The majority reported periods. of these fair value changes, after taxes, are recorded directly in Equity under Hedging Reserves, until the contracts mature and the result is entered in the Income statement. These estimates represent only the sensitivity of the financial instruments to market risk and not the Group exposure to raw material and energy price risks as a whole, since the actual purchases are not financial instruments within the scope of the IFRS 7 disclosure requirements. At end of 2018, the maturities of the energy and commodity contracts ranged between 2019 and 2024. In 2017 the maturities ranged between 2018 and 2024. The bulk of the Group energy price risk has been covered by entering into long-term physical fixed price Governance purchase agreements. The Group also has a 15.6% holding, fair valued at EUR 415 (EUR 308) million, in Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), a privately owned group of companies in the energy sector. The value of these shares is dependent on energy market prices and discussed in more detail in Note 14 Equity instruments. 60 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 25 Strategy Note 25 Fair values as at the reporting date with the risk of default occurring on the financial instrument as at the date of Annual Report 2018 initial recognition. The Group may use, for example, rates of credit default swaps (CDS) observable on financial markets to produce the risk assessment. Accounting principles Interest income on loan receivables is included in Financial income and expense. Loan receivables with a maturity less than 12 months are included in current assets under interest-bearing receivables Investments and those with maturities greater than 12 months, in non-current loan receivables. The Group classifies its investments in debt instruments into three categories, which are amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss. The Group’s Fair value hierarchy investments into equity securities, such as listed and unlisted securities, are classified as fair value The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial Financials through profit and loss unless the Group has at inception decided to apply the irrevocable election instruments by valuation technique: under IFRS 9 to classify the investments as fair value through other comprehensive income with only • Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; dividend income from the investments being recognised in the Income Statement. • Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair Stora Enso in 2018 The classification is made according to IFRS 9 standard, based on the business model and value are observable, either directly or indirectly; contractual cash flow characteristics of debt instruments. Management determines the classification • Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair values that Report of the of its investments at the time of the purchase. Investments in debt instruments for which the business are not based on observable market data. Board of Directors Sustainability model objective is to hold the financial instruments to collect contractual cash flows and those cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest, are classified as amortised cost and presented See Note 14 Equity instruments for more information on Level 3 fair value measurement of listed and Consolidated financial in current and non-current assets. Investments in debt instruments for which the business model unlisted securities. statements objective is to hold the financial instruments for both to collect contractual cash flows and sell financial instruments and the cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest, are classified as fair value Notes to the Consolidated through other comprehensive income and presented in current and non-current assets. Investments acquired principally for the purpose of generating profits from short-term fluctuations financial statements in price are classified as fair value through profit and loss and are therefore fair valued through the Consolidated Income Statement and presented in current and non-current assets. Extract from the parent company Stora Enso Oyj Fair value of financial instruments financial statements The fair values of publicly traded derivatives and listed securities, are based on quoted market prices at the reporting date; the fair values of interest rate swaps are calculated as the present value of the The Board of Directors’ estimated future cash flows and the fair values of foreign exchange forward contracts are determined Proposal for the distribution using forward exchange rates at the reporting date. The valuation principles for derivative financial of dividend instruments have been described in more detail in Note 27 Derivatives. In assessing the fair values of non-traded derivatives and other financial instruments, the Group Auditor’s report uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions based on the market conditions at each reporting Financials date. Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for identical or similar instruments are used for non-current Stora Enso in capital markets debt. Other techniques, such as option pricing models and estimated discounted value of future cash flows, are used to determine fair values for the remaining financial instruments. The face values, less any estimated credit adjustments, for financial assets and liabilities with a maturity of less than one year are Stora Enso as a taxpayer assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair values of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes are estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rates Capacities by mill in 2019 available to the Group for similar financial instruments. Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised based on trade date accounting, which Information for shareholders is the date on which the Group commits to purchasing or selling the financial instrument. Financial instruments are derecognised when the rights to receive or the cash flows from the financial instruments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has substantially transferred all risks, rewards and obligations of the ownership of the financial asset or liability. Loan receivables Loan receivables are debt instruments with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market. They are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Governance Loss allowance for expected credit losses is calculated based on the general approach under IFRS 9 where loss allowance is recognised based on 12-month expected credit losses if there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since the initial recognition. Significant increase in the credit risk will be evaluated based on comparison of the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument 61 Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by measurement category: 2018 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 25 Strategy Annual Report 2018 Fair value through Hedge accounted EUR million Amortised cost Fair value through OCI Income Statement derivatives Total carrying amount Fair Value Note Financial assets Listed securities 13 13 13 14 Unlisted securities 415 8 422 422 14 Non-current loan receivables 54 54 54 25 Trade and other operative receivables 1 092 44 1 136 1 136 17 Interest-bearing receivables 1 5 49 55 55 25 Financials Cash and cash equivalents 1 130 1 130 1 130 Total 2 277 472 13 49 2 811 2 811 Stora Enso in 2018 Fair value through Hedge accounted EUR million Amortised cost Income Statement derivatives Total carrying amount Fair Value Note Report of the Financial liabilities Board of Directors Non-current debt 2 265 2 265 2 541 26 Sustainability Current portion of non-current debt 403 403 403 26 Consolidated financial Interest-bearing liabilities 604 7 63 675 675 26 statements Trade and other operative payables 1 627 21 1 648 1 648 23 Bank overdrafts 1 1 1 Notes to the Consolidated Total 4 901 28 63 4 992 5 268 financial statements Extract from the parent Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by measurement category: 2017 company Stora Enso Oyj Financial Items at Fair Value through Available-for-Sale financial statements EUR million Loans and Receivables Income Statement Hedging Derivatives Investments Carrying Amounts Fair Value Note Financial assets The Board of Directors’ Available-for-sale 339 339 339 14 Proposal for the distribution Non-current loan receivables 55 55 55 25 of dividend Trade and other operative receivables 965 965 965 17 Interest-bearing receivables 15 16 49 80 80 25 Auditor’s report Financials Cash and cash equivalents 607 607 607 Total 1 642 16 49 339 2 046 2 046 Stora Enso in capital markets Financial Items at Fair Value through Measured at Stora Enso as a taxpayer EUR million Income Statement Hedging Derivatives Amortised cost Carrying Amounts Fair Value Note Financial liabilities Capacities by mill in 2019 Non-current debt 2 046 2 046 2 357 26 Current portion of non-current debt 370 370 370 26 Information for shareholders Interest-bearing liabilities 4 32 560 596 596 26 Trade and other operative payables 20 1 576 1 596 1 596 23 Bank overdrafts 4 4 4 Total 24 32 4 556 4 612 4 923 Governance 62 Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position: 2017 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 25 Strategy In the previous tables, fair value is estimated to be equal to the carrying amount for short-term financial Annual Report 2018 assets and financial liabilities such as trade receivables and payables due to their short time to maturity As at 31 December and limited credit risk. The fair value of non-current debt, considered as a level 2 fair value measurement, EUR million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total is estimated based on a discounted cash flow analysis in which the yield curves observable at commonly Derivative financial assets quoted intervals are used as a discount factor in the model. Hedging derivatives 49 49 In 2014, Stora Enso acquired 100% of the shares of the US-based company Virdia Inc. The transaction Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 16 16 included potential pay-outs depending on the completion of specific technical and commercial milestones. The present value of the estimated pay-outs, considered as a level 3 fair value measurement, is estimated based on certain probability criteria and discounted cash flow analysis. At year end, the fair value amounted Available-for-sale investments Financials to EUR 21 (EUR 20) million and is presented in the above table under trade and other operative payables. Listed securities 21 21 Unlisted shares 318 318 Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position: 2018 Stora Enso in 2018 Trade and other operative assets As at 31 December Operative receivables through profit and loss Report of the EUR million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total financial assets 21 65 318 404 Board of Directors Listed securities Sustainability Listed securities through OCI 13 13 Derivative financial liabilities Consolidated financial Hedging derivatives 32 32 statements Unlisted securities Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 4 4 Unlisted securities through OCI 415 415 Notes to the Consolidated Unlisted securities through profit and loss 8 8 Trade and other operative liabilities financial statements Operative payables through profit and loss 20 20 Trade and other operative assets Extract from the parent Total financial liabilities 36 20 56 Operative receivables through OCI 44 44 company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Derivative financial assets Interest-bearing receivables Hedge accounted derivatives 49 49 As at 31 December The Board of Directors’ Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 5 5 EUR million 2018 2017 Proposal for the distribution Total financial assets 13 98 422 533 Derivatives 54 65 of dividend Loans to equity accounted investments 2 3 Trade and other operative liabilities Auditor’s report Other loan receivables 53 67 Financials Operative payables through profit and loss 21 21 Total 110 135 Stora Enso in capital markets Derivative financial liabilities Current assets: Receivable within 12 months 55 80 Hedge accounted derivatives 63 63 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 7 7 Non-current assets: Receivable after 12 months 54 55 Total 110 135 Total financial liabilities 70 21 91 Capacities by mill in 2019 Annual interest rates for loan receivables at 31 December 2018 ranged from 0% (0%) to 4% (8%). Current Information for shareholders interest-bearing receivables did not include any accrued interest at 31 December 2018. The Group has evaluated that there has not been significant increase in credit risk related to interest-bearing receivables after the initial recognition. Accordingly, they are considered to have low credit risk and loss allowance is recognised based on 12-month expected credit losses. Governance 63 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 26 Strategy Reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities The below table includes a breakdown of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities and the related changes in Annual Report 2018 the balances. EUR million 2018 2017 Financial assets Interest-bearing liabilities Opening balance at 1 January 318 253 As at 31 December Gains/losses recognised in income statement -2 -2 EUR million 2018 2017 Gains/losses recognised in other comprehensive income 104 60 Bond loans 1 523 1 352 Additions 3 7 Loans from credit institutions 1 140 1 029 Disposals -1 0 Financials Closing Balance at 31 December 422 318 Finance lease liabilities 1 29 Other non-current liabilities 4 6 EUR million 2018 2017 Non-current Debt including Current Portion 2 668 2 416 Stora Enso in 2018 Financial liabilities Short-term borrowings 566 525 Opening balance at 1 January 20 23 Interest payable 40 35 Report of the Gains/losses recognised in income statement 1 -3 Derivative financial liabilities (see Note 25) 68 36 Board of Directors Sustainability Closing Balance at 31 December 21 20 Bank overdrafts 1 4 Total Interest-bearing Liabilities 3 344 3 016 Consolidated financial statements EUR million 2018 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Note 26 Debt Carrying Value at 1 January 3 016 3 774 Proceeds of new long-term debt 578 425 financial statements Repayment of long-term debt -358 -1 034 Accounting principles Change in short-term borrowings and interest payable 46 54 Extract from the parent Change in derivative financial liabilities 32 -21 company Stora Enso Oyj Debt Translation differences and other 30 -182 financial statements Debt is recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. In subsequent periods, it is Total Interest-bearing Liabilities 3 344 3 016 stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method; any difference between proceeds, net of The Board of Directors’ transaction costs, and redemption value is recognised in the Consolidated income statement over the Proposal for the distribution period of the borrowings. Interest expenses are accrued for and recorded in the Consolidated income During 2018 Stora Enso successfully issued a new EUR 300 million bond under its EMTN (Euro Medium of dividend statement for each period. Term Note) programme. The bond matures in March 2028 and pays a fixed coupon of 2.5%. In 2018 Debt with an original maturity greater than 12 months is classified as non-current debt in the Stora Enso also repurchased 2019 fixed rate euro notes with a nominal value of EUR 3 million. Auditor’s report Consolidated statement of financial position, though repayments falling due within 12 months are In the third quarter of 2018 Fitch Ratings assigned Stora Enso Oyj an investment grade credit rating of Financials presented in current liabilities under the current portion of non-current debt. Short-term commercial BBBwith stable outlook highlighting Stora Enso’s improved cash flow generation and strengthened balance Stora Enso in capital markets paper, bank and other interest-bearing borrowings for which the original maturity is less than 12 months sheet. In the fourth quarter of 2018, Moody’s Investors Service also assigned Stora Enso Oyj an investment are presented in current liabilities under interest-bearing liabilities. grade credit rating by upgrading the long-term issuer rating from Ba1 to Baa3 with stable outlook. During 2018 Stora Enso launched a Green Bond Framework as part of its Sustainable Finance Stora Enso as a taxpayer Finance leases approach. The ambition is to offer a loan-format to support sustainability-focused fixed income investors Leases of property, plant and equipment for which the Group has substantially all the rewards and risks and to report the direct environmental impacts of some investments and business activities. Capacities by mill in 2019 of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement Stora Enso’s borrowings maturities are ranging from 2019 to the longest borrowing maturing in 2036. of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property or the estimated present value of Borrowings have either fixed or floating interest rates ranging from 0.9% (0.6%) to 8.6% (8.6%). The Information for shareholders the minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the capital liability and majority of Group loans are denominated in euros, US dollars or Chinese renminbis. Detailed maturity finance charges so as to achieve a constant interest rate on the outstanding finance balance. analysis of the Group’s borrowings are set out in Note 24 Financial risk management. The corresponding rental obligations, and net of finance charges are included in interest-bearing During 2018 Stora Enso’s total repayments of EUR bond notes amounted to a nominal of EUR 159 liabilities with the interest element of the finance charge being taken onto the Consolidated income (EUR and SEK bond notes of EUR 609) million including the previously mentioned repayments. In 2018 net statement over the lease period. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leasing interest-bearing liabilities decreased by EUR 161 (decreased by EUR 473) million to EUR 2 092 (EUR 2 253) contracts are depreciated over the lesser of the useful life of the asset or lease period. million. Net interest-bearing liabilities are equal to total interest-bearing liabilities less total interest-bearing assets. Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts increased by 525 (decreased by EUR 346) million to EUR 1 128 (EUR 603) million as at 31 December 2018. Governance In 2017 Stora Enso successfully issued a new bond under its EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) programme. The EUR 300 million ten-year bond pays a fixed coupon of 2.5% and matures in June 2027. In June 2017 Stora Enso repurchased in a public tender fixed rate notes with a nominal value of EUR 83 million from the 2018 bond, and of EUR 216 million from the 2019 bond, issued in 2012. 64 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 26 Strategy Bond loans Annual Report 2018 Issue/ Maturity Dates Description of Bond Interest Rate % Currency of Bond Outstanding As at 31 December Carrying Value As at 31 December Nominal Value Issued 2018 2017 2018 2017 All Liabilities are Held by the Parent Company Currency million EUR million Fixed Rate Series C Senior Notes 1993-2019 2019 8.6 USD 50 50 50 45 44 2006-2036 Global 7.250% Notes 2036 7.25 USD 300 300 300 259 247 Financials 2012-2018 Euro Medium Term Note 5 EUR 500 0 112 0 112 2012-2019 Euro Medium Term Note 5.5 EUR 500 175 178 175 178 2016-2023 Euro Medium Term Note 2.125 EUR 300 300 300 298 298 Stora Enso in 2018 2017-2027 Euro Medium Term Note 2.5 EUR 300 300 300 298 298 Report of the 2018-2028 Euro Medium Term Note 2.5 EUR 300 300 0 298 0 Board of Directors Total Fixed Rate Bond Loans 1 373 1 177 Sustainability Consolidated financial Floating Rate statements 2006-2018 Euro Medium Term Note Euribor+0.96 EUR 25 0 25 0 25 2015-2025 Euro Medium Term Note Euribor+2.25 EUR 125 125 125 125 125 Notes to the Consolidated 2015-2027 Euro Medium Term Note Euribor+2.35 EUR 25 25 25 25 25 financial statements Total Floating Rate Bond Loans 150 175 Total Bond Loans 1 523 1 352 Extract from the parent company Stora Enso Oyj Finance lease liabilities financial statements At 31 December 2018 Stora Enso had a small number of finance leasing agreements for machinery and buildings for which capital costs of EUR 3 (EUR 14) million were included in property, plant and equipment The Board of Directors’ and buildings; the depreciation and impairment thereon was EUR 2 (EUR 7) million. The aggregate leasing Proposal for the distribution payments for the year amounted to EUR 28 (EUR 28) million, the interest element being EUR 1 (EUR 1) of dividend million. Auditor’s report Finance lease liabilities payments schedule and present value Financials As at 31 December As at 31 December Stora Enso in capital markets EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 Minimum Lease Payments Present Value of Finance Lease Liabilities Stora Enso as a taxpayer Less than 1 year 0 29 Less than 1 year 0 28 1-2 years 0 0 1-2 years 0 0 Capacities by mill in 2019 2-3 years 0 0 2-3 years 0 0 3-4 years 0 0 3-4 years 0 0 Information for shareholders 4-5 years 0 0 4-5 years 0 0 Over 5 years 2 1 Over 5 years 1 1 2 30 1 29 Future finance charges -1 -1 Present Value of Finance Lease Liabilities 1 29 Governance 65 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 27 Strategy Note 27 Derivatives instruments designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, and which are highly effective, are recorded Annual Report 2018 in the Consolidated Income Statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk. Accounting principles Net investment hedges Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Hedges of net investments in foreign entities are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. The Group Financial derivatives are initially recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at uses either derivatives or foreign-currency borrowings for this purpose. If the hedging instrument is a fair value and subsequently measured at their fair value at each reporting date, though the method of derivative, any gain or loss thereon relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity recognising the resulting gains or losses is dependent on the nature of the item being hedged. When in CTA as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income; the gain or loss relating Financials derivative contracts are entered into, the Group designates them as either hedges of highly probable to the ineffective portion is immediately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. In addition, forecast transactions or firm commitments (cash flow hedges), hedges of the exposure to changes in the exchange gains and losses arising on the translation of a foreign-currency borrowing that hedges net fair value of recognised assets or liabilities (fair value hedges), hedges of net investments in foreign entities investment in a foreign operation are also recognised in CTA, any ineffective portion being immediately Stora Enso in 2018 or derivative financial instruments not meeting the hedge accounting criteria in accordance with IFRS 9. recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. At the inception of a hedge, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument Report of the and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various Fair value through profit and loss derivatives Board of Directors Sustainability hedging transactions. This process includes linking all financial instruments designated under hedge Certain derivative transactions, while providing effective economic hedges under Group risk accounting to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments or highly probable management policies, do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific rules in IFRS 9 and Consolidated financial forecast transactions in order to verify and document hedge relationship between the hedged item therefore changes in the fair value of such non-qualifying hedges are accounted for at fair value in statements and the hedging instrument as required by IFRS 9. For operational cash flow hedging purposes, the Consolidated Income Statement. Similarly, any ineffectiveness arising from hedging instruments foreign currency forwards and options are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable is immediately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. Fair value changes of non-hedge Notes to the Consolidated forecast transactions resulting in a hedge designation where critical terms of the hedging instrument accounted derivatives are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement under financial income and the hedged item will coincide. The Group also documents its qualitative prospective assessment and expense. For total return swaps (TRS), the periodic changes in fair value are recorded in the Income financial statements at the hedge inception of whether the derivatives used in a hedge relationship are highly effective in Statement in operative costs alongside the share-based payment programme costs to which they relate. offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items. Hedge effectiveness will be assessed in Extract from the parent accordance with IFRS 9 requirements. Valuation of derivatives company Stora Enso Oyj Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Statement of financial position at their fair values financial statements Cash flow hedges defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges, and which are market participants at the measurement date. The fair values of such financial items have been The Board of Directors’ effective, are recognised in cash flow hedges reserve within OCI, the movements of which are disclosed estimated on the following basis: Proposal for the distribution in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. In case of currency options, the time value of • Currency forward contract fair values are calculated using forward exchange rates at the reporting of dividend an option is excluded from the hedge designation and only the intrinsic value component of an option date. is designated as the hedging instrument. The changes in option time value are recognised in cost of • Currency option contract fair values are calculated using year-end market rates together with Auditor’s report hedging reserve within OCI. The cumulative gain or loss of a derivative deferred in equity is transferred common option pricing models. Financials to the Consolidated Income Statement and classified as income or expense in the same period in which • Commodity contract fair values are computed with reference to quoted market prices on futures Stora Enso in capital markets the hedged item affects the Consolidated Income Statement. Realised results of hedge accounted exchanges or other reliable market sources. derivative instruments hedging foreign currency sales transactions or purchases are booked as • Interest rate swaps fair values are calculated using a discounted cash flow analysis. adjustments to sales or materials and services depending on the nature of the underlying hedged item • Cross-currency swaps fair values are calculated using a discounted cash flow analysis with Stora Enso as a taxpayer and are specified in more detail in Note 27 Derivatives. exchange of notionals being also included into the valuation model. In respect of hedges of exposures to foreign currency risk of future transactions resulting in the Capacities by mill in 2019 recognition of non-financial assets, the gains and losses deferred to cash flow hedges reserve within OCI are transferred from equity to be included in the initial acquisition cost of the non-financial asset Shareholders’ equity – other comprehensive income Information for shareholders at the time of recognition. The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in the Income Statement Outstanding derivatives designated under cash flow hedge accounting are measured at fair value with the through depreciation over the lifetime of the non-financial assets. fair value movements being recorded in the separate equity category of OCI: Cash Flow Hedges Reserve. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer meets the hedge Time value of options is excluded from the cash flow hedge designation and recognised separately in a accounting criteria under IFRS 9, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in cost of hedging reserve within OCI. equity and is accounted for as an adjustment to income or expense when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. However, if the underlying Cash flow hedges forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity from Derivatives used in currency cash flow hedges are mainly forward contracts and options, with swaps mainly the period when the hedge was effective is immediately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. used for commodity and interest rate hedging purposes. In respect to commodity hedges, the Group is also Governance using risk component hedging to hedge highly probable forecast purchases of natural gas. The natural gas Fair value hedges price is composed of API2 coal price index component, Dated Brent crude oil price component and local In case of fair value hedges, the Group uses either derivatives or borrowings as a hedging instrument market index component. These purchases create natural gas price exposure that translates as API2 coal to manage the risk associated with the fair value of a hedged item. The gains and losses on hedging and Dated Brent crude oil risk components that can be hedged by using API2 coal and Dated Brent crude 66 Hedge gains and losses in operating profit Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 27 Strategy oil linked swaps. Both of the risk components are separately identifiable and reliably measurable due to the Annual Report 2018 pricing formula being specified in the natural gas purchase agreement. Year Ended 31 December In 2018, the group entered into a new floating-to-fixed cross-currency swap contract in China with a EUR million 2018 2017 total nominal value of EUR 200 million. The cross-currency swap has been designated under cash flow Cash Flow Hedge Accounted Derivatives hedge accounting to hedge the underlying foreign currency and interest rate risks of Euro denominated Currency hedges -28 9 floating-rate debt in China. The hedge will mature in 2023. Commodity hedges -21 -44 The unrealised gains and losses related to cash flow hedges are expected to be recycled through the Total -48 -35 Income Statement within one to three years with the longest hedging contract maturing in 2027 (2027), however the majority are expected to mature in 2019. Cash flow hedging reserve and net investment As adjustments to Sales -76 -39 Financials hedges in equity are presented in more detail in the following table. As adjustments to Materials and services 28 4 Realised from OCI through Income Statement -48 -35 Breakdown of cash flow hedging reserve and net investment hedges in equity Currency hedges ineffectiveness 0 -2 Stora Enso in 2018 Net Losses from Cash Flow Hedges -48 -37 At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Report of the Unrealised gains Unrealised and Unrealised gains Unrealised and and losses in realised gains and losses in realised gains Non-hedge Accounted Derivatives Board of Directors Sustainability hedging reserve, and losses in hedging reserve, and losses in Currency hedges -16 15 EUR million net of taxes CTA, net of taxes net of taxes CTA, net of taxes Net Losses/Gains on Non-hedge Accounted Derivatives -16 15 Consolidated financial Foreign exchange risk operational cash flow hedging -17 0 18 0 statements Foreign exchange risk Net Hedge Losses in Operating Profit -65 -22 net investment hedges 0 20 0 31 Notes to the Consolidated Commodity price risk During 2018 there were no cash flow hedge ineffectiveness recorded in operating profit. In 2017 the Group financial statements commodity swaps 25 0 1 0 Interest rate risk ceased hedge accounting for one of its subsidiaries because the forecasted future transactions were no interest rate swaps -5 0 -4 0 longer expected to occur. This resulted in a loss of EUR 2 million being booked as operating profit and the Extract from the parent Interest rate and foreign loss being presented in the above table as ineffectiveness from cash flow hedges. company Stora Enso Oyj exchange risk cross-currency financial statements swaps -10 0 0 0 Hedge gains and losses in financial items Cost of hedging reserve -2 0 0 0 Year Ended 31 December The Board of Directors’ Total -9 20 15 32 Proposal for the distribution EUR million 2018 2017 Cash Flow Hedge Accounted Derivatives of dividend Equity accounted investments Currency hedges ineffectiveness -1 0 Auditor’s report Associate companies record hedges and pensions-related amounts directly in equity, and the Group also Interest rate derivatives ineffectiveness -3 0 Financials records its share of these amounts in equity in the “OCI of Equity Accounted Investments” classification. Net Losses from Cash Flow Hedges -4 0 Stora Enso in capital markets OCI equity accounted investments Non-hedge Accounted Derivatives Stora Enso as a taxpayer Year Ended 31 December Net gains on currency derivatives 22 24 EUR million 2018 2017 Net Gains on Non-Hedge Accounted Derivatives 22 24 Capacities by mill in 2019 Bergvik Skog AB -11 -14 Total -11 -14 Net Gains in Financial Items 18 24 Information for shareholders Fair values of derivatives Total foreign exchange gains and losses in the income statement excluding hedges Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2018 2017 Governance Sales 24 -23 Costs and expenses -16 1 Borrowings and deposits -55 10 Total -46 -12 67 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 27 Strategy Nominal and fair values of derivative instruments Annual Report 2018 As at 31 December EUR million Nominal values Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values Nominal values Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values 2018 2017 Currency derivatives Forwards: Operational cash flow hedging 1 267 7 -15 -7 803 19 -5 14 Options: Operational cash flow hedging 1 375 6 -24 -18 1 362 15 -9 6 Total cash flow hedge accounted 2 642 13 -38 -25 2 165 34 -14 20 Financials Forwards: Trade and loan receivables hedging 686 4 -6 -2 879 15 -3 12 Total non-hedge accounted 686 4 -6 -2 879 15 -3 12 Total currency derivatives 3 328 17 -44 -27 3 044 49 -17 32 Stora Enso in 2018 Report of the Commodity derivatives Board of Directors Pulp swaps: Sales hedging 0 0 0 0 188 1 -13 -12 Sustainability Electricity swaps: Costs hedging 67 35 0 35 79 11 0 11 Consolidated financial Oil swaps: Costs hedging 15 0 -2 -2 8 2 0 2 statements Coal swaps: Costs hedging 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total cash flow hedge accounted 87 35 -2 33 275 14 -13 1 Notes to the Consolidated Electricity swaps: Closed contracts 2 1 -1 0 7 1 -1 0 financial statements Total non-hedge accounted 2 1 -1 0 7 1 -1 0 Total commodity derivatives 89 37 -4 33 282 15 -14 1 Extract from the parent company Stora Enso Oyj Interest rate derivatives financial statements Interest rate swaps: Financial expenses hedging 187 1 -6 -5 192 1 -5 -4 Cross-currency swaps: Financial expenses hedging 200 0 -16 -16 0 0 0 0 The Board of Directors’ Total cash flow hedge accounted 387 1 -23 -22 192 1 -5 -4 Proposal for the distribution Total interest rate derivatives 387 1 -23 -22 192 1 -5 -4 of dividend Total cash flow hedge accounted 3 116 49 -63 -14 2 632 49 -32 17 Auditor’s report Financials Total non-hedge accounted 688 5 -7 -2 886 16 -4 12 Total derivatives 3 804 54 -70 -16 3 518 65 -36 29 Stora Enso in capital markets Positive and negative fair values of financial instruments are shown under Interest-bearing Receivables and Liabilities. Stora Enso as a taxpayer The presented fair values in the previous table include accrued interest and option premiums. Capacities by mill in 2019 Information for shareholders Governance 68 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 28 Strategy Changes in fair values of hedged items and hedging instruments Note 28 Cumulative translation adjustment and equity hedging Annual Report 2018 Change in value Change in value of hedged item to of outstanding Year Ended 31 December determine hedge hedging EUR million 2018 2017 EUR million effectiveness instruments Ineffectiveness At 1 January Foreign exchange risk forward contracts1 20 -21 -1 CTA on net investment in non-euro foreign entities -319 -31 Foreign exchange risk options 23 -23 0 Hedging thereof 41 1 Foreign exchange risk net investment hedges 14 -14 0 Net currency losses/gains in equity -278 -30 Commodity price risk commodity swaps -32 32 0 Financials Interest rate risk interest rate swaps 1 -1 0 Tax on hedging -10 -288 -2 -32 Interest rate and foreign exchange risk crosscurrency swaps1 12 -15 -3 Stora Enso in 2018 CTA Movement for the Year Reported in OCI 1 Ineffectiveness booked in Net financial items. Restatement of opening non-euro denominated equity -70 -281 Report of the Difference in Income Statement translation 1 -5 Board of Directors Financial impact of netting for intruments subject to an enforceable master netting agreement 2018 Sustainability Internal equity injections and dividends 6 -1 Not offset in the Statement of Financial Position Other -1 0 Consolidated financial Related liabilities (-) CTA release through the Income Statement 27 -1 statements Gross amount of or assets (+) subject Collateral -36 -288 recognised financial to Master Netting received (-) EUR million instruments Agreements or given (+) Net Exposure Notes to the Consolidated Hedging of Net Investment for the Year Reported in OCI Derivative assets 54 -24 0 30 financial statements Hedging result -14 40 Derivative liabilities -70 24 0 -46 Taxes 3 -8 Extract from the parent -11 32 company Stora Enso Oyj Financial impact of netting for intruments subject to an enforceable master netting agreement 2017 financial statements Not offset in the Statement of Financial Position At 31 December Related liabilities (-) CTA on net investment in non-euro foreign entities -355 -319 The Board of Directors’ Gross amount of or assets (+) subject Collateral Hedging thereof (see below) 27 41 Proposal for the distribution recognised financial to Master Netting received (-) Cumulative net currency losses in equity -328 -278 EUR million instruments Agreements or given (+) Net Exposure of dividend Tax on hedging -7 -10 Derivative assets 62 -37 0 25 Derivative liabilities -37 37 0 0 Net CTA in Equity -335 -288 Auditor’s report Financials Stora Enso in capital markets The Group enters into derivative transactions under master netting agreements agreed with each Hedging of Net Investment in Foreign Entities counterparty. In case of an unlikely credit event, such as default, all outstanding transactions under the Hedging 27 41 agreements are terminated and only a single net amount per counterparty is payable for settlement of all Tax on hedging -7 -10 Stora Enso as a taxpayer transactions. The agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Statement of financial position Net Hedging Result in Equity 20 31 because offsetting is enforceable only on the occurrence of certain future events. Capacities by mill in 2019 Realised gains 45 45 Information for shareholders Unrealised gains/losses -25 -14 Total Gains 20 31 The group is currently hedging only its equity exposure to the US dollar. The main movements in CTA in 2018 were a gain of EUR 61 (loss of EUR 162) million related to the US dollar, a loss of EUR 53 (EUR 38) million related to the Swedish crown, a loss of EUR 16 (EUR 10) million related to the Russian ruble and a loss of EUR 14 (EUR 63) million related to the Brazilian real. The most significant accumulated CTA balances are in Sweden, amounting to a loss of EUR 286 (EUR 234) million, in Brazil, amounting to a loss of EUR 204 (EUR 191) million, in the US dollar area, Governance amounting to a gain of EUR 139 (EUR 79) million and in Russia, amounting to a loss of EUR 71 (EUR 55) million. The release of cumulative translation adjustments to the Income Statement amounted to a loss of EUR 27 (gain of EUR 1) million in 2018 and was mainly related to the disposal of wood supply company in Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil. 69 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 29 Strategy Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position CTA and equity hedging Hedging instruments and unrealised hedge losses Annual Report 2018 As at 31 December As at 31 December Cumulative Translation Net CTA in the Statement Nominal amount Adjustments (CTA) Equity Hedges of Financial Position (Currency) Nominal amount (EUR) Unrealised Losses (EUR) EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Brazil -204 -191 0 0 -204 -191 Borrowings China 65 69 0 0 65 69 USD area 350 350 306 292 -25 -14 Czech Republic 32 33 -9 -9 23 24 Total Hedging 306 292 -25 -14 Financials Poland -28 -19 17 17 -11 -2 Russia -71 -55 0 0 -71 -55 Sweden -286 -234 50 50 -236 -184 Stora Enso in 2018 Note 29 Commitments and contingencies Uruguay 135 80 -31 -17 105 63 USA 4 -1 0 0 4 -1 Report of the Others -1 -1 0 0 -1 -1 Board of Directors Accounting principles Sustainability CTA before Tax -355 -319 27 41 -328 -278 Consolidated financial Taxes 0 -7 -10 -7 -10 Guarantees Net CTA in Equity -355 -319 20 31 -335 -288 statements The guarantees entered into with financial institutions and other credit guarantors generally oblige the group to make payment in the event of default by the borrower. The guarantees have off-BalanceNotes to the Consolidated Sheet credit risk representing the accounting loss that would be recognised at the reporting date if Amounts recognized in the statement of other comprehensive income CTA and equity hedging the counterparties fail to perform completely as contracted. The credit risk amounts are equal to the financial statements As at 31 December contract sums assuming the amounts are not paid in full and are irrecoverable from other parties. Cumulative Translation Net CTA in the Statement Extract from the parent Adjustments (CTA) Equity Hedges of Financial Position Operating Leases company Stora Enso Oyj EUR million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Payments made under operating leases are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease periods. financial statements Brazil -14 -63 0 0 -14 -63 When an operating lease is terminated before the expiry of the lease period, any obligatory payment to China -4 -27 0 0 -4 -27 the lessor by way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which termination takes place. The Board of Directors’ Lease termination benefits are recognised on a discounted basis. Czech Republic -1 7 0 0 -1 7 Proposal for the distribution Poland -10 15 0 0 -10 15 of dividend Russia -16 -10 0 0 -16 -10 Commitments Sweden -53 -38 0 0 -53 -38 Auditor’s report Financials As at 31 December Uruguay 56 -147 -14 40 42 -107 USA 5 -15 0 0 5 -15 EUR million 2018 2017 Stora Enso in capital markets On Own Behalf Others 0 -10 0 0 0 -10 CTA before Tax -36 -288 -14 40 -50 -248 Mortgages 2 2 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Taxes 0 0 3 -8 3 -8 Operating leases in next 12 months 100 81 Operating leases after next 12 months 631 644 Capacities by mill in 2019 Amounts recognised in OCI -36 -288 -11 32 -47 -256 Other commitments 6 6 Information for shareholders On Behalf of Equity Accounted Investments Guarantees 4 4 Hedging of net investment in foreign entities On Behalf of Others Group policy for translation risk exposure is to minimise this by funding assets whenever possible and economically viable in the same currency, but if matching of the assets and liabilities in the same currency Guarantees 23 26 is not possible hedging of the remaining translation risk may take place. The gains and losses net of tax on Other commitments 13 0 all financial liabilities and instruments used for hedging purposes are offset in CTA against the respective Total 779 763 currency movements arising from the restatement of the net investments at current exchange rates on the reporting date; the net amount of losses included in CTA during the period as shown in the previous table Mortgages 2 2 Governance amounted to EUR 11 (gains of EUR 32) million. Guarantees 27 30 Operating leases 731 725 Other commitments 19 6 Total 779 763 70 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 29 Strategy In 2018, the Group’s commitments amounted to EUR 779 (EUR 763) million. In addition, the parent native trees on part of Veracel’s plantations and a possible fine of BRL 20 (EUR 5) million. Veracel disputes Annual Report 2018 company Stora Enso Oyj has guaranteed the liabilities of many of its subsidiaries and joint operations up to the decision and has filed an appeal against it. Veracel operates in full compliance with all Brazilian laws EUR 1 962 (EUR 2 073) million as of 31 December 2018. and has obtained all the necessary environmental and operating licences for its industrial and forestry The Group leases properties, land areas, vessels and other logistic equipment and machinery under activities from the relevant authorities. In November 2008, a Federal Court suspended the effects of the various non-cancellable operating leases, some of which contain renewal options. There were no leases decision. No provisions have been recorded in Veracel’s or Stora Enso’s accounts for the reforestation or deemed onerous at the end of 2018 and 2017. The future cost for contracts exceeding one year and for the possible fine. non-cancellable operating leasing contracts are: In June 2017, Veracel received a tax infringement note referring to year 2012 with a total amount of BRL 224 (EUR 50) million including interest and fines. The dispute is limited to fiscal year 2012 for which the Repayment schedule of operating lease commitments tax authority applied another transfer pricing method due to a different interpretation of a transition rule. Financials As at 31 December Veracel acts in full compliance with Brazilian transfer pricing law and has filed an administrative defense against the tax note in July 2017. In June 2018 Veracel received a positive decision from Federal Revenue EUR million 2018 2017 Judgement, which has been confirmed by the Administrative Council For Fiscal Resources in January Stora Enso in 2018 Less than 1 year 100 81 2019. The total exposure at year end is BRL 241 (EUR 54) million considering interest until 31 December 1–2 years 92 71 2018. Stora Enso’s share of the exposure is BRL 120 (EUR 27) million. No provisions have been recorded in Report of the 2–3 years 78 63 Veracel’s or Stora Enso’s accounts for this tax dispute. Board of Directors Sustainability 3–4 years 57 54 The tax authority has claimed that part of the PIS (social integration programme) and COFINS 4–5 years 48 38 (contribution for the financing of social security) paid by Veracel on the purchase of raw materials and Consolidated financial Over 5 years 356 418 services since 2006 was not eligible for tax credit. Stora Enso and Veracel consider the claim unjustified statements Total 731 725 and no provisions have been made in Stora Enso’s or Veracel’s accounts for this matter. The dispute is still pending. Notes to the Consolidated financial statements The Group has rental commitments for up to 50 years, with the option to terminate them in 2034, on Legal proceedings in Finland approximately 82 000 (84 000) hectares of land contracted to date in China, as well as being obliged to pay for the standing trees on land it has contracted to rent. Future land rental payments reported under Roundwood claim Extract from the parent operating leases are estimated at EUR 371 (EUR 486) million for the plantations. In December 2009, the Finnish Market Court fined Stora Enso for competition law infringements in the company Stora Enso Oyj market for roundwood in Finland from 1997 to 2004. Stora Enso did not appeal against the ruling. In financial statements Capital Commitments March 2011, Metsähallitus of Finland initiated legal proceedings against Stora Enso, UPM and Metsäliitto claiming compensation for damage allegedly suffered due to the competition infringement. In its judgement As at 31 December The Board of Directors’ rendered in June 2016, the Helsinki District Court dismissed Metsähallitus’ claim for damages against Proposal for the distribution EUR million 2018 2017 Stora Enso, UPM and Metsäliitto. Metsähallitus appealed against the District Court’s judgment to the Total 111 152 Helsinki Court of Appeal, which rendered its judgement in the matter in May 2018. In its judgement, the of dividend Court of Appeal dismissed Metsähallitus’ appeal and upheld the District Court’s judgement. The total Auditor’s report Capital expenditure commitments are not recognised in the balance sheet and these include the Group’s amount of Metsähallitus’ claim jointly and severally against Stora Enso, UPM and Metsäliitto in the Court of Financials share of direct capital expenditure contracts in joint operations. Commitments in relation to capital Appeal was approximately EUR 125 million and the secondary claim against Stora Enso was approximately Stora Enso in capital markets expenditure mainly relate to ongoing projects at Enocell and Imatra Mills in Finland, Skutskär and Gruvön EUR 68 million. Metsähallitus applied for a leave of appeal from the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court Mills in Sweden and Maxau Mill in Germany. decided on 29 January 2019 that the application to appeal is denied. This concludes the case without Stora Enso having any payment obligation towards Metsähallitus. Further the entire round woodclaim case Stora Enso as a taxpayer Contingent liabilities can be now considered closed without any material financial effects on Stora Enso. The quarterly reporting Stora Enso has undertaken significant restructuring actions in recent years which have included the will discontinue. Capacities by mill in 2019 divestment of companies, sale of assets and mill closures. These transactions include a risk of possible environmental or other obligations the existence of which would be confirmed only by the occurrence or Legal proceedings in Sweden Information for shareholders non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group. Stora Enso is party to legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business and which primarily Insurance claim involve claims arising out of commercial law. The management does not consider that liabilities related In July and August 2016, six Swedish insurance companies filed lawsuits in the Environmental Court and to such proceedings before insurance recoveries, if any, are likely to be material to the Group’s financial the District Court of Falun against Stora Enso, due to damage caused by the forest fire in Västmanland, condition or results of operations. Sweden, in 2014. The claimed amount is approximately SEK 300 (EUR 30) million. Stora Enso denies liability. So far the Environmental Court and thereafter the Environmental Court of Appeal has found that the Legal proceedings in Latin America Environmental code is not applicable on damage caused by fire. Governance Veracel Company fine On 11 July 2008, Stora Enso announced that a federal judge in Brazil had issued a decision claiming that In January 2018, a Swedish prosecutor filed a lawsuit against Stora Enso and its supplier, due to the forest the permits issued by the State of Bahia for the operations of Stora Enso’s joint operations company fire in Västmanland, Sweden in 2014, claiming a company fine of SEK 5 million each. Both Stora Enso and Veracel were not valid. The judge also ordered Veracel to take certain actions, including reforestation with the supplier have disputed the claim. 71 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 30 Strategy Note 30 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations Annual Report 2018 The following is a list of the Company’s fifty principal operating subsidiary undertakings ranked by external sales. These companies along with the parent account for 99% (98%) of Group external sales. The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. The group’s effective interest in the undertakings is 100% except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking except for those companies marked with “+” which are held directly by the parent company. Subsidiaries operating outside the euro area are indicated by “◊”. Financials Subsidiary companies (Ranked by external sales) Packaging Country Sales % Consumer Board Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Other Stora Enso in 2018 Stora Enso Oyj Finland 15.93 • • • • • Report of the Stora Enso Paper AB ◊ Sweden 7.52 • Board of Directors Sustainability Stora Enso International Oy + Finland 7.17 • Stora Enso Oulu Oy Finland 6.15 • Consolidated financial Stora Enso Skoghall AB ◊ Sweden 5.99 • statements Stora Enso Veitsiluoto Oy Finland 4.96 • Notes to the Consolidated Stora Enso Amsterdam B.V. Netherlands 4.38 • • financial statements Stora Enso Fors AB ◊ Sweden 3.38 • Stora Enso Skog AB ◊ Sweden 2.92 • Extract from the parent Stora Enso Poland S.A. +/◊ Poland 2.87 • company Stora Enso Oyj Stora Enso Wood Products GmbH Austria 2.75 • financial statements Stora Enso (Guangxi) Packaging Company Ltd. (80.1%) ◊ China 2.57 • The Board of Directors’ Stora Enso Maxau GmbH Germany 2.56 • Proposal for the distribution Stora Enso Langerbrugge NV Belgium 2.38 • of dividend Stora Enso Publication Papers Oy Ltd Finland 2.37 • Stora Enso Ingerois Oy + Finland 2.00 • Auditor’s report Financials Stora Enso Wood Products Oy Ltd + Finland 1.72 • Stora Enso in capital markets ◊ Sydved AB (66.7%) Sweden 1.71 • Stora Enso as a taxpayer Stora Enso Sachsen GmbH Germany 1.51 • • Stora Enso Timber AB ◊ Sweden 1.29 • Capacities by mill in 2019 Stora Enso Eesti AS + Estonia 1.27 • Stora Enso Narew Sp.z.o.o. +/◊ Poland 1.20 • Information for shareholders Stora Enso Australia Pty Ltd ◊ Australia 1.18 • OOO Stora Enso Packaging BB ◊ Russia 1.16 • Stora Enso Wood Products Zdirec s.r.o. ◊ Czech Republic 0.93 • Stora Enso Packaging AB ◊ Sweden 0.89 • Stora Enso WP Bad St. Leonhard GmbH Austria 0.84 • Stora Enso Packaging Oy + Finland 0.83 • Governance Dongguan Stora Enso Inpac Packaging Co. Ltd (90%) ◊ China 0.78 • Stora Enso Inpac Packaging Co. Ltd. (90%) ◊ China 0.74 • Stora Enso Huatai (Shandong) Paper Co Ltd (60%) ◊ China 0.73 • 72 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 30 Strategy Packaging Annual Report 2018 Country Sales % Consumer Board Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Other Stora Enso Timber Deutschland GmbH Germany 0.62 • Stora Enso Wood Products Sp.z.o.o. ◊ Poland 0.52 • Stora Enso Bioenergi AB ◊ Sweden 0.52 • Stora Enso North American Sales, Inc. +/◊ USA 0.51 • Stora Enso Wood Products Planá s.r.o. ◊ Czech Republic 0.49 • AS Stora Enso Latvija Latvia 0.37 • Financials Stora Enso Wood Products d.o.o. Koper Slovenia 0.36 • Stora Enso Bois SAS France 0.33 • Stora Enso in 2018 UAB Stora Enso Lietuva Lithuania 0.31 • Report of the Stora Enso AB +/◊ Sweden 0.31 • Board of Directors Guangxi Stora Enso Forestry Co Ltd (89.5%) ◊ China 0.26 • Sustainability Stora Enso Timber DIY Products B.V. Netherlands 0.25 • Consolidated financial Stora Enso Timber UK Ltd ◊ UK 0.23 • statements Stora Enso Packaging UAB Lithuania 0.19 • Notes to the Consolidated Stora Enso Packaging SIA Latvia 0.16 • financial statements Stora Enso Paper GmbH Germany 0.15 • Stora Enso (Guangxi)Forestry Company Ltd. (80.1%) ◊ China 0.15 • Extract from the parent Stora Enso WP HV s.r.o. ◊ Czech Republic 0.13 • company Stora Enso Oyj Stora Enso (HK) Ltd +/◊ Hong Kong 0.13 • financial statements VLAR Papier NV Belgium 0.13 • The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution The following is a list of the Company’s joint operations. The Company holds a 50% interest in joint of dividend operations and they are consolidated into the Group’s financial statements. The countries operating outside the euro area are indicated by “◊”. Sales of the joint operations occur via subsidiaries. Auditor’s report Financials Joint operations Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso as a taxpayer Consumer Packaging Wood Country Board Solutions Biomaterials Products Paper Other Capacities by mill in 2019 Montes del Plata (50%) ◊ Uruguay • Information for shareholders Veracel Celulose SA (50%) ◊ Brazil • Governance 73 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 31 Strategy Note 31 Related party transactions Note 32 Earnings per share and equity per share Annual Report 2018 Balances and transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries and joint operations, which are classified as related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Accounting principles The Group has classified Solidium Oy as a related party. It is entirely owned by the State of Finland, and owned 10.7% of Stora Enso shares and 27.3% of all votes on December 31, 2018. The group has applied Basic earnings per share, attributable to the owners of the parent company, are calculated by dividing an exemption as stated in IAS 24 paragraph 25 not to disclose transactions and outstanding balances with the net profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue government-related entities. during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the group and held as treasury shares. Diluted The key management personnel of the Group are the members of the Group Leadership Team and the earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares plus Financials Board of Directors. The compensation of key management personnel is presented in Note 7 Board and the diluted effect of all potential dilutive ordinary shares dilutive such as shares from share-based executive remuneration. payments. In the ordinary course of business, the Group engages in transactions on commercial terms with equity Stora Enso in 2018 accounted investments and other related parties that are not any more favourable than would be available to other third parties – with the exception of Veracel and Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO). Stora Enso intends to Earnings per share Report of the continue with transactions on a similar basis with its equity accounted investments further details of which Year Ended 31 December Board of Directors Sustainability are shown in Note 13 Equity accounted investments. The Group’s principal subsidiary companies and joint operations are listed in Note 30 Principal 2018 2017 Consolidated financial subsidiaries and joint operations. Net profit for the period attributable to the owners of the parent, EUR million 1 013 625 statements Total comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent, Energy EUR million 1 025 494 Notes to the Consolidated The Group holds a 15.6% interest in Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), a privately owned group of companies in the energy sector that produces electricity and heat for its shareholders in Finland. Each subsidiary of the financial statements Weighted average number of A and R shares 788 619 987 788 619 987 PVO group has its own class of shares that entitle the shareholder to the energy produced in proportion to its ownership of that class of share. Stora Enso is the second-largest shareholder in PVO, being entitled to Weighted average number of share awards 1 262 891 1 403 673 Extract from the parent Weighted diluted number of shares 789 882 878 790 023 660 a capacity share of 469 MWe and Seppo Parvi, as Group representative, has been the Deputy Chairman company Stora Enso Oyj of PVO’s Board of Directors since 2015. Prices paid to PVO for electricity are based on production costs, financial statements which are generally lower than market prices and in 2018, amounted to EUR 36 (EUR 34) million. Basic Earnings per Share, EUR 1.28 0.79 Diluted Earnings per Share, EUR 1.28 0.79 The Board of Directors’ Paper for recycling Total Recognised Income and Expense per Share, EUR 1.30 0.63 Proposal for the distribution The Group owns non-controlling interests in several paper recyclers from which paper for recycling is of dividend purchased at market prices. Equity per share Auditor’s report Forest assets and wood procurement Financials As at 31 December The Group has a 41% interest in Tornator with the remaining 59% being held mainly by Finnish institutional investors. Stora Enso has long-term purchase contracts with the Tornator Group for approximately 2 million 2018 2017 Stora Enso in capital markets Shareholders' equity, EUR million 6 714 6 008 cubic metres of wood annually at market prices, and in 2018 purchases of 2 (2) million cubic metres came to EUR 78 (EUR 62) million. Market value, EUR million 8 123 10 422 Stora Enso as a taxpayer In 2018, the Group has a 49.79% interest in Bergvik Skog with the remaining 50.21% held mainly by institutional investors. The Group has long-term supply contracts with Bergvik Skog under which Bergvik Number of A and R shares 788 619 987 788 619 987 Capacities by mill in 2019 Skog sells some 5 million cubic metres of wood annually to Stora Enso at market prices. In 2018, these Share awards 1 056 648 1 469 133 purchases of 5 (5) million cubic metres amounted to EUR 108 (EUR 106) million and Group sales to Bergvik Information for shareholders Skog amounted to EUR 40 (EUR 39) million, mainly for forest management services. Diluted number of shares 789 676 635 790 089 120 Stora Enso has a significant land leasing contract with its non-controlling interest partner Guangxi Basic Shareholders' Equity per Share, EUR 8.51 7.62 Forestry Group Co. Ltd. in China. The leases paid during 2018 amounted to EUR 17 (EUR 16) million. Diluted Shareholders' Equity per Share, EUR 8.50 7.61 Stevedoring Dividend per Share Paid/Declared, EUR 0.50 0.41 The Group owns 34.4% of the shares of Steveco Oy, a Finnish company engaged in loading and unloading vessels. The other shareholders in Steveco are UPM-Kymmene, Finnlines, Ahlström Capital and Market Value per Share, EUR Myllykoski. The stevedoring services are provided by Steveco at market prices and in 2018 amounted to A shares 11.05 13.20 Governance EUR 24 (EUR 25) million. R shares 10.09 13.22 Unaudited 74 Extract from the Parent Company Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Extract from the Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Strategy Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Financials Accounting principles Parent Company income statement Year Ended 31 December The Parent Company Financial Statements are prepared according to Generally Accepted Accounting EUR million 2018 2017 Stora Enso in 2018 Principles in Finland (Finnish GAAP). The main differences between the accounting policies of the Group Sales 2 776 2 913 and the Parent Company relate to: Report of the Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 25 -14 Board of Directors Production for own use 1 1 Sustainability Accounting of amortisation of capitalised goodwill The valuation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities Other operating income 192 188 Consolidated financial Accounting of post-employment Defined Benefit Plans Materials and services -1 926 -1 905 statements The presentation and accounting of deferred tax Personnel expenses -224 -255 Accounting of equity incentive schemes Depreciation and value adjustments -159 -130 Notes to the Consolidated Accounting of financial leases. Other operating expenses -471 -569 financial statements Operating Profit 214 229 Comparability of the information for the financial period Net financial items 1 146 The company has changed its presentation of non-hedge accounted derivatives starting from 1st Extract from the parent Profit before Appropriations and Taxes 215 375 January 2018. As a result of the change, positive fair values of outstanding non-hedge accounted company Stora Enso Oyj derivatives are now also presented in the balance sheet in accordance with IFRS 9 standard. Appropriations 9 -10 financial statements The positive fair values of such outstanding derivatives were previously presented as off-balance sheet Net Profit for the Period 224 365 items and only negative fair values for outstanding derivatives were presented in the balance sheet in The Board of Directors’ accordance with prudence principle. At the end of 2017 the positive fair values of outstanding nonProposal for the distribution hedge accounted derivatives amounted to EUR 22.8 million and it has been recognised as an ending of dividend balance adjustment to parent company’s short-term receivables and retained earnings for 2017. Auditor’s report Stora Enso in capital markets Financials Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2019 Information for shareholders Governance 75 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Extract from the Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Strategy Parent Company statement of financial position Parent Company cash flow statement Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December Assets EUR million 2018 2017 As at 31 December Cash Provided by Operating Activities EUR million 2018 2017 Net profit for the period 223 365 Fixed Assets and Non-current Investments Appropriations -9 10 Intangible assets 90 75 Depreciation and value adjustments 159 130 Tangible assets 840 805 Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses 6 52 Financials Shares in Group companies 6 199 6 139 Other non-cash items -3 12 Receivables from Group companies 1 520 1 486 Financial income and expenses -1 -146 Investments in Associated companies 39 40 Interest received 25 32 Stora Enso in 2018 Other investments 230 230 Interest paid net of amounts capitalised -64 -105 8 918 8 775 Dividends received 76 201 Report of the Board of Directors Other financial items paid net -35 37 Sustainability Current Assets Income taxes paid -1 -1 Inventories 326 247 Consolidated financial Change in net working capital -87 -13 Short-term receivables 555 570 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 289 574 statements Deposit Group companies 82 816 Deposit other companies 315 0 Notes to the Consolidated Net Cash from Investing Activities Cash and cash equivalents 471 375 financial statements Capital expenditure -185 -203 1 749 2 008 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 6 3 Extract from the parent Purchases of other investments 0 -7 Total Assets 10 667 10 784 company Stora Enso Oyj Investment in subsidiary shares -61 -87 financial statements Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary shares 2 61 Proceeds from disposal of shares in other companies 1 2 Equity and Liabilities The Board of Directors’ Proceeds from long-term receivables net 6 -190 As at 31 December Proposal for the distribution EUR million 2018 2017 Net Cash Provided in Investing Activities -231 -421 of dividend Share capital 1 342 1 342 Cash Flow from Financing Activities Share premium 3 639 3 639 Auditor’s report Financials Proceeds from (issue of) long-term liabilities 299 300 Fair value reserve -10 1 Proceeds from (payment of) long-term liabilities -226 -662 Invested non-restricted equity fund 633 633 Stora Enso in capital markets Proceeds from (payment of) short-term borrowings net -128 -546 Retained earnings 627 585 Capital repayment / dividend per share paid/declared -323 -292 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Net profit for the period 223 365 Net Cash Used in Financing Activities -378 -1 200 6 454 6 565 Capacities by mill in 2019 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents -321 -1 046 Appropriations 200 209 Translation adjustment -1 -7 Information for shareholders Business transfers 1.5. 0 -16 Provisions 26 26 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 1 190 2 259 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Year End 868 1 190 Non-current Liabilities 1 464 1 378 Current Liabilities 2 523 2 606 Governance Total Equity and Liabilities 10 667 10 784 76 The Board of Director’s Proposal Stora Enso 2018: Financials – The Board of Director’s Proposal for the distribution of dividend Strategy Annual Report 2018 for the distribution of dividend The Parent Company distributable shareholders’ equity on 31 December 2018 amounted to Financials EUR 1 473 289 418.75, including the profit for the period of EUR 223 340 113.24. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting of the Company that the distributable funds be used as follows: Stora Enso in 2018 Dividend of EUR 0.50 per share from the distributable shareholders’ equity to be distributed on 788 619 987 shares, not to exceed EUR 394 309 993.50 Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Remaining in distributable shareholders’ equity EUR 1 078 979 425.25 Consolidated financial Distributable shareholders’ equity on 31 December 2018, total EUR 1 473 289 418.75 statements There have been no material changes in the Parent Company’s financial position since 31 December 2018. Notes to the Consolidated The liquidity of the Parent Company remains good and the proposed dividend does not risk the solvency of the Company. financial statements Helsinki, 31 January 2019 Extract from the parent company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Jorma Eloranta Hans Stråberg The Board of Directors’ Chairman Vice Chairman Proposal for the distribution of dividend Auditor’s report Anne Brunila Elisabeth Fleuriot Stora Enso in capital markets Financials Hock Goh Christiane Kuehne Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2019 Antti Mäkinen Richard Nilsson Information for shareholders Göran Sandberg Karl-Henrik Sundström Governance CEO 77 Auditor’s report Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Auditor’s report Strategy Annual Report 2018 (Translation of the Finnish Original) To the Annual General Meeting of Stora Enso Oyj Our Audit Approach Report on the Audit of Financial Statements Overview Financials Opinion In our opinion • We have applied an overall group Stora Enso in 2018 • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position and materiality of EUR 52 million. Materiality financial performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Report of the (IFRS) as adopted by the EU • We performed audit procedures at 27 Board of Directors Sustainability • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and reporting components in 11 countries financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial Group that are considered significant based Consolidated financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. scoping on our overall risk assessment and statements materiality. Our opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Financial and Audit Committee. Notes to the Consolidated Key audit • Valuation of biological assets What we have audited • Provisions and contingent liabilities financial statements matters We have audited the financial statements of Stora Enso Oyj (business identity code 1039050-8) for the year ended 31 December 2018. The financial statements comprise: Extract from the parent • the consolidated statement of financial position, income statement, statement of comprehensive company Stora Enso Oyj income, statement of changes in equity, cash flows statement and notes, including a summary of financial statements significant accounting policies As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement • the parent company’s statement of financial position, income statement, cash flow statement and in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; The Board of Directors’ notes. for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and Proposal for the distribution considering future events that are inherently uncertain. of dividend Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under Materiality Auditor’s report good auditing practice are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain Financials Statements section of our report. reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements Stora Enso in capital markets We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could our opinion. reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Independence Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as set out in the table Capacities by mill in 2019 requirements that are applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the Information for shareholders To the best of our knowledge and belief, the non-audit services that we have provided to the parent financial statements as a whole. company and to the group companies are in accordance with the applicable law and regulations in Finland and we have not provided non-audit services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The non-audit services that we have provided are disclosed in note 5 to the Financial Overall group materiality EUR 52 million Statements. How we determined it Based on profit before tax Rationale for the materiality We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it is Governance benchmark applied the benchmark against which the performance of the group is commonly measured by users, and is a generally accepted benchmark. 78 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Auditor’s report Strategy How we tailored our group audit scope Key audit matter in the audit of the group How our audit addressed the key audit matter Annual Report 2018 We tailored the scope of our audit, taking into account the structure of the group, the accounting processes Provisions and contingent liabilities We obtained an understanding of management’s and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. Refer to Note 2, Note 22 and Note 29 in the process to identify new obligations and changes in The Group operates in a significant number of legal entities or “reporting components” globally. consolidated financial statements for the related existing obligations for compliance with group policy We determined the nature, timing and extent of audit work that needed to be performed at reporting disclosures and IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and As of 31 December 2018 the Group had Contingent Assets requirements. components by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors operating under our instruction. environmental, restructuring and other provisions We analysed significant changes in material Where the work was performed by component auditors, we issued specific instructions to those auditors totaling EUR 117 million. provisions from prior periods and obtained a detailed which included our risk analysis, materiality and global audit approach. We performed audit procedures In addition, the Group has disclosed significant open understanding of these changes and assumptions at 27 reporting components in 11 countries that are considered significant based on our overall risk legal cases and other contingent liabilities in Note 29. applied. Financials assessment and materiality. We have considered that the remaining reporting components do not present The assessment of the existence of the present legal or constructive obligation, the analysis of the probability Our audit procedures related to material provisions recognized included: a reasonable risk of material misstatement for consolidated financial statements and thus our procedures of the outflow of future economic benefits, and the • Assessment of the recognition criteria for the liability; related to these reporting components have been limited to targeted audit procedures over significant analysis of a reliable estimate, require management’s • Evaluation of the methodology adopted by Stora Enso in 2018 balances and to analytical procedures performed at group level. judgement to ensure appropriate accounting or management for the measurement of the liability; By performing the procedures above at reporting components, combined with additional procedures at disclosures. • Testing of the mathematical accuracy of the Report of the the group level, we have obtained sufficient and appropriate evidence regarding the financial information of Due to the level of judgement relating to recognition, measurement calculation; Board of Directors valuation and presentation of provisions and contingent • Assessment of the discount rates applied in the Sustainability the group as a whole to provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. liabilities, this is considered to be a key audit matter. measurement; and • Assessment of the other key measurement Consolidated financial Key Audit Matters assumptions and inputs. statements Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our We obtained legal letters on the main outstanding legal audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a cases. Notes to the Consolidated We reviewed minutes of the board meetings including separate opinion on these matters. financial statements sub committees. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including We assessed the appropriateness of the presentation among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of of the most significant contingent liabilities in the Extract from the parent material misstatement due to fraud. consolidated financial statements. company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Key audit matter in the audit of the group How our audit addressed the key audit matter We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial statements. Valuation of Biological Assets We obtained an understanding of management’s There are no significant risks of material misstatement referred to in Article 10(2c) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 The Board of Directors’ Refer to Note 1, Note 2 and Note 12 in the consolidated biological asset valuation process, evaluated the with respect to the consolidated financial statements or the parent company financial statements. Proposal for the distribution financial statements for the related disclosures design and tested the operating effectiveness of The fair value of group’s biological assets owned internal controls related to directly and indirectly owned of dividend through subsidiaries, joint operations and associated biological assets. companies amounts to EUR 3 327 million as of Our audit procedures over valuation of directly owned Auditor’s report Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Financials December 31, 2018. biological asset included: The value of biological assets is measured at fair value • Evaluation of the methodology adopted by the Managing Director for the Financial Statements Stora Enso in capital markets less costs to sell. The fair value is determined using management for the valuation; The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated discounted cash flows based on sustainable forest • Testing the mathematical accuracy of the model used financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting management plans taking into account the growth for valuation; Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and of financial statements that give a true and fair view in Stora Enso as a taxpayer potential of one cycle. The one cycle varies depending • Assessment of the discount rates applied in the accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and on the geographic location and species. Determining valuation; comply with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible Capacities by mill in 2019 the discounted cash flows requires estimates of growth, • Assessment of the other key valuation assumptions; for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements harvest, sales price and costs. and Due to the level of judgment involved in the valuation • Validation of key inputs and data used in the valuation that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Information for shareholders of biological assets, complexity of the governance model including sales price assumptions, growth In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible structure as well as the significance of biological assets assumptions and cost assumptions. for assessing the parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as to the Group’s financial position, this is considered to be a key audit matter. We involved valuation specialists in the audit work over applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The financial valuation of directly owned biological assets. statements are prepared using the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate Related to indirectly owned biological assets we have the parent company or the group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. communicated with the auditors of the four largest associated companies and joint operations. As part Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements of the communication, among other things, we have Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are Governance evaluated the key audit procedures and audit conclusions performed related to valuation of biological assets. free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 79 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Auditor’s report Strategy conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will always detect a material misstatement when Other Reporting Requirements Annual Report 2018 it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Appointment basis of these financial statements. We were first appointed as auditors by the annual general meeting on 28 March 2018. As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: Other Information • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence information comprises the report of the Board of Directors. that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. Financials misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially Stora Enso in 2018 that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the misstated. Our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has effectiveness of the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Report of the • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting In our opinion Board of Directors Sustainability estimates and related disclosures made by management. • the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the statements Consolidated financial going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and statements uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the parent regulations. company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material Notes to the Consolidated uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the report of the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions the Board of Directors, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. financial statements are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the parent company or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. Other Statements Extract from the parent • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the We support the proposal that the financial statements are adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors company Stora Enso Oyj disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so regarding the distribution of profits is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support financial statements that the financial statements give a true and fair view. that the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent company should be discharged from • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or liability for the financial period audited by us. The Board of Directors’ business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Proposal for the distribution We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely Helsinki, 13 February 2019 of dividend responsible for our audit opinion. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Auditor’s report We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope Authorised Public Accountants Financials and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control Stora Enso in capital markets that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other Stora Enso as a taxpayer matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Capacities by mill in 2019 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are Information for shareholders therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation Samuli Perälä precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that Authorised Public Accountant (KHT) a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Governance Unaudited 80 Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso ensures that all material information that has an impact on Stora Enso’s Ownership distribution, 31 December 2018 share price is simultaneously available to the general public and financial community in order to ensure the right share price level in relation to the company’s history, assets % of shares % of votes % of shareholders Financials and future prospects. In its engagement with the capital markets, Stora Enso’s Investor Solidium Oy1 FAM AB2 10.7% 10.2% 27.3% 27.3% 0.0% 0.0% Relations aims to support the brand with accurate, consistent and credible financial communications. Social Insurance Institution of Finland (KELA) 3.1% 10.1% 0.0% Stora Enso in 2018 Finnish institutions (excl. Solidium and KELA) 11.6% 8.6% 2.9% Swedish institutions (excl. FAM) 4.9% 4.6% 1.4% Report of the Shares and shareholders Finnish private shareholders 4.2% 2.5% 46.9% Board of Directors Sustainability Swedish private shareholders 3.1% 2.2% 46.6% Shares and voting rights ADR holders 2.0% 0.7% 1.3% Consolidated financial The shares of Stora Enso Oyj (hereafter the “Company” or “Stora Enso”) are divided into A and R shares, Under nominee names statements which entitle holders to the same dividend but different voting rights. Each A share and each ten R shares (non-Finnish/non-Swedish shareholders) 50.2% 16.7% 0.9% carry one vote at a shareholders’ meeting. However, each shareholder has at least one vote. 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish state. Notes to the Consolidated On 31 December 2018, Stora Enso had 176 312 672 A shares and 612 307 315 R shares in issue, of 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. which the Company held no A shares or R shares. The total number of Stora Enso shares in issue was financial statements 788 619 987 and the total number of votes was 237 543 403. Extract from the parent Share listings Ownership distribution, % of shares held company Stora Enso Oyj Stora Enso shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki and the Nasdaq Stockholm. Stora Enso shares are financial statements quoted in Helsinki in euros (EUR) and in Stockholm in Swedish crowns (SEK). Solidium Oy1 10.7% FAM AB2 10.2% The Board of Directors’ American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) Social Insurance Institution of Finland (KELA) 3.1% Proposal for the distribution Stora Enso has a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts (ADR) facility. Stora Enso ADRs are Finnish institutions (excl. Solidium and KELA) 11.6% traded over-the-counter (OTC) in the USA. The ratio between Stora Enso ADRs and R shares is 1:1, i.e. one Swedish institutions (excl. FAM) 4.9% of dividend Finnish private shareholders 4.2% ADR represents one Stora Enso R share. Citibank, N.A. acts as the depositary bank for the Stora Enso ADR Swedish private shareholders 3.1% Auditor’s report programme. The trading symbol is SEOAY and the CUSIP number is 86210M106. Financials ADR holders 2.0% Under nominee names (non-Finnish/non-Swedish Stora Enso in capital markets Share registers shareholders) 50.2% The Company’s shares are entered in the Book-Entry Securities System maintained by Euroclear Finland Stora Enso as a taxpayer Oy, which also maintains the official share register of Stora Enso Oyj. 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish state. On 31 December 2018, 87 765 967 of the Company’s shares were registered in Euroclear Sweden AB 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. and 16 130 512 of the Company’s R shares were registered in ADR form in Citibank, N.A. Capacities by mill in 2019 Distribution by book-entry system, 31 December 2018 Information for shareholders Number of shares Total A shares R shares Euroclear Finland Oy 684 723 508 165 274 381 519 449 127 Euroclear Sweden AB1 87 765 967 11 038 291 76 727 676 Citi administered ADRs1 16 130 512 16 130 512 Total 788 619 987 176 312 672 612 307 315 1 Shares registered in Euroclear Sweden and ADRs are both nominee registered in Euroclear Finland. Governance 81 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Share capital income investor conferences in Scandinavia, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom and North America. Annual Report 2018 On 31 December 2018, the Company’s fully paid-up share capital entered in the Finnish Trade Register was During the year, the Group arranged seven large group presentations for private investor in Sweden. EUR 1 342 million. The current accountable par of each issued share is EUR 1.70. Stora Enso arranged Capital Markets Day (CMD) on 7 November 2018 in Helsinki with the topic of value creation in the bioeconomy. At the event, the CEO, CFO and all the divisional heads gave their Conversion presentations, followed by break-out sessions providing an opportunity for further discussion with the According to the Articles of Association, holders of Stora Enso A shares may convert these into R shares at management. In addition, there were several demo stations with subject matter experts showcasing any time. The conversion of shares is voluntary. The conversions of a total of 79 648 A shares into R shares innovations within the divisions, including Consumer Board prototypes, ECO RFID tag, Lineo lignin and were recorded in the Finnish Trade Register during the year 2018. virtual forest application. The CMD was followed by a Packaging Solutions site visits at Heinola and Lahti on the following day. Financials Changes in share capital 2010–2018 No. of A shares No. of R shares Total no. of Share capital Shareholdings of other Group-related bodies at 31 December 2018 issued issued shares (EUR million) E.J. Ljungberg’s Education Foundation owned 1 780 540 A shares and 2 336 224 R shares, E.J. Ljungberg’s Stora Enso in 2018 Stora Enso Oyj, 1 Jan 2010 177 152 481 612 386 018 789 538 499 1 342 Foundation owned 39 534 A shares and 101 579 R shares, Mr. and Mrs. Ljungberg’s Testamentary Conversion of A shares into R shares, Foundation owned 5 093 A shares and 13 085 R shares and Bergslaget’s Healthcare Foundation owned Report of the Dec 2009–Nov 2010 -300 300 626 269 A shares and 1 609 483 R shares. Board of Directors Sustainability Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2010 177 149 784 612 388 715 789 538 499 1 342 Conversion of A shares into R shares, Shareholders Consolidated financial Dec 2010–Nov 2011 -1 012 1 012 At the end of 2018 the Company had approximately 94 269 registered shareholders, including about 45 822 statements Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2011 177 148 772 612 389 727 789 538 499 1 342 Swedish shareholders and about 1 189 ADR holders. Each nominee register is entered in the share register Conversion of A shares into R shares, as one shareholder. Dec 2011–Nov 2012 -1 000 1 000 The free float of shares excluding shareholders with holdings of more than 5% of shares or votes Notes to the Consolidated Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2012 177 147 772 612 390 727 789 538 499 1 342 is approximately 599 million shares, which is 76% of the total number of shares issued. The largest financial statements Cancellation of shares owned by the shareholder in the Company is Solidium Oy based in Finland. Company, 15 May 2013 -918 512 788 619 987 Extract from the parent Conversion of A shares into R shares, Major shareholders as at 31 December 2018 company Stora Enso Oyj Dec 2012–Nov 2013 -51 568 51 568 Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2013 177 096 204 611 523 783 788 619 987 1 342 By voting power A shares R shares % of shares % of votes financial statements Conversion of A shares into R shares, 1 Solidium Oy1 62 655 036 21 792 540 10.7% 27.3% Dec 2013–Nov 2014 -40 000 40 000 2 FAM AB2 63 123 386 17 000 000 10.2% 27.3% The Board of Directors’ Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2014 177 056 204 611 563 783 788 619 987 1 342 3 Social Insurance Institution of Finland 23 825 086 973 982 3.1% 10.1% Proposal for the distribution Conversion of A shares into R shares, 4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8 513 018 1 140 874 1.2% 3.6% of dividend Dec 2014–Nov 2015 -524 114 524 114 5 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3 352 286 17 778 548 2.7% 2.2% Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2015 176 532 090 612 087 897 788 619 987 1 342 Auditor’s report 6 MP-Bolagen i Vetlanda AB, Financials Conversion of A shares into R shares, (incl. Stiftelsen Seydlitz Småland) 4 818 000 1 390 000 0.8% 2.1% Dec 2015–Nov 2016 -25 000 25 000 7 Erik Johan Ljungberg's Education Foundation 1 780 540 2 336 224 0.5% 0.8% Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2016 176 507 090 612 112 897 788 619 987 1 342 Conversion of A shares into R shares, 8 Swedbank Robur Funds 10 674 443 1.4% 0.4% Stora Enso as a taxpayer Dec 2016–Nov 2017 -114 770 114 770 9 Bergslaget's Healthcare Foundation 626 269 1 609 483 0.3% 0.3% Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2017 176 392 320 612 227 667 788 619 987 1 342 10 The State Pension Fund of Finland 7 200 000 0.9% 0.3% Capacities by mill in 2019 Conversion of A shares into R shares, 11 Nordea Investment Funds 5 913 015 0.7% 0.2% Dec 2017–Nov 2018 -79 648 79 648 12 Keva (Local Government Pensions Institution) 5 251 101 0.7% 0.2% Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2018 176 312 672 612 307 315 788 619 987 1 342 Information for shareholders 13 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 4 680 000 0.6% 0.2% For more historical data about the share capital, please visit storaenso.com/investors/shares. 14 Unionen (Swedish trade union) 3 477 750 0.4% 0.1% 15 SEB Investment Management 3 157 906 0.4% 0.1% Stora Enso’s activities in capital markets during 2018 Total 168 693 621 104 375 866 34.6%3 75.2%3 Stora Enso’s Investor Relations activities cover equity and fixed-income markets to ensure full and fair valuation Nominee-registered shares 74 382 979 473 956 786 69.5%3 4 51.3%3 4 of the Company, continual access to funding sources and stable bond pricing. Investors and analysts are met 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish State. on a regular basis in Europe and North America. In 2018, the IR team conducted several individual and group 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. meetings with equity investors, whilst maintaining regular contact with equity research analysts at investment 3 As some of the shareholdings on the list are nominee registered, the percentage figures do not add up to 100%. Governance 4 According to Euroclear Finland. banks and brokerage firms. There were also meetings with fixed-income analysts and investors. In addition, Stora Enso arranged a webinar for ESG investors and analysts on its sustainability strategy and activities. The list has been compiled by the Company on the basis of shareholder information obtained from Euroclear Finland, Euroclear Sweden The Group arranged site visits to several mills in Finland, demo plant in Raceland, USA and innovation and a database managed by Citibank, N.A (Citi). This information includes only directly registered holdings, thus certain holdings (which may be substantial) of shares held in nominee or brokerage accounts cannot be included. The list is therefore incomplete. centre in Stockholm. Senior management and IR personnel also gave presentations at equity and fixed82 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Share price performance and volumes Equity per share Distributed dividend Annual Report 2018 EUR EUR million Helsinki 9.0 400 The Stora Enso R (STERV) share price decreased by 24% during 2018 (30% increase in 2017). Over the 8.5 350 same period, the OMX Helsinki Index decreased by 8%, the OMX Helsinki Benchmark Index by 8% and the 8.0 300 OMX Helsinki Basic Materials Index by 23%. 7.5 250 7.0 200 Stockholm 6.5 150 The Stora Enso R (STE R) share price decreased by 20% during 2018 (32% increase in 2017). Over the 6.0 100 Financials same period, the OMX Stockholm 30 Index decreased by 11% and the OMX Stockholm Basic Materials 5.5 5.0 50 0 Index decreased by 25%. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191 Stora Enso in 2018 OTC 1 Board of Director’s proposal to the AGM for the distribution of dividend. Stora Enso ADR (SEOAY) share price decreased by 27% during 2018 (48% increase in 2017). Over the Report of the same period, the Standard & Poor’s Global Timber and Forestry Index decreased by 20%. Board of Directors Sustainability Share prices and volumes 2018 Helsinki, Stora Enso A Helsinki, Stora Enso R Consolidated financial Helsinki, EUR Stockholm, SEK OTC, USD Number of shares, Share price Number of shares, Share price thousand (EUR) million (EUR) statements A share 18.45 189.00 5 800 5 732 138 20 125 20 High R share 18.29 187.50 21.37 5 600 18 18 Notes to the Consolidated 1 600 16 100 16 A share 10.75 111.00 financial statements Low R share 9.92 102.00 11.33 1 400 14 14 A share 11.05 116.00 1 200 12 75 12 Extract from the parent 1 000 10 10 Closing, 31 Dec 2018 R share 10.09 103.40 11.53 company Stora Enso Oyj 800 8 50 8 A share -16% -11% financial statements Change from previous year R share -24% -20% -27% 600 6 6 400 4 25 4 A share 3 067 719 2 161 338 200 2 2 The Board of Directors’ Cumulative trading volume, no. of shares R share 610 300 395 108 920 176 15 012 991 0 0 0 0 Proposal for the distribution 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 of dividend Volume Volume The volume-weighted average price of R shares over the year was EUR 14.61 in Helsinki (EUR 11.54 in Monthly average share price Monthly average share price Auditor’s report 2017), SEK 145.49 in Stockholm (SEK 109.82 in 2017) and USD 17.46 on the OTC in the USA (USD 13.05 in Financials 2017). The percentage of R shares traded was 60.7% (62.5% in 2017) in alternative trading venues, 32.7% Stora Enso in capital markets (29.9% in 2017) in Helsinki, 5.8% (7.4% in 2017) in Stockholm and 0.1% (0.2% in 2017) on the OTC in the USA. Total market capitalisation on the OMX Helsinki at year-end was EUR 8.1 billion (EUR 10.4 billion). Stockholm, Stora Enso R New York, Stora Enso ADR Stora Enso as a taxpayer Number of shares, Share price Number of shares, Share price Alternative trading venues million (SEK) million (USD) Stora Enso shares can be traded outside Nasdaq Helsinki and Nasdaq Stockholm, where the shares are 50 200 5 20 Capacities by mill in 2019 listed. During 2018, the largest alternative trading venues included Cboe APA, Cboe BXE and Cboe CXE. 45 180 18 The alternative trading venues’ market share of monthly turnover in Stora Enso shares varied between 42% 40 160 4 16 Information for shareholders and 68%. Of the alternative trading venues, Cboe APA had the biggest share of the volume with 35% on an 35 140 14 annual basis (Cboe BXE had the biggest share of the volume in 2017 with 29%). 30 120 3 12 25 100 10 20 80 2 8 15 60 6 10 40 1 4 5 20 2 0 0 0 0 Governance 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Volume Volume Monthly average share price Monthly average share price 83 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Stora Enso is included in at least the following indices Stora Enso R Share Annual Report 2018 vs Nasdaq Helsinki indices OMX INDICES STOXX INDICES FTSE INDICES MSCI INDICES SUSTAINABILITY INDICES 1.1.2014 = 100 OMX Helsinki STOXX Global 1800 FTSE RAFI All-World 3000 MSCI Finland CDP's Climate A list 250 OMX Helsinki 25 STOXX Europe 600 FTSE RAFI Developed 1000 MSCI Nordic countries FTSE4 Good Index 200 STOXX® Global ESG Leaders 150 OMX Helsinki Large Cap STOXX Europe Mid 200 FTSE RAFI Developed Europe MSCI Europe Indicies 100 OMX Helsinki Benchmark STOXX Nordic FTSE RAFI Europe MSCI Europe Materials ECPI EMU Ethical Equity index 50 OMX Helsinki Basic Materials EURO STOXX FTSE RAFI Eurozone MSCI World ECPI World ESG Equity Index 0 Financials OMX Helsinki Basic Resources EURO STOXX Basic Materials FTSE Finland 25 Index MSCI World Mid Cap OMX GES Sustainability Finland 2014 2015 2016 2017 Stora Enso (EUR) 2018 Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and PIONEER OMX Helsinki Basic Materials (EUR) Stora Enso in 2018 OMX Helsinki Forestry & Paper EURO STOXX Basic Resources Investment Register OMX Helsinki (EUR) Euronext Vigeo World, Europe and OMX Stockholm Eurozone 120 Report of the OMX Stockholm Benchmark MSCI ESG indices Board of Directors Sustainability OMX Stockholm Large Cap Market capitalisation OMX Stockholm Basic Materials on Nasdaq Helsinki Consolidated financial EUR million OMX Stockholm Basic Resources statements 14 000 OMX Stockholm Forestry & Paper 12 000 OMX Nordic Notes to the Consolidated 10 000 OMX Nordic Large Cap financial statements 8 000 Nasdaq OMX Nordic Materials 6 000 Extract from the parent VINX 30 4 000 VINX Basic Materials 2 000 company Stora Enso Oyj 0 VINX Basic Resources financial statements 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Read more about sustainability indeces in Sustainability 2018. The Board of Directors’ Proposal for the distribution In 2016, Stora Enso shifted its strategy regarding the provision of ESG information to its stakeholders. The emphasis is to keep sustainability information widely available on the Group website to benefit and serve Monthly R shares trading volumes of dividend Number of shares, million different stakeholders in equal manner. As a consequence, Stora Enso simultaneously reduces the number of sustainability index survey questionnaires in which it participates. The Group is targeting its participation 300 Auditor’s report Financials in those questionnaires and enquiries that it has assessed to be the most material. The Company continues 250 with this chosen strategy also in 2019. 200 Stora Enso in capital markets 150 100 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Trading codes and currencies 50 Helsinki Stockholm OTC 0 Capacities by mill in 2019 A share STEAV STE A 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 R share STERV STE R Helsinki Information for shareholders ADRs SEOAY Stockholm Segment Large Cap Large Cap OTC Alternative trading venues Sector Materials Materials Currency EUR SEK USD ISIN, A share FI0009005953 FI0009007603 ISIN, R share FI0009005961 FI0009007611 CUSIP 86210M106 Governance Reuters STERV.HE Bloomberg STERV FH Equity 84 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Key share data 2009–2018, total operations (for calculations see Calculation of Key figures) Annual Report 2018 According to Nasdaq Helsinki 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Earnings per share, EUR 1.28 0.79 0.59 1.02 0.13 -0.07 0.61 0.43 0.97 -1.12 – diluted, EUR 1.28 0.79 0.59 1.02 0.13 -0.07 0.61 0.43 0.97 -1.12 – excl. IAC, EUR 1.29 0.89 0.65 1.24 0.40 0.40 0.33 0.63 0.79 0.19 Equity/share, EUR 8.51 7.62 7.36 6.83 6.43 6.61 7.32 7.45 7.87 6.50 Dividend and distribution/share, EUR 0.50 0.41 0.37 0.33 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.25 0.20 Payout ratio, % 39 52 63 32 231 -429 49 70 26 -18 Financials Dividend and distribution yield, % A share 4.5 3.1 3.56 3.9 4.0 4.1 5.3 5.9 3.2 3.4 Stora Enso in 2018 R share 5.0 3.1 3.62 3.9 4.0 4.1 5.7 6.5 3.3 4.1 Price/earnings ratio (P/E), excl. IAC Report of the A share 8.6 14.8 16.00 6.8 18.7 18.3 17.3 8.0 10.0 30.8 Board of Directors R share 7.82 14.85 15.71 6.8 18.6 18.3 15.9 7.3 9.7 25.7 Sustainability Share prices for the period, EUR Consolidated financial A share statements – closing price 11.05 13.20 10.40 8.40 7.48 7.31 5.70 5.03 7.90 5.85 – average price 16.36 11.93 8.50 8.87 7.29 6.82 6.15 7.73 6.47 5.03 Notes to the Consolidated – high 18.45 13.79 10.45 11.01 8.35 7.49 7.15 9.80 7.94 7.55 financial statements – low 10.75 10.26 6.56 6.70 5.73 5.42 5.10 4.70 5.30 2.82 R share Extract from the parent – closing price 10.09 13.22 10.21 8.39 7.44 7.30 5.25 4.63 7.69 4.88 company Stora Enso Oyj – average price 14.61 11.54 7.88 8.70 7.16 5.79 5.08 6.28 6.03 4.27 financial statements – high 18.29 13.75 10.28 10.95 8.38 7.54 5.95 8.99 7.79 6.16 – low 9.92 9.70 6.50 6.58 5.71 4.76 4.14 3.73 4.15 2.65 The Board of Directors’ Market capitalisation at year-end, EUR million Proposal for the distribution A share 1 948 2 328 1 836 1 483 1 324 1 295 1 010 891 1 400 1 036 of dividend R share 6 175 8 094 6 250 5 135 4 547 4 464 3 212 2 835 4 709 2 989 Total 8 123 10 422 8 085 6 618 5 871 5 756 4 222 3 726 6 109 4 025 Auditor’s report Financials Number of shares at the end of period, (thousands) A share 176 313 176 392 176 507 176 532 177 056 177 096 177 148 177 149 177 150 177 150 Stora Enso in capital markets R share 612 307 612 228 612 113 612 088 611 564 611 524 612 391 612 389 612 389 612 388 Total 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 789 538 789 538 789 538 789 538 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Trading volume, (thousands) A share 3 068 6 768 1 254 1 641 1 553 1 656 831 1 402 1 887 2 536 Capacities by mill in 2019 % of total number of A shares 1.7 3.8 0.7 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.5 0.8 1.1 1.4 R share 610 300 571 717 765 122 798 507 731 067 828 401 977 746 1 237 898 1 194 245 1 297 668 Information for shareholders % of total number of R shares 99.7 93.4 125 130.5 119.5 135.5 159.7 202.1 195.0 211.9 Average number of shares (thousands) basic 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 619 788 620 diluted 789 883 790 024 789 888 789 809 789 210 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 619 788 620 1 Board of Directors' proposal to the AGM for distribution of dividend. IAC = Items affecting comparability Governance Read more about incentive programmes in Note 21 and management interests in Note 7. 85 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Debt investors Rating strategy Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso Group’s target is to have at least one public credit rating with the ambition to be investment Funding strategy grade and sustain such metrics throughout business cycles. The present rating and outlook from Moody’s Stora Enso’s funding strategy is based on the Group’s financial targets. Stora Enso should have access and Fitch Ratings are shown below. to sufficient and competitively priced funding at any time to be able to pursue its strategy and achieve its financial targets. Stora Enso’s debt structure is focused on the capital markets, whereas banks are utilised Ratings as at 31 December 2018 primarily to provide back-up facilities. Stora Enso strives to build confidence and a track record with fixedRating agency Long/short-term rating Valid from income investors by being informative and transparent. Fitch Ratings BBB(stable) 8 August 2018 Funding is obtained in the currencies of the Group’s investments and assets (primarily USD, EUR, SEK Financials and CNY). Commercial paper markets are used for short-term funding and liquidity management. Moody's Baa3 (stable) / P-3 1 November 2018 Debt structure as at 31 December 2018 On 6th of August 2018 Stora Enso signed a new credit rating agreement with Fitch Ratings. Fitch assigned Stora Enso in 2018 Stora Enso Oyj a rating of BBBwith a stable outlook. At the same time Stora Enso terminated its credit EUR USD CNY rating agreement with the rating agency S&P Global Ratings (Standard & Poor’s) and asked S&P to Report of the Public issues EUR 175 million 2019 USD 300 million 2036 withdraw their rating. Rating was removed on 28th of August 2018 and it was BBBwith stable outlook. Board of Directors EUR 300 million 2023 Sustainability On 1st of November 2018, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded Stora Enso Oyj to Baa3 from Ba1 with EUR 300 million 2027 stable outlook. After the upgrade an Investment Grade rating has been received from both Moody’s and Fitch. Consolidated financial EUR 300 million 2028 Stora Enso’s goal is to ensure that rating agencies continue to be comfortable with Stora Enso’s statements Private placements EUR 150 million USD 50 million strategy and performance. The Company’s strategy is to achieve liquidity well in line with the comfort level Financial institutions EUR 361 million​ USD 681 million​ CNY 2 759 million of the agencies. Review meetings are arranged with the Stora Enso management annually, and regular Notes to the Consolidated contact is maintained with the rating analysts. Read more about: Debt and loans in Note 26. financial statements Debt programmes and credit facilities as at 31 December 2018 Extract from the parent EUR SEK company Stora Enso Oyj Commercial paper Finnish Commercial Paper Programme Swedish Commercial Paper programmes EUR 750 million Programme SEK 10 000 million financial statements EMTN (Euro Medium-Term Note programme) EUR 4 000 million The Board of Directors’ EUR 600 million sustainability linked Proposal for the distribution Back-up facility revolving credit facility 20231 of dividend 1 Undrawn committed credit facility EUR 600 million. Part of the pricing for the facility agreement is based on Stora Enso’s Science Based Targets to combat global warming by reducing greenhouse gases, including CO2. Auditor’s report Financials Stora Enso is integrating sustainability agenda to its funding and financial services. The Group has the Stora Enso in capital markets long-term aim to secure funding partners that have sustainability as a fundamental part of their agenda. We aim to influence and develop the financial markets to ensure that sustainability becomes an integral Stora Enso as a taxpayer part of decisions and credit evaluation. For more information, please see Stora Enso’s Sustainability 2018, section Investors or visit our website storaenso.com/investors. Capacities by mill in 2019 Information for shareholders Governance Limited Assurance 86 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso as a taxpayer Strategy Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso’s operations generate value through taxes for governments around the world. Total taxes borne 2018 Total taxes borne 2017 In 2018, Stora Enso paid again more than EUR 1 billion into public sectors, including EUR 787 million in collected taxes. Finland 21% Finland 23% Financials Sweden 34% Sweden 32% Stora Enso aims to be transparent with respect to economic value generation. For this purpose, Stora Enso Germany 3% Germany 4% makes a voluntary commitment to openly provide details of the taxes paid by the group to governments in UK 0% UK 0% e Stora Enso in 2018 its main countries of operation. This commitment to our stakeholders is fully in line with Stora Enso’s values Poland 6% Poland 5% China 11% China 13% rself ‘Do what’s right’ and ‘Lead’. Report of the Austria 5% Austria 6% Belgium 7% Belgium 5% Board of Directors Stora Enso’s tax policy Sustainability Russia 4% Russia 3% As a responsible and prudent taxpayer, Stora Enso is committed to ensure that the Group observes all Brazil 2% Brazil 2% Consolidated financial applicable tax laws, rules and regulations in all jurisdictions where it conducts its business activities. Other 7% Other 7% statements Stora Enso follows international transfer pricing guidelines and local legislation. In addition to legal and regulatory requirements, our tax principles comply with our values. Furthermore, we seek to ensure that Notes to the Consolidated our tax strategy is aligned with our business and commercial strategy. We only undertake tax planning that financial statements is duly aligned to economic activity. This means that all tax decisions are made in response to commercial Total taxes collected 2018 Total taxes collected 2017 activity, and tax is only one of many factors that are taken into account when making business decisions. As with any other business expense, however, we have an obligation to manage our tax costs as Finland 33% Finland 31% Extract from the parent Sweden 21% Sweden 21% part of our financial responsibility to societies and shareholders. We are therefore willing to respond to company Stora Enso Oyj tax incentives and exemptions granted by governments on reasonable grounds, and we currently have Germany 12% Germany 17% financial statements operations in countries that offer favourable tax treatments, where their location is also justified by sound UK 10% UK 9% commercial considerations. Poland 7% Poland 6% The Board of Directors’ Stora Enso has operations in the following locations that offer favourable tax treatments: China 2% China 2% Austria 3% Austria 3% Proposal for the distribution • The joint operation Montes del Plata operates a pulp mill in a Special Economic Zone in Uruguay. Belgium 2% Belgium 2% of dividend • Stora Enso’s two forestry companies in Guangxi, China are entitled to exemption from corporate Russia 2% Russia 1% income tax and value added tax on their sales, and our related industrial company is entitled to reduced Brazil 1% Brazil 2% Auditor’s report tax rates until 2025. Financials Other 7% Other 6% • Stora Enso owned a dormant company in Luxembourg with equity of EUR 2 million. The company was Stora Enso in capital markets liquidated during 2018. • Stora Enso conducts business, mainly consisting of sales services, in the United Arab Emirates, Stora Enso as a taxpayer Singapore and Hong Kong. • For logistical and operational reasons, pulp from the Group’s joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay is Capacities by mill in 2019 traded via a pulp sourcing and marketing company based in the Netherlands. Our commitment to tax transparency is also reflected in our relationships with tax authorities and Information for shareholders governments. We seek to work positively, proactively and openly with tax authorities on a global basis, aiming to minimise disputes and to build confidence wherever possible. Stora Enso’s tax footprint In 2018, Stora Enso paid EUR 1 276 million (2017: EUR 1 236 million) in taxes to governments in countries where the group has operations. A total of EUR 489 (439) million was paid directly by the group (taxes borne) while EUR 787 (797) million was collected on behalf of governments (taxes collected). Governance 87 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Stora Enso as a taxpayer Strategy Taxes paid in major countries of operation Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December Taxes borne Corporate income tax Employment taxes Operational taxes Total EUR million Primary activity 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Finland Production 1 0 90 90 13 13 104 103 Sweden Production and sales 71 45 89 86 7 7 167 138 Financials Germany UK Production and sales Sales -1 0 4 0 12 1 12 1 5 0 4 0 16 1 20 1 Poland Production and sales 17 11 6 5 7 7 30 23 Stora Enso in 2018 China Production and sales 8 17 14 11 29 30 51 58 Austria Production and sales 12 13 13 12 0 0 25 25 Report of the Belgium Production and sales 18 3 10 10 4 7 32 20 Board of Directors Sustainability Russia Production and sales 11 7 3 3 5 5 19 15 Brazil Production 2 3 3 3 3 2 8 8 Consolidated financial Other 13 10 19 16 4 2 36 28 statements Total 152 113 260 249 77 77 489 439 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Year Ended 31 December Taxes collected Total taxes paid Extract from the parent VAT & similar1 Payroll taxes Other taxes Total company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements EUR million Primary activity 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Finland Production 35 35 143 144 78 67 256 246 360 349 The Board of Directors’ Sweden Production and sales 78 77 87 85 0 0 165 162 332 300 Proposal for the distribution Germany Production and sales 69 110 25 26 0 0 94 136 110 156 of dividend UK Sales 79 71 2 2 0 0 81 73 82 74 Poland Production and sales 42 37 10 8 0 0 52 45 82 68 Auditor’s report China Production and sales 8 9 11 11 1 0 20 20 71 78 Financials Austria Production and sales 9 8 16 14 0 0 25 22 50 47 Stora Enso in capital markets Belgium Production and sales 6 7 9 8 0 1 15 16 47 36 Russia Production and sales 11 10 1 2 0 0 12 12 31 27 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Brazil Production 3 3 2 3 6 7 11 13 19 21 Other 34 31 20 18 2 3 56 52 92 80 Capacities by mill in 2019 Total 374 398 326 321 87 78 787 797 1 276 1 236 1 VAT, goods and services taxes and similar turnover related taxes Information for shareholders Stora Enso only paid minor corporate income tax in Finland in 2018 because of tax losses carried Taxes borne include all tax and tax-like payments that Stora Enso has paid as own taxes. Tax-like forward from previous years. The tax losses of EUR 332 million (2017: EUR 573 million) carried forward in payments include other forms of government revenue raised outside of the tax regime, such as payments Finland are the result of several factors including high closure and restructuring costs incurred over the for emission rights or social security payments. past few years. Taxes collected include all tax and tax-like payments that Stora Enso has collected on behalf of the All companies within the scope of Stora Enso’s tax footprint are consolidated or joint operations, government, including e.g. payroll taxes as well as VAT and similar sales-related taxes paid by Stora Enso. which have been consolidated proportionally with Stora Enso’s share amounting to at least 50%. The economic burden for such taxes ends up with the buyer or final consumer. Consolidation includes all companies that have either at least 10 employees or a turnover of EUR 5 Stora Enso’s tax footprint figures also reflect governmental incentives granted in the form of reduced tax Governance million or above. rates or tax exemption, by reporting lower tax payments. However, governmental support is often granted If a Stora Enso company was in a recovery position regarding VAT or energy taxation in a specific in the form of subsidies, particularly in relation to energy consumption or favoured investments, which are country, tax payments for this company have been reported at NIL. not considered in our tax footprint calculations. Unaudited 88 Capacities by mill in 2019 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Capacities by mill in 2019 Strategy Annual Report 2018 Consumer Board Corrugated packaging Grade Capacity million m2 Baltic states Corrugated packaging 143 Consumer board Location Grade Capacity 1 000 t Kaunas Financials Beihai CHN LPB, CKB, FSB, FBB 470 Riga Fors SWE FBB 455 Tallinn Imatra FIN SBS, FBB, LPB, Coated spec. 1 280 Stora Enso in 2018 Ingerois FIN FBB 280 Finland Corrugated packaging 150 Lahti Skoghall SWE LPB, CUK 875 Report of the Kristiinankaupunki Total 3 360 Board of Directors Poland Corrugated packaging 435 Sustainability Łódz Consolidated financial Plastic coating Mosina Beihai CHN Plastic coating 80 statements Ostrołeka Skoghall (Forshaga) SWE Plastic coating 120 Tychy Notes to the Consolidated Imatra FIN Plastic coating 415 Russia Corrugated packaging 365 financial statements Total 615 Arzamas Balabanovo Extract from the parent Balabanovo offset company Stora Enso Oyj Packaging Solutions Lukhovitsy financial statements Sweden Corrugated packaging 275 Containerboards Location Grade Capacity 1 000 t Jönköping The Board of Directors’ Heinola FIN SC fluting 300 Skene Proposal for the distribution Testliner, PfR fluting, sack paper, Vikingstad Ostrołeka POL wrapping paper 723 of dividend Total Corrugated packaging 1 368 Varkaus FIN Kraftliner, white-top kraftliner 390 Total 1 413 Auditor’s report Financials Inpac Location Grade Capacity million pcs Capacity million m2 Stora Enso in capital markets Gaobu, Dongguan CHI Consumer packaging 390 30 Jiashan, Zhejiang CHI Consumer packaging 145 20 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Qian'an, Hebei CHI Consumer packaging 335 25 Wu Jin, Jiangshu¹ CHI Consumer packaging 60 10 Capacities by mill in 2019 Total 930 85 Information for shareholders ¹ New plant, investment on-going Governance 89 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Capacities by mill in 2019 Strategy Biomaterials Lignin Annual Report 2018 Mill Location Grade Division Capacity 1 000 t Mill Location Product Division Capacity 1 000 t Enocell FIN Short and long-fibre Biomaterials 490 Sunila FIN Lignin Biomaterials 50 Short, long-fibre and Total Lignin 50 Skutskär SWE fluff pulp Biomaterials 540 Sunila FIN Long-fibre pulp Biomaterials 375 Montes del Plata Xylose (50% share) URU Short-fibre pulp Biomaterials 730 Mill Location Product Division Capacity 1 000 t Financials Veracel (50% share) BRA Short-fibre pulp Biomaterials 575 Raceland¹ USA Xylose Biomaterials 10 Total 2 710 Total Xylose 10 Stora Enso in 2018 1 Starting up Chemical Pulp Report of the Mill Location Grade Division Capacity 1 000 t Board of Directors Wood Products Sustainability Neutral Sulphite SemiHeinola FIN Chemical Pulp Packaging Solutions 285 Further Consolidated financial Kaukopää, Imatra FIN Short and long-fibre Consumer Board 825 Sawing Processing Pellet statements Nymölla SWE Short and long-fibre Paper 350 Capacity Capacity capacity CLT capacity LVL capacity Mill Location 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 t 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 Ostrołeka POL Long-fibre Packaging Solutions 110 Notes to the Consolidated Oulu FIN Long-fibre Paper 360 Ala SWE 400 50 100 financial statements Alytus LIT 210 115 Skoghall SWE Long-fibre Consumer Board 375 Amsterdam NLD 80 Tainionkoski, Imatra FIN Short and long-fibre Consumer Board 195 Extract from the parent Varkaus FIN Short and long-fibre Packaging Solutions 310 Bad St. Leonhard AUT 360 105 80 company Stora Enso Oyj Veitsiluoto FIN Short and long-fibre Paper 380 Brand AUT 440 295 financial statements Gruvön SWE 370 150 100 25 Chemical Pulp Total (incl. Biomaterials) 5 900 Honkalahti FIN 310 70 The Board of Directors’ of which market pulp1 2 150 Imavere EST 340 160 100 Proposal for the distribution 1 market pulp defined as dried pulp shipped out from the mill to external customers. Impilahti RUS 150 10 25 of dividend Kitee FIN 260 110 25 Launkalne LAT 200 20 Auditor’s report Deinked Pulp (DIP) Murow POL 300 210 Financials Mill Location Grade Division Capacity 1 000 t Nebolchi RUS 180 45 42 Stora Enso in capital markets Hylte SWE DIP Paper 290 Näpi EST 50 180 23 Langerbrugge BEL DIP Paper 680 Pfarrkirchen GER 145 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Maxau GER DIP Paper 295 Planá CZE 390 220 Ostrołeka POL Recycled fibre based pulp Packaging Solutions 615 Uimaharju FIN 240 20 Capacities by mill in 2019 Sachsen GER DIP Paper 430 Varkaus FIN 150 35 75 Total 2 310 Veitsiluoto1 FIN 200 Information for shareholders Ybbs AUT 700 450 100 Zdírec CZE 580 220 80 CTMP Total 5 830 2 690 495 205 75 Mill Location Grade Division Capacity 1 000 t ¹ Veitsiluoto Sawmill belongs to division Paper. Beiha CHN BCTMP Consumer Board 210 Fors SWE CTMP Consumer Board 185 Kaukopää FIN CTMP Consumer Board 220 Governance Skoghall SWE CTMP Consumer Board 270 Total 675 90 Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Capacities by mill in 2019 Strategy Paper Annual Report 2018 Mill Location Grade Capacity 1 000 t Anjala FIN Impr. news, book, LWC 435 Dawang CHN SC 140 Hylte SWE News 480 Kvarnsveden SWE SC, impr. news 565 Langerbrugge BEL SC, news 555 Financials Maxau Nymölla GER SWE SC WFU 530 485 Oulu FIN WFC 1 080 Stora Enso in 2018 Sachsen GER News, impr. news, directory 310 Veitsiluoto FIN LWC, MWC, WFU 790 Report of the Total 5 370 Board of Directors Sustainability Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Abbreviations used in the tables: BCTMP bleached chemi-thermofinancial statements mechanical pulp CKB coated kraft back board Extract from the parent CLT cross-laminated timber company Stora Enso Oyj CTMP chemi-thermo-mechanical pulp financial statements CUK coated unbleached kraftboard DIP deinked pulp The Board of Directors’ FBB folding boxboard Proposal for the distribution LPB liquid packaging board of dividend LVL laminated veneer lumber LWC light-weight coated paper Auditor’s report MWC medium-weight coated paper Financials PfR paper for recycling Stora Enso in capital markets SBS solid bleached sulphate board SC super-calendered paper WFC wood free coated paper Stora Enso as a taxpayer WFU wood free uncoated paper Capacities by mill in 2019 The formula: (Sum of net saleable production of two best consecutive months / Available Information for shareholders time of these two consecutive months) x Available time of the year Governance Unaudited 91 Information for Shareholders Stora Enso 2018: Financials – Information for Shareholders Strategy Annual Report 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM) Information for holders of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) Stora Enso Oyj’s AGM will be held at 16.00 (Finnish time) on Thursday 14 March 2019 at Finlandia Hall, The Stora Enso dividend reinvestment and direct purchase plan is administered by Citibank, N.A. The Mannerheimintie 13 e, Helsinki, Finland. plan makes it easier for existing ADR holders and first-time purchasers of Stora Enso ADRs to increase Financials Nominee-registered shareholders wishing to attend and vote at the AGM must be temporarily registered their investment by reinvesting cash distributions or by making additional cash investments. The plan is in the Company’s register of shareholders on the record date, 4 March 2019. Instructions for submitting intended for US residents only. Further information on the Stora Enso ADR programme is available at notice of attendance will be given in the invitation to the AGM, which can be consulted on the Company’s citi.com/DR. Stora Enso in 2018 website at storaenso.com/agm. Contact information for Stora Enso ADR holders Report of the AGM and dividend in 2019 Citibank Shareholder Services Board of Directors Sustainability 4 March Record date for AGM Computershare 14 March Annual General Meeting (AGM) P.O. Box 43077 Consolidated financial 15 March Ex-dividend date Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3077 statements 18 March Record date for dividend Email: citibank@shareholders-online.com 25 April Dividend payment Notes to the Consolidated Toll-free number: (877)-CITI-ADR Direct dial: (781) 575-4555 financial statements Dividend The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that a dividend of EUR 0.50 per share be paid to the Contacts Extract from the parent shareholders for the fiscal year ending 31 December 2018. The dividend payable on shares registered with Ulla Paajanen company Stora Enso Oyj Euroclear Sweden will be forwarded by Euroclear Sweden AB and paid in Swedish crowns. The dividend SVP, Investor Relations financial statements payable to ADR holders will be forwarded by Citibank, N.A. (Citi) and paid in US dollars. Stora Enso Oyj P.O. Box 309, FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland The Board of Directors’ Publication dates for 2019 Tel. +358 2046 21242, ulla.paajanen@storaenso.com Proposal for the distribution 1 February Financial results for 2018 of dividend Week 7 Annual Report 2018 storaenso.com 25 April Interim Report for January–March group.communications@storaenso.com Auditor’s report 19 July Half-year Report for January–June Financials 29 October Interim Report for January–September Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso as a taxpayer Distribution of financial information Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 consists of four sections: Strategy, Sustainability, Financials and Governance. You can find the highlights of the year and all reports as downloadable PDF files at Capacities by mill in 2019 storaenso.com/annualreport2018. Summary and Governance are available in English, Finnish and Swedish. Strategy, Sustainability and Information for shareholders Financials are available in English. The Official Financial Statements (in Finnish) and English and Swedish translations of the Parent Company Financial Statements, and the list of principal subsidiaries in English can be found on the Company’s website. Interim Reports and Half-year Reports are published in English, Finnish and Swedish at storaenso.com/press. Governance Strategy Annual Report 2018 Governance Governance covers Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso’s governance policy, practices, and actions as well as our remuneration statement. Sustainability Financials Governance Strategy Annual Report 2018 Contents Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018.......................................2 Shareholders’ meetings..........................................................................2 Board of Directors (Board)......................................................................3 Sustainability Board committees...................................................................................7 Management of the Company................................................................8 Internal control and risk management related to financial reporting.................................................................10 Remuneration Statement.................................................................. 11 Decision-making procedure................................................................. 11 Main principles of remuneration........................................................... 11 Remuneration Report 2018................................................................... 13 Members of the Board of Directors.................................................. 15 Members of the Group Leadership Team........................................ 17 Appendix 1............................................................................................20 Financials Governance 2 Corporate Governance Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy Annual Report 2018 in Stora Enso 2018 Governance The duties of the various bodies within Stora Enso Oyj (“Stora Enso” Objectives and composition of governance bodies Chairman, Vice Chairman and the members of the Board of Directors Corporate Governance or the “Company”) are determined by the laws of Finland and by The shareholders exercise their ownership rights through the as well as the Auditor. in Stora Enso 2018 the Company’s corporate governance policy, which complies with shareholders’ meetings. The decision-making bodies with Shareholders may exercise their voting rights and take part in the the Finnish Companies Act and the Finnish Securities Market Act. responsibility for managing the Company are the Board and the CEO. decision-making process of Stora Enso by attending shareholders’ Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability The rules and recommendations of the Nasdaq Helsinki Oy and The Group Leadership Team (GLT) supports the CEO in managing meetings. Shareholders also have the right to ask questions of the Board of Directors (Board) Nasdaq Stockholm AB stock exchanges are also followed, where the Company. Company’s management and Board of Directors at shareholders’ Board committees applicable. The corporate governance policy is approved by the Day-to-day operational responsibility rests with the GLT meetings. Major decisions are taken by the shareholders at Annual Board of Directors (“Board”). members and their operation teams supported by various staff and or Extraordinary General Meetings. At a shareholders’ meeting, each Management of the Company Stora Enso complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance service functions. A share and each ten R shares carry one vote. Internal control and risk management Code issued by the Securities Market Association (the “Code”). The Board of Directors convenes a shareholders’ meeting by related to financial reporting The Code is available at cgfinland.fi. Stora Enso also complies publishing a notice to the meeting at the Company’s website not with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“Swedish Governance bodies more than three (3) months before the last day for advance notice Remuneration Statement Code”), with the exception of the deviations listed in Appendix 1 of attendance mentioned in the notice to the meeting and not less of this Corporate Governance Report. The deviations are due than three weeks before the date of the meeting. In addition, the Decision making procedure to differences between the Swedish and Finnish legislation, Company publishes details on the date and location of the meeting, Main principles of remuneration governance code rules and practices, and in these cases Stora Enso Shareholders’ meeting together with the address of the Company’s website, in at least two Remuneration Report 2018 follows the practice in its domicile. The Swedish Code is issued Shareholders’ Nomination Board Finnish and two Swedish newspapers. Other regulatory notices to the by the Swedish Corporate Governance Board and is available at shareholders are delivered in the same way. Members of the Board corporategovernanceboard.se. The Annual General Meeting is held by the end of June in Helsinki, of Directors This Corporate Governance Report is available as a PDF Board of Directors Finland. The Finnish Companies Act and Stora Enso’s Articles of document at storaenso.com/investors/governance. Association specify in detail that the following matters have to be dealt Financial and Audit Committee – Remuneration Committee with at the AGM: Members of the Group Financials General governance issues – Sustainability and Ethics Committee • presentation and adoption of the annual accounts Leadership Team The Board and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) are responsible for • presentation of the report of the Board of Directors and the the management of the Company. Other governance bodies have an Auditor’s report Appendix 1 CEO assisting and supporting role. • use of the result and distribution of funds to the shareholders The Stora Enso group prepares Consolidated financial statements Ethics and Compliance Management Committee – • resolution concerning discharge of the members of the Board and and Interim Reports conforming to International Financial Reporting Group Leadership Team (GLT) the CEO from liability Standards (IFRS), and publishes Annual Reports as well as Interim • decision on the number and the remuneration of the members of Reports in Finnish, Swedish and English language. Stora Enso Oyj Auditing the Board and the Auditor prepares its Financial statements in accordance with the Finnish • election of the Chairman, Vice Chairman and other members of the Accounting Act. Internal Audit External Audit Board and the Auditor The Company’s head office is in Helsinki, Finland. It also has head • any other matters notified separately in the notice to the meeting. office functions in Stockholm, Sweden. Stora Enso has one statutory auditor elected by the shareholders In addition, the AGM shall take decisions on matters proposed by at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). Shareholders’ meetings the Board of Directors. A shareholder may also propose items for To the maximum extent possible, corporate actions and corporate The Annual General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) is held annually to inclusion in the agenda provided that they are within the authority of records are taken and recorded in English. present detailed information about the Company’s performance and the shareholders’ meeting and the Board of Directors was asked to Governance to deal with matters such as adopting the annual accounts, setting the include the items in the agenda no later than on the date set out by dividend (or distribution of funds) and its payment, and appointing the the Company, which must be not earlier than four weeks before the 3 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy publication of the notice to the meeting and which will be announced Annual Report 2018 at the Company’s website no later than by the end of the financial year In 2018 of the Board of Directors as well as the assessment of each preceding the AGM. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board in 2018 comprised four director’s independence of the Company and of significant An Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders is convened members: Jorma Eloranta (Chairman of the Board), Hans Stråberg shareholders. The Board performance evaluation material has when considered necessary by the Board of Directors or when (Vice Chairman of the Board) and two other members appointed also included a report on Board member interviews by the requested in writing by the Auditor or shareholders together holding by the two largest shareholders, namely Harri Sailas (Solidium Oy) Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Shareholders’ Nomination a minimum of one tenth of all the shares to discuss a specified matter and Marcus Wallenberg (FAM AB). Marcus Wallenberg was elected Board has taken the results of the Board evaluation and the which they have indicated. Chairman of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board. requirements relating to director independence into account in its The main tasks of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board were work. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board further considers the Governance to prepare the proposals for the AGM 2019 concerning Board principles of the Board Diversity Policy in preparing its proposal. members and their remuneration. The Shareholders’ Nomination The Shareholders’ Nomination Board has a charter that defines its Board during its working period 2018–2019 convened three (3) tasks and responsibilities in more detail. Corporate Governance In 2018 times. Each member of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board in Stora Enso 2018 Stora Enso’s AGM was held on 28 March 2018 in Helsinki, attended all the meetings. Jorma Eloranta and Hans Stråberg Remuneration Finland. Of all issued and outstanding shares in the Company have not participated in the preparations or the decision-making No remuneration is paid for members of the Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability a total of 57.8% of all shares (58.7% in 2017) and a total of regarding Board remuneration. Shareholders’ Nomination Board as decided by the AGM. Board of Directors (Board) 71.4% of all votes (80.7%) were represented at the meeting, In its proposal for the AGM 2019, the Shareholders’ The Shareholders’ Nomination Board Charter is presented at Board committees with 78.1% of all A shares (91.6%) and 52.0% of all R shares Nomination Board proposes that of the current members of the storaenso.com/investors/governance. (49.2%) represented. All Board and GLT members as well Board of Directors – Jorma Eloranta, Elisabeth Fleuriot, Hock Management of the Company as the Company’s Auditor were present at the meeting. Goh, Christiane Kuehne, Antti Mäkinen, Richard Nilsson, Göran Composition of the Shareholders' Nomination Board in 2018 Internal control and risk management No Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders were Sandberg and Hans Stråberg be re-elected members of the Board related to financial reporting convened in 2018. of Directors until the end of the following AGM and that Mikko Jorma Eloranta¹, member Hans Stråberg¹, member Helander be elected new member of the Board of Directors for the Remuneration Statement same term of office. It is proposed that Jorma Eloranta be elected Chairman of Stora Enso's Board of Vice Chairman of Stora Enso's Directors Board of Directors Chairman of the Board and Hans Stråberg Vice Chairman of the Decision making procedure Marcus Wallenberg, Chairman Harri Sailas, member Shareholders’ Nomination Board Board. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board also proposes that Main principles of remuneration Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) have established a the annual remuneration for the Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of Stora Enso's Member of Stora Enso's Remuneration Report 2018 Shareholders’ Nomination Board to exist until otherwise decided and to be increased by approximately 9.7 percent, for the Vice Chairman Shareholders' Nomination Board. Shareholders' Nomination Board. annually prepare proposals to the shareholders’ meeting concerning: of the Board of Directors by approximately 5.7 percent and for the Born 1956. B.Sc. (Foreign Service). Born 1951. Econ. Chairman Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of Members of the Board • the number of members of the Board; members of the Board of Directors by approximately 2.7 percent. of FAM AB. Solidium Oy. of Directors • the Chairman, Vice Chairman and other members of the Board; For the purpose of carrying out its tasks, the Shareholders’ 1 Curriculum vitae of Jorma Eloranta and Hans Stråberg, see page 15. • the remuneration for the Chairman, Vice Chairman and members Nomination Board has received the results of the yearly evaluation Members of the Group of the Board; Financials Leadership Team • the remuneration for the Chairman and members of the committees of the Board. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall serve until further carried by all the shares or a shareholder that has the right or the Appendix 1 The AGM has approved the Charter of the Shareholders’ Nomination notice, unless the AGM decides otherwise. Its members are elected obligation to purchase the corresponding number of already issued Board and shall approve any proposed amendments of the Charter, annually and their term of office shall end when new members are shares. The independence is evaluated yearly in accordance with other than technical updates. elected to replace them. recommendation 10 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code of The Shareholder’s Nomination Board according to its Charter 2015. comprises four members: Board of Directors (Board) All directors are required to deal at arm’s length with the • the Chairman of the Board; Stora Enso is managed by the Board acting in accordance with Company and its subsidiaries and to disclose circumstances that • the Vice Chairman of the Board; the Finnish Companies Act, International Corporate Governance might be perceived as a conflict of interest. • two members appointed annually by the two largest shareholders Principles (based on OECD Principles of Corporate Governance of The shareholders at the AGM decide the remuneration of the (one each) as of 31 August. 2015) as well as other applicable legislation. Board members (including the remuneration of the members of the According to the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board Board committees). The Board through its Chairman shall ensure that the annual comprises six to eleven ordinary members appointed by the The Board supervises the operation and management of appointment of the members to the Shareholders’ Nomination shareholders at the AGM for a one-year term. It is the policy of the Stora Enso and decides on significant matters relating to strategy, Board is carried out as set out in the Charter as decided by the AGM. Company that the majority of the directors shall be independent of investments, organisation and finance. Governance The Board Chairman shall annually convene the first meeting of the the Company. In addition, at least two of the directors comprising The Board is responsible for overseeing management and for Shareholders’ Nomination Board, which shall elect its Chairman this majority shall be independent of significant shareholders the proper organisation of the Company’s operations. It is likewise amongst its members that annually are appointed by the Company’s of the Company. A significant shareholder is a shareholder that responsible for overseeing the proper supervision of accounting and two largest shareholders. holds at least 10% of all the Company’s shares or the votes control of financial matters. 4 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy The Board has defined a working order, the principles of which are aim of the Company shall be to strive towards a good and balanced Company. The age of the Board members during 2018 varied from Annual Report 2018 published on page 6 of this report and on the Company’s website. gender distribution. 47 years to 67 years and the Board was composed of three women The AGM elects the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board has taken the principles of and six men. Should the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors the policy into account in its work. The Shareholders’ Nomination The Shareholders’ Nomination Board has in 2018 considered resign or become otherwise unable to act as Chairman or Vice Board finds that the composition of the Board as proposed to its previous evaluation of competencies that may be further Chairman during their term of office, the Board may elect a new the AGM 2019 reflects diversity and a good variety of skills and strengthened in the long term Board succession planning. In its Chairman or Vice Chairman from among its members for the experiences among the Board members following the principles set proposal for the AGM 2019 the Shareholders’ Nomination Board has remaining term of office. out in the Board Diversity Policy except as regards the aim to ensure proposed a Board composition that includes two women and seven The Board yearly agrees on focus areas for the Board’s work a good and balanced gender diversity, which needs to be further men in the age range of 48 years to 68 years and representing a Governance during the upcoming year constituting the Board Agenda. strengthened. total of five different nationalities. The proposed new Board member The Board appoints the CEO, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and The Board has during 2018 been composed of nine members Mikko Helander would bring a strong industrial and operative other GLT members. The Board approves the main organisational representing five different nationalities and a diverse range of competence and experience to the Board and would in the view of Corporate Governance structure of the Company. experience from global companies and industrial sectors. All the Shareholders’ Nomination Board add strong value to the Board in Stora Enso 2018 The Board reviews and determines the remuneration of the CEO, Board members have university degrees from different fields with a as a collective. which is described in the Annual Report and on the Company’s majority in the field of economics and finance in addition to which The aim of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board going forward Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability website. The Board and each of its Committees evaluates its three members hold a doctorate degree. All members have vast is to continuously evaluate the long-term competencies that would Board of Directors (Board) performance annually. The results of the Board’s evaluation experience from global companies either from earlier operative benefit the Board work as well as ensure that a Diversity of Thought Board committees are reviewed by the Board and shall be communicated to the positions or through board memberships. A detailed description is maintained on the Board. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board Shareholders’ Nomination Board, which shall take the results of the of the educational and professional backgrounds of the Board particularly notes that the aim going forward is to strengthen the Management of the Company Board evaluation into account in its work. The Board also reviews the members can be found on pages 15–16. gender distribution of the Board with view of ensuring a good and Internal control and risk management corporate governance policy annually and amends it when required. The Board members represent a good knowledge of the balanced gender distribution in accordance with the Company’s related to financial reporting The Board’s work is supported through its committees – the operational environment of the Company as well as particular Board Diversity Policy. Financial and Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and experience of amongst others sustainability, financial competence The Board Diversity Policy is presented at storaenso.com/ Remuneration Statement the Sustainability and Ethics Committee. Each committee’s chairman and the business environment relevant to the operations of the investors/governance. and members are appointed by the Board annually. Decision making procedure The Board meets at least five times a year. The Board members Main principles of remuneration meet regularly without management in connection with the Remuneration Report 2018 Board meetings. In 2018 Members of the Board Board Diversity Policy The Board had nine members at the end of 2018, all of them (2) improvement of efficiency and productivity and (3) talent of Directors The Company has established a Board Diversity Policy setting independent of the Company. The Board members are also management. Various matters have been discussed, reviewed out the principles concerning the diversity of the Board. independent of significant shareholders of the Company with the and decided in the Board based on the agenda. Further, the Members of the Group The Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall in connection with exception of Richard Nilsson (Investment Manager at FAM AB), CEO has on a monthly basis reported progress on the same Financials Leadership Team preparing its proposals for the nomination of directors to the AGM Göran Sandberg (Executive director of majority shareholders of to the Board. consider the principles of the Company’s Board Diversity Policy. FAM AB) and Antti Mäkinen (CEO of Solidium). The Board has conducted an internal self-evaluation relating Directors shall be nominated on the basis of their merits and with The Board members nominated at the AGM in 2018 were to the Board’s work, which together with the evaluation of Appendix 1 consideration of the benefits of diversity and the principles that the Jorma Eloranta (Chairman), Hans Stråberg (Vice Chairman), the Board members’ independence has been provided to the Company refers to as Diversity of Thought, including but not limited Anne Brunila, Elisabeth Fleuriot, Hock Goh, Christiane Kuehne, Shareholders’ Nomination Board for information. The Board to criteria of diversity such as gender, age, nationality and individual Antti Mäkinen, Richard Nilsson and Göran Sandberg. The Board performance evaluation has also included Board member differences both in professional and personal experiences. The merits convened 11 times during the year. interviews performed by the Board Chairman, the result of which of directors include knowledge of the operational environment of the In its meeting after the AGM on 28 March 2018 the Board has been reported to the Shareholders’ Nomination Board. For Company, its markets and of the industry within which it operates, and discussed focus areas for its work. The Board agreed that these detailed information about the Board members and their share may include elements such as financial, sustainability or other specific areas for the year to come should be (1) acceleration of growth, ownerships, see pages 15−16. competency, geographical representation and business background as required in order to achieve the appropriate balance of diversity, skills, experience and expertise of the Board collectively. The foremost criteria for nominating director candidates shall be the candidates’ skills and experiences, industrial knowledge as well as personal qualities and integrity. The composition of the Board as a whole Governance shall reflect the requirements set by the Company operations and its development stage. The number of directors and the composition of the Board shall be such that they enable the Board to see to its duties efficiently. Both genders shall be represented on the Board and the 5 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy Board skills matrix Annual Report 2018 Other current Name Director since Principal skills Independent of Committee memberships 2018 listed Company Owners FAC SECo RemCo boards Global Business, Business Leadership, Jorma Eloranta 2016 Operative Management, Governance Member Chairman 1 Global Business, Business Leadership, Hans Stråberg 2009 Operative Management, Industry Member 3 Business Leadership, Finance, Governance Anne Brunila 2013 Sustainability, Industry Global Business, Operative Management, Chairman 2 Elisabeth Fleuriot 2013 Business Leadership, Sustainability Member 1 Corporate Governance Global Business, Operative Management, Hock Goh 2012 Business Leadership, Sustainability Member 3 in Stora Enso 2018 Global Business, Operative Management, Christiane Kuehne 2017 Business Leadership Member Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability Finance, Operative Management, Board of Directors (Board) Antti Mäkinen 2018 Governance Member 2 Finance, Industry, Governance, Global Board committees Richard Nilsson 2014 Business Chairman Management of the Company Science and Forestry, Academic, Göran Sandberg 2017 Innovation, Sustainability Member Internal control and risk management related to financial reporting yes no The table sets out the primary skills of each Board member. The fact that an item is not highlighted for a Board member does not mean that such member does not possess that Remuneration Statement qualification or skill. Decision making procedure Main principles of remuneration Remuneration Report 2018 Principal skills Board diversity in figures Members of the Board of Directors Innovation Tenure Gender Age* Science and Forestry Number of persons Number of persons Number of persons Members of the Group Financials Finance 1 1 1 Leadership Team Global Business 3 3 1–2 years 3 6 Male 1 40–50 Sustainability 3–5 years Female 51–60 Operative Management Appendix 1 6–9 years 61–64 Governance ≥10 years >65 Business Leadership Industry *at 31 December 2018 Academic Number of Board members 0 2 4 6 8 2 6 Principal skills Governance 6 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy Working order of the Board Information Matters to be handled at Board meetings Annual Report 2018 The working order describes the working practices of the Board. • the Board shall receive information monthly concerning financial • matters specified by the Finnish Companies Act; A summary of key contents is presented below. performance, the market situation and significant events within the • approval of business strategy; Company’s and the group’s operations; • organisational and personnel matters Board meetings • Board members shall be informed about all significant events –– decisions concerning the basic top management organisation; • occur regularly, at least five times a year, according to a schedule immediately. –– decisions concerning the composition of the GLT; decided in advance; –– remuneration of the CEO; • special Board meetings, if requested by a Board member or the –– appointment and dismissal of the CEO and approval of heads of CEO, be held within 14 days of the date of request; divisions and other senior officers belonging to the GLT; Governance • agenda and material shall be delivered to Board members one –– appointment of Board committees (including chairmen); week before the meeting. • economic and financial matters Corporate Governance –– review of annual budget; in Stora Enso 2018 –– approval of loans and guarantees, excluding intra-group loans The Board of Directors’ and management’s annual working cycle and guarantees; Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability –– report of share repurchases, if any; Board of Directors (Board) –– approval of Group Risk Management Policy according to Board committees Board meeting Ethics and Compliance Financial and Audit Committee’s proposal; Management of the Company SECo, FAC, RemCo Management Committee meeting • investment matters Internal control and risk management Inside Committee meeting Inside Committee meeting –– approval of investment policy of the group; related to financial reporting –– approval of major investments; Board meeting (Full year and –– approval of major divestments; Remuneration Statement Ethics and Compliance Q4 + annual governance update) Management Committee meeting SECo, FAC, RemCo • other matters Decision making procedure Board meeting (Q3) –– report of the CEO on the group’s operations; Main principles of remuneration FAC, RemCo Inside Committee meeting –– reports of the Remuneration Committee, Financial and Audit Remuneration Report 2018 Committee and Sustainability and Ethics Committee by the Inside Committee meeting Annual General Meeting chairmen of the respective committees. The recommendations Members of the Board Q4 Q1 Board meeting and proposals by the Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall be of Directors SECo reported to the Board by the Chairman of the Board. –– approval and regular review of the Corporate Governance policy Members of the Group and the charters of the Board committees; Financials Leadership Team –– annual self-assessment of Board work and performance as well Board meeting (strategy) as independence; Q3 Q2 Appendix 1 SECo, FAC • other matters submitted by a member of the Board or the CEO. Inside Committee meeting Ethics and Compliance Ethics and Compliance Management Committee meeting Management Committee meeting Inside Committee meeting Board meeting (Q2) FAC Board meeting (Q1) Inside Committee meeting SECo, FAC, RemCo Governance Quarterly Monthly SECo = Sustainability and Ethics Committee Meetings with auditors GLT meetings FAC = Financial and Audit Committee Divisional Business and Innovation reviews Investment Working Group meetings RemCo = Remuneration Committee 7 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy Board committees of the Committee presents a report on each Financial and Audit Sustainability and Ethics Committee Annual Report 2018 The tasks and responsibilities of the Board committees are defined in Committee meeting to the Board. The tasks and responsibilities of The Board has a Sustainability and Ethics Committee which is their charters, which are approved by the Board. All the committees the Financial and Audit Committee are defined in its charter, which responsible for overseeing the Company’s sustainability and ethical evaluate their performance annually, are allowed to use external is approved by the Board. Financial and Audit Committee members business conduct, its strive to be a responsible corporate citizen, consultants and experts when necessary and shall have access to all may receive remuneration solely based on their role as directors. and its contribution to sustainable development. The Committee information needed. Each committee’s chairman and members are The compensation is decided by the shareholders at the AGM. regularly reviews Stora Enso’s Sustainability Strategy and Ethics and appointed by the Board annually. Compliance Strategy and, in accordance with Stora Enso’s corporate Remuneration Committee governance structure, oversees their effective implementation as well Financial and Audit Committee The Board has a Remuneration Committee which is responsible as reviews the Company’s external sustainability reporting. In its work Governance The Board has a Financial and Audit Committee to support the Board for recommending and evaluating executive nominations and the Committee takes into consideration Stora Enso’s Purpose and in maintaining the integrity of the Company’s financial reporting and remunerations (including reviewing and recommending the CEO’s Values as well as Code of Conduct and Business Practice Policy. the Board’s control functions. It regularly reviews and monitors the remuneration), evaluating the performance of the CEO, and making The Committee comprises two to four Board members who are Corporate Governance system of internal control and internal audit as well as its efficiency, recommendations to the Board relating to management remuneration nominated annually by the Board. The members are independent of in Stora Enso 2018 management and reporting of financial risks, the audit process and the issues generally, including equity incentive remuneration plans. and not affiliated with Stora Enso. At least one Committee member annual corporate governance statement. It makes recommendations There is a Remuneration Committee representative present at the is expected to have sufficient prior knowledge and experience in Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability regarding the appointment of external auditor for the Parent Company AGM to answer questions relating to the management remuneration. handling responsibility and ethics matters. Board of Directors (Board) and the main subsidiaries and monitors the auditor’s independence. The Board appoints the CEO and approves his/her remuneration as The Committee meets regularly, at least two times a year. Board committees The Committee comprises three to five Board members, who well as the nomination and compensation of other members of the The Chairman of the Committee presents a report on each are independent and not affiliated with the Company. At least one Group Leadership Team (GLT). Sustainability and Ethics Committee meeting to the Board. The tasks Management of the Company Committee member must be a financial expert who has significant The Committee comprises three to four Board members, who are and responsibilities of the Committee are defined in its charter, which Internal control and risk management knowledge and experience in accounting and accounting principles independent and not affiliated with the Company. The Remuneration is approved by the Board. Sustainability and Ethics Committee related to financial reporting applicable to the Company, book-keeping or auditing. The Financial Committee meets regularly, at least once a year. The Chairman of the members may receive remuneration solely based on their role and Audit Committee meets regularly, at least four times a year. Remuneration Committee presents a report on each Remuneration as directors. The compensation is decided by the shareholders Remuneration Statement The Committee members meet the external and internal auditors Committee meeting to the Board. The tasks and responsibilities at the AGM. regularly without the management being present. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee are defined in its charter, which Decision making procedure is approved by the Board. Remuneration Committee members Main principles of remuneration may receive remuneration solely based on their role as directors. Remuneration Report 2018 The compensation is decided by the shareholders at the AGM. In 2018 In 2018 The Sustainability and Ethics Committee comprised three Members of the Board The Financial and Audit Committee comprised four members members in 2018: Anne Brunila (Chairman), Hock Goh and of Directors in 2018: Richard Nilsson (Chairman), Jorma Eloranta, Christiane Göran Sandberg. The Committee convened four times. Kuehne and Antti Mäkinen.1 The Committee convened In 2018 The Committee in each of its meetings reviews the areas Members of the Group six times. The Remuneration Committee comprised three members in relevant for the Committee’s work, including an update on Financials Leadership Team The main task of the Committee is to support the Board in 2018. The members were Jorma Eloranta (Chairman), Elisabeth sustainability matters as well as ethics and compliance matters. maintaining the integrity of Stora Enso’s financial reporting and Fleuriot and Hans Stråberg. The Committee convened The Committee further reviews sustainability and ethics and the Board’s control functions. To fulfil its task the Committee four times. compliance KPI’s, sustainability reporting as well as relevant Appendix 1 regularly reviews the Company’s system of internal control, During 2018 the main tasks of the Committee were to sustainability initiatives and processes carried out during the management and reporting of financial and enterprise risks recommend, evaluate and approve executive nominations and year. An important part of the Committee’s work consists of as well as the audit process. Furthermore, the Committee has remunerations, and to make recommendations to the Board overseeing reported compliance cases. increased its focus on IT security and closely monitors related relating to management remuneration in general, including risks. The Committee further reviews relevant compliance short and long term incentive programmes. In addition the Remuneration related cases that have been reported to Internal Audit and Committee discussed and evaluated the external reporting on Chairman EUR 10 300 and member EUR 6 200 per annum as Ethics and Compliance during the year. executive remuneration. decided by the AGM. The Sustainability and Ethics Committee Charter is Remuneration Remuneration presented at storaenso.com/investors/governance. Chairman EUR 20 600 per annum and member EUR 14 400 per Chairman EUR 10 300 and member EUR 6 200 per annum as annum as decided by the AGM. decided by the AGM. The Financial and Audit Committee Charter is presented at The Remuneration Committee Charter is presented at storaenso.com/investors/governance. storaenso.com/investors/governance. Governance 1 The Committee prior to the AGM on 28 March 2018 comprised the following four members: Richard Nilsson (Chairman), Jorma Eloranta, Christiane Kuehne and Mikael Mäkinen. 8 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy Management of the Company Group Leadership Team Annual Report 2018 Chief Executive Officer (CEO) CEO The CEO is in charge of the day-to-day management of the Company Karl-Henrik Sundström in accordance with the Finnish Companies Act and the instructions and orders issued by the Board. It is the duty of the CEO to ensure that the Company’s accounting principles comply with the law and that CFO, Country Legal, Country financial matters are handled in a reliable manner. Manager Finland Manager Sweden The Board approves the main organisation, including the functions Seppo Parvi Per Lyrvall Governance reporting to the CEO. At the end of 2018 the CEO was directly in charge of the following functions, which also reported to him: • Divisions (Consumer Board, Packaging Solutions, Biomaterials, Corporate Governance Wood Products, and Paper) Communications HR in Stora Enso 2018 • CFO (responsible for Accounting, Controlling, Corporate Finance Ulrika Lilja Malin Bendz and M&A, Efora, Energy Services, Investment Process, Enterprise Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability Risk Management, Internal Audit, Investor Relations, Tax, Treasury) Board of Directors (Board) • IT Board committees • Human resources Sourcing • Legal, General Counsel Sustainability and Logistics Management of the Company • Communications Noel Morrin Johanna Hagelberg Internal control and risk management • Sustainability related to financial reporting • Sourcing and Logistics • CEO Office (responsible for Wood Supply, Group R&D Innovation Remuneration Statement and special strategic projects) Decision making procedure The CEO is also responsible for preparatory work with regard to Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Main principles of remuneration Board meetings. In addition, the CEO supervises decisions regarding Annica Gilles van Markus Jari Kati Remuneration Report 2018 key personnel and other important operational matters. One of the Bresky Nieuwenhuyzen Suominen ter Horst Mannström GLT members acts as deputy to the CEO as defined in the Finnish Members of the Board Companies Act. of Directors Group Leadership Team (GLT) Members of the Group The GLT is chaired by the CEO. The GLT members are appointed by Divisions and other functions Everyday sustainability topics are managed by Group Sustainability Financials Leadership Team the CEO and approved by the Board. At the year end 2018, the twelve The divisions are responsible for their respective line of business and team together with Human Resources, Legal, Wood Supply, and GLT members were the CEO, the CFO, the heads of the divisions, HR, are organised and resourced to deal with all business issues. The CEO Sourcing and Logistics functions, and divisions. Each of business Legal (who is also General Counsel), Communications, Sustainability, steers the divisions through quarterly and as needed Business divisions has its own Head of Sustainability, who reports directly to Appendix 1 and Sourcing and Logistics. Performance Reviews as well as the GLT meetings. the Head of the division. Other key functions, such as Wood Supply The GLT assists the CEO in supervising the Group and divisional Strategic investment projects are approved on group level following and Sourcing and Logistics, have sustainability organisations to performance against agreed targets, portfolio strategy, ensuring the the mandate by the CEO and Board of Directors. Each Division will in support their management teams. The everyday implementation availability and value-creating allocation of Group funds and capital, addition be granted an annual allocation intended for smaller annual of Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda is the responsibility of line and statutory, governance, compliance and listing issues and policies. replacement and development needs in relation to investments. All management supported by functional experts at all levels. Stora Enso’s The GLT meets regularly every month, and as required. projects are reviewed by the Investment Working Group comprising sustainability work is steered by Sustainability Council, which includes group and division representatives and headed by the CFO (also the members from five divisions, Sourcing and Logistics function, and allocation proposals are made by IWG). subject matter experts from Group Sustainability team. It is chaired by In 2018 Innovation is organised and executed within the divisions to drive the EVP, Sustainability. The CEO has the ultimate responsibility for the The GLT had 12 members at the end of 2018. The GLT market and customer focus. The progress of innovation efforts are successful implementation of Stora Enso’s sustainability strategy. convened 12 times during the year. Important items on the evaluated in quarterly Business and Innovation Reviews with the CEO, The Company has user boards for certain cross-functional service agenda in 2018 were safety issues, financial performance, CFO, Head of Group innovation, the division Head and the division functions (Logistics, IT, Energy and parts of Wood Supply). These strategy and transformation, sustainability, customer-driven Innovation Head. Innovation funding is supported from group level by user boards consist of representatives of the divisions using these Governance innovation, reviewing the operations of the Group, planning both the innovation and the digitalisation fund, where divisions make services. The user boards supervise and steer the operations of the and following up investment and other strategic projects, proposals, which are then reviewed and decided by IWG. respective functions. digitalisation, and preparatory work for Board meetings. Sustainability work is led by the Executive Vice President (EVP), The Company has established proper disclosure policies and Sustainability, who reports directly to the CEO and is part of the GLT. controls, and process for quarterly and other ongoing reporting. 9 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy Other supervisory bodies and norms Ethics and Compliance Management Committee Stora Enso’s employees are encouraged to report any suspected Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance Management Committee cases of misconduct or unethical behaviour to their own supervisor, Auditor supervises and monitors legal and regulatory ethics and or to Human Resources or Legal functions. Employees may The AGM annually elects one auditor for Stora Enso. The Financial compliance-related policies, implementation and maintenance also confidentially report their concerns to the Head of Internal and Audit Committee monitors the auditor selection process and of processes and tools regarding the same, and concrete Audit. Stora Enso uses an additional external service through gives its recommendation as to who should serve as auditor to the compliance issues and cases in the field of business practices. which employees globally, and in certain locations also external Board for the purpose of making the proposal to the shareholders at The Ethics and Compliance Management Committee consists of stakeholders, can anonymously report potential non-compliance the AGM. The auditor shall be an authorised public accounting firm, the General Counsel (chairman), CEO, CFO, Head of HR, Head of cases by phone, mail, or online. This service, which covers all of which appoints the responsible auditor. Communications, Head of Sustainability and Head of Internal Audit Stora Enso’s units, is available 24/7. Governance with the Legal Counsel dedicated to compliance matters being the Auditor's fees and services secretary. The Ethics and Compliance Management Committee shall Insider administration convene at least four times every year. The Company complies with EU and Finnish insider regulation as Corporate Governance Year Ended 31 December well as the guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Oy. The Company’s internal in Stora Enso 2018 EUR million 2018 2017 Ethics and Compliance insider guidelines are published and distributed throughout the group. Audit fees 4 4 Stora Enso is committed to taking responsibility for its actions, Stora Enso legal function and the General Counsel is responsible Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability Audit-related to complying with all applicable laws and regulations wherever it for the procedures relating to inside administration, including Board of Directors (Board) Tax fees operates, and to creating and maintaining ethical relationships with its monitoring compliance with applicable regulation, keeping of inside Board committees Other fees 1 1 customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The Stora Enso Code is lists and internal training. The Company has established an Inside Total 5 5 a single set of values defined for all employees, to provide guidance Committee composed of the CEO, CFO as well as representatives Management of the Company on Company’s approach to ethical business practices, environmental of Communications, IR and Legal for the purpose of continuously Internal control and risk management values, and human and labour rights. These same values are applied reviewing pending projects and the existence of inside information in related to financial reporting wherever Stora Enso operates. In 2011 the company established its the Company. In 2018 Business Practice Policy to complement the Code, which further sets The Company expects the management and all its employees Remuneration Statement The Board in 2018 on the recommendation of the Financial and out Stora Enso’s approach to ethical business practices and describes to act in the way required of an insider. All unpublished information Audit Committee proposed that PricewaterhouseCooper Oy the processes for reporting on violations thereof. The Business relating to the Company’s present and future business operations Decision making procedure be elected auditor by the AGM 2018 following a statutory audit Practice Policy was revised in 2016 in order to streamline and simplify shall be kept strictly confidential. Main principles of remuneration tender process conducted in year 2017. The AGM 2018 elected policies and guidelines. Continuous e-learning, communication, Persons discharging managerial responsibilities (PDMR’s) in Remuneration Report 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as auditor for a term of office face-to-face training and sign-off are organised in order to ensure Stora Enso are the members of the Board, the CEO and the CFO, as expiring at the end of the AGM 2019. that these are part of the everyday decision-making and activities well as the members of the Group Leadership Team (GLT). PDMR’s Members of the Board at Stora Enso. as well as their closely related persons are subject to a duty to notify of Directors Stora Enso uses an index to monitor and evaluate employee the Company and the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority of all perceptions of the work on topics covered by the Stora Enso Code. transactions with the securities of the Company. Members of the Group Internal Audit The index is based on employee responses to related questions The Company also keeps a list of persons that are involved in the Financials Leadership Team Stora Enso has a separate internal auditing organisation. The role in the annual employee survey. In 2018, this index improved to 85 preparation of interim reports and financial results, which is approved of Internal Audit is to provide independent, objective assurance (83 in 2017). The goal is to maintain this positive trend. By the end by the General Counsel (Closed Period List). Persons included in the and consulting services that add value and improve the Group’s of 2018, 20 930 Stora Enso employees had received training on list are e.g. members of the Division management teams, members Appendix 1 operations. Internal Audit helps the group to accomplish its objectives the Code. of Financial Communications and Investor Relations as well as the by providing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and In order to enhance the supervision and monitoring of legal and heads and certain team members of Treasury, Group Accounting and improve the effectiveness of internal control, risk management and regulatory compliance related policies and issues, Stora Enso has Controlling and Legal. governance processes. established its Ethics and Compliance Management Committee. Persons, who participate in the development and preparation of To ensure the independence of the Internal Audit department, In addition, Compliance Forums, comprising of heads of key a project that constitutes inside information, are considered project its personnel reports to the Head of Internal Audit, who functions, in divisions, group functions and Chinese operations specific insiders. A separate project-specific insider register is reports functionally to the Financial and Audit Committee, and play an important role in risk assessing and monitoring compliance established when required by the decision of the General Counsel or administratively to the CFO. The Financial and Audit Committee within their respective areas. The Compliance Forums use The Assistant General Counsel. approves the appointment of the head of Internal Audit following Ethics and Compliance Self-Assesment Tool (T.E.S.T.) to give The insider guidelines do not permit Stora Enso PDMR’s or persons the recommendation by the CEO. them a better overview of the progress their units are making in involved in the preparation of interim reports or financial results and Internal Audit conducts regular audits at mills, subsidiaries and policy implementation, compliance measures taken, and possible entered into the Closed Period List to buy or sell any of the Company’s other Company units, implementing a risk based annual audit plan gaps and risks in compliance. Results of the T.E.S.T. are covered securities (i.e.shares, options and synthetic options) during the closed approved by the Financial and Audit Committee, including any special in Compliance Forums and action plans developed and followed period defined below or when they possess information that could have Governance tasks or projects requested by management and the Financial and up on accordingly. a material impact on the Stora Enso share price. Audit Committee. 10 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Strategy Closed period Risk assessment continuously at various levels. Information on the development of Annual Report 2018 Stora Enso closed period starts when the reporting period ends or 30 Stora Enso’s management specifies objectives relating to the essential risk areas and executed and planned activities in these areas days prior to the announcement of the results, whichever is earlier and preparation of financial statements. The company applies an annual are regularly communicated to the Financial and Audit Committee. lasts until the results are announced. The dates are published in the process to establish the overall materiality and to identify significant Monitoring involves both formal and informal procedures applied financial calendar at storaenso.com/investors. financial statements accounts and disclosures. Relevant objectives by management and processes owners, including reviews of results During closed periods Stora Enso PDMR’s or persons entered and risks for processes are identified and evaluated to determine which are compared against the set budgets and plans, analytical into the Company’s Closed Period List are not allowed to trade in Stora Enso’s minimum internal control requirements for all business procedures and key performance indicators. In 2017 Stora Enso Company securities. units and support functions. The assessment of risks includes has taken into use internal control tool to facilitate and automate risks related to fraud and irregularities as well as the risk of loss or internal control processes, control performance, continuous controls Governance Internal control and risk management the misappropriation of assets. Information on the development of monitoring and quarterly internal control reporting to management. related to financial reporting essential risk areas and executed and planned activities in these areas Stora Enso has a separate internal auditing organisation are regularly communicated to the Financial and Audit Committee. which in addition to the Group Internal Control function monitors Corporate Governance Internal control over financial reporting A comprehensive description of Stora Enso’s risk management can be independently the design and operating effectiveness of internal in Stora Enso 2018 The system of internal control related to financial reporting in the found at storaenso.com/investors. controls over financial reporting. The role, responsibilities and Stora Enso group is based upon the framework issued by the organisation of Internal Audit are described under Other Supervisory Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability Committee of Sponsoring Organisations (COSO) and comprises five Control activities Bodies and Norms. Board of Directors (Board) principal components of internal control: the control environment, Stora Enso’s control activities are the policies, procedures and Board committees risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, organisational structures in place to ensure that management and monitoring. directives are carried out and that necessary action is taken to address Management of the Company The internal controls related to financial reporting are designed risks related to the achievement of objectives relating to financial Internal control and risk management to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting. Stora Enso’s minimum internal control requirements are related to financial reporting reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance aimed at preventing, detecting and correcting material accounting with applicable laws and regulations, generally accepted accounting and disclosure errors and irregularities and are performed on all Remuneration Statement principles and other requirements for listed companies. company levels. They include a range of activities such as approvals, authorisations, verifications, reconciliations, reviews of operating Decision making procedure Control environment performance, the security of assets and the separation of duties as Main principles of remuneration Stora Enso’s control environment sets the tone of the organisation well as general computer controls. Remuneration Report 2018 providing the company purpose and values, policies, processes and structures as a foundation for carrying out internal control across the Information and communication Members of the Board organisation. Stora Enso has a formal Code that sets forth its rules. The Company’s information and communication channels support the of Directors To complement the Code, Stora Enso has a Business Practice Policy, completeness and correctness of financial reporting. For example, which further sets out Company’s approach to ethical business the management communicates information about Stora Enso’s Members of the Group practices and describes the processes for reporting on violations financial reporting objectives, financial control requirements, policies Financials Leadership Team thereof. All employees are expected to comply with the Code and the and procedures regarding accounting and financial reporting to Business Practice Policy. Continuous e-learning, face-to-face training all employees concerned. The management also communicates and sign-off are organised in order to ensure that these are part of the regular updates and briefings regarding changes in accounting Appendix 1 everyday decision-making and activities at Stora Enso. policies and reporting and disclosure requirements. Subsidiaries and The Board, supported by the Financial and Audit Committee, operational units make regular financial and management reports to has the overall responsibility for setting up an effective system of the management, including the analysis of and comments on financial internal control and risk management. Responsibility for maintaining performance and risks. The Board receives monthly financial reports. effective risk management and internal controls over financial The Company has internal and external procedures for anonymous reporting is delegated to the CEO. The GLT and senior management reporting of violations related to accounting, internal controls and issue corporate guidelines in accordance with Stora Enso’s policy auditing matters. management process. These guidelines stipulate responsibilities and authority and constitute the control environment for specific areas, Monitoring such as finance, accounting, investments, purchasing and sales. These The Company’s financial performance is reviewed at each Board responsibilities have been described in Stora Enso’s Risk and Control meeting. The Financial and Audit Committee reviews all Interim Policy which also outlines the responsibilities of the first and second Reports and the Board approves them before they are released by line of defense. Group Internal Control function, under the CFO’s the CEO. The annual financial statements and the Report of the Board Governance supervision, is responsible for group-wide internal control governance of Directors are reviewed by the Financial and Audit Committee and processes, whereas divisions, various support and service and approved by the Board. The effectiveness of the process for functions are accountable for operating effective internal controls. assessing risks and the execution of control activities are monitored 11 Remuneration Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Remuneration Statement Strategy Annual Report 2018 Statement Governance This Remuneration statement describes Stora Enso’s main principles Remuneration decision-making procedure Main principles of remuneration of remuneration and the remuneration paid to members of the Board Corporate Governance of Directors, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and other members Stora Enso remuneration principles – general overview in Stora Enso 2018 of the Group Leadership Team (GLT). The first part of this report Stora Enso aims to provide a level of remuneration that motivates, describes Stora Enso’s remuneration decision-making procedure and The Shareholders’ Nomination Board encourages, attracts and retains employees of the highest calibre. Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability remuneration policy. The second part describes the implementation in Prepares proposal on Board and To maximise the effectiveness of the remuneration policy, careful Board of Directors (Board) 2018 (Remuneration Report). committee remuneration consideration will be given to aligning the remuneration package with Board committees The Remuneration statement has been prepared in accordance shareholder interests and best market practice. with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). The Code A fundamental element in the remuneration principles is the Management of the Company is available at cgfinland.fi. Stora Enso also complies with the Swedish concept of pay-for-performance, and an important aspect of Internal control and risk management Corporate Governance Code (“Swedish Code”), with the exception Stora Enso’s approach to remuneration is to look at the total Annual General Meeting related to financial reporting of the deviations listed in Appendix 1 of the Corporate Governance remuneration provided to employees. Stora Enso’s total remuneration Report. The deviations are due to differences between the Swedish Decides on the Board and committee remuneration mix consists of: Remuneration Statement and Finnish legislation, governance code rules and practices, • annual fixed salary and in these cases Stora Enso follows the practice in its domicile. • variable pay components as short-term incentives (cash) and Decision making procedure The Swedish Code is issued by the Swedish Corporate Governance longterm incentives (shares when applicable) Main principles of remuneration Board and is available at corporategovernanceboard.se. • long-term employee benefits (pension, medical and health Remuneration Report 2018 Board of Remuneration benefits) Decision-making procedure Directors Committee • other benefits (car, housing, etc. when applicable) Members of the Board The shareholders at the AGM decide annually on the remuneration Decides on the CEO’s and Prepares remuneration of Directors of the Board members (including the remuneration of the members GLT members’ remuneration related matters and Regular external benchmarking is crucial to ensure that compensation of Board committees). The proposals for the AGM concerning proposals for the Board levels are competitive with the external marketplace. The marketplace Members of the Group the remuneration for the Chairman, Vice Chairman and members Approves Company’s is defined as those peer companies with whom Stora Enso competes Financials and reviews the Company’s Leadership Team of the Board as well as the remuneration for the Chairman and compensation and other compensation structure for recruiting talents and retention of current employees for similar members of the committees of the Board are prepared by the benefit plans positions. The market will vary depending on functional area and level Company’s Shareholders’ Nomination Board, which is composed of the positions concerned. Appendix 1 of representatives of the main shareholders of the Company as well Compensation review is an annual process with the aim to ensure as Board member representatives and described in more detail on that Stora Enso employees are being rewarded in accordance with our page 3 of the Corporate Governance Report. Remuneration Policy and local regulations, such as labour laws and The Board appoints the CEO and approves his/her remuneration CEO collective agreements. as well as the compensation of other GLT members. The Board’s The GLT annually reviews the performance and potential ratings, Remuneration Committee prepares remuneration related matters and as well as the succession planning of its top management in order to proposals for the Board and is further responsible for ensuring that secure global principles with local applications. management compensation policies are aligned with the Company’s Other Group Leadership objectives and shareholder interest. Team members Governance 12 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Remuneration Statement Strategy Board member remuneration principles Share-based compensation plan Annual Report 2018 Remuneration of the Board of Directors is decided annually by the shareholders at the AGM. The AGM in 2018 resolved in accordance with the proposal of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board that the members of the Board of Directors be paid the following annual remuneration for their term of office expiring at the end of LTI 2016 Vesting period the AGM 2019: • for the Chairman of the Board of Directors EUR 175 000 • for the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors EUR 103 000, and LTI 2017 Vesting period Governance • for other members of the Board of Directors EUR 72 000 each. The Board members shall use approximately 40% of their annual LTI 2018 Vesting period Corporate Governance Board member remuneration to purchase Stora Enso’s R shares from in Stora Enso 2018 the public market and the purchases shall be carried out during the two weeks following the AGM. The Company has no formal policy STI Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability requirements for the Board members to retain shares received as Board of Directors (Board) remuneration. In addition, the AGM decided that the following annual 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Board committees remuneration be paid to the members of the Board Committees: • for the Chairman of the Financial and Audit Committee Management of the Company EUR 20 600, and * Date of grant 1 March Yearly STI programme LTI Long term incentive STI Short term incentive Internal control and risk management • for the members of the Financial and Audit Committee related to financial reporting EUR 14 400 each, • for the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee EUR 10 300, and Remuneration Statement • for the members of the Remuneration Committee EUR 6 200 each, • for the Chairman of the Sustainability and Ethics Committee 2018 CEO remuneration 2018 GLT remuneration, other than CEO Decision making procedure EUR 10 300, and Main principles of remuneration • for the members of the Sustainability and Ethics Committee Annual salary EUR 905 000 in 2018. Annual salary GLT members receive a monthly salary. In total for all Remuneration Report 2018 EUR 6 200 each. GLT members EUR 3 589 000 in 2018. Short-term The CEO is entitled to a STI programme decided by the Short-term GLT members are eligible for STI with up to a maximum Members of the Board CEO remuneration principles incentive Board each year giving a maximum of 75% of annual incentive of 50% or 60% of their annual fixed salary, payable the fixed salary. year after the performance period. of Directors The CEO has been employed by Stora Enso since 1 August 2012 Long-term Outstanding LTI programmes include the yearly Long-term Outstanding LTI programmes include the yearly and assumed the position as CEO on 1 August 2014. He has a notice incentive programmes of 2016, 2017 and 2018. The CEO has incentive programmes of 2016, 2017 and 2018. The GLT members Members of the Group period of six months with a severance payment of twelve months the potential to receive a maximum of 65 762 shares can potentially receive total of maximum 211 410 Financials salary on termination by the company but with no contractual before taxes in the 2018 programmes that will be shares before taxes in the 2018 programmes that will be Leadership Team settled 2021. settled 2021. payments on any change of control. The CEO’s benefits include pension provisions. The CEO’s pension plan consists of collectively Other benefits Benefits include mobile phone and insurance. Other benefits Benefits include mobile phones, cars and insurances. Appendix 1 Pension Retirement age is 65. Pension plan consists of Pension GLT members may retire at 65 years of age with agreed pension plan in Sweden (ITP2) and a defined contribution (DC) collectively agreed pension plan in Sweden (ITP2) and pensions consistent with local practices in their top up pension plan. Contributions to the DC plan in the interval 20–30 a defined contribution (DC) top up pension plan. respective home countries. Income Base Amounts (IBA; one IBA was 62 500 SEK in 2018) is 23%, Termination of Notice period of six months with a severance payment Termination of Contracts of employment provide for notice of contributions above 30 IBA is 35% for the salary the CEO had prior assignment of twelve months salary on termination by the company assignment six months prior to termination with severance to assuming this position and 39% on the salary increase amount but with no contractual payments on any change compensation of twelve months’ basic salary if received when assuming the position as CEO. The retirement age is of control. the termination is at the Company’s request. sixty-five years. Short Term Incentive (STI) programme for CEO The CEO is entitled to a STI programme decided by the Board each year giving a maximum of 75% of annual fixed salary. The STI for one portion after three years. Three quarters (75%) of the opportunity GLT remuneration principles 2017 and 2018 was based 70% on financial measures and 30% on in the 2016 and 2017 programmes is in Performance Shares, where GLT members in Stora Enso receive a monthly salary, which in Individual Key Targets. shares will vest in accordance with performance criteria proposed by addition to a salary payment includes customary fringe benefits, such Governance the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. as mobile phones and cars. GLT members further have the possibility Long Term Incentive (LTI) programmes for CEO One quarter (25%) of the opportunity is in Restricted Shares, for which to receive yearly awards in the Company’s short term and long term The CEO participates in 2016, 2017 and 2018 share based LTI vesting is only subject to continued employment. The opportunity incentive programmes for management. programmes. The programmes have three year targets and vest in under the 2018 programme is in Performance Shares only. 13 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Remuneration Statement Strategy In accordance with their respective pension arrangements, GLT GLT remuneration excluding CEO Group Leadership Team Remuneration table refer to individuals who Annual Report 2018 members may retire at sixty-five years of age with pensions consistent The total compensation for the GLT members excluding CEO in 2018 were executives at the time of settlement. with local practices in their respective home countries. Contracts amounted to EUR 9 259 000 including annual salary, customary fringe During the year, the number of shares settled for executives of employment provide for notice of six months prior to termination benefits (such as mobile phone) STI and LTI programmes, and pension (GLT members at settlement date) from previous awards amounted to with severance compensation of twelve months basic salary if the costs. The total number of GLT members was 12 at year end 2018, 168 179, having a cash value at the 1 March 2018 settlement date of termination is at the Company’s request. including also the CEO. EUR 2 451 209 before taxes based on the share price at that date. Under the 2018 LTI programme, GLT members (in GLT at year Short Term Incentive (STI) programmes end) can potentially receive a value corresponding to 211 410 shares for the GLT other than the CEO before taxes, assuming the maximum vesting level during the threeGovernance GLT members have STI programmes with up to a maximum 50% year vesting period (2018–2020) is achieved. Total number of or 60% of their annual fixed salary, payable the year after the shares actually transferred will be lower because a portion of shares Board Remuneration performance period. 70% of the STI for 2017 and 2018 was based on corresponding to the tax obligation will be withheld to cover the Year Ended 31 December Corporate Governance financial measures and 30% on Individual Key Targets. income tax. EUR 20181 2017 in Stora Enso 2018 The financial performance metrics in the STI programme are The fair value of employee services received in exchange for Chairman 175 000 170 000 EBITDA and Working Capital Ratio. The Individual Targets are based share based compensation payments is accounted for in a manner Vice Chairman 103 000 100 000 Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability on a balanced scorecard approach within the categories of Customer, that is consistent with the method of settlement either as cashBoard Member 72 000 70 000 Board of Directors (Board) People, Sustainability and Special Projects. settled or equity settled as described in more detail in Note 21 of the Financials 2018. For the equity settled part, it is possible that the 1 40% of the Board remuneration in 2018 was paid in Stora Enso R shares purchased Board committees from the market and distributed as follows: to Chairman 4 221 R shares, Vice Chairman Long Term Incentive (LTI) programmes actual cash cost does not agree with the accounting charges as the 2 484 R shares, and members 1 737 R shares each. The Company has no formal policy Management of the Company for GLT other than the CEO share price is not updated at the time of the vesting. The figures in the requirements for the Board members to retain shares received as remuneration. Internal control and risk management The LTI programmes have three-year targets and vest in one portion related to financial reporting after three years.The absolute maximum vesting level is 100% of the number of shares granted. The opportunity under the 2018 Remuneration Statement programme is in Performance Shares, where the shares vest in accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration Decision making procedure Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Main principles of remuneration The financial success metric in the Performance Share programme Remuneration Report 2018 is 3-year EVA (Economic Value Added) and EPS (Earnings per Share) for the Stora Enso Group. Members of the Board Board and Committee remuneration of Directors Year Ended 31 December Remuneration Report 2018 2018 2017 Members of the Group Value of Financials Leadership Team Board remuneration in 2018 EUR thousand (before taxes) Cash Shares Total Total Committee memberships In 2018, the Board members of Stora Enso were compensated as set Board Members at 31 December 2018 out in the following chart. Based on the decision of the AGM 2018, 40% Jorma Eloranta, Chairman 130 70 200 194 Remuneration, Nomination 2,3, Financial and Audit Appendix 1 Hans Stråberg, Vice Chairman 68 41 109 106 Remuneration, Nomination 2,3 of the Board remuneration was paid in Stora Enso R shares purchased from the market. In addition, Board members may receive a yearly Anne Brunila 54 29 82 80 Sustainability and Ethics compensation based on their positions as Chairman or members of Elisabeth Fleuriot 49 29 78 76 Remuneration Board committees. Hock Goh 49 29 78 76 Sustainability and Ethics Christiane Kuehne 58 29 86 84 Financial and Audit CEO remuneration Antti Mäkinen 58 29 86 0 Financial and Audit The total compensation for the CEO in 2018 amounted to Richard Nilsson 64 29 93 90 Financial and Audit EUR 2 925 000, including annual salary, customary fringe benefits Göran Sandberg 49 29 78 76 Sustainability and Ethics (such as mobile phone) STI and LTI programmes, and pension costs. Former Board members The CEO has the potential to receive a value corresponding Mikael Mäkinen (until 28 March 2018) 84 to a maximum of 65 762 shares before taxes under the 2018 LTI Total Remuneration as Directors1 578 313 891 866 programme. The grant value EUR 958 481 is based on the share price 1 40% of the Board remuneration in 2018 was paid in Stora Enso R shares purchased from the market and distributed as follows: to Chairman 4 221 R shares, Vice Chairman 2 484 at grant date and assuming the maximum vesting level during the Governance R shares, and members 1 737 R shares each. The Company has no formal policy requirements for the Board members to retain shares received as remuneration. three-year vesting period is achieved. The shares received by the CEO ² Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) have established a Shareholders’ Nomination Board to exist until otherwise decided. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board from previous awards amounted to 59 522 shares having a cash value according to its Charter as approved by the AGM comprises of four members: the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, as well as two members appointed by the two largest shareholders (one each) as of 31 August each year. at the 1 March 2018 settlement date of EUR 867 553 based on the ³ Marcus Wallenberg appointed by FAM AB is Chairman of the Nomination Board. Harri Sailas is the member of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board appointed by Solidium Oy. Jorma share price of EUR 14.58 at that date. Eloranta and Hans Stråberg were appointed as members of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board in their roles as Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. 14 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Remuneration Statement Strategy The aggregate remuneration paid to the CEO and GLT members in 2018 Annual Report 2018 Year Ended 31 December 2018 2017 EUR thousand CEO Others GLT Total CEO Others GLT Total Remuneration Annual salary 905 3 589 4 494 913 3 583 4 496 Local housing (actual costs) 22 22 70 70 Other benefits 20 385 405 20 610 630 Governance Termination benefits 531 531 Short Term Incentive programme 611 1 089 1 700 532 643 1 175 Corporate Governance Long Term Incentive programme1 845 2 431 3 276 549 1 403 1 952 in Stora Enso 2018 2 381 7 516 9 897 2 014 6 840 8 854 Pension Costs Shareholders’ meetings Mandatory plans 66 1 296 1 362 69 1 029 1 098 Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Stora Enso voluntary plans2 478 447 925 555 544 1 099 Board committees 544 1 743 2 287 624 1 403 2 197 Management of the Company Total Compensation 2 925 9 259 12 184 2 638 6 840 11 051 Internal control and risk management 1 The 2018 amounts relate to the vesting of programme started in 2015 and ended on 31 December 2017. The 2017 amounts relate to the vesting of programme started in 2014 and ended on 31 December 2016. 2 The CEO participates in the Swedish Executive Pension Plan where pension accruals are unfunded for all participants, the liability is calculated and insured in accordance with Swedish legislation. The unfunded liability for the CEO amounts to EUR 2 483 thousand. related to financial reporting Remuneration Statement Decision making procedure Main principles of remuneration CEO and GLT share interests Remuneration Report 2018 Stora Enso recommends and expects GLT members to hold Stora Enso shares at a value corresponding to at least one annual base salary. Stora Enso shares received as remuneration are therefore recommended not to be sold until this level has been reached. Stora Enso GLT members, including the CEO, held on 31 December 2018 shares in the Company as follows: Members of the Board of Directors Performance share Restricted share Executives in office at the year end R Shares held1 opportunity 2018–20202 opportunity 2018–20202 Members of the Group Johanna Hagelberg 11 258 45 339 9 899 Financials Leadership Team Kati ter Horst 30 318 71 660 15 763 Malin Bendz 17 422 33 686 6 289 Appendix 1 Ulrika Lilja 21 534 39 681 8 693 Annica Bresky 0 49 401 8 397 Per Lyrvall3 53 245 57 330 12 601 Markus Mannström 32 350 40 803 7 057 Noel Morrin 26 588 48 665 11 095 Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen 11 308 77 367 17 145 Seppo Parvi 25 585 57 429 12 497 Karl-Henrik Sundström4 143 505 185 912 40 050 Jari Suominen 31 553 54 349 11 995 Total, Serving Officers 404 666 761 622 161 481 1 None of the GLT members holds A shares. Governance 2 Potential shares to GLT members listed here are gross of taxes. 3 In addition, spouse holds 1 257 shares. 4 41 700 of the shares are held by a related party (Alma Patria AB). 15 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Members of the Board of Directors Strategy Members of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Shareholders’ meetings Jorma Eloranta Hans Stråberg Anne Brunila Elisabeth Fleuriot Hock Goh Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Born 1951. M.Sc. (Tech), D. Sc. (Tech) h.c. Born 1957. M.Sc. (Eng.). Born 1957. D.Sc. (Econ.). Born 1956. M.Sc. (Econ.). Born 1955. B. Eng (Hons) in Mechanical Engineering. Board committees Position Position Position Position Management of the Company Chairman of Stora Enso’s Board of Directors Vice Chairman of Stora Enso’s Board of Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Directors Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Directors Position since April 2017, Vice Chairman April Directors since April 2017 and member since April 2013. Chairman of the Sustainability since April 2013. Member of the Remuneration Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Directors Internal control and risk management 2016–April 2017. Member of Shareholders’ since April 2009. Member of Shareholders’ and Ethics Committee since April 2013. Committee since April 2017. since April 2012. Member of the Sustainability related to financial reporting Nomination Board since April 2016. Chairman Nomination Board since April 2017. Member and Ethics Committee since April 2017. of the Remuneration Committee since April of the Remuneration Committee since Board memberships Board memberships Remuneration Statement 2017 and member since April 2016. Member March 2010. Member of the Board of Kone Plc and Board member and Chairman of CSR Board memberships of the Financial and Audit Committee since Sanoma Plc. Committee at G4S since July 2018. Chairman of the Board of Advent Energy Decision making procedure April 2017. Board memberships Limited. Member of the Board of AB SKF, Main principles of remuneration Chairman of the Board of Atlas Copco AB, Principal work experience Principal work experience Santos Australia and Vesuvius Plc. Board memberships Roxtec AB, CTEK Holding AB, Nikkarit Holding and other information and other information Remuneration Report 2018 Chairman of the Board of Finnish Fair AB and AB SKF. Vice Chairman of the Board of Professor in Hanken School of Economics President and CEO of Thai Union Europe Africa Principal work experience Foundation. Member of the Board of Cargotec. Orchid First Holding AB. Member of the Board 2014–2018. Executive Vice President, 2013–2017. Senior Vice President, Emerging and other information Members of the Board Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board in of Investor AB, N Holding AB, Mellby Gård AB Corporate Relations and Strategy and Markets and Regional Vice President, France, Operating Partner of Baird Capital Partners of Directors Finnish Naval Foundation. Chair of the Board and Hedson Technologies International AB. Member of the Management Team of Fortum Benelux, Russia and Turkey, in Kellogg Asia 2005–2012. Several senior management and CEO of Pienelo Ltd. 2009–2012. President and CEO of the Finnish Company 2001–2013. General Manager, positions in Schlumberger Limited, the leading Members of the Group Financials Principal work experience Forest Industries Federation 2006–2009. Europe, in Yoplait, Sodiaal Group 1998–2001. oilfield services provider, in 1995–2005. Leadership Team Principal work experience and other information Director General in the Finnish Ministry of Several management positions in Danone and other information President and CEO of AB Electrolux Finance 2003–2005 and several positions in the Group 1979–1997. President and CEO of Metso 2004–2011, 2002–2010. Several management positions at Bank of Finland 1992–2000 and the European Total remuneration 78 200 Appendix 1 President and CEO of Kvaerner Masa-Yards Electrolux in Sweden and the USA 1983–2002. Commission 2000–2002. 2018, EUR1 Total remuneration 78 200 Meeting attendance 11/11 2001–2003 and President and CEO of Patria 2018, EUR1 FAC attendance Industries Group 1997–2000. Executive Total remuneration 82 300 Meeting attendance 11/11 RemCo attendance Vice President of Finvest Group and Total remuneration 109 200 2018, EUR1 FAC attendance SECo attendance 3/4 Jaakko Pöyry Group 1996 and President 2018, EUR1 Meeting attendance 11/11 RemCo attendance 4/4 Shareholding2 Owns 25 904 R shares of Finvest 1985–1995. Meeting attendance 11/11 FAC attendance SECo attendance in Stora Enso. FAC attendance RemCo attendance Shareholding2 Owns 21 151 R shares Independent member Yes Total remuneration 199 700 RemCo attendance 4/4 SECo attendance 4/4 in Stora Enso. 2018, EUR1 SECo attendance Shareholding2 Owns 20 121 R shares Independent member Yes Meeting attendance 11/11 Shareholding2 Owns 37 490 R shares in Stora Enso. FAC attendance 6/6 in Stora Enso. Independent member Yes RemCo attendance 4/4 Independent member Yes SECo attendance Governance Shareholding2 Owns 1 150 A shares and 18 381 R shares in Stora Enso. Independent member Yes 16 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Members of the Board of Directors Strategy Annual Report 2018 FAC = Financial and Audit Committee RemCo = Remuneration Committee SECo = Sustainability and Ethics Committee Chairman Member ¹ Detailed description of Board Remunerations and Committee Memberships as decided by the AGM Governance in 2018 on page 13. ² Shares held by Board members and related parties. Board members’ related parties held no Stora Enso shares. Corporate Governance ³ Antti Mäkinen is independent of the company but not of its significant shareholders due to his in Stora Enso 2018 position as the CEO of Solidium Oy. 4 Richard Nilsson is independent of the company Shareholders’ meetings but not of its significant shareholders due to his Christiane Kuehne Antti Mäkinen Richard Nilsson Göran Sandberg Sustainability employment at FAM AB. Board of Directors (Board) Born 1955. LL.M., B.B.A. Born 1961. LL.M. Born 1970. B.Sc. (BA and Econ.). Born 1955. Ph.D. 5 Göran Sandberg is independent of the company but not of its significant shareholders due to Board committees his position as executive director of majority Position Position Position Position shareholders of FAM AB, a significant shareholder Management of the Company Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Directors Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Directors Member of Stora Enso´s Board of Directors Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Directors of the company. since April 2017. Member of the Financial and since March 2018. Member of the Financial and since April 2014. Chairman of the Financial and since April 2017. Member of the Sustainability Meetings attended out of the meetings held after Internal control and risk management 6 Audit Committee since April 2017. Audit Committee since March 2018. Audit Committee since April 2016 and member and Ethics Committee since April 2017. election as Board member. related to financial reporting since April 2015. 7 Meetings attended out of the meetings held after Board memberships Board memberships Board memberships election as FAC member. Remuneration Statement Member of the Board of James Finlays Ltd, Member of the Board of Rake Oy, Metso Oyj Board memberships Member of the Board of the Marcus Wallenberg The independence is evaluated in accordance Wetter Foundation, Whitestone Foundation and and Sampo Oyj. Chairman or a member of the Member of the Board of Directors of IPCO AB Foundation for Promoting Scientific Research with Recommendation 10 of the Finnish Decision making procedure Foundation Pierre du Bois. shareholders’ nomination boards of several and group companies. in the Forest Industry and the Wallenberg Corporate Governance Code of 2015. Main principles of remuneration listed companies. Foundations AB. The full recommendation can be found at cgfinland.fi. A significant shareholder according to Principal work experience Principal work experience Remuneration Report 2018 the recommendation is a shareholder that holds and other information Principal work experience and other information Principal work experience at least 10% of all company shares or the votes Operative roles within the Nestlé Group and other information Investment Manager at FAM AB since 2008. and other information Members of the Board carried by all the shares or a shareholder that has the right or the obligation to purchase the 1977–2015. Her last operative role at Nestlé CEO of Solidium Oy since 2017. Several Pulp & paper research analyst at SEB Enskilda Professor in Plant Biology and professor at the of Directors was as Head of Strategic Business Unit Food leading management positions within Nordea 2000–2008, Alfred Berg 1995–2000 and Swedish University of Agricultural Science and corresponding number of already issued shares. with strategic responsibility for the food Corporate & Investment Banking, most notably Handelsbanken 1994–1995. the Umeå University. Executive director of the Mikael Mäkinen was Member of Stora Enso’s Members of the Group Financials business of Nestlé at global level. as Head of Corporate Finance in Finland, Head Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation and the Board of Directors since March 2010 until Leadership Team of Strategic Coverage unit and as Co-Head Total remuneration 92 600 Marianne and Marcus Wallenberg Foundation. his resignation on 28 March 2018. He was independent of the Company and the significant for Corporate & Investment Banking, Finland Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Total remuneration 86 400 2018, EUR1 shareholders. 2010–2017. CEO of eQ Corporation and its Science, the Royal Swedish Academy for Appendix 1 2018, EUR1 main subsidiary eQ Bank Ltd. 2005–2009. Meeting attendance 11/11 Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, and the Royal Meeting attendance 11/11 FAC attendance 6/6 Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. His FAC attendance 6/6 RemCo attendance previous positions include Vice chancellor of RemCo attendance Total remuneration 86 400 SECo attendance Umeå University 2005–2010, Chairman of Umeå SECo attendance 2018, EUR1 Shareholding2 Owns 18 254 R shares Plant Science Center 1996–2004, Chairman of Shareholding2 Owns 5 712 R shares Meeting attendance 9/96 in Stora Enso. SciLifeLab Sweden 2013–2016 as well as Board in Stora Enso. FAC attendance 5/57 Independent member Yes/no4 member of the Human Protein Atlas project and Independent member Yes RemCo attendance the Wallenberg Wood Science Center. SECo attendance Shareholding2 Owns 2 137 R shares in Stora Enso. Total remuneration 78 200 Independent member Yes/no³ 2018, EUR1 Meeting attendance 11/11 FAC attendance Governance RemCo attendance SECo attendance 4/4 Shareholding2 Owns 4 212 R shares in Stora Enso. Independent member Yes/no5 17 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Members of the Group Leadership Team Strategy Members of the Group Leadership Team Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Shareholders’ meetings Karl-Henrik Sundström Seppo Parvi Malin Bendz Annica Bresky Johanna Hagelberg Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Born 1960. B.Sc. (Business Studies). Born 1964. M.Sc. (Econ.) Born 1976. B.Sc. (Personnel Mgmt & Org. Born 1975. M.Sc. (Engineering), MBA. Born 1972. M.Sc. (Industrial Eng. & Development), MBA. Mgmt) and M.Sc. (Eng. and Mgmt of Board committees Position Position Position Manufacturing Systems). Management of the Company Chief Executive Officer (CEO) since 2014. Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Deputy to Position Executive Vice President, Division Consumer Member of the GLT since 2012. Joined the CEO. Country Manager Finland and Executive Vice President, HR. Member of the Board. Member of the GLT since 2017. Joined Position Internal control and risk management the company in 2012. member of the GLT since 2014. Joined GLT since 2016. Joined the company in 2000. the company in 2017. Executive Vice President, Sourcing and related to financial reporting the company in 2014. Logistics. Member of the GLT since 2014. Board memberships, principal work Board memberships, principal work Board memberships, principal work Joined the company in 2013 as SVP Sourcing, Remuneration Statement experience and other information Board memberships, principal work experience and other information experience and other information Printing and Living. Executive Vice President, Printing and Living experience and other information Several international positions in human President and CEO of Iggesund Paperboard Decision making procedure until 2014. CFO of the company 2012–2013. CFO and EVP, Food and Medical Business resources, business development and AB, part of the Swedish Holmen Group Board memberships, principal work Main principles of remuneration CFO of NXP Semiconductors 2008–2012. Area at Ahlstrom Corporation 2009–2014. CFO purchasing. Member of the Stora Enso Paper 2013–2017. Mill Director at BillerudKorsnäs experience and other information Prior to that CFO and several managerial for Metsä Board (M-real) 2006–2009. Prior to division management team (2015–2016), AB 2010–2013. Prior to that engineering and Chief Procurement Officer at Vattenfall AB Remuneration Report 2018 positions in Ericsson. Chairman of the Board that various line management positions at the Renewable Packaging management team superintendent positions at Stora Enso’s 2010–2013. Prior to that leading Sourcing of Skogsindustrierna and Confederation of packaging company Huhtamäki, including (2012–2014) and Latin America Division Kvarnsveden Mill in 2001–2010. positions at NCC, RSA Scandinavia and within Members of the Board European Paper Industries (CEPI). Member of responsibilities such as paper manufacturing Management team (2004–2008). the Automotive Industry. Member of the Board of Directors the Board of Sustainable Energy Angels AB, within Rigid Packaging Europe and General Shareholding of Bufab AB. and Mölnlycke Health Care AB. Manager for Turkey. Deputy Chairman of Shareholding Does not own any Stora Enso shares. Members of the Group Financials the Board of the Finnish Forest Industries Owns 17 422 R shares in Stora Enso. Shareholding Leadership Team Shareholding Federation and Pohjolan Voima Oy. Member of Owns 11 258 R shares in Stora Enso. Owns 101 805 R shares in Stora Enso directly the Board of Ilmarinen. and 41 700 R shares through Alma Patria AB Appendix 1 (related party). Shareholding Owns 25 585 R shares in Stora Enso. Governance 18 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Members of the Group Leadership Team Strategy Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Shareholders’ meetings Kati ter Horst Ulrika Lilja Per Lyrvall Markus Mannström Noel Morrin Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Born 1968. MBA (International Business), Born 1975. M.Sc. (BA and Econ.). Born 1959. LL.M. Born 1963. M.Sc. (Paper Tech.). Born 1958. B.Sc. Joint Honours, First Class M.Sc. (Marketing). (Chemistry and Biology). Board committees Position Position Position Management of the Company Position Executive Vice President, Communications. Executive Vice President, Legal, General Executive Vice President, Division Biomaterials. Position Executive Vice President, Division Paper. Member of the GLT since 2014. Joined the Counsel, Country Manager Sweden. Member Member of the GLT since 2015. Joined the Executive Vice President, Sustainability. Internal control and risk management Member of the GLT since 2014. Joined the company in 2014 as Senior Vice President of the GLT since 2012. Joined the company as company in 2001. Member of the GLT since 2015. Joined the related to financial reporting company in 1996. Communications, Stora Enso Printing Legal Counsel in 1994. General Counsel since company in 2015. and Living. 2008. Country Manager Sweden since 2013. Board memberships, principal work Remuneration Statement Board memberships, principal work experience and other information Board memberships, principal work experience and other information Board memberships, principal work Board memberships, principal work Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of the experience and other information Decision making procedure Senior Vice President, Paper Sales, Stora Enso experience and other information experience and other information company 2015–2017. Member of the Group SVP for Sustainability & Green Support Main principles of remuneration Printing and Living until 2014. Has held several Director External Communications at SSAB Prior to joining Stora Enso legal positions at Renewable Packaging division management at Skanska AB 2005–2015. Group Environment managerial positions in the paper business. 2010–2013. Prior to that several leading Swedish courts, law firms and Assi Domän. team 2009–2014. Member of the Board of Director at RMC plc 1999–2005. Prior to that Remuneration Report 2018 Member of the Board of Finnish Forest communications positions at OMX Stockholm Member of the Board of Montes del Plata and Teollisuuden Voima Oyj, Montes del Plata senior roles at the UK National Environmental Industries Federation, Outokumpu Oyj and Stock Exchange and Neonet. Member Bergvik Skog AB. Deputy Member of the Board and Veracel. Deputy Member of the Board of Technology Centre, the British NGO Business Members of the Board EURO-GRAPH asbl. of the Board of Swedish Association of of Skogsindustrierna. Pohjolan Voima Oy. in the Community and the global chemical of Directors Communication Professionals. company ICI plc. Shareholding Shareholding Shareholding Members of the Group Financials Owns 30 318 R shares in Stora Enso. Shareholding Owns 51 988 R shares in Stora Enso Owns 32 350 R shares in Stora Enso. Shareholding Leadership Team Owns 21 534 R shares in Stora Enso. directly and 1 257 R shares through related Owns 26 588 R shares in Stora Enso. persons (spouse). Appendix 1 Governance 19 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Members of the Group Leadership Team Strategy Annual Report 2018 Governance Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2018 Shareholders’ meetings Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen Jari Suominen Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Born 1959. M.Sc. (Applied Physics), MBA Born 1969. M.Sc. (BA). (INSEAD). Board committees Position Management of the Company Position Executive Vice President, Division Wood Executive Vice President, Division Packaging Products. Member of the GLT since 2014. Internal control and risk management Solutions. Member of the GLT since 2015. Joined the company in 1995. related to financial reporting Joined the company in 2015. Board memberships, principal work Remuneration Statement Board memberships, principal work experience and other information experience and other information Senior Vice President, head of Building and Decision making procedure President of the Enablers division at DuPont Living Business Area until 2014. Has held Main principles of remuneration Nutrition & Health (formerly Danisco) several managerial positions in paper and 2010–2014. Prior to that senior management wood products businesses. Chairman of Remuneration Report 2018 positions at among others the Dutch food Finnish Wood Products Industry Association. ingredients group CSM (now Corbion), Rexam Member of the Board of Tornator. Member of Members of the Board (coated films and papers), and DSM (chemicals the supervisory board of Varma Mutual Pension of Directors and polymers). Insurance Company. Members of the Group Financials Shareholding Shareholding Leadership Team Owns 11 308 R shares in Stora Enso. Owns 31 553 R shares in Stora Enso. Appendix 1 Governance 20 Stora Enso 2018: Governance – Appendix 1 Strategy Appendix 1 Annual Report 2018 Due to differences between the Swedish and Finnish legislation, governance code rules and corporate governance practices Stora Enso’s Corporate Governance deviates in the following aspects from the Swedish Corporate Governance Code: Rule 1.3 The company’s nomination committee is to propose a chair Governance for the annual general meeting. The proposal is to be presented in the notice of the meeting. • According to Finnish annual general meeting (AGM) practice, Corporate Governance the Chairman of the Board of Directors opens the meeting and in Stora Enso 2018 proposes the chairman. The proposed chairman is normally an attorney-at-law. Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Rule 2.1 The nomination committee is also to make proposals on the Board committees election and remuneration of the statutory auditor. • According to the Finnish Code, the Financial and Audit Committee Management of the Company shall make a recommendation on the auditor election for the Internal control and risk management Board, which shall give its proposal on the matter to the AGM. related to financial reporting Rule 9.1 The board is to establish a remuneration committee, Remuneration Statement whose main tasks are to monitor and evaluate the application of the guidelines for remuneration that the annual general meeting is legally Decision making procedure obliged to establish, as well as the current remuneration structures Main principles of remuneration and levels in the company. Remuneration Report 2018 Rule 10.3 No later than two weeks before the annual general meeting, Members of the Board the board is also to report the results of the evaluation required by of Directors bullets two and three of Code rule 9.1 on the company’s website. • In accordance with Finnish law, the remuneration of the CEO and Members of the Group management is the responsibility of the Board of Directors. The Financials Leadership Team guidelines for and information on remuneration are presented in this Corporate Governance Report and the company’s webpages. Appendix 1 Rule 9.6 The shareholders’ meeting is to decide on all share and share-price related incentive schemes for the executive management. • The incentive schemes are established by the Board of Directors. If the programmes include the issuance of new shares or disposal of shares held by the Company then the programme will be subject to shareholder approval. Current programmes of the Company do not include such elements. Governance Strategy Stora Enso Oyj Annual Report 2018 P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Visiting address: Kanavaranta 1 Tel. +358 2046 131 Stora Enso AB P.O. Box 70395 SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: World Trade Center Klarabergsviadukten 70 Tel. +46 1046 46 000 storaenso.com group.communications@storaenso.com Sustainability Concept and design: Miltton Oy Photography: Mattias Andersson, Lasse Arvidsson, Roberto Brusaca, Helena Davidsson, Justyna Veni Ejsmont, Magnus Fond, Tuomas Harjumaaskola, Sanna Heiskanen, Jarmo Hietaranta, Andreas Hillergren, Matti Immonen, Kaapo Kamu, Tim Kinnander, Tuukka Koski, Aleksi Koskinen, Teemu Kuusimurto, Veikko Kähkönen, Tommi Kähärä, Patrik Lindén, Annamari Luukkainen, Mikko Nikkinen, Tiina Nykänen, Felix Odell, Niklas Palmklint / River Cresco, Mikko Ryhänen, Topi Saari, Financials Niklas Sandström, Juha Sarkkinen, Mikael Strinnhed / Scandinavian Design Group, Christian Stummer, Kaisa Suutari, Patrik Svedberg / NY, Mattias Södermark, Eeva Taimisto, Ernst Tobisch, Marjo Väisänen, Roland Weegen / Huber&Sohn, Anttinen Oiva Architects, Casual Friday Studios, Getty Images, Giesbers Communicatie, Guillaume M, Iceland Foods, Lagardère, MODE Artes Visuales, Orthex, Studio Skaala, Sulapac, stakeholders’ own images, and Stora Enso’s image bank. It should be noted that Stora Enso and its business are exposed to various risks and uncertainties and certain statements herein which are not historical facts, including, without limitation those regarding expectations for market growth and developments; expectations for growth and profitability; and statements preceded by “believes”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “foresees”, or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Since these statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, they involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to materially differ from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (1) operating factors such as continued success of manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development, acceptance of new products or services by the Group’s targeted customers, success of the existing and future collaboration arrangements, changes in business strategy or development plans or targets, changes in the degree of protection created by the Group’s patents and other intellectual property rights, the availability of capital on acceptable terms; (2) industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and future global market prices for the Group’s products and the pricing pressures thereto, price fluctuations in raw materials, financial condition of the customers and the Governance competitors of the Group, the potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors; and (3) general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in the Group’s principal geographic markets or fluctuations in exchange and interest rates. All statements are based on management’s best assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it and Stora Enso assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement except to the extent legally required.
