CSR Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Corporate Philosophy We will contribute to the development of a more secure society through a striving spirit and co-operative efforts. Our corporate philosophy represents Glory's corporate goal and raison d'être. Striving spirit includes our desire that we will strive to meet the needs of customers and society with an unyielding spirit and make the impossible possible . It represents the eternal origin of Glory all through the ages that we can do a great job only when we combine the power of everyone who shares the striving spirit . Keeping the origin in mind, Glory will contribute to the creation of a safe and secure society from now on. Management Creed · Through a spirit of continuous development, we will provide products and services our customers can rely on. · We will build a vigorous corporate group through respect for the individual and teamwork. · We will endeavor to act as responsible corporate citizens and co-exist harmoniously with society at large. Our management creed expresses what Glory should aspire to and our management stance. In short, it constitutes our basic philosophy of management. The three components of the management creed express our stance toward our customers and business operations, toward our employees, and toward society as a whole. WEB Corporate Philosophy https://corporate.glory-global.com/groupinfo/philosophy/ 01 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Editorial Policy Table of Contents The Glory CSR Report 2019 is intended to inform a wide range of stakeholders about Glory’s understanding of CSR and the progress of its CSR initiatives. 01 Corporate Philosophy and Management Creed We publish the report in both a booklet and on our website, which posts ESG data and other information not included in the 02 Editorial Policy / Table of Contents booklet. 03 Message from the President CSR Website Investor Relations Website 05 Corporate Information 07 Special Report 1: Introducing a Nextgeneration Branch Concept 09 Special Report 2: Enabling Patients to Return Home Without Having to Wait to Pay 11 Glory’s CSR Society 17 Products and Services https://corporate.glory-global.com/csr/ https://corporate.glory-global.com/ir/ ▲ 19 Supply Chain Management For financial and stock information, please visit this site. 21 Human Resources Report Subjects 25 Social Initiatives This report generally describes the efforts of GLORY LTD. and related data. It will be explicitly stated if a particular item being reported concerns a specific Glory Group company or another company. Environment Moreover, the report on environmental activities and environmental 27 Environmental Management data covers the ISO 14001-certified offices of GLORY LTD. and the Glory Group. 29 Developing Environmentally Friendly Products Reporting Period 30 Reducing Environmental Impact in Fiscal year 2018 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Business Activities (May include reporting of items occurring in or after April 2019.) 31 Preserving Biodiversity 32 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Publication Date Plan September 2019 (English edition) (Previous English edition: July 2018, next English edition: September 2020) Governance 33 Corporate Governance Referenced Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 35 Risk Management 2018 editions of Environmental Reporting Guidelines, Ministry of the 37 Compliance Environment, Japan 39 Responsibility to Shareholders and Investors Contact Information GLORY LTD. Corporate Communications Department, Management Strategy 40 ESG Data Headquarters 44 Third-party Opinion 1-3-1 Shimoteno, Himeji, Hyogo 670-8567, Japan Phone: +81-79-297-3131 GLORY CSR Report 2019 02 Message from the President Glory will contribute to the creation of a safe and secure future. President, GLORY LTD. Continually Developing Beneficial Products I assumed the office of president and representative times of change always present business opportunities. director of GLORY LTD. in April 2019. We must take on new challenges to cope with such Founded in 1918, GLORY LTD. has just celebrated its changes as the diversification of payment methods, 100th anniversary. We inherit the founder’s philosophy emerging technologies such as AI and IoT, and the of “continuously striving to benefit people by creating growing automatization needs amid a labor shortage. products that have never been seen before” and will We have demonstrated innovation in currency achieve further growth and progress. processing and providing solutions and products that meet the needs of customers. We will endeavor to Since its founding, Glory has responded to the trends realize our Long-Term Vision 2028, which states “We of the times through innovation and consistently enable a confident world,” by deepening our existing manufacturing products that society needs. Despite the businesses while embarking into new fields and dramatic evolution of the environment surrounding us, creating fresh value through open innovation. 03 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Focusing on Creating New Businesses Domains Toward the Creation of a Sustainable Society We have positioned our 2020 Medium-Term Solutions for social concerns such as human rights and Management Plan as a period of preparation for environmental protection have become increasingly realizing the Long-Term Vision 2028 we set forth urgent. The movement to address these issues has in April 2018. The plan focuses on creating new been expressed worldwide as sustainable development businesses by advancing the core technologies we goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations in 2015. have developed and promoting open innovation while As an international corporate group, we will seriously evolving our cash handling business. We identified face these issues and promote environmental, social the establishment of the personal identification and governance (ESG) investment through our business and authentication business as a new domain. We operations, including our supply chain, to contribute to expect it to contribute to a more secure society with the achievement of the SDGs. greater convenience in everyday lives by realizing highly accurate, secure personal identification and We will continue to promote management based on our authentication through the fusion of our facial corporate philosophy, earn the trust of our stakeholders, recognition technology and the speech recognition and strive to be a corporate group that contributes to technology of FueTrek Co., Ltd., which became our the realization of a sustainable society. capital and business alliance partner in 2018.  August, 2019 2020 Medium-Term Management Plan, and Major Initiatives Taken in Fiscal Year 2019 Policy 1 Existing Business Build foundations for realizing sustainable business management Item Overview Overseas business Financial ▪ Promote sales of self-service products Further growth in the financial sector by expanding the business of selfservice machines and accelerating Retail ▪ Enhance product lineup to expand customer base business in the retail sector Financial ▪Strengthen solution proposals on next-generation branch-style operations and increase sales Domestic business Promote solution proposals that Retail ▪Cultivate new customers and business categories for coin and banknote recyclers for cashiers flexibly respond to changing markets Amusement ▪ Strengthen solution proposals for systems and services to improve operational efficiency of pachinko parlors Policy 2 New Business Strengthen collaboration with various partners to solve social issues Item Overview Establish the personal identification and ▪Launch a demonstration of payments using biometric authentication business authentication technology prior to commercialization Promote new business domains Promote an automated ▪Strengthen the development and sales systems for the robot SI society business Policy 3 Management Base Realize higher productivity and robust corporate constitution that directly generate outcome Item Overview Organizational climate reform to realize open ▪Implement measures to acquire and develop human resources innovation to support business growth GLORY CSR Report 2019 04 Corporate Information Profile Corporate name : GLORY LTD. Stock listings : Tokyo Stock Exchange (1st Section) Founded : March 1918 Number of employees : 3,447 (Group: 9,674) Incorporated : November 1944 Note: As of March 31, 2019 Capital : ¥ 12,892,947,600 Line of business : Development, manufacturing, sales, and maintenance of cash handling machines, data processing equipment, peripheral devices with data processing equipment, vending machines, automatic service equipment, etc. Business Segments Main Customers Main Products and Goods Financial Market Open teller systems Cash monitoring cabinets Coin and banknote recyclers for Security storage systems Financial institutions, OEM clients, tellers Key management systems and others in Japan Coin recycling modules for ATMs Banknote recycling modules for Multifunctional banknote changers horse race ticket vending machines Retail and Transportation Market Supermarkets, department stores, cashCoin and banknote recyclers for cashiers Ticket vending machines in-transit companies, railroad companies, Sales proceeds deposit machines Cigarette vending machines tobacco companies, hospitals, local Multifunctional banknote changers Medical payment kiosks governments, general companies, and others Cash recyclers for gas stations RFID self-checkout systems for cafeterias in Japan Coin-operated lockers Ballot sorters for handwritten ballots Amusement Market Card systems for pachinko parlors Pachinko ball counters Banknote conveyor systems for individual pachinko machines Amusement halls (pachinko parlors) and Pachinko prize dispensing Membership management systems others in Japan for pachinko parlors machines Pachinko ball/token counters Overseas Market Banknote recyclers for tellers Coin and banknote recyclers for Financial institutions, cash-in-transit Banknote sorters cashiers companies, retail stores, casinos, OEM Banknote and check deposit Sales proceeds deposit machines clients, and others overseas modules for ATMs Coin wrappers Banknote counters Other Other than those above Other than those above Financial Data (Consolidated) Net Sales Operating Income Sales and Sales Composition Ratio by Business Segment (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 3,000 250 Others 3.3 billions of yen 235.7 20.5 20.3 19.6 20.5 1.4% 222.3 226.9 222.5 227.3 200 18.6 Financial 2,000 Market 150 24.0 Overseas % 56.6 billions of yen Market 100 43.8 1,000 103.2 % 22.1 billions of yen % 50 8.7 Retail and % Transportation Amusement Market Market 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 20.5 billions of yen 51.9 billions of yen 05 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Glory Group’s Global Operations The Glory Group operates its direct sales and maintenance service network in more than 20 countries. We provide products and solutions in more than 100 countries. Head Office Head Office Overseas Group companies Direct support Distributor support Group Companies JAPAN EUROPE ASIA Development & Manufacturing Sales & Maintenance Manufacturing ◦GLORY Products Ltd. ◦Sitrade Italia S.p.A. ◦GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd. ◦GLORY AZ System Co., Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions Ltd. ◦GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. ◦GLORY System Create Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Topco) Ltd. ◦GLORY IPO Asia Ltd. ◦GLORY Friendly Co., Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Midco) Ltd. ◦GLORY IPO China Ltd. ◦GLORY Mechatronics Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Holdings) Ltd. (and one other company) (and one other company) ◦Glory Global Solutions (International) Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. Sales & Maintenance Sales & Maintenance ◦Glory Global Solutions (Belgium) N.V./S.A. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH ◦GLORY Service Co., Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Australia) Pty. Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Netherlands) BV ◦Hokkaido GLORY Co. Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (New Zealand) Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Spain) S.A. ◦GLORY IST Co., Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (South Asia) Pvt. Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Switzerland) A.G. ◦GLORY NASCA Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Portugal) S.A. ◦GLORY Techno 24 Co., Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions RUS, LLC ◦GLORY Engineering Ltd. ◦Glory Currency Automation India Pvt. Ltd. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Ireland) Ltd. ◦Japan Settlement Information Center Ltd. ◦PT. Glory Global Solutions Indonesia ◦Glory Global Solutions Nakit Otomasyon (and one other company) Teknolojileri Ltd.Şti. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Hong Kong) Ltd. (and one other company) (and 4 other companies) AMERICAS Sales & Maintenance ◦Glory Global Solutions Inc. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Canada) Inc. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Brasil) Máquinas e Equipamentos Ltda . ◦Glory Global Solutions (Colombia) S.A. ◦Glory Global Solutions (Mexico) S.A.P.I DE C.V. (and 2 other companies) GLORY CSR Report 2019 06 1 Special Report Introducing a Next-generation Branch Concept Supporting Financial Institutions by Reorganizing Their Branches We have presented the EvolBranch Concept to next-generation branches of Japanese financial institutions. EvolBranch Concept for Next-generation Branches The EvolBranch Concept is Glory’s vision of reform for their profitability and customer convenience, leading the next-generation branches of financial institutions to greater satisfaction by creating next-generation over the coming decade. As exemplified by online branches and further improving operational efficiency. transactions, connections between domestic financial institutions and their customers are becoming increasingly diversified. To address this business transformation, banks are reviewing the concepts Evolution × Branch underlying branches and their operations, with a shift Ever-Evolving Branches in focus from large branches that provide a full line of services to minimized branches. In this context, we offer a new concept for next-generation branches, which The combination design image of analogue and digital leverages various solutions incorporating the expertise in branch operations that we have developed over many years. We will support financial institutions to improve EvolBranch Solutions We offer diverse solutions for customers reorganizing their branches. *Business process re-engineering: A fundamental review of business processes and optimization of the entire business workflow. BPR* support service Centralization of Promote self-service offices terminal devices Immediate close of Visualization of the processing work process 07 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Smart Branch We envisioned reconstructing branch networks, reviewing customer guidance routes, reducing back office workloads, and strengthening operations by categorizing branches into four types, and we will also consider daily visitor numbers and site characteristics. Branch Large Branch Medium Branch Small Branch Automated Branch Image One to Regional main branch / Small amount Personal consultation Self-service Three Full-banking branch transaction Years from Point Point Now 2 2 Point 2 Point Point 1 1 Point A concierge guides customers to Point The open teller systems and security 1 appropriate services after determining the purpose of their visit. 2 storage systems provide branches without tellers or vaults. Digital Branch Office space is reduced to allow for expansion of the lobby, where the counter is replaced by a booth at which various transactions are made directly with the customer. Branches are thereby transformed from office environments into spaces for business transactions and consultation. Branch image six years Point Staff numbers and space are from now 2 both reduced due to centralized workflows. Consultation spaces are secure in Point terms of privacy, and specialized 3 personnel not onsite can provide remote consultation as necessary via a dedicated computer. Consultation booths support customers A high counter for handling Point Point transaction taxes, utility bills, and 1 who are opening a new account and can handle a number of transactions while 4 large payments is replaced with selfalso identifying opportunities to provide service terminals. other financial services. Branch image IoT Branch ten years An unstaffed branch deploys the latest from technologies while automated devices now provide customer guidance along with AIbased consultation for asset management. GLORY CSR Report 2019 08 2 Special Report Enabling Patients to Return Home Without Having to Wait to Pay Our products help reduce burdens on both hospital staff and patients Here we report on our efforts to address issues that hospitals face: improving accounting efficiency and reducing the wait time for payment. Our Track Record in this Field We initiated this business in 1999 by developing the FK-200 medical payment kiosk, which can be used similar to a bank ATM. In 2004, we developed the PHD-10 credit card-compliant medical payment kiosk, followed by the FHP-10 medical payment kiosk featuring dramatically improved operability and visibility in 2010, and thus solidified our commitment to the continual upgrading of our product line. In 2018, we developed for the medical care industry a deferred payment system that eliminates the wait time required for patients to make payments. 1999 2004 2010 2014 2016 2018 Automatic medical Deferred payment system Medical payment kiosk Medical payment kiosk Medical payment kiosk Medical payment kiosk Medical payment kiosk payment kiosk for the medical care FK-200 FKS-10 PHD-10＞ FHP-10 FHP-20 FHP-S10 industry Allows patients to Offer a sense of Accepts credit/debit Features a color Accepts electronic A smaller, lowerEliminates wait time pay their bills in security through card payment universal design money payment cost unit for payment a similar way to the designs using an ATM Developing a Medical Deferred Payment System for the Medical Care Industry We developed a medical deferred payment system Using an interface between the medical payment for the medical care industry in July 2018. The system kiosk and medical accounting system, hospital staff is intended to reduce the wait time for payment by can automate administrative tasks such as verifying patients and increase the convenience of paying and reconciling cash receipts that had previously been hospital medical bills. It also allows patients who want processed manually, thereby significantly improving to pay later to make deferred payments on their bills the efficiency of accounting operations. The system by registering their hospital ID card number, credit contributes to reducing staff workload at peak hours card information and mail address via a computer or by performing accounting operations outside those smartphone. After a doctor’s examination, patients hours, and ultimately boosts the productivity of hospital can go home without having to immediately pay their administrative staff and addressing the labor shortage. medical bill. 09 GLORY CSR Report 2019 The Flow of Patients Before and After Introducing the System Before Introducing the System Submit Wait for Pay medical Examination Go home documents payment bill After Submit Introducing Examination documents Go home No wait time for payment the System Principal Benefits for Hospital Principal Benefits for Patient ◦Improved accounting efficiency ◦No wait time for payment ◦Reduced staff workload during peak hours ◦No fee to use system ◦More effective use of staff during off◦Bill can be paid by credit card peak hours ◦Reduced risk of nosocomial infection VOICE We are striving to create a comfortable environment in the hospital. Our hospital handles around 5,000 outpatients every day, so the wait times for payment are long. We needed to address the challenges of mitigating long queues at the accounting desks and reduce wait time. We introduced Glory’s medical payment kiosks as a way to alleviate the crowded conditions. Recently, we realized the situation could be further improved when Glory recommended its deferred payment system, which Ms. Rumi Ogawa (left) greatly benefits outpatients by enabling them to return home right after Juntendo Hospital their appointment, and so we introduced the system. Ms. Chikako Umezawa (right) Juntendo Hospital As more people use the system, there will be fewer crowds in the hospital, and outpatients who pay their bills in cash will be able to return home sooner as well. GLORY CSR Report 2019 10 Glory’s CSR Basic Philosophy United Nations Global Compact Under our corporate philosophy of contributing to Glory signed the United Nations Global Compact in March the development of a more secure society through 2014. We believe that the ten principles of the four areas a striving spirit and cooperative efforts, the Glory of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption Group participates in realizing a sustainable society by share common values with our Group’s Corporate Action addressing social issues and creating new value through Guidelines. By making various efforts advanced technologies and the core technologies based on these guidelines, the Glory developed. Group will strive to realize its Corporate Philosophy while at the same time taking actions to address global challenges. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact CSR Promotion Framework Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human human rights; and The Glory Group’s CSR management is led by the CSR rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Committee, which is chaired by the President and made human rights abuses. up of executives. The committee convenes twice a year, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of at which time it deliberates on the basic direction and association and the effective recognition of plans for CSR management and establishes policies for the right to collective bargaining; major annual CSR initiatives. Labour Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of CSR Promotion Framework employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary President approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment environmental responsibility; and CSR Committee Secretariat Corporate Communications Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Department, Management environmentally friendly technologies. Department Managers Strategy Headquarters AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Employees WEB Glory signs the United Nations Global Compact https://corporate.glory-global.com/csr/csr_news/detail/id=722 Contribution to Achieving the CSR Education Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Every employee in the Glory Group receives a copy of The SDGs, adopted by the United Nations in 2015, the Guidelines of GLORY handbook, which contains represent worldwide goals for 2030 related to social information such as the corporate philosophy, issues such as poverty, employment, and environmental management creed, and the Corporate Action protection. Glory is striving to address such global Guidelines. The handbook is available in eight different challenges and contributes to the realization of a language versions to ensure that employees around sustainable society by achieving SDGs through its the world have the shared understanding needed to business operations. realize Glory’s corporate philosophy. Glory also seeks to deepen employee understanding of CSR through an e-learning program and the publication of CSR-related information on its intranet. Guidelines of GLORY handbook 11 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Stakeholder Engagement Glory openly communicates with stakeholders and discloses appropriate information. Stakeholders Principal Engagement Opportunities When Glory introduces products and solutions in Japan or other parts of the world, it uses these occasions to communicate directly with customers. ◦ Daily sales activities ◦ Showroom tours ◦ Call Centers ◦ Factory tours Customers ◦ Visits for maintenance ◦ Glory’s official website Participating in Equipmag 2018, ◦ Exhibitions the largest trade show for retailers in France. Suppliers are key partners that enable Glory to consistently manufacture highquality products, and therefore the establishment of a system for cooperation is vital. The Glory Group focuses on maintaining trusting relationships that allow the Group and its suppliers to share the common goal of achieving a sustainable society. Business ◦ Customary purchasing activities ◦ Quality Improvement Activity Workshops Quality Improvement Activity Partners ◦ Supplier Conferences ◦ Quality Policy Briefings for Suppliers Workshop ◦ Quality Conferences ◦ Visits to business partners Glory seeks to maintain long-term trusting relationships with shareholders and investors. To this end, it engages in constructive dialogue to deepen the understanding of Glory’s management policies and business activities. It also improves management transparency through prompt, accurate, and fair information disclosure. ◦ General meeting of shareholders ◦ Small meetings Showroom tour for shareholders Shareholders ◦ Financial results briefings ◦ Showroom tours, factory tours following the general meeting of and Investors shareholders ◦ Conference calls ◦ Briefings for individual investors ◦ Visits to institutional investors ◦ IR section of the Glory website Senior executives closely interact with employees to enhance their sense of involvement in business management, boost motivation, and foster a sense of unity across the Glory Group. ◦ Meetings with the president, president’s site visit ◦ Goals/career interviews ◦ Group company visits ◦ Various training and educational programs Employees ◦ Labor-management consultation ◦ In-house newsletter President’s site visit ◦ Employee awareness surveys ◦ Intranet As a good corporate citizen, Glory actively participates in social contribution and environmental protection activities around the world. ◦ F ostering the next generation through the GLORY ◦ F orest conservation, tree-planting, and Foundation for Elementary School Students clean-up activities Local ◦ Supporting the promotion of sports ◦ Nature appreciation events Communities Participating in a tree-planting ◦ Programs to support developing countries ◦ Collaboration with NPOs event GLORY CSR Report 2019 12 Glory’s CSR Glory’s CSR Material Issues Process for identifying CSR material issues and their relationship to SDGs We identified priority material issues based on the following process and identified the relationship of these material issues to SDGs. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Assess the Materiality Determine Find and Extract of CSR Issues from the Assess Validity by Identify Material Relationships to CSR Issues Standpoint of Both Glory Experts Issues SDGs and Its Stakeholders Based on international A questionnaire was Two outside experts Based on the materiality We identified the standards such as the Global administered in both the assessed the validity of map, 11 items considered relationship of these Reporting Initiative (GRI) business and corporate materiality. Based on to be material issues material issues to SDGs. guidelines and ISO 26000, departments to assess these assessment results, at Glory were chosen social impact was assessed materiality. Responders a materiality map was and classified into five across all stages of the ranked the priority of created and issues were priority CSR themes. value chain, from planning, CSR issues from the categorized. Following approval from development, procurement, two standpoints of management, these were and manufacturing to sales ‘materiality in businesses’ confirmed as material and maintenance, and CSR and ‘level of impact on issues. issues were discovered and stakeholders.’ extracted. Targets and Results Priority CSR Themes Material Issues Targets for Fiscal Year 2018 ◦Build a business model that contributes to the advancement of the customer’s business and helps them ◦Create solutions based on diverse data Creating boost operational efficiency New value creation new through business value ◦Strive to be a reliable partner to customers and establish a scheme for periodically confirming progress and customer ◦Select model customers and periodically review satisfaction ◦Implement and verify new ways of working ◦Promote work-style reform ◦Boost operational efficiency Human resource initiatives ◦Support and secure human resources essential to Glory’s ◦Offer job-level-specific training and support candidates who can lead the business company in the future Society ◦Continue to use the CSR voluntary checklist and work to improve assessment Promotion of CSR in ◦Conduct CSR-oriented procurement worldwide scores the supply chain ◦Spread activities to overseas sites ◦Reduce energy consumption per employee by 1% (base year: fiscal year ◦Reduce energy consumption per employee 2010) ◦Improve energy efficiency of newly developed products by at least 15% ◦Reduce CO2 emissions from new products compared to previous models Environmental protection Environment ◦Carry out biodiversity preservation activities in ◦Carry out 100% of activities planned for this fiscal year cooperation with stakeholders ◦Strengthen corporate governance ◦Conduct activities in line with the Corporate Governance Guidelines ◦Strengthen risk management activities and communicate ◦Conduct risk management from a global perspective and communicate Strengthening of to Glory Group companies activities to Glory Group companies governance Governance ◦Strengthen compliance management and communicate ◦Conduct job-level-specific compliance education and strengthen to Glory Group companies collaboration with Glory Group companies 13 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Materiality Map Most important ◦ ‌B  uild a business model that contributes to the advancement of the Level of importance to stakeholders customer’s business and helps them boost operational efficiency ◦ ‌S trive to be a reliable partner to customers and establish a scheme for periodically confirming progress and customer satisfaction ◦ ‌P romote work-style reform ◦ ‌R  educe energy consumption per employee ◦ ‌R  educe CO2 emissions from new products ◦ ‌S trengthen corporate governance ◦ ‌S upport and secure human resources essential to Glory’s business ◦ ‌C  onduct CSR-oriented procurement worldwide ◦ ‌C arry out biodiversity preservation activities in cooperation with stakeholders Important Most important ◦ ‌S trengthen risk management activities and communicate to Level of importance to Glory Glory Group companies ◦ ‌S trengthen compliance management and communicate to Glory Group companies Results for Fiscal Year 2018 Targets for Fiscal Year 2019 Relevant SDGs ◦Planning of an identity verification authorization platform through the combination of facial recognition and voice recognition ◦Development of a prescription input support system based on optical character reading (OCR) technology for ◦Create solutions based on diverse data 8 9 11 12 insurance pharmacies ◦Participation in an “S Coin” trial ◦Select model customers and periodically ◦Selection of “model customers,” quarterly review meetings (July, September, November, March) 8 12 17 review ◦Trial implementation of teleworking (mobile work, working at home) ◦Implement and verify new ways of ◦Consideration of flextime, preparations for trial implementation 5 8 10 working ◦Introduction of new system to reduce the administrative burden of travel expenses and reimbursements ◦Offer job-level-specific training and ◦Implementation of Glory Business College training for future executives (total of seven programs) support candidates who can lead the 4 5 8 10 company in the future ◦Implementation of survey using the CSR voluntary checklist (452 primary suppliers), feedback to companies ◦Continue to use the CSR voluntary that responded (approximately 96% response rate) checklist and work to improve ◦Implementation of survey by GLORY Products Ltd. using the CSR voluntary checklist (95 primary suppliers), 8 10 12 17 assessment scores feedback to companies that responded (100% response rate) ◦Spread activities to overseas sites ◦Preparation for implementation of CSR voluntary checklist survey at overseas sites ◦Reduce energy consumption per employee ◦Annual average energy consumption per employee reduced by 2.2% (base year: fiscal year 2010) 13 by 1% (base year: fiscal year 2010) ◦Improve energy efficiency of newly ◦Average reduction of 16.1% (targets achieved for 14 out of 32 models, which were approved as G-Eco products) developed products by at least 15% 7 12 13 compared to previous models ◦100% achievement ratio for yearly plans Himeji: Glory Yumesaki Forest Forest conservation activity (83 participants, including 16 from three suppliers) Nature experience event for families (94 participants, including nine from one customer) ◦Carry out 100% of activities planned for 14 15 Kanto area: Kamikawa in Hachioji, Tokyo (designated greenery conservation area) this fiscal year Forest conservation activity (54 participants, including three from one supplier) Arakawa riverside in Tokyo Riverside clean-up project (28 participants) ◦Amendment of Corporate Governance Guidelines ◦Conduct activities in line with the ◦Revision of remuneration system for directors (improvement of linkage with performance) 16 Corporate Governance Guidelines ◦Analysis and assessment of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, implementation of improvements ◦Conduct risk management from a global ◦Risk assessment using a standard Group assessment method 16 perspective and communicate activities ◦Implementation of countermeasures against significant risks to Glory Group companies ◦Implementation of compliance education (e-learning) for Glory and Group companies in Japan (attendance: 100%) ◦Conduct job-level-specific compliance ◦Formulation and implementation of compliance improvement plan for Group companies in Japan ◦Introduction of measures to strengthen harassment prevention, extension of the measures to Group companies education and strengthen collaboration 10 16 with Glory Group companies in Japan GLORY CSR Report 2019 14 Glory’s CSR Major CSR Initiatives in the Value Chain The Glory Group is implementing these major initiatives for each stakeholder category in the value chain. Planning Development Procurement Value Chain Glory continues to take the challenges As a development-oriented company, Glory Besides carrying out fair and open purchasing of addressing social issues by delivering is working to create new value that exceeds and ensuring stable procurement, Glory products and solutions that provide value to the expectations of customers as well as incorporates CSR throughout its entire supply customers. society. chain. Customers Customers Customers • Create new value and solutions • Swiftly develop products that match • Ensure quality and pursue appropriate, • P lan products that match customer customer needs competitive pricing needs • Ensure quality Product lineup • I ncorporate universal design Business partners • Develop products utilizing new • Promote CSR-oriented procurement in Approx. 950 technologies unison with suppliers R&D sites • Strengthen partnerships with suppliers 11sites in7countries • Respect human rights within the supply Major Initiatives for Each Stakeholder chain Customers Global environment R&D investment Response rate of the CSR voluntary checklist • P lan environmentally friendly products Approx. 13.2 billion yen (consolidated) Approx. 96 % (GLORY LTD.) Global environment Number of patents, utility models, and designs owned by Glory 100 % (GLORY Products Ltd.) • M ap out the product life cycle 2,053 (consolidated) Number of companies participating in Supplier Conferences Customers Global environment 170 (GLORY LTD.)  evelop environmentally friendly products •D G-Eco products 62 (GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC.) 97 (GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd.) Developed 14 models Global environment Employees Employees • Promote green procurement • D evelop global human resources • Promote a work-life balance • Preserve biodiversity • Provide education to improve employee skills 15,135 t-CO Environmental Impact Energy-induced CO2 emissions 2 (9.5% decline over previous fiscal year) CO2 emissions from parts and materials procured Scope 3, Category 1 179,946 t-CO 2 (2.1% increase over previous fiscal year) 15 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Manufacturing Sales Maintenance Under Glory’s optimized manufacturing system, Glory flexibly responds to the changing market Glory operates a highly reliable support system and each of the company’s factories around the world environment so it can provide optimized provides high-value-added services that correspond applies its own strengths to deliver high-quality solutions, in a timely manner, that match with customer needs to earn the trust of customers products in a timely manner. customer needs. and provide them with satisfaction and peace of mind. Customers Customers Customers • Ensure quality and reliable supply • P rovide products and solutions in a timely • P rovide prompt, reliable maintenance • Shorten lead time manner that match customer needs • Improve maintenance quality through • P rovide appropriate information on customer focus • Boost cost competitiveness products and services • P lan services that match customer needs Manufacturing system • P roperly manage customer information • P roperly manage customer information and personal information 9 sites in3 countries and personal information Number of maintenance personnel Sell products and solutions in over 100 countries Japan: approx. 1,000 Overseas: approx. 2,400 Customers Global environment Global environment • S ell environmentally friendly products • Manufacturing and distribution processes that facilitate saving, recycling, and reusing resources G-eco products account for approx. 73 % of sales Local communities Global environment Global environment • E nsure safety in the vicinity of each plant • R educe environmental impact at the • Switch to eco-cars time of disposal • S ell CFC-free cleaning goods (Recycle Jet) Collection of used products Number of newly filled Recycle Jets (using the Wide-area Certificate System) Approx. 98 t (GLORY LTD., Hokkaido GLORY Co., Ltd.) Approx. 60,000 units (reduced CO₂ emissions: approx. 30,000 t) Employees Employees Employees • Respect human rights and ensure • P romote a work-life balance • Promote a work-life balance occupational health and safety • I ntroduce a teleworking program • Train employees based on qualification systems Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate • Develop SEs (system engineers) 0.40 Scope 1 Scope 2 CO2 emissions from product usage CO₂ emissions from product disposal 199,684 Scope 3, 7.8% increase t-CO2 Category 11 over previous fiscal year Scope 3, Category 12 CO2 emissions from transportation and shipping +0.5% increase 2,645 t-CO 2 13,210 Scope 3, t-CO2 Category 4 over previous fiscal year (0.5% increase over previous fiscal year) GLORY CSR Report 2019 16 Products and Services Under its Quality Policy, Glory provides safe, high-quality products and services. Quality Policy Department comprehensively handles the quality control of post-shipping maintenance services. We have also Glory established its Quality Policy in 1999 and seeks established the Quality Control Department to handle to ensure uniform quality based on three priority overall quality control, and we continue to improve our guidelines. Thorough quality control is implemented entire internal quality management system. throughout all stages of its business operations, from product planning, development, procurement, and To prevent any recurrence of quality issues, we hold manufacturing to sales and maintenance, so that it product safety meetings, attended by representatives can respond to customer needs and develop reliable from the related departments, to periodically evaluate products and services. the effectiveness of measures conducted through examination and discussion as well as standardization. Quality Policy Quality Management System We will provide products and services in a timely manner Top Management to win the confidence and satisfaction of customers. (Chief Officer in charge of Quality Management*) Three Priority Guidelines 1. By sensing advanced market needs, develop Quality Management Quality Control Administrator Committee products that are attractive to customers. 2. Establish the quality of products at the earliest stage possible. Development Quality assurance Manufacturing divisions divisions divisions 3. Place importance on the customers’ first Maintenance Administrative impression of quality and on after-sales services. Sales divisions divisions divisions To achieve the above, our company will satisfy the requirements of laws and regulations and customers’ requirements, and continually improve the *The chief officer of the quality management system, who is entrusted by the president with all authority and responsibility to promote and maintain effectiveness of the quality management system. the quality management system. Quality Management System Executing Consistent Quality Control All our business sites and regional offices in Japan have All Glory departments, from planning and development acquired ISO 9001 international standard certification. through maintenance, closely collaborate with each We formulate the annual quality control policy under other and work to create products that satisfy the the Basic Policy for Management and Quality Policy. diverse needs of customers by conducting product and Under each year’s policy, we work to improve our quality technical development from the client’s perspective. assurance system as well as the quality of our products and services to earn customer trust. Planning and Anticipate customer needs and plan and Development develop trusted products in the spirit of continuous development. Furthermore, we disseminate the annual quality control policy across departments, review the status of the Conduct thoroughly transparent and fair trading implementation, and horizontally share information Procurement as called for in our purchasing policies, ensuring quality in cooperation with our suppliers. on quality problems and counter measures across departments through the establishment of the Quality Establish a system to promote quality Manufacturassurance efforts and meticulously control Control Committee and a management review. Through ing quality in the manufacturing processes. these efforts, we work together to conduct quality control activities in alignment with our business by Pay close attention to customer needs as applying the PDCA cycle. Sales feedback for the development department’s efforts to offer trusted products. With regard to our product quality management Provide high-quality maintenance service system, the Quality Assurance Department is responsible Maintenance through roughly 1,000 technical staff for quality assurance, from development through members. to the shipping of products, while the Maintenance 17 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Society Quality Assurance at the Planning and safely and efficiently use and maintain our products. Development Stage Our guidelines stipulate type styles, writing styles, and other information to prevent misunderstanding Subscribing to the general belief that 70% to 80% or misreading. In addition, text is accompanied by of product quality is determined at the planning illustrations and photos for greater clarity. Safety and development stage, which sets the standard explanations in user manuals are provided in multiple for all subsequent stages, Glory focuses continuous languages, so customers around the world can use our improvement from that point. Quality confirmation is products worry-free. then executed at every stage throughout manufacturing and shipping and by conducting design reviews and To prevent product failures from deterioration associated evaluation tests. In addition, the Quality Assurance with long-term use, we attach precaution labels to Department conducts product safety reviews to confirm items such as coin and banknote recyclers for tellers and that no safety issues have emerged and ensures that banknote changers. The information is also posted on our quality and safety controls are thorough and our website. comprehensive. To safely use our product (Japanese only) WEB https://www.glory.co.jp/safety/ As a provider of products and services in over 100 countries around the world, Glory endeavors to enhance quality assurance from the development of quality control standards to the implementation of intensive Efforts to Improve Maintenance Quality staff training in order to develop products that comply with the respective regulations, laws, and standards of We also pay close attention to post-shipping quality each country. control to ensure that customers can confidently use our products, which are repaired and inspected by our Developing Human Resources who Support Quality technical staff. We emphasize education and training to improve the technical skills of designers as part of our efforts to Members of our technical staff constantly improve develop high-quality products. For instance, we conduct their technical skills and response capability to provide level-based training programs and enhanced training customers with fast, reliable maintenance service. In for young designers to develop and improve their Japan, they attend group maintenance training and fundamental design competencies and quickly acquire engage in self-study e-learning classes to acquire basic skills. knowledge and practical skills. Follow-up courses are provided as needed after the initial training to ensure We also hold technical presentations to promote technical staff can maintain and enhance their skill horizontal deployment of technologies, learn market levels. At overseas sites, we conduct group skill training characteristics, and improve the technical skills of by region or country. The staff responsible for each designers. Each product model train technical staff in the products department shares being offered in their market. Glory is strengthening the its top technological effectiveness of this training by having trainees undergo achievements towards preparatory study via an online education system ahead improving the speed of the training day. of delivering products with reliable quality to Maintenance managers from each region of the world customers. meet to share their initiatives and success stories Training session for young designers regarding their respective maintenance work and summarize their progress in actions underway on a global scale. In order to provide maintenance services Information Provision and Product Labeling that meet the diverse needs of customers, Glory will improve maintenance quality across the entire Glory We focus on providing adequate information on Group and raise the level of performance at each of products to enable safe customer use. these operations. We have established guidelines for product information Maintenance service (Japanese only) WEB https://www.glory.co.jp/support/ displays, labeling, and user manuals so customers can GLORY CSR Report 2019 18 Supply Chain Management We view our business partners as key partners and seek to establish a relationship of trust and mutual growth through fair and open trading as well as compliance with all laws and ordinances. Purchasing Policy Strengthening Partnerships with Business Partners Business partners are important partners that enable We, as a Glory Group, procure parts from our suppliers Glory to manufacture high-quality products consistently, in a fair and transparent manner in all aspects of our while having a cooperative system in place is vital. transactions, while strictly observing related laws and regulations, and establishing the relationship built on Glory therefore holds its annual Supplier Conference in the trust with them as their partner. We also proceed Japan, during which it explains the company’s current our procurement activities taking into consideration situation, strategies, and purchasing policy. In fiscal of the concept of both CSR and the environmental year 2018, Glory held the conference in May, with 170 conservation for developing sustainable societies. business partners in attendance. Conferences are also held at GLORY Products Ltd., GLORY Denshi Kogyo 1. Strict compliance with legal and social norms (Suzhou) Ltd., and GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. as part of In addition to strict compliance with applicable an effort to build trusting relationships that allow Glory laws, we respect the ethical norms of society and and its business partners to share the common goal of promote transparency, fairness, and equitability in our purchasing activities. achieving a sustainable society. 2. Environmental preservation We also regularly hold our Quality Conferences, for Based on Glory's Environmental Policy, We will act in earth-friendly ways and endeavor to sharing information on quality and manufacturing provide environmentally-conscious products with processes and examining related issues, and Quality services that contribute to a sustainable society. Improvement Activity Workshops or Substrate Quality We are committed to environmental preservation Policy Briefing, during which business partners present initiatives, and we have established Green their quality improvement initiatives. These provide Procurement Standards covering the purchasing opportunities for business partners to share best and procurement of materials. practices as well. 3. Fairness and impartiality in transactions Glory provides opportunities on an impartial basis Our parts acceptance unit also conducts periodic to all suppliers who comply with our selection guidelines, regardless of whether or not they inspection visits to our business partners for onsite are based in Japan and without regard to prior reviews of manufacturing processes and to offer advice transaction history. We endeavor to find the best for improvements. suppliers for our company by maintaining free competition and ensuring fair evaluation and selection. 4. Maintenance of quality and competitive and reasonable pricing Our Quality Policy is We will provide products and services in a timely manner to win the confidence and satisfaction of customers. We focus on quality, price, delivery schedules, and technology development, and we make active use of proposals from our suppliers regarding new materials and Supplier Conference in Japan ways to lower costs. 5. Mutual advancement based on relationships of trust Through fair transactions, we aim to establish relationships of trust with suppliers and contribute The Best Supplier Award was given to to our mutual advancement. GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. 6. Management and protection of information Confidential business and technical information acquired by Glory in the course of purchasing transactions is managed strictly and never divulged to outside parties without the consent of the supplier concerned. 7. Promotion of CSR-conscious procurement We promote our procurement activities through seriously considering the concept of CSR. 19 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Society Promotion of CSR Procurement Promoting Environmentally Friendly Procurement Glory issued the Glory CSR Procurement Guidebook Green Procurement for suppliers in Japan and Glory Supplier Code of Glory established the Green Procurement Standard Conduct for overseas suppliers to further promote CSR to put into action its basic policy of promoting procurement in March 2014. The guidebook stipulates environmentally sound purchasing. We will remain the Group’s basic stance on CSR as well as Glory’s committed to the purchasing of materials and parts requests to business partners such as respect for human that have minimal environmental impact with the rights and occupational health and safety as well as cooperation of our business partners. environmental protection. Glory uses the guidebook to encourage cooperation with business partners in Green Procurement Standard, 20th edition promoting CSR initiatives throughout its supply chain. https://corporate.glory-global.com/files/user/csr/pdf/gr_guide_en.pdf WEB Specified Chemical Substances, 21th edition The Glory Group is taking steps to conform with the https://corporate.glory-global.com/files/user/csr/pdf/gr_list_en.pdf Code of Conduct established by the RBA (Responsible Business Alliance, formerly EICC), a CSR promotion organization for supply chains mainly in the electronic Compliance Hotline for Supplier device industry, and the conflict mineral survey. The Glory Group operates the Supplier Compliance Glory Supplier Code of Conduct Hotline as a point of contact for business partners https://corporate.glory-global.com/files/user/csr/pdf/glory_ to raise concerns about Group compliance violations supplier_code.pdf in order to further encourage transparent and fair CSR voluntary checklist (Japanese only) purchasing trading with them. These whistleblowing WEB https://www.glory.co.jp/files/user/csr/pdf/checklist.xls reports are filed by the relevant department of Request for consent of the Glory CSR Procurement GLORY LTD., which is independent of Glory’s subject Guidebook (Japanese only) https://www.glory.co.jp/files/user/csr/pdf/csr_format.xls procurement department, where they are properly handled through an investigation of the facts and circumstances. Monitoring the CSR Efforts of Business Partners Glory periodically monitors the CSR efforts of business WEB Supplier Compliance Hotline (Japanese only) https://www.glory.co.jp/csr/society/supplychain_management partners through a survey using its CSR voluntary checklist. Developing Procurement Staff In fiscal year 2018 the company surveyed 452 domestic primary business partners that handle 78% The Glory Group focusses on employee education to of Glory’s total purchases and reported the findings to promote CSR across its supply chain and ensure fair and the 432 business partners who responded (response open trading. The Group trains domestic and overseas rate: 96%). A total of 95 domestic primary business procurement staff through an e-learning program, partners for GLORY Products Ltd. was also surveyed available in three languages. The program consists of and subsequently received the findings (response rate: curriculum modules such as the Japanese Subcontract 100%). Act and CSR procurement, helping staff improve their skills and acquire the knowledge they need. Starting in fiscal year 2019, the scope of the surveys will be expanded to include primary overseas business A total of 154 employees participated in the training partners. sessions in fiscal year 2018. GLORY CSR Report 2019 20 Human Resources Glory respects every employee as an individual and strives to create an enriching, pleasant working environment. Promoting Diversity Employing People with Disabilities In 1999, GLORY Friendly Co., Ltd. was established to Glory aims to build a workplace where every employee, give people with disabilities an opportunity to make a regardless of nationality, race, religion, gender, age, or living and contribute to society. disability, can utilize their talents to the fullest. Under the slogan “Foster a creative working Equal Opportunities for Women environment by valuing communication with one Since ﬁscal year 2011, Glory has been focusing another and fully demonstrating our skills,” employees on ensuring gender equality and delivering equal take on tasks such as company janitorial work and opportunities for female employees. The many efforts landscaping, in-house documentation and mail delivery, being implemented include steps for establishing a and waste disposal. In addition, we are also focusing more worker-friendly workplace environment for all on expanding work employees, including women, and awareness-raising areas so that each activities for managers and female employees to change employee’s personality the corporate culture. In ﬁscal 2016, Glory formulated and ability can be an action plan based on Japan’s Act on the Promotion maximized. of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace and has been creating a more inclusive As of the end of fiscal workplace while ensuring a higher representation of year 2018, the ratio women. In fiscal year 2018, 13.1% of the new graduate of employees with Glory Friendly employees cleaning a hires were female and the number of female managers disabilities was 2.23%. public area was 16. Number and Ratio of Employees with Disabilities Action Plan based on the Act on the Promotion of (Number) Number of employees with disabilities Ratio of employees with disabilities (%) Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace 200 3.0 2.31 2.26 2.29 2.24 2.23 ❶ Increase representation of female new graduate 150 hires to 20% over the next three years 110 113 112 112 105 100 1.5 ❷ Double the number of female managers (section manager and above) over the next ﬁve years 50 0 0 Ratio of Female New Graduate Hires 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (%) Ratio of females Target ratio *Includes data from GLORY Products Ltd, GLORY Friendly Co Ltd., GLORY 30 System Create Ltd., GLORY Mechatronics Ltd. 21.2 19.6 20 Re-hiring Elderly Workers Glory has established standards for employment 13.1 extension in accordance with the Act on Stabilization 10 of Employment of Elderly Persons. Those who have reached the retirement age of 60 are now able to choose to extend their employment until 65. The 0 system encourages senior employees to remain active 2016 2017 2018 (FY) in the workforce and ensures that their knowledge and Number of Female Managers experience are effectively leveraged. In fiscal year 2018, 47 out of 50 employees who had reached retirement FY 2016 2017 2018 Target age were re-employed under the system. Number of female 11 15 16 22 managers 21 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Society Work-Life Balance and allowing short-term use or re-application. These measures allow employees to both develop their careers Glory has in place numerous initiatives for promoting and raise children. a work-life balance. These initiatives enable employees to match their job and work schedule to their lifestyle We received the Next-Generation Certification Mark, while maximizing their abilities and career potential. the “Kurumin” mark, from the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Supporting Flexible Work Styles in fiscal year 2013 Glory introduced an annual leave system in fiscal year recognizing our 2018 that allows employees to take leave in onepolicies based on the hour increments. It is now possible to take their leave Act on Advancement in a full-day, half-day or one-hour units, enabling the of Measures to support of more flexible work styles that more closely Support Raising Nextsuit their lifestyle and encourages them to actually take Generation Children. 2014年度 2015年度 G Kids Home 男性 （名） 0 4 their annual leave. 女性 （名） 39 47 Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave 合計 （名） and Ratio of39 51 Employees Who Returned to Work after Taking 復職率 （％） Childcare 100 Leave 100 Glory also seeks to leverage teleworking, and in fiscal year 2019 introduced a work-at-home program (Number) Male Female Ratio of employees who returned to work after (%) taking childcare leave 80 100 for office workers. A program for mobile workers 100 100 100 100 100 is also under development, while defining rules to ensure smooth operations and establish the necessary 60 51 framework. Glory is continuously working on improving 44 the flexibility of its working environment to prevent 40 39 50 31 31 confining employees to any specific location or time. 47 43 Ratio of Days Taken Paid Leave 20 39 29 30 (%) Ratio of days taken paid leave 4 1 2 1 100 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 66.7 59.6 64.6 65.8 • Balancing Work and Caregiving 58.8 Glory has established a nursing care leave system 50 whereby employees are entitled to up to 365 days of leave per family member and a shortened working hour system for nursing care of up to three years. 0 It also has put in place a system that allows employees 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) to accumulate unused annual paid leave that expires Work-Life Balance Support Systems after two years of receiving and use it for nursing care • Balancing Work and Parenthood or personal sickness and injury. These revisions help Employees can take advantage of systems that allow them balance work time with time spent caring for sick or to place equal importance on raising children and carrying elderly family members. out their jobs. Reducing Long Work Hours An in-house daycare center called “G Kids Home” Glory strives to modify work processes and schedules is opened for children of full-time Glory employees. in order to prevent routinely working long hours. This The center caters for children aged from 57 days up helps to bolster mental and physical well-being and to the age at which they enter elementary school. maintain their motivation to work. The company also has provided subsidies for parents working full-time at Glory sites and have children who In an effort to impress upon employees the importance are in the third grade of elementary school, other than of working efficiently, Glory has instituted “no-overtime the head office, to hire childcare services. days” and “no-overtime weeks.” To encourage employees to go home on time, the company has also Moreover, the shortened working hours system has limited the number of overtime hours per day. Facebeen enhanced to include expanding eligibility so that to-face consultations with the industrial physician are working parents can take advantage of the system until carried out for employees who routinely work long the end of their child’s third grade in elementary school hours to prevent health problems. GLORY CSR Report 2019 22 Human Resources Fostering Human Resources headquarters and Group companies in Japan to deepen their understanding of Japanese production systems. Fostering Globally Minded Human Resources Today, overseas sales account for approximately 43.8% Developing Candidates for Future Executive of Glory Group consolidated net sales, and overseas Glory has implemented the “Glory Business College” employees account for approximately 40% of all Group training program, targeting management-level employees (as of the end of fiscal year 2018). Given this, employees with the goal of developing candidates for the company is particularly emphasizing the fostering next-generation executives. The seven training sessions of human resources that can support international and external seminars over a seven-month period expansion. It is bringing this objective about through aims to give participants the skills and knowledge they programs such as the short-term overseas study need to take on executive positions. The program also program and the Manager Training for Production provides participants Headquarters’ Overseas Group Companies. with opportunities to network with Glory also provides as many opportunities as possible internal and external for exchanges between employees in Japan and those contacts from various at overseas subsidiaries. backgrounds. In fiscal year 2018, 16 • Short-Term Overseas Study Program employees participated The company has set up a short-term overseas study in this program. Glory Business College session program, which sends participants to language schools in the U.S. or U.K. for three months so they can acquire New Career-Building Initiatives the language and business skills needed to do business Glory helps employees achieve their personal career on the global stage. By encountering diverse ways of plans by providing systems and programs that support thinking, values, and the development of their capabilities and further their cultures, employees careers. improve their language skills and develop a • Employee Awareness Surveys global perspective. In Glory conducts a survey targeting executive officers ﬁscal year 2018, five and employees on topics such as work motivation, employees took part in awareness of compliance, and understanding and this program. implementation of Glory’s CSR and management plans. Employee giving a presentation on the last day of the program Survey results are distributed to each department so they can each work on improving employee satisfaction • Manager Training for Production Headquarters’ in their respective areas. The survey is conducted every Overseas Group Companies three years to help monitor any changes in employee As part of the company’s efforts to go global, Glory’s satisfaction to identify emerging issues and come up Production Headquarters conducted training for with effective countermeasures. managers at two subsidiaries: GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd. and GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. The • Career Training training focused on advancing the self-sustaining Glory holds level-speciﬁc career training for employees. capabilities of subsidiaries. For example, the Self-Inquiry Adventure Training is held for employees when they ﬁrst join Glory, on their fourth Three employees participated in the training in fiscal year at the company, and when they turn 30 years old. year 2018. During the seven-week sessions, they studied This program allows them to envision a career plan and management, learned to grow into competent personnel who can achieve Japanese technology their career goals. In ﬁscal year 2018, a total of 216 and know-how, and employees took part. took part in a program aimed at reinforcing The company also offers other career training such as risk management at the Life-Career Plan Training for employees over the the production site. age of 50, which gives participants the opportunity to They also toured Glory reflect on their careers to date, their experiences, skills, Manager Training session for Production Headquarters’ Overseas Group Companies and strengths and to think about the rest of their career before retirement. 23 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Society Labor Practices Framework for Managing Health and Safety Fair Evaluation and Treatment Central Health and Safety Committee To help the growth of both the company and (Chaired by the President) its employees, and to help clarify the roles and responsibilities of each employee, Glory has in place a Secretariat (Human Resources Department, General Affairs Headquarters) “management by objective” system. Health and Safety Committee at each business site (13 business sites) Under the system, employees meet with their supervisors semi-annually to evaluate progress against Departments, Offices, Branch Offices goals they defined at the beginning of each fiscal year and receive feedback. Measures to Maintain Health Our Personnel System Guidebook concerning the Glory maintains and reinforces employee health by Evaluation/Treatment/Remuneration System is made ensuring they receive standard medical checkups available to all employees, with the results of evaluations annually and, for those who are applicable, special also disclosed to employees individually, thus increasing semi-annual medical checkups. Industrial physicians and fairness, transparency, and credibility. health nurses provide a follow-up based on the results of the checkups through, for example, face-to-face Sound Labor-Management Relationship consultations. With the belief that maintaining a peaceful labormanagement relationship leads to healthy business As measures to prevent mental health issues, the development, Glory meets regularly with its labor company established the internal Mental Health union to discuss issues such as improved working Counseling Center, which is staffed by three counsellors conditions and working hours management. Through and conducts awareness-raising activities on mental this open dialogue, it maintains and reinforces a health. The group also offers stress checks to all healthy relationship between labor and management, employees, with 81.8% taking them in fiscal year 2018. encouraging both parties to grow together in harmony. The results are analyzed and necessary follow-up actions are taken which include offering face-to-face counseling with doctors and counsellors to employees identified Occupational Health and Safety as suffering from high stress while analyzing their organizational structure and proposing improvements to Structure for Managing Health and Safety their working conditions. To maintain and reinforce the structure for managing health and safety, Glory established the Central Health Respecting Human Rights and Safety Committee, convened annually, to be responsible for creating annual and midto long-term All employees must abide by Glory’s Corporate company-level activity plans related to health and safety Action Guidelines. These stipulate rules on respect for as well as Health and Safety Committees at each business individuals, talent development, and workplace safety. site for creating their own respective activity plans. They also clearly call for respect for other employees’ diversity, personalities, individual differences, and— Each committee meets monthly to discuss healthabove all—human rights. To ensure that these efforts promoting activities, occupational accidents, including extend throughout the entire supply chain, the company root causes, and countereasures. The committees also published the Glory CSR Procurement Guidebook provide a forum for sharing information. Committee for suppliers in Japan and the Glory Supplier Code members include the safety operation manager, fire of Conduct for overseas suppliers. These documents prevention manager, and other managers who deal with outline rules on respect for human rights that all health and safety. As a result, the committees’ activities suppliers are urged to follow. cover a wide range of topics. The Glory Group has signed and participates in the An Occupational Health and Safety System based on United Nations Global Compact, which advocates OHSAS18001 is in place at head office. Under the universal principles covering the four areas of human system, we pursue safety efforts based on health and rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. The safety management standards at the departmental level Group will continue to ensure respect for human rights and work to prevent disasters through risk assessment. as a cornerstone of its management. GLORY CSR Report 2019 24 Social Initiatives Glory harmonizes and advances the interests of the company and society by actively conducting social action programs as a good corporate citizen. Fostering the Next Generation • ◦ Hands-on Classes for Parents and Children This program is held every spring and autumn with GLORY Foundation for Elementary School Students the goal of strengthening the bonds between parents In March 1995, Glory established the GLORY Foundation and children through a range of fun and exciting for Elementary School Students to support the sound experiences. development of young people. Through the foundation, the company conducts sports, arts, and cultural activities In May 2018, a total of 77 children and parents that include hands-on science classes, experience-based participated in the Rokkosan Pasture’s Butter Making classes for parents and children, and a children’s theater. Experience and Fossil-Hunting Excursion in Kobe, Hyogo. A cumulative total of 102,500 people have taken part in Then in November of that year, 300 students and their these activities since the foundation was launched. parents were invited to see a hot air balloon at a The foundation also assists organizations that work local elementary school. towards the sound development of elementary school Participants learned how students through activities in sports, science, and hot air balloons work and culture. took turns boarding one anchored at the school. • Hands-on Science Classes Enjoying the hot air balloon experience In hands-on science classes during the summer holidays, elementary school students build their own science WEB GLORY Foundation for Elementary School Students https://corporate.glory-global.com/csr/society/community/foundation/ projects, experiencing at ﬁrst hand the wonders of science while also cultivating their creativity and unique powers of imagination. Glory employees take part by helping the students with their projects. Supporting the Promotion of Sports In the ﬁscal year 2018 science classes, 200 students Glory Sponsors the Victorina Himeji Volleyball Team from grades three Glory has signed a sponsorship agreement with Himeji to six took on Victorina Co., Ltd., which manages the Victorina Himeji the challenge of women’s volleyball team (director and owner: Masayoshi building caterpillar Manabe; coach: Yoshie Takeshita). Based in Himeji, robots and learned Hyogo, Victorina Himeji is Japan’s ﬁrst professional about power women’s volleyball team. transmission. Students build Besides playing in a V2 league, the team promotes the caterpillar robots under sport in the community through activities that include the guidance of a appearances on talk shows and volleyball clinics for Glory employee elementary and junior high school students. Glory strives Caterpillar robot to use sponsorship as a way to stimulate communitylevel sports and support the development of the next • Children’s Theater generation. The Children’s Theater project is held with the goal of enriching the aesthetic sensibilities of young people and This season, the team won the league’s regular round planting in them the seeds of creativity. in the V2 division and also won the Final 6 round that followed. The team In ﬁscal year 2018, has been promoted to a total of 2,700 play in the V1 league elementary school next year. Glory will students and their continue to support parents were invited the team in all its to performances of endeavors. the musical The King with Donkey Ears At the 2nd Glory Cup Victorina A scene from The King with Donkey Ears by the Shiki Theater elementary school volleyball clinic Company. 25 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Society Other Contributions to Society Participating in a Back to School Supply Drive Glory Global Solutions Inc. participates in a Back to Cosponsoring the World Heritage Himeji Castle School Supply Drive campaign run by Child Link, an Marathon 2019 organization that supports underprivileged children in Glory was a cosponsor of the World Heritage Himeji America. The campaign takes place every year in August Castle Marathon 2019, held in February. Fifty Glory and is intended to provide children with necessary school employees volunteered on the race day to assist items and prepare them approximately 7,000 participants running the full for the return to school marathon. in September. Through the organization, over Several Glory 300 children have employees also took received school bags, part in the race itself, stationery, and other wearing Glory T-shirts school items donated Employees who participated in the Back bearing a design that by local companies. to School Supply Drive campaign shows the transition of the company logo as they made a spirited Participating in the “V Race Against Cancer” Glory employee volunteers cheering on the run to the ﬁnish line. runners In April 2018, 14 employees of Glory Global Solutions (Spain) S.A. took part in the charity race “V Race Participating in the TABLE FOR TWO (“TFT”) Program Against Cancer.” The event’s goal is to contribute to the Glory has been participating in the TABLE FOR TWO advancement of research into cancer and raise funds (“TFT”) program since July 2011. The program allows for cancer prevention. a portion of the proceeds from nutritionally balanced Approximately 17,000 meals provided at the company’s headquarters cafeteria runners took part in that help to reduce lifestyle diseases to be donated to the event, from which provide school meals in developing countries. In fiscal the proceeds will go year 2018, 17,999 school meals were donated, for an towards supporting accumulated total of activities of the 110,880 donated. In Spanish Association addition, the company Against Cancer. V Race Against Cancer charity race installed five TFTcompliant beverage Supporting Children in India vending machines at In July 2018, Glory Currency Automation India Pvt. Ltd. the headquarters. donated umbrellas TFT Program menu, which changes daily bearing company logos to a local orphanage. More Protecting the Marine Environment in the Philippines than 100 children In December 2018, GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. donated received umbrellas in “reef buds” as its contribution to an ocean regeneration preparation for the project in the municipality of Rosario in the province rainy season. of Cavite. This artiﬁcial coral is made from low-impact Children receiving umbrellas with smiles material and provides a habitat for sea organisms. Reef buds also contribute to the stabilization of the ocean’s pH balance, helping prevent degradation of the marine environment caused by increasing atmospheric CO2 Employees who donated reef buds concentrations. GLORY CSR Report 2019 26 Environmental Management To create a sustainable society, the entire Glory Group works to protect the environment under the Glory Environmental Vision. Glory Environmental Vision Environmental Management Framework The Glory Group considers environmental conservation to Environmental Vision be a key management concern, and therefore we have We contribute to securing the future of the Earth’s implemented an ISO 14001-compliant environmental environment by working worldwide to reduce management system to reduce the environmental impact environmental impact and protect the planet’s in every aspect of our business. The system covers a resources. broad range of our activities, from energy conservation, resource conservation, waste reduction, and appropriate The Glory Group’s environmental vision is captured chemical substance management to environmentally in the slogan we adopted in 2010: “GLORY GREEN friendly product development. CHALLENGE: Leading the way for a prosperous Earth with dynamics and technology through cooperative In March 2002, the head office was the first in the efforts.” We established the “2020 Medium-Term Group to acquire ISO 14001, and certification has Environmental Plan” as our three-year plan from April currently spread to Glory’s main business sites, regional 2018 based on this vision, and we are working to offices, and Group manufacturing companies. We are achieve its targets. also working toward acquiring ISO certification and for comprehensive environmental impact reduction efforts Environmental Policy of the Glory Group to promote environmental conservation at overseas Group companies as well. Our environmental management framework consists We will act in Earth-friendly ways and endeavor of sites for reducing environmental impacts from to provide environmentally friendly products with business operations and business units for reducing the services that contribute to a sustainable society. environmental impact of products. 1. Compliance with laws and regulations We will comply with environmental laws and We develop an annual environmental management regulations, as well as the demands of our action policy in conjunction with the basic management stakeholders. and environmental policies, ensuring reliability and 2. Mitigation of global warming continuous improvement of the management framework We will strive to reduce our use of energy and and system to be effective in all business operations our emissions of greenhouse gases. related to products and services. Also, we strive to 3. Promotion of resource recycling expand the action policy into respective sites and We will strive to use resources effectively and business units and confirm implementation status. At the will promote the recovery and recycling of our same time, we share and horizontally address issues and products. counter measures by the Environmental Management 4. Prevention of pollution by chemical substances Committee and conduct management reviews whereby We will properly manage chemical substances we utilize PDCA cycles to integrate business activities and will reduce hazardous substances in our Groupwide. Moreover, the environmental management products. department conducts a continuous improvement of the 5. Conservation of biodiversity system for the entire Group. Each of us will strive to conserve ecosystems Environmental Management Framework through activities that contribute to our communities. Top Management* 6. Proper disclosure of environmental information (Chief Officer in Charge of Environmental Management) We will proactively carry out disclosure of Environmental Management Committee information and will respond to the wishes of our stakeholders. Environment Management Officer In order to achieve this policy, we will set and work toward environmental targets and will strive to effect Site Environmental Manager Business Unit Environmental Manager continuous improvements. Business Sites and Regional Divisions Offices, Group Companies *The chief officer of the environmental management system, who is entrusted by the president with all authority and responsibility to promote and maintain the environmental management system. 27 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Environment Environmental Audit Compliance with Environmental Laws Our ISO 14001 certified business sites conduct audits Recognizing legal compliance as a key aspect of integrated with ISO 9001 performed by internal auditors environmental conservation, Glory is committed to and external auditors from a certification body. thorough operational management. We closely monitor changes to laws and regulations and confirm our own The internal audits mainly confirm legal compliance compliance status twice a year. On-site inspections such as that with environmental regulatory limits are based on a dedicated checklist at each site during including noise and water quality as well as the internal environmental audits. Moreover, CMS (chemical status of reports to authorities and conformity with substances management system) audits are periodically standards for continuously improving the environmental conducted at the sites of business partners and overseas management system. In the internal audits in fiscal subsidiaries. year 2018, we examined the conformity and validity of the implementation status of ISO 14001:2015, and As a result of verifying legal compliance in fiscal year non-conformity was not discovered, while external 2018, we confirmed that no serious non-compliance examinations did not discover any either. The results of problems or accidents have impacted the environment. the audits and examinations are laterally reviewed across the Glory Group and shared with all employees through a bottom-up approach across our activities. Environmental Education We focus on environmental education as we believe Environmental Risk Management that correctly understanding the impact of our business activities on the environment is a key to ongoing efforts We conduct environmental impact assessments annually to reduce such impact. to reduce environmental risk and stipulate response procedures for specific risks. Furthermore, we ensure In addition to including environmental management that internal systems are in place and conduct thorough system requirements in new employee training, we employee education, particularly by emphasizing proper conduct tailored educational programs based on industrial waste processing and hazardous materials professional positions such as management training management. for newly appointed managers and training on environmentally friendly design for product designers. Waste management systems are in place at each site Moreover, we seek to build on the expertise of for proper industrial waste processing, and in addition employees by executing training in areas such as internal to the thorough training of managers and other environmental auditing and waste management. responsible employees in charge of waste management, we apply strict standards in selecting waste processing We are striving to raise environmental awareness further contractors and conduct on-site inspections. For by informing all employees, including resident business hazardous materials management, we stipulate the partners, of our environmental activities. response procedures in the event of an emergency involving an oil spill and regularly hold simulation drills. TOPIC Received the Outstanding Environmental Performers Award GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. is reducing its power and water usage as well as industrial waste towards alleviating the environmental impact in its business activities. The company monitors data monthly and takes corrective actions when targets are not met. Moreover, it promotes activities for preserving biodiversity by participating in events such as river cleanups and tree-planting as well as cleaning around its premises. In May 2019, it received its second Outstanding Environmental Performers award from PEZA* in recognition of these efforts. *PEZA: Philippine Economic Zone Authority Award ceremony GLORY CSR Report 2019 28 Developing Environmentally Friendly Products Glory develops environmentally friendly products that minimize the environmental impact throughout the product life cycle, from material procurement and customer use to final disposal. Developing Environmentally Friendly Products which are registered in the Chemical Substance Control System, making it easy to tally amounts for the overall The Glory Group has set a long-term goal of 30% product. Furthermore, all new products are inspected reduction in CO2 emissions from the 2005 levels by before shipping to comply with relevant regulations. its products during use and is engaged in developing environmentally friendly products in order to achieve Supplier cooperation is essential for controlling chemical a low-carbon society as it continuously engages in substances. We request that domestic and overseas environmental conservation efforts. We conduct life suppliers ensure the parts and materials shipped to cycle assessments (LCAs) in response to customer us fully comply with the Glory Green Procurement requests to evaluate the environmental impact at Standards. They are every stage of the product life cycle, from material also asked to execute procurement and customer use to final disposal. a memorandum of understanding on Our product assessments during new product green procurement development cover over 60 categories, from energy and provide data efficiency to reuse-recycling, and we compare products concerning chemical under development to those that already exist. Through substance content. Inspecting parts for chemical substance content these assessments, products that meet standards such as electric power use efficiency are at least 15% better than existing products, and chemical substance Developing Environmentally Friendly Maintenance Products regulation-compliant, are designated as G-Eco products in accordance with in-house standards. Glory developed the Recycle Jet air duster as an environmentally friendly maintenance product that Approximately 44% of our new products released in removes dust and other contaminants from electronics fiscal year 2018 were designated as G-Eco products. and precision machinery. Instead of typically used The coin and banknote recyclers for cashiers for overseas chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) alternatives, the Recycle markets (CI-5) use approximately 40% less electricity Jet is filled with carbon dioxide (CO2) injection gas during operation recovered as an industrial by-product yielding a global for banknotes warming potential of just 1/1,430 of that of existing and 25% less for products, thereby helping to prevent global warming. coins compared to Since carbon dioxide is non-flammable and therefore their predecessors. has no risk of igniting, the product is extremely safe. In They also achieved addition, its reusable and detachable cylinder minimizes recyclable rates of CI-5 Coin and banknote waste. approximately 91% recyclers for cashier for overseas markets for banknotes and We have established our own recycling-oriented scheme (Left: coins; right: banknotes) 89% for coins. that makes use of a nationwide network of more than 100 service locations, towards achieving a recyclingoriented society. Through this scheme, technical staff Management of Chemical Substances collect used cylinders during routine maintenance work and then send the cylinders to affiliated carbon dioxide Glory designates materials regulated by the RoHS filling facilities to be Directive, REACH Regulation, and other laws and refilled with injection regulations in the Glory Specified Chemical Substances gas. List. It also stipulates banned materials in the Green Procurement Standards to facilitate the thorough The number of filled management of chemical substances contained in our cylinders in fiscal products. year 2018 was about 60,000, reducing CO2 Using a Recycle In addition to confirming compliance with regulations emissions by around Jet for concerning chemical substance content during the 30,000 tons. maintenance parts selection process, we use X-ray fluorescence spectrometers to inspect all parts carefully as they are delivered. We also measure chemical content amounts, Recycle Jet 29 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Reducing Environmental Impact of Business Activities Glory continuously strives to preserve the Earth’s environment and reduce environmental impact by reducing CO2 emissions, managing chemical substances, and effectively using resources. Environment Mitigation of Global Warming PRTR Volume 法対象物質取扱量（国内） of PRTR Law-Listed Substances (Domestic) （t） 100.0 “Mitigation of Global Warming” has been established 89.1 as a theme of the Glory Environmental Vision, and we 76.4 80.0 74.4 73.6 are working to cut emissions of CO2. 70.9 60.0 Under this part of the vision, we have adopted highly efficient production equipment to cut CO2 emissions. 40.0 We have also been installing power monitoring systems 20.0 (demand monitoring functions), LED lighting, and human detection sensors at our business sites while 0 setting up a solar power system on the roof of the head 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) office for the use of renewable energy sources. *Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification Furthermore, we are promoting a modal shift by switching transport from trucks to railways and ships as Effective Use of Resources a means of improving shipping efficiency with lighter weight packing materials in order to reduce the burden Glory is engaged in 3R (reduce, reuse, recycle) efforts to on the environment. contribute to creating a recycling-oriented society. CO2 CO₂ 排出 Emissions In order to use resources more effectively, we are （t-CO2） Domestic Overseas improving our production processes, raising parts 20,000 manufacturing yields, and reducing the number of 16,066 16,317 16,706 16,716 manufacturing trials to cut down on the volume of 15,135 15,000 2,885 3,384 3,565 3,722 materials used. In addition, our factories and offices 3,468 are going paperless, returnable containers are being 10,000 used for deliveries from suppliers, and efforts are being 13,181 12,933 13,141 12,994 made to reduce the volume of packing material. Also, 11,666 5,000 we are reusing cushioning materials used for intraGroup parts shipping. Wastes are thoroughly separated when we dispose of them in order to increase recycling 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) rates. Moreover, we have established a recycling rate *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification of 99.5% as our zero emissions target and intend to *2 Following overseas business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 achieve it at our production sites. certification GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. 廃棄物量 Waste Volume Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH Glory Global Solutions Inc. （t） Domestic Overseas 3,000 Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances 2,119 2,201 1,991 2,000 1,718 1,716 We thoroughly manage the chemical substances used 1,266 1,385 1,295 in production and are making progress in switching 982 891 1,000 to chemical substances with a low impact on human health. The factories manage and issue semi-annual 736 853 816 696 825 reports about the amount of chemical substances they 0 use. Factory employees who use chemical substances, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) including those subject to the Law concerning Pollutant *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification Release and Transfer Register (PRTR Law), are trained *2 Following overseas business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification. in chemical substance handling. Safety data sheets GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. (SDS) containing chemical substance safety data are Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. always on hand so employees can, as necessary, confirm Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH Glory Global Solutions Inc. precautions when handling these substances as well as response procedures for emergencies. GLORY CSR Report 2019 30 Preserving Biodiversity Glory is engaged in a variety of activities for preserving biodiversity in collaboration with stakeholders such as local communities and incorporated NPOs. Activities in the Glory Yumesaki Forest and children to stroll through the forest while observing insects and plants and to have fun in nature with the Glory entered into the Forest Cultivation Agreement goal of passing on an appreciation of it to the next with the Greenery Association of Himeji City, Hyogo generation. Prefecture in 2011 and has been participating in forest conservation activities in Yumesaki, Himeji, Hyogo. The In fiscal year 2018, we location of these activities is the Glory Yumesaki Forest, held the workshop in a name selected from among entries submitted by October with 94 Glory employees based on the aspiration that a forest be a Group employees, place where dreams (yume ) bloom (saki ). business partners, and family members. Making forest lanthanum We conduct forest conservation activities from the beginning of spring to early summer every year. We thin out one hectare of undergrowth each year among the Activities in the Kanto Region hinoki cypress and broadleaf groves in collaboration with the forestry cooperative to encourage plant In fiscal year 2013, Glory began expanding its activities growth on the forest floor. We also strive to reproduce into the Kanto region to preserve biodiversity in and maintain the rich natural environment by forming collaboration with NPOs. favorable environments for village forests through activities such as planting conventional trees including Since fiscal year 2017, we have participated in the mountain cherry and konara oak as ways to ensure the Restoring Satoyama project in a designated greenery conservation of the species. conservation area in Hachioji, Tokyo as a forest conservation activity. We also conduct a clean-up In fiscal year 2018, on the banks of the Arakawa River, Tokyo and offer we conducted a forest opportunities to learn about biodiversity with the conservation project aim of promoting in April, and a total environmental of 83 Glory Group preservation. employees, business partners, and family In fiscal year 2018, members participated. Planting an apple tree 82 Glory Group employees, business Botanical Survey partners, and family We conduct joint botanical and biological surveys Forest conservation activity in members participated. Hachioji, Tokyo with specialists to look into the types and growth status of plant life in order to scientifically examine the effectiveness of the Glory Yumesaki Forest for Main Activities by Region preserving biodiversity. During the course of conducting the surveys, it was also confirmed that a rare species of Company Activity woodpecker and a frog listed in the Hyogo Prefectural version of the Local Red Data Book were living in the • Participated in the planting event: Adopt-ATree Park Program area. We will continue GLORY • Participated in an ocean regeneration to conduct this (PHILIPPINES), INC. project in the municipality of Rosario in the survey periodically in province of Cavite, Philippines (donation of reef buds) order to confirm the Developed a biotope for preserving the effectiveness of forest Sayo Factory of natural environment and improving GLORY Products Ltd. conservation as well biodiversity as to determine what Participated in an annual tree-planting event GLORY Engineering policies are required for Ltd. in the forests of Takao near Tokyo for the Botanical survey underway in a hinoki purpose of creating a diverse and rich forest future activities. cypress grove Efforts to Educate the Next Generation Each year in autumn we hold the Kids’ Nature Workshop. Various programs are designed for parents 31 GLORY CSR Report 2019 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan We established the 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan and are working toward these targets. Environment Targets and Results Based on the 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan Under the Environmental Vision with three areas of focus, specifically products, business, and awareness, the entire Glory Group is taking action on the themes of the prevention of global warming, management and reduction of chemical substances, effective use of resources, and preservation of biodiversity, all based on the 2020 Medium-Term Environmental Plan developed for the three-year period beginning in April 2018. Targets for 2020 Activity Targets for Fiscal Year Activity Themes Medium-Term Results for Fiscal Year 2018 Areas 2018 Environmental Plan Improve energy efficiency of new Mitigation of Reduce CO2 emissions Reduced by average of 16.1% (target achieved for products by at least global warming from new products 14 of 32 models, designated as G-Eco products) 15% compared to Products previous models Management and reduction Make all new products Comply with all relevant 32 models were RoHS-compliant (achieved of chemical RoHS-compliant laws compliance rate of 100%) substances Increase environmentally friendly At least 60% of sales Accounted for 73.0% of sales product account ratio for all products Mitigation of out of sales global warming Reduce annual perReduce annual average Reduced annual average by 2.2% (base year: fiscal employee energy by 1% (base year: fiscal year 2010) consumption year 2010) Business Management Balance control of Counted record of volume of in-process chemical and reduction Balance control of chemical substances products in May of chemical chemical substances Reduce PRTR Law-listed Reduced volume of PRTR Law-listed substances substances substances slightly (Type 1) (1%) Reduce annual volume Effective use of Reduce volume of of waste generated by Reduced annual volume of waste generated by resources waste generated 1% (base year: fiscal average of 1.5% (base year: fiscal year 2010) year 2010) •Himeji: Held forest conservation activity in April (symbolic trees planted, 20 apple trees planted, 1 hectare of forest thinned) Increase contribution to • Plant 20 trees Held nature appreciation event for biodiversity preservation • Thin 1 hectare of employees’ families in October (improve management forest •Kanto area: Held forest conservation activity in criteria) Hachioji, Tokyo in May Held clean-up on banks of Arakawa River, Tokyo in October • 100% achievement ratio for yearly plans Himeji: Glory Yumesaki Forest 83 people participated in forest Preservation of conservation activity (16 people biodiversity representing 3 Glory suppliers also participated) 94 people participated in nature Awareness appreciation event (9 people representing Cooperate with • Formulate plan 1 Glory supplier also participated) stakeholders to preserve • Carry out 100% of Kanto area: Kamikawa in Hachioji, Tokyo biodiversity activities planned (designated greenery conservation area) 54 people participated in forest conservation activity (3 people representing 1 Glory supplier also participated) 28 people participated in clean-up on banks of Arakawa River, Tokyo •CSR Report 2018 posted on our website (data Disclose environmental on reducing environmental impact from business Communication information on CSR Run articles activities, etc.) Report and website • CDP, provided answers on a questionnaire from the Nikkei Environmental Management Study GLORY CSR Report 2019 32 Corporate Governance Glory (the “Company“) continuously strives to increase its corporate value by promoting sound business management based on its corporate philosophy. Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Guidelines https://pdf.irpocket.com/C6457/LOUh/zpL4/OES6.pdf WEB Basic Policy Corporate Governance Report Glory’s corporate philosophy guides its efforts to https://corporate.glory-global.com/groupinfo/governance/report/ continuously improve corporate value through sound and efficient business management so that the Outline of Main Organs Company can exist in harmony with society and earn • Directors and Board of Directors the trust and support of all stakeholders. None of this The Company’s Board of Directors comprises eight can be achieved without a firm commitment to the Directors including two Outside Directors and in continuing improvement of corporate governance. Glory principle meets at least once per month, with the will continue its efforts to strengthen the supervisory attendance of four Audit & Supervisory Board Members and executive functions of management, accelerate (“A&SB Members”) including two Outside A&SB decision-making, ensure transparency and objectivity, Members. and enhance compliance management to further increase our corporate value. The Board of Directors, chaired by the president, decides the important business policies of the Company and Corporate Governance Framework the Group, supervises business execution, and receives Glory adopts an Audit and Supervisory Board system. reports on the status of business execution. Directors, This means the Company’s Board of Directors, which including Outside Directors, actively discuss and includes more than one Outside Director, makes exchange opinions, and A&SB Members express their decisions on important matters and supervises business positions as needed. Also, two Outside Directors play execution, while the Audit and Supervisory Board an important role in enhancing supervisory functions oversees the actions of the Board of Directors. Further, as well as in ensuring and improving transparency and an executive officer system allows the Company to fairness in the Company’s management by providing separate the management supervisory and business sound opinions and advice from an independent executive functions, thereby enabling speedy and standpoint. efficient business administration. In addition, we have committees such as the Nomination Advisory • Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Audit & Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee to Supervisory Board boost transparency and objectivity of decision making The Company’s Audit & Supervisory Board, chaired by on important matters of the management. a full-time A&SB Member, is composed of two full-time A&SB Members and two Outside A&SB Members for Glory’s basic policy on corporate governance is set out a total of four members and in principle meets once in the Corporate Governance Guidelines. per month. A&SB Members, including Outside A&SB Members, conduct audits based on an annual corporate Corporate Governance Framework (as of June 21, 2019) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/ Appointment/ Appointment/Removal Removal Audit & Supervisory Removal Board of Directors 8 Directors including 2 Outside Directors Board(A&SB) 4 A&SB Members including 2 Examination/ Representative Directors Operational Reporting Audit Outside A&SB Members Examination Cooperation Compliance Disclosure Risk Management Nomination Advisory Compensation Management Conference Executive Officers Accounting Auditors Directors(including 2 Outside Directors) Accounting Advice/Direction Committee Committee A&SB Members Audit Corporate Outside Committee Committee Advisory Committee Executive Officers and others Internal Audit Department Lawyers Consultants Advice/ Direction Business Promotion Conference Audit 4 compliance helplines Development divisions Manufacturing divisions Sales divisions Maintenance divisions Administrative divisions Group companies 33 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Governance audit plan determined in accordance with the audit • Procedures for Determining Remuneration policy and the assignment of duties determined by the For determining remuneration, after discussing the Audit & Supervisory Board. Based on these audits, A&SB individual remuneration levels for each Director Members issue reports on the audit status and exchange and A&SB Member at the Compensation Advisory information and views at meetings of the Audit & Committee, their decisions on the appropriateness of Supervisory Board. the levels and the total amount of remuneration are The two Outside A&SB Members play key roles in reported to the Board of Directors and A&SB Members, ensuring legitimacy and adequacy in the Company’s and we have determined for concrete procedures as management by leveraging their sophisticated expertise follows. and extensive experience in conducting audits of the • Total amount of remuneration for Directors is Company. determined by resolution of the Board of Directors in line with a review by the Compensation Advisory Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Meetings Committee and within the ranges approved by Held for the year ended March 2019 the general meeting of shareholders. After the Number Attendance rate (%) Compensation Advisory Committee confirms the of A&SB Member reasonability of the remuneration for each Director, the meetings Director (including held Outside Director) (including Outside Board of Directors leaves the determination of individual A&SB Member) amounts up to the discretion of the president. Board of • Remuneration for A&SB Members is determined by 16 100 100 Directors consultation among A&SB Members in line with a Audit & Supervisory 15 – 100 review by the Compensation Advisory Committee Board and within the ranges approved by the general meeting of shareholders. • Nomination Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee • Structure of Remuneration In order to ensure transparency and objectivity in • Remuneration consists of fixed compensation, appointing Directors and A&SB Members, etc. and short-term performance-based bonuses and determining remuneration for them, the Company medium-term performance-based stock has established two advisory bodies of the Board of compensation. Directors, the Nomination Advisory Committee and • Fixed compensation is determined in accordance Compensation Advisory Committee, each with at with the position and responsibilities of the person least half of the members and the chairperson being concerned. independent Outside Directors. The members of each • The target indicators for Bonuses are consolidated committee are as follows. net sales and operating income from among the 【Nomination Advisory Committee (4 members)】 performance targets in the 2020 Medium-Term Chairperson: Joji Iki (Outside Director) Management Plan. The amounts to be paid will be Member: Junji Uchida (Outside Director), Hirokazu determined according to the degree of achievement Onoe (Chairman of the Board), Motozumi toward those predetermined targets. Miwa (President) • The target indicators for Stock Compensation 【Compensation Advisory Committee (4 members)】 are consolidated ROE and the operating margin Chairperson: Junji Uchida (Outside Director) from among the performance targets in the 2020 Member: Joji Iki (Outside Director), Hirokazu Onoe Medium-Term Management Plan. The number of (Chairman of the Board), Motozumi Miwa shares to be allotted will be determined according (President) to the degree of achievement toward those predetermined targets. Remuneration for Officers • Basic Policy on Remuneration Evaluation on Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Remuneration for Directors and A&SB Members is The Company has conducted an analysis and evaluation designed in such a manner that the value can be shared of the effectiveness of its Board of Directors based on with the shareholders, the level is appropriate for their its Corporate Governance Guidelines since fiscal year duties, and due consideration is given to incentives 2015, thereby endeavors to strengthen the function of for continued improvement of corporate performance the Board of Directors as a whole. and securing talented human recourses. In addition, remuneration for Outside Directors and A&SB Members WEB Results of Evaluation on Effectiveness of the Board of Directors https://corporate.glory-global.com/groupinfo/governance/evaluation/ consists only of fixed compensation. GLORY CSR Report 2019 34 Risk Management Glory strives to prevent and avoid operational risks and mitigate losses in times of disasters, ensuring the safety of stakeholder positions. Risk Management Framework Risk Identification Process Glory has established the Risk Management Committee, The Glory Group annually revises its list of potential chaired by the president, to maintain and strengthen risks along with the associated management policy and risk management for the entire Glory Group. countermeasures based on changes in the prevailing The Glory Group regularly conducts risk assessments business environment and progress of our businesses. and works mainly with predetermined divisions and individuals responsible for each risk item to implement In identifying risks, new risks are recognized through precautionary measures against risks during normal a review of the current assessment and internal and times and to secure and improve a system that can external environmental changes. Assessment and respond promptly in times of crisis. The committee analysis are then conducted according to the level of discusses measures based on the results of these influence and frequency of occurrence, and key items assessments. A summary of the discussion is regularly are identified in the Risk Management Committee for reported to the Board of Directors. formulating countermeasures. These company-wide risks are also reflected as appropriate in the business In fiscal year 2018, Glory developed activities based on risks, which are disclosed as such documents as Security the annual policy and major items predetermined by the Reports in connection with the consideration of financial Risk Management Committee. We also strived to grasp impacts. the Group-wide status of risks by adopting the same risk assessment method used by Glory for each Group In recent years, we consider worldwide progress of the company. cashless system as a risk that should be taken account of within the Group. Risk Management Framework Board of Directors Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Glory developed its BCP in preparation for emergencies Risk Management Committee in order to continue key activities and ensure prompt recovery in times of crisis, including disasters. We have organized a strategy for promptly responding during Chief Risk Management Officer emergencies to reliably and steadily provide products Secretariat and services by strengthening the supply chain through (General Affairs Headquarters) diversifying the parts procurement risk and preparing Department Managers regulations and a manual on disaster response. Moreover, in preparation for contingencies, we have Employees strengthened our response to potential damage to important network systems that have a major impact on business continuity, introduced a safety confirmation system, installed satellite phones at main business sites, stocked supplies of food and water, and regularly conduct disaster drills to ensure the effectiveness of our disaster countermeasures. A disaster drill 35 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Governance Information Security Management System power generators and a UPS (uninterruptible power system). Glory handles a large volume of confidential information concerning matters such as cash processing and settlement processing. Accordingly, we focus on the integrated Information Security Education strengthening of our information security throughout the Group based on the Information Security Basic Policy and Personnel Safety Management Privacy Policy, which stipulate our basic stance and attitude as We respond to constantly changing technologies and a Group. social circumstances and conduct level-based employee training to prevent information security breaches. Measures for Organizational Safety Management Having established the Information Security Promotion Our training includes programs for new employees to Section as a subsidiary organization of the Compliance provide them with a basic knowledge of information Committee, we created an information security security and relevant laws and regulations and training management system under the supervision of the chief on supervisor responsibilities for information security information security officer (CISO) to utilize PDCA cycles so management can acquire the knowledge they need. in order to promote continuous improvement. We We also conduct training programs for managementalso periodically conduct internal audits to confirm its level personnel to deepen understanding of social conformity and validity. trends (external environment) and our status (internal environment) related to information security. Enhancing Information Security Measures We also conduct an annual, companywide e-learning program in October during Corporate Ethics Month For the purpose of safely and appropriately handling to strengthen the information security literacy of the information assets of our customers, departments employees. concerned with offering systems solutions and services, such as the GCAN Center (Glory Card and Network Center: information processing center), have acquired Response to Information Security Incidents ISO 27001 certification, the international standard for information security. In preparation for information security incidents such as data leaks, malware infection, and unauthorized access, Business sites and departments that have acquired ISO 27001 we have established a system for minimizing damage, certification promptly recovering and preventing reoccurrence. GLORY LTD. System Product Development Division, G-CSIRT (Glory Computer Security Incident Response 3 Departments GCAN Center, Glory Monitoring Center Team), which plays a central role in this effort, joined Nippon CSIRT Association, an industry group, in Domestic Group 2014 and has been enhancing response capabilities companies GLORY System Create Ltd. to incidents through such initiatives as gathering and 1 company sharing information and acquiring related skills. Technical Safety Management We are enhancing information security measures, such as introducing ID management systems and systems to prevent unauthorized entry via the Internet or to limit the use of external storage by device control. Physical Safety Management We have introduced an entrance and exit management system with ID cards or facial recognition along with a key management system to strictly control access and automatically save records. We also ensure the continuous operation of the IT infrastructure by installing equipment such as private GLORY CSR Report 2019 36 Compliance Glory strives to foster awareness of compliance Group wide and conduct honest and fair business activities. Compliance Framework Legal Code of Conduct Glory views legal compliance as an important We established the Glory Legal Code of Conduct management issue for the Group, and so we strive to governing the laws and codes of ethics that must be maintain or improve our compliance framework. adhered to by all Glory Group officers, employees, and One measure taken in that regard is the establishment business partners, including distributors, both domestic of the Compliance Committee. and overseas. The committee is chaired by the president, includes The code was developed from a global perspective two outside experts (attorneys at law), and deliberates to accommodate the rapid expansion of our overseas key compliance-related issues concerning the Glory business. We strive to improve employee awareness of Group. Matters deliberated are reported to the Board of compliance through activities such as the distribution of Directors. the “Handbook” and training for every Group employee in order to continue to conduct honest and fair business Also, a chief compliance officer is appointed from worthy of the Glory brand and to maintain and ensure a among the officers in charge. The committee’s high level of compliance and ethical standards. secretariat takes charge of planning measures for thorough compliance as well as employee education Corruption Prevention and awareness activities. We have specified rules to prohibit bribery and prevent corruption in the Glory Legal Code of Conduct and Compliance Framework endeavor to keep all domestic and overseas employees and business partners informed of them. We also Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board conduct e-learning and other suitable means of education to prevent corrupt practices. Compliance Committee In fiscal year 2018, there were no occurrences of corrupt practices, including bribery. Chief Compliance Officer Related Sections Personal Information Protection Secretariat (Legal Affairs The Glory Group recognizes the importance of Internal Audit Department Department, General Helpline Affairs Headquarters) its responsibility to properly manage the personal Outside Helpline information of stakeholders, including customers, Office business partners, and shareholders acquired through Department Compliance Manager Consultant our business activities. We therefore ensure the proper management of personal information according to the Privacy Policy. Employees Furthermore, we have developed internal rules and Helpline conduct training to respond effectively to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which went Setting up a Consultation Service (Helplines) into effect in May 2018. Glory has set up four compliance helplines advised by (1) an immediate superior, (2) the Compliance Committee WEB Privacy Policy (Japanese only) https://www.glory.co.jp/info/privacy/ secretariat, (3) an office consultant, and (4) an external helpline (law firm) as a consultation service (helpline) for overall compliance issues of the Glory Group. The helplines were established to detect and correct issues at an early stage as well as to protect those seeking consultation under the Internal Regulations on Consultation. 37 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Governance Compliance Education Number of patents, utility models, and designs applied for and acquired Number of applications in Japan Number of applications overseas We conduct comprehensive training, including at Number acquired in Japan Number acquired overseas Group companies, to ensure thorough compliance. 1,200 1,191 1,188 New employee education includes learning about 1,116 1,141 1,057 fundamental legal and ethical issues as well as 862 internal rules. In addition, we conduct e-learning 800 867 772 every year during Corporate Ethics Month in October 694 680 for all domestic Group employees to refresh their 400 308 understanding of basic issues and social trends. 273 272 231 95 109 93 213 96 In fiscal year 2018, programs were conducted under 76 0 themes such as the gifts and entertainment rules 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) stipulated in the Glory Legal Code of Conduct, *1 Numbers are the total number of patents, utility models, and designs the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), *2 Numbers for both Japan and overseas are on a consolidated basis and prevention of harassment, with a combined total of 6,902 employees taking part in the various Fostering Human Resources on Intellectual Property programs. Other programs include newly appointed Level-based training is provided to the planning and manager education and special training to develop a development divisions to raise general awareness of more thorough and precise understanding of issues intellectual property while qualificationand positionconcerning laws and corporate ethics. based human resource development programs are offered to employees in the Intellectual Property Department. We established a strategy for raising the Intellectual Property Initiatives level of expertise through those programs, making it possible for the divisions involved as well as the Basic Concept Intellectual Property Department to foster human We encourage the creation of domestic and overseas resources at appropriate levels. inventions and acquire the relevant rights, make use of intellectual property rights, and take measures to avoid Moreover, we have instituted an invention incentive the risk of disputes by researching the rights of others, system to provide compensation for outstanding for the benefit of the Glory Group. inventions, especially those that have contributed to our business to boost the motivation of inventors. Ensuring Alignment with Business We conduct activities for intellectual property in alignment with business activities. For example, divisions involved in intellectual property, such as the business and development divisions and the Intellectual Property Department, regularly convene meetings to discuss the utilization of intellectual property and application strategies to gain an advantage in business promotions. We also engage in activities to extract ideas at each stage of planning and development to generate valid patents at an early stage. We identify ideas for specifications in the planning stage and for incorporating specifications in the development stage, enabling us to apply for patents promptly. Once patents are registered, business and development divisions gather feedback for sharing details about rights and discussing how best to utilize those rights. As of the end of fiscal year 2018, the Glory Group held a total of 2,053 patents, utility models, and designs (1,191 domestic and 862 overseas). GLORY CSR Report 2019 38 Responsibility to Shareholders and Investors Glory communicates with stakeholders and appropriately discloses information. Governance Policies Concerning Disclosure of Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Information and Constructive Dialogues Glory proactively arranges opportunities for dialogue Glory is committed to “communicating with with shareholders and investors to deepen their stakeholders and striving for appropriate information understanding of the company. disclosure,” as declared in its Corporate Action Guidelines. With this stance, the company is dedicated At meetings with institutional investors and analysts, we to increasing the transparency of its management actively engage in dialogue on various topics, including through quick, accurate, and fair provision of the shareholder returns and capital policies, as well as our latest corporate information and to gaining a better management strategy, business models, and mediumunderstanding of its management policies and to long-term management plan. In fiscal year 2018, we business activities through constructive dialogues, held meetings with approximately 350 companies. thereby building long-term relationships of trust with shareholders and investors. In terms of information disclosure, we voluntarily hold financial results briefings and conference calls and Policies Concerning Disclosure of Information and include supplementary explanation to further clarify WEB Constructive Dialogues with Shareholders and Investors performance by segment and by area. We also extend https://corporate.glory-global.com/ir/management/policy/ invitations to IR events such as factory tours and exhibitions so participants can see our work themselves and gain a clearer understanding of our management General Meeting of Shareholders strategy and business operations. Glory recognizes the vital importance of opportunities In addition, we co-host briefings with securities for dialogue with shareholders and endeavors to enliven companies to provide individual shareholders and the General Meeting of Shareholders. investors with a clear description of our business activities and communicate additional information We distribute convocation notices three weeks before through shareholder newsletters and our corporate the meetings to enable shareholders to have sufficient website. time to review proposals addressed at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Furthermore, convocation notices are posted on Tokyo Stock Exchange and Glory websites at least four weeks in advance. We have been exercising ingenuity every year in preparing clear and informative convocation notices with suitable photos and graphic charts. We also adopted electronic voting to facilitate shareholder participation in resolutions. Financial results briefing At the General Meeting of Shareholders, audio-visual presentations and narratives are used by the president to provide detailed reports on proposals to be acted upon along with key considerations for shareholders. During the Showroom Tour, conducted after the meeting, where our main products are displayed, Tour of Saitama Factory for institutional executive officers investors including the president and staff members actively encourage Information Disclosure on Website communication with A special section for shareholders and investors has shareholders by been set up on the Glory corporate website to ensure explaining about Glory timely and more convenient information disclosure. products and history. Documents disclosed include quarterly financial reports, General Meeting of Shareholders shareholder newsletters, and annual reports. We want WEB General Meeting of Shareholders https://corporate.glory-global.com/ir/meeting/ our website to be easy to understand and user-friendly with enhanced content. 39 GLORY CSR Report 2019 ESG Data Environment Environmental Impacts from Business Operations (Material Balance) CO2 5,912 t-CO2 Development Energy use 130,975 GJ Greenhouse gases HFCs in products None Energy Electricity 1,302 million kWh NOx 0 t City gas 80,000 m3 and Production Atmospheric SOx 0 t emissions Input Output Water use 39,000 t PRTR substances 0.2 t Water Wastewater 39,000 t Operations in Glory Clean water 39,000 t Emissions to Industrial water 0 t water PRTR substances 0 t Chemical Total waste emissions 271 t Volume handled 73.7 t substances Waste Recycled waste 270 t Scope: Production sites of GLORY LTD. Landfill disposal 0.07 t CO2 Emissions CO2 Emissions for each Scope （t-CO2） Domestic Overseas Fiscal Year 2018 20,000 Scope and Category Emissions Ratio 16,317 16,706 16,716 (t-CO2) (%) 16,066 15,135 15,000 Scope 1 1,023 0.2 2,885 3,384 3,565 3,722 3,468 Scope 2 14,112 3.2 10,000 Scope 3 432,494 96.6 13,181 12,933 13,141 12,994 11,666 Category 1 Purchased goods and services 179,946 41.6 5,000 Category 2 Capital goods 27,879 6.5 Fueland energy-related 0 Category 3 1,350 0.3 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) activities Upstream transportation and *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification Category 4 13,210 3.1 distribution *2 Following overseas business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification Category 5 Waste generated in operations 615 0.1 GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. Category 6 Business travel 2,259 0.5 Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH Category 7 Employee commuting 2,569 0.6 Glory Global Solutions Inc. Category 8 Upstream leased assets 2,235 0.5 Downstream transportation Category 9 Not applicable – and distribution Energy Consumption per Employee Category 10 Processing of sold products Not applicable – (kl / person) 2.0 Category 11 Use of sold products 199,684 46.2 End-of-life treatment of sold Category 12 2,645 0.6 products 1.5 1.34 1.26 1.28 1.27 1.23 Category 13 Downstream leased assets Not applicable – 1.0 Category 14 Franchises Not applicable – Category 15 Investments 102 0.0 0.5 Total of Scope 1, 2, and 3 447,629 100.0 * Boundaries for each Scope are as follows. 0 Scope 1: GLORY LTD. and domestic and overseas Group companies that 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) have acquired ISO 14001 certification (excluding fuels of vehicles *Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification owned by the company) Scope 2: GLORY LTD. and domestic and overseas Group companies that have acquired ISO 14001 certification GLORY CSR Report 2019 40 ESG Data Volume of PRTR Law-Listed Substances (Domestic) Water Use （t） （t） Domestic Overseas 100 150 89.1 123.4 124.6 125.1 125.1 80 76.4 120.3 74.4 73.6 120 70.9 34.8 43.1 45.1 40.7 33.7 60 90 40 60 88.6 81.5 80.0 79.6 91.4 20 30 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification (excluding some non-production sites) *2 Following overseas business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 Waste Volume certification （t） GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. Domestic Overseas Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. 2,500 2,201 Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH 2,119 Glory Global Solutions Inc. 1,991 2,000 1,718 1,716 1,385 1,500 1,266 982 1,295 891 Zero-Emission Sites (Domestic) 1,000 FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 500 Number of 736 853 816 696 825 sites 6 8 8 8 8 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification *1 Domestic business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification *2 Following overseas business sites that have acquired ISO 14001 certification GLORY Denshi Kogyo (Suzhou) Ltd., GLORY (PHILIPPINES), INC. Glory Global Solutions (France) S.A.S. Glory Global Solutions (Germany) GmbH Glory Global Solutions Inc. Human resources Employees Data FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Male 2,860 2,837 2,832 2,882 3,000 Number of employees Female 402 407 414 432 447 Total 3,262 3,244 3,246 3,314 3,447 Male 18.4 18.7 19.8 20.1 20.1 Average years Permanent employees of employment Female 17.2 17.8 18.2 18.4 18.8 Total 18.2 18.6 19.6 19.9 19.9 Male 41.8 42.2 43.2 43.6 43.8 Average age Female 39.5 40.2 40.7 41.1 41.5 Total 41.6 41.9 42.9 43.3 43.5 Semi-regular and Number of contract employees., etc employees Total 453 435 419 380 379 41 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Number and the Ratio of Employee Turnover Number and Ratio of Employees Who Utilized Re-employment System (Persons) Number of employee turnover Ratio of employee turnover (%) (Persons) Number of retired employees Number of employees who Ratio of employees who utilized (%) utilized re-employment system re-employment system 80 1.6 150 100 89.5 87.2 87.2 94 1.36 1.11 120 80 60 1.2 1.02 64.1 0.96 47 90 60 40 0.69 38 0.8 33 35 57 40 60 51 50 47 47 47 24 41 39 41 20 0.4 30 25 20 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Number of New Graduate Hires and Ratio of Female Ratio of Days Taken Paid Leave (Persons) Male Female Ratio of female new graduate hires (%) (%) 200 25 100 21.2 19.6 160 20 75 65.8 66.7 64.6 58.8 59.6 120 13.1 15 12.5 91 50 12 80 8.1 66 66 10 56 47 49 14 13 4 7 79 25 40 5 45 49 52 53 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave and Ratio of Number of Managers and Ratio of Female Managers Employees Who Returned to Work after Taking Childcare Leave (Persons) Male Female Ratio of female managers (%) (Persons) Male Female Ratio of employees who returned to (%) work after taking childcare leave 2,400 1.6 80 100 1.40 1.39 100 100 100 100 100 1,800 1.06 1.2 60 75 1.05 0.96 51 44 1,152 0.8 39 50 1,200 1,041 1,047 1,041 1,070 40 16 31 31 10 11 11 15 47 39 43 600 0.4 20 25 29 30 1,031 1,036 1,030 1,055 1,136 4 1 2 1 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Number and Ratio of Employees with Disabilities Number of Employees Taking Nursing Care Leave (Persons) Number of employees with disabilities Ratio of employees with disabilities (%) 200 3.0 FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2.31 2.26 2.29 2.24 2.23 Male 1 0 0 0 0 150 105 110 113 112 112 Female 0 0 0 0 0 100 1.5 Total 1 0 0 0 0 50 Annual Actual Working Hours Per Employee 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Includes data from GLORY Products Ltd., GLORY Friendly Co., Ltd., GLORY Actual System Create Ltd., and GLORY Mechatronics Ltd. working hours 2,114 2,088 2,058 2,032 2,020 (hour / year) GLORY CSR Report 2019 42 ESG Data Training Expenditures Lost Time Injury Severity Rate FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0.02 Training expenditures (millions of 193 208 225 245 248 yen) 0.01 Training 0.01 expenditures per employee 59,166 64,118 69,316 73,929 71,947 (yen / person) 0.004 0.003 0.001 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Ratio of Employees in Union * This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Severity rate = Total number of working days lost / Total actual working hours × 1,000 Ratio of employees in 57.0 54.5 55.7 55.4 55.3 union (%) Social Initiatives Number of Occupational and Commuting Accidents FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Social initiatives expenditures Number of FY 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 occupational 10 17 19 10 8 accidents Social initiatives Number of expenditures 11 18 22 15 21 commuting 13 15 18 13 18 (millions of accidents yen) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Intellectual Property Initiatives 1.5 Number of Patents, Utility Models, and Designs Applied for and Acquired 1.0 0.93 Number of applications in Japan Number acquired overseas Number of applications in Japan Number acquired overseas 1,200 0.53 1,188 1,191 0.5 0.40 0.40 1,116 1,141 1,057 800 867 862 0 772 0 694 680 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) * This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number 400 308 273 272 231 of casualties for every 1,000,000 working hours. 213 Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual 95 109 93 96 76 working hours × 1,000,000 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *1 Numbers are the total number of patents, utility models, and designs. *2 Numbers for both Japan and overseas are on a consolidated basis. 43 GLORY CSR Report 2019 Third-Party Opinion Report Content: The shift toward strategic CSR management is expected. Although there has been some progress in environmental initiatives and information disclosure, “energy consumption per employee” as a KPI for operating hours does not necessarily indicate a contribution to the Paris Agreement and SDGs, which require reductions in total CO2 emissions. On the other Masahiko Kawamura hand, environmentally sound product development Director/Senior Chief Research Fellow, Sun merits recognition, and Glory has set a long-term goal Messe Innovative Network Center (Sinc) of reducing CO2 emissions associated with Scope 3, the Senior Advisor, Sun Messe Co., Ltd. Visiting Researcher, NLI Research Institute use of products, by 30% from the 2005 level. This goal is comparable to a KPI. Report Composition: The reporting scope needs to be Glory’s environmental education also deserves more global. recognition for training product designers in What I first realized after reading this year’s CSR Report environmentally sound design, which is directly was that the number of pages had doubled compared connected to “G-Eco products,” and particularly to last year. In addition to the “Data” section at the for extending this environmental education to the end, efforts are reported by the ESG area and content employees of resident suppliers. Meanwhile, descriptions has been improved. of the presence or absence of negative environmental information confirms for me the thoroughness of Especially in “Glory’s CSR Material Issues,” a materiality operational management and the integrity of reporting. map reveals the degree of materiality, targets, results, and issues for each item have been clarified. However, Regarding the social aspects, while CSR procurement this work only reflects a single year, so integration is pursued in supply chain management through the with midto long-term plans (2020 Medium-Term CSR voluntary checklist in Japan, this effort should Management Plan and Long-Term Vision 2028) will be expanded to locations overseas in future reports. be necessary. Similarly, in “Major CSR Initiatives in the Diversity of human resources seems to be focused Value Chain,” the charts comprehensively present the on employing women, people with disabilities, and achieved values for each stakeholder category. the elderly in Japan. What about foreign nationals? Yet Glory’s CSR issues could be made clearer to readers Moreover, there is no description of human resources by indicating the social impacts, both positive and regarding overseas manufacturing, sales, or negative across all value chain stages, as in the case of maintenance. environmental impact. This is also related to SDG issues, which I will come to later. In terms of contributing to the achievement of SDGs, simply integrating the use of the icons merely expresses Glory may indeed have a sufficiently international Glory’s willingness to participate in these same areas. presence to be referred to as a global company in terms The key is to practically achieve the SDGs for 2030, and of its development, manufacturing, and procurement therefore it should define its goals and implementation operations in Japan and Asia as well as its worldwide plans in line with target levels. Glory’s own issues could sales and maintenance activities, with overseas sales be extracted through the value chain mapping proposed accounting for over 40% of the total sale. Nevertheless, in the SDG Compass. the information in this report has a primarily domestic focus, leaving room for increasing the globalization I would expect for Glory, having celebrated its 100th of information disclosure, particularly for CSR. To this anniversary this year, to make the shift toward CSR end, I recommend deploying CSR staff in each country. management, in which the company considers its ideal In addition, it will be necessary to report on CSR image from the perspective of a long-term strategy management beyond social contribution activities in based on mega trends towards realizing a sustainable those nations. society in the 21st century. Glory’s Response We are very grateful to Mr. Kawamura for his valuable remarks on our CSR. The Glory Group is now working company-wide towards achieving the 2020 Medium-Term Management Plan. We will utilize our accumulated core and advanced technologies to deliver new solutions for increasingly complex social issues while continuing to value and deepen the solid relationships of trust with our customers. We view our CSR initiatives from a global perspective, which Mr. Kawamura pointed out, as a major focus for formulating the next Medium-Term Management Plan. Future efforts are Masashi Michishita intended to achieve our long-term vision, which states “We enable a confident world.” In this Senior Executive Officer, spirit, we will strive to further promote Group-wide CSR management. GLORY LTD. GLORY CSR Report 2019 44 GLORY LTD. Corporate Communications Department, Management Strategy Headquarters 1-3-1 Shimoteno, Himeji, Hyogo 670-8567, Japan Phone: +81-79-297-3131 corporate.glory-global.com
